04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Age of expansionism is over, PM says in Ladakh||Without referring to China directly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in Ladakh on Friday that the “age of expansionism” was over and countries across the world were now witnessing the era of development. In a surprise visit to Ladakh, 17 days after Chinese troops killed 20 jawans in Galwan Valley, the Prime Minister said India’s determination to protect its territory was “as high as the Himalayas”. Mr. Modi’s visit came after three round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders to end contentious and violent face-offs between their troops. There are also reports of both countries building up troop levels along the boundary even as the talks continue. “Friends, the age of expansionism is over, this is the era of development… Whenever we have seen expansionist tendencies, these have spelt danger for world peace,” he said, addressing troops in Nimu, a short distance from Leh town. The Prime Minister, accompanied by Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat and Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane, told the troops that their services to ‘Mother India’ were unmatched. “Again, I pay my respects to the soldiers who were martyred in Galwan Valley,” he said, stressing that the territory of Ladakh was symbolic of the self-respect of 130 crore Indians. “Every citizen is proud of your bravery.” “Friends, everyone knows that the country, the world and humanity can only progress on the basis of peace and friendship,” he said in his Hindi address. “But we also know that peace cannot be ushered in by the weak. Only the brave can bring peace,” he noted.
04 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal crosses 20,000 cases||West Bengal recorded 669 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, the highest in a day so far in the pandemic, taking its tally to 20,448. BJP MP from Hooghly Locket Chatterjee has tested positive.  Eighteen deaths were recorded in the past 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 717. Eight of the deaths were reported from Kolkata, nine from the adjoining districts of south Bengal and one from Malda in north Bengal. Kolkata has contributed to more than 50% of deaths in the State, with the number of victims from the city reaching 402. Over 30% cases in Kolkata Kolkata has contributed to over 30% of cases, with 6,622 of the tally of 20,448. While Kolkata and Howrah had been recording a large number cases since the start of the outbreak, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas districts are emerging as the new hotspots. Cases are increasing in Darjeeling and Malda in north Bengal. All the 22 districts of the State have recorded COVID-19 cases. So far, 13,571 persons have been released from health facilities and the recovery rate in the State stands at 66.23%. The State tested 11,053 samples in the past 24 hours. Over the past 10 days, the fourth most populous State in the country has been testing 10,000 samples a day. BJP MP tests positive West Bengal BJP general secretary and Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee was among those who tested positive for the virus on Friday. “I have tested positive for COVID-19 this morning, having mild fever and was in self-isolation for the past one week. I will keep everyone posted. All is well,” the MP said on social media. Ms. Chatterjee has been actively participating in political activity and agitations. On June 24, she participated in a demonstration in Howrah and on June 19, she visited the house of Rajesh Orang in Birbhum district who died in the Galwan Valley clash.
04 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||8 U.P. policemen killed during raid||Eight policemen, including a Deputy Superintendent, were killed late on Thursday in an ambush at Uttar Pradesh’s Bikru village in Kanpur during an operation to arrest an accused. Uttar Pradesh DGP H.C. Awasthi said eight policemen had died while five other policemen, one homeguard and a civilian were injured, after the assailants opened fired at the police team from the rooftops when they reached the village under the Chaubeypur police station. The team had gone to arrest Vikas Dubey, who faces 60 criminal cases, based on a complaint of attempt to murder against him, said Mr. Awasthi. The accused used an earthmover to obstruct the police vehicles. “When the force got off [their vehicles], the assailants opened fire. We also retaliated with firing. But since they were standing at a height in the dark, our men got shot...” said the DGP. The assailants fired at the police team from three sides in a well-planned “ambush”, said district police chief P. Dinesh Kumar. They also snatched weapons from the police team, including an AK-47, one Insas rifle, a Glock pistol, and two 9 mm pistols. The accused escaped in the cover of darkness. Two of the assailants — Prem Prakash and Atul Kumar — were later shot dead during a combing operation, said Mohit Agarwal, IG, Kanpur. Prakash and Kumar were described as relatives of Dubey, who is still on the run.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases touch record high of 1,892 in a day||The unabated surge in coronavirus cases continued with 1,892 testing positive in the State on Friday, the highest-ever for a day since the outbreak of virus-infected disease, as the total number of cases reached 20,462. With eight more deaths of COVID patients reported during the day, the total deaths have gone up to 283. As has been the trend, the number of cases in the GHMC area has gone up alarmingly to 1,658 on Friday with another 56 reported from Rangareddy, 44 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 41 from Warangal Rural, 20 from Sangareddy, 13 from Nalgonda and 12 from Mahabubnagar districts. In another 17 districts single-digit cases were reported. According to the health bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare late on Friday night, the number of COVID -19 tests has crossed the one-lakh mark and stood at 1,04,118 with 5,965 samples tested during the day. A total of 9,984 positive cases are active and 10,195 were discharged. The health officials stated that one of the private laboratories have reported extremely high sample positivity rate. They said a particular lab has reported 2,672 positive cases against 3,726 samples tested. The positivity rate is 71.7 %, indicating gross variation and discrepancy in the notified positivity rate of COVID-19 till date. “The issue needs to be evaluated by an expert committee and until then the data of the said lab has been kept in abeyance”, the DPH officials said.
04 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Biggest single-day spike in State with 211 fresh cases||As COVID-19 scales its peak in the State, local transmission is intensifying in many parts, resulting in small clusters in many districts, as is evident in Alappuzha, Kannur and Malappuram. The situation is grave in the urban areas in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam where several cases with no epidemiological link have been reported. The number of new COVID-19 cases reported in a day crossed the 200 mark on Friday, with 211 new cases, 34 of which are through local transmission. The rest 177 are imported cases of infection. The cases which occurred through local transmission include family clusters as well as cases wherein the source of infection remains unknown. The 34 cases include six personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in Kannur and one air crew member. Much to the relief of the Health Department, 201 recoveries were reported on Friday, which meant that only 10 cases were added to the burden of active cases. The cumulative number of cases reported ever since the outbreak began is 4,964, of which, those currently undergoing treatment in hospitals is 2,098. So far, 2,839 persons have recovered from the disease. The total number of samples that were tested in the last 24 hours is 7,306. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the disease was now spreading in both urban and rural areas. While one had no control over the number of expatriates who are returning to the State and who might be diseased, the effort was to minimise local transmission from these cases. Situation in Ponnani At Ponnani in Malappuram district, where triple lockdown has been imposed following intense disease transmission, sentinel surveillance of 989 samples, including 681 employees of two hospitals at Edappal and 308 samples from five nearby panchayats, yielded three positive cases, he said.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR looks at vaccine launch by Aug. 15||A vaccine for COVID-19 from India is unlikely to be ready for public use by August 15 but early data on whether it is safe and the proof of its working could be available by then, say clinicians involved with the trial. On July 2, Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr. Balram Bhargava sent out a letter asking officials at 12 hospitals across the country to expedite the vaccine testing process. The vaccine candidate, called Covaxin, has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech India Ltd (BBIL) which got approvals from the Drug Controller General of India on June 29 for the phase-1 and phase-2 trials. The trials are done on groups of people and are meant to test if the vaccine is safe on humans and produces protective antibodies. The potential vaccine in question is a SARS-CoV-2 strain sourced from the ICMR-National Institute of Virology. However a paragraph in Dr. Bhargava’s letter suggested haste and presumption of the vaccine’s protective abilities. “It is envisaged to launch the vaccine latest by 15th August, 2020 after completion of all clinical trials. BBIL is working expeditiously to meet the target, however final outcome will depend on the cooperation of all clinical trial sites involved in this project.”  A scientist familiar with India’s COVID-19 vaccine development strategy, but who did not wish to be identified, said the vaccine had potential but it was “overtly optimistic” to expect it soon.
04 July 2020||Pune,||State records highest spike of 6,364 cases||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 6,364 new cases of COVID-19, its highest single-day surge yet, taking its tally to 1,92,990. The State also reported 198 more deaths, pushing its toll to 8,376. Of these, 150 were reported in the last 48 hours, while the remaining 48 were from an earlier period, said officials. Mumbai recorded 1,338 new cases, taking its case load to 82,074. With 73 more deaths, the city’s toll has risen to 4,762. 79,911 active cases In the State, 79,911 (over 40%) of the total cases are active ones, while in Mumbai there are 24,912 active cases. State Health Department officials said 3,515 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,04,687. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, “The State’s recovery rate stands at 54.24%, while its case fatality has dropped marginally to 4.34%.” Massive spike in Pune Pune district reported another massive spike of over 700 new cases, making its case load soar to 25,454. With 18 more fatalities, the district death count has risen to 826. State officials said of the total cases, 12,410 are active, while district authorities said only 9,560 are active. The spike in cases continued in all civic bodies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Thane reported 793 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 16,870. With 11 more fatalities, the district’s death toll has shot up to 471. Raigad district also saw a sharp spike of 179 COVID-19 cases, pushing its case load to 2,408, while Panvel reported a rise of 178 cases, taking its cumulative tally to 2,830. Navi Mumbai added 270 fresh cases, taking its cumulative to 8,663. The area has reported 179 deaths so far. Kalyan-Dombivli reported a record surge of 617 cases, pushing its case load to 9,171. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar recorded massive spikes as well, reporting 309 and 318 cases respectively, taking their total case tallies to 4,169 and 5,536. Rising death toll Mira-Bhayander has reported 160 fatalities – the highest death toll after Mumbai and Thane in the MMR region. Dr. Awate said, “Till date, of the total of 10,49,277 laboratory samples taken, 1,92,990 (18.39%) have tested positive. Nearly 21,000 samples were tested across the State on Friday.” He said 5,89,448 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 42,371 are in institutional quarantine facilities.  The State’s recovery rate stands at 54.24%, while its case fatality has dropped marginally to 4.34%. Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Now, asymptomatic patients have to be in home quarantine for 17 days||The State government has increased the number of days for home quarantine, from the existing 14 to 17, for patients who are asymptomatic or have mild cases of COVID-19 and aged below 50. The new guidelines come into effect from July 4. In the background of rising COVID-19 cases in the State and instances of non-availability of beds, a task-force meeting was held in Bengaluru on Friday and the modified guidelines were issued. The revised guidelines said that patients will be free to work if they do not show symptoms during the last three days [from the 14th to the 17th day]. A person having symptoms on these days has to undergo another seven more days of home quarantine, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said. A dedicated person should be asked to take care of the patient and a separate toilet and room is to be arranged him or her. Those aged below 50 [who have any diseases and comorbidities], and are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms have to be shifted to care centres and doctors would monitor their health regularly. Those aged above 50 and who have moderate symptoms are also to be shifted to COVID-19 care centres. Serious cases will be shifted to a hospital, the Minister said. Dr. Sudhakar said a centralised monitoring system will be established for allocations of beds in government and private hospitals in the city. This would eliminate the delay in the allotment of beds and ICU facilities. Moreover, patients will be given beds in the respective zones, he said. Booth-level task forces will be set up across the State for monitoring and surveillance, and providing ambulances. These forces will be five to six members at the booth- or village-levels, and will act as a structural and functional unit of COVID-19. Lineman or waterman, GP members and volunteers will be members of this force. Principal Secretary of Panchayat Raj Department L.A. Atheeq will be the nodal officer for task forces in rural areas. As many as 8,800 booth-level task forces will be set up in BBMP limits. Officials of the Health Department, the BBMP and volunteers will be members. Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar has set up 14 task forces for the overall COVID-19 management in the State. Each one has been assigned the responsibility of overseeing activities such as shifting patients to care centres and designated hospitals, contact tracing, testing, and management of containment zones. Dr. Sudhakar said testing will be increased from the present 15,000 to 25,000 in the next few days. Shalini Rajneesh, senior IAS officer, will be appointed as nodal officer for establishment of the testing centres, he said.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||YSRCP urges Lok Sabha Speaker to disqualify Narsapuram MP||The political conduct of Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju attracts the provisions of the 10th Schedule of the Anti-Defection Law, according to YSR Congress Parliamentary Party leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Addressing the media after submitting a petition seeking Mr. Raju’s disqualification to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in New Delhi on Friday, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy expressed the confidence that the Speaker would initiate prompt action on the petition. Party MPs P.V. Midhun Reddy, M. Bharat, Lavu Sri Krishnadevarayulu and Nandigam Suresh were present. ‘TDP behind episode’ Mr. Vijaya Sai said if Mr. Raju was confident of winning the election on his own, he should resign and seek re-election before the axe fell on him. Accusing Mr. Raju of acting at the behest of the TDP and the MPs who had defected from the TDP to the BJP, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the Narsapuram MP could have sorted out the issues internally, but chose to take a stand publicly that would shake the very foundations of the party. “Mr. Raju is physically present in the party, but his heart and soul are elsewhere,” Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy observed. Mr. Midhun Reddy said it was unfortunate that Mr. Raju distanced himself from the party in spite of being given more importance than other senior MPs in the appointment of crucial parliamentary committees. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy himself recommended Mr. Raju to the parliamentary panels, but the latter damaged the party to protect his personal interests.
04 July 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata parents demand cut in school fees||A section of parents on Friday staged protests in front of two prominent schools in south Kolkata demanding slashing of first quarter session fees due to financial hardships in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak.  About 30 parents holding placards held a silent protest in front of MB. Sishu Vihar on Friday demanding a 50% reduction in the first quarter session fees. Rajesh Biyani, a parent, said, school authorities are not ready to discuss the issue with them. He alleged that the school management threatened to disallow students from attending online classes, if the first quarter fees are not paid. A section of guardians also staged protests before Mahadevi Birla World Academy. School authorities said, “We are committed to continue with all efforts to keep the education process going during this crisis.”  Mahadevi Birla Sishu Vihar earlier said in a notice there would be no hike in fees for 2020-2021. The school authorities had also announced a reduction in certain components of the fees in the first quarter. The notice said due to “the protracted hardships in the current scenario, we have decided to announce a second round of further reductions for the fee payable for quarter 2 over and above passed on in quarter 1”. The notice added, “While there will be a reduction of Rs. 1,800 in the second quarter, which translates to 600 per month for the quarter (July, August, September) 2020, for lower infants to Class 12, no bus fees will be charged for the second quarter (July, August, September) from existing bus students who have paid the bus fees for the first quarter.” ‘Include just tuition fees’ Parents also held protests at St. Stephen’s School at Budge Budge in the southern outskirts of the city and Scottish Church Collegiate School in north Kolkata demanding session fees only include tuition fees till there is an improvement in the COVID-19 situation. For the past two days, similar protests were held outside Nava Nalanda group of schools, GD Birla Centre for Education, and St. Thomas School in Khidderpore. The school authorities maintained they had not increased tuition fees and had given concessions on certain components of session fees. “But altogether waiving other non-tuition components was not feasible and may lead to closure of schools,” authorities said. The Nava Nalanda group of schools said it had already effected a substantial reduction in the quarterly session fees. It said, “No further slashing is possible.” West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Education minister Partha Chatterjee recently asked private schools not to hike tuition fees and consider payment of fees under other heads in a sympathetic and humane manner.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||In view of students’ safety, JEE, NEET postponed to Sept.||The JEE and NEET, examinations for admission to undergraduate engineering and medical courses respectively, have been postponed to September due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The exams had been scheduled for the second half of July. “Keeping in mind the safety of students and to ensure quality education we have decided to postpone JEE and NEET examinations,” said Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal in a tweet on Friday evening. The Joint Entrance Examination-Main (JEE-Main) will be now be held from September 1-6, JEE Advanced will be held on September 27 and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) will be held on September 13, he said, noting that “students’ health is the first priority”. Earlier in the evening, as Mr. Nishank participated in a webinar on fitness, over 3,000 people bombarded the comments of the live session with demands to postpone examinations, forcing the webinar host to raise the question with the Minister as well. National associations of parents have also been campaigning for their children’s health to be considered as most important. On Wednesday, parents of NEET candidates living in West Asian countries filed a plea in the Supreme Court demanding that examination centres be set up in those countries or that the examination be postponed. On Thursday, the Minister had set up a panel in response to the concerted campaign, asking National Testing Agency (NTA) Director General Vineet Joshi and other experts to review the situation. NTA conducts both NEET and JEE-Main —which have a total of 25 lakh candidates this year — although JEE-Advanced is run by the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). The Minister’s tweet regarding the postponement received over 22,000 likes within one hour, with most students expressing gratitude and relief through memes and hashtags. Change in exam centre The postponement will lead to further delay in the beginning of the academic year for new students, potentially wiping out almost an entire semester. Usually, students start classes in August and the first semester runs till December. According to an NTA notice, students can request for a change in their examination centre until July 15, given that travel is still disrupted in many areas. Admit cards will be available for download 15 days before the examination date.
04 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||After Mizoram, Nagaland bans sale of dog meat||The Nagaland government has decided to ban the commercial import and sale of dogs and dog meat. The Mizoram government had taken a similar decision in March. “The State government has decided to ban commercial import and trading of dogs, and dog markets, and also the sale of dog meat, both cooked and uncooked,” Nagaland’s Chief Secretary Temjen Toy said on Friday. He added that the decision in this regard was taken by the Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio. The announcement followed an appeal by the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations (FIAPO), an apex body of animal rights groups, to the Nagaland government to ban the sale, smuggling and consumption of dog meat besides enforcing stringent animal welfare laws. ‘Undercover probe’ “We are once again hit by shock and horror at the recent images that have emerged from ‘animal markets’ in Dimapur (Nagaland’s commercial hub) where dogs are seen in terrified conditions, tied up in sacks, waiting at a wet market for their illegal slaughter, trade and consumption as meat,” FIAPO executive director Varda Mehrotra said in a statement on July 2. The FIAPO said it had been engaging with the Nagaland government since 2016, underlining how dogs suffer because of the demand for meat. It also claimed to have carried out undercover investigations on dog meat in the Northeast. Smuggling racket The organisation said dogs are smuggled regularly to Nagaland from Assam and West Bengal. A dog, caught in Assam for Rs. 50, is sold for Rs. 1,000 in Nagaland’s wholesale market. “Dog meat sells for Rs. 200 a kg on the streets of Nagaland, which is about Rs. 2,000 per dog,” it said. Nagaland and Mizoram-bound vehicles carrying dogs tied in gunny bags with their heads sticking out are frequently caught in Assam. But many such vehicles slip through the security cordons.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,||State to absorb burden if Centre cuts share in crop cover premium||The State government will absorb the anticipated additional burden in the payment of premium for the Prime Minister’s crop insurance scheme (Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana – PMFBY) in the light of the Centre’s move to reduce its share of premium payment, according to senior officials of the Agriculture department. This year, the State government may have to shell out up to Rs. 150 crore so that farmers are not taxed in any way. Till now, after giving allowance for farmers’ share of 2% generally, the Union and State governments shared the premium amount equally. Effective this year, the Centre had introduced the element of the status of irrigation in a given district for determining the premium amount and sought to restrict its assistance. Consequently, it divided each State into two broad categories — irrigated districts and un-irrigated. In respect of the irrigated districts, the Centre has decided to limit subsidy in premium to 25% of the sum insured and in un-irrigated, 30%. The hitch will arise if insurance companies charge higher premium rates than the Centre’s stipulation. For example, if an insurance company fixes the premium rate of 33% for a crop in an un-irrigated district, the Centre and the State government would bear only 14% each with farmers taking the load of 2%. In such a case, the State government has to take care of the balance — 3% , the officials explain. Irrigated districts are those having 50% or more irrigated areas and un-irrigated ones are those having less than 50%. Going by this definition, Tamil Nadu has nine un-irrigated districts of Salem, Virudhunagar, Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Ariyalur, Krishnagiri, Perambalur, Thoothukudi and the Nilgiris. The other change in the guidelines of the scheme is that enrolment has been made voluntary. Earlier, all those who wanted to take loans had to have the insurance cover. But, this change would have no impact on Tamil Nadu as farmers who did not take crop loans constituted 70% to 80% of those covered by insurance. Meanwhile, the farmers, who insured their crops during samba season last year, may start receiving claim amount later this month. Disbursal is likely to go on for three or four months and eventually, farmers may get a maximum of Rs. 1,000 crore this time towards compensation, the officials said. If this materialises, the total compensation paid to farmers in the State will be Rs. 9,000 crore since the PMFBY launch in 2016, an official said. Payout to be less The amount of compensation for 2019-20 is expected to be less than that of previous year in view of a bumper harvest during the samba season. With the kuruvai cultivation season getting underway, the authorities are taking steps to intensify enrollment of farmers. The cut-off dates for coverage of paddy in the delta are July 31 and in Madurai and Krishnagiri, August 15. The officials want farmers to join the insurance scheme in a big way, as about 70% of the farmers enrolled were compensated.
04 July 2020||KAKINADA,||Kollu Ravindra taken into custody near Tuni in YSR Congress leader’s murder case||Investigation into the murder of YSRCP leader Moka Bhaskar Rao took a new twist on Friday evening when a police team from Krishna district took into custody TDP leader and former Minister Kollu Ravindra on the national highway under the Tuni police station limits in East Godavari district. Bhaskar Rao was stabbed to death in broad daylight near the fish market in Machilipatnam on June 29. Police officers who were privy to the development said that Mr. Ravindra was proceeding to Visakhapatnam when he was taken into custody and brought back to Vijayawada. Staff Reporter in Vijayawada writes: Earlier in the day, the police arrested Chinta Nagamalleswara Rao and Ch. Vamshi Krishna of Ullangipalem village on the charge of their involvement in the case. The arrests were made basing on the reported confession of former TDP councillor Chinta Chinni, his cousin Nancharayya, and a juvenile who had been arrested earlier. The Robertsonpet police searched the house of Mr. Ravindra in Machilipatnam, but he was not present at that time. “As part of the investigation, a police team visited Mr. Ravindra’s house and searched for him. We have asked his family members to cooperate in the investigation,” a police officer said. “The former Minister has knowledge about the murder plan. He was in touch with the arrested persons,” a senior police officer who is investigating the case told The Hindu . Dharna staged Meanwhile, hundreds of fishermen, including women, staged a dharna at the Ullangipalem centre demanding the arrest of Mr. Ravindra.
04 July 2020||new delhi,||Plasma donation can’t be made mandatory: HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday observed that plasma donation cannot be made mandatory and it cannot be made a precondition for accessing COVID-19 treatment. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan underscored the “voluntariness” involved in the donation exercise by recovered patients while hearing a petition. The plea filed by advocate and social worker Piyush Gupta sought to make it mandatory for all hospitals to obtain plasma from recovered patients — both those admitted in hospitals as well as others in home quarantine — by framing proper guidelines. While declining to entertain the petition, the Bench asked the government to treat it as representation and decide on suggestions made in it in accordance with the law. Senior advocate Rakesh Tiku, appearing for the petitioner, argued that “about 60% COVID-19 patients have recovered. After 14 days of having recovered, these individuals can be potential plasma donors”. The senior advocate contended that blood banks ordinarily proceeded on the voluntary concept. “But we must accept today the ground realities. There is social stigma attached to COVID-19. Hence, the level of voluntariness that we are looking for will be uncertain,” Mr. Tiku argued. “By the time the bank gets its [plasma], it might be too late,” he stressed. Reacting to the submission, the Bench asked, “Can it be mandated that the person must donate it? I am surprised with the suggestion that we can force people, however good the cause.” “If the person does not give the undertaking, should he be denied treatment? Treatment cannot be made conditional on a person. What kind of world are you imagining?” the Bench remarked. “We should encourage voluntary donations. Those messages are coming every day,” it added. The petition had sought necessary directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to constitute an “overseeing body which shall regulate the availability of plasma”. It also asked for making it obligatory on the part of every recovered patient to donate plasma at first instance. The plea contended that the three lakh recovered patients in the country could be potential donors. While the Delhi government inaugurated its first plasma bank on Thursday, Mr. Tiku argued that the bank cannot await voluntary donation.
04 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘COVID-19 victims’ bodies being safely disposed of’||The management and disposal of the bodies of COVID-19 patients by hospital staff is being carried out scrupulously as per the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, the Maharashtra government’s Department of Public Health and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) told the Bombay High Court on Friday A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice N.J. Jamadar was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Ashish Shelar on a number of issues, including non-removal of bodies from active wards at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital (known as Sion hospital). The PIL mentioned that every hospital, including Sion hospital, has to use considerably large areas as a mortuary hall and a post-mortem hall for dealing with bodies. The retention of the bodies in active wards in Sion hospital, as recently reported, is a matter of serious concern and gives rise to medical as well as humanitarian issues, the PIL stated. In the last hearing, the court had expanded the scope of the PIL and directed the State government and the BMC to file their replies on the disposal and management of bodies of patients. In his affidavit, Dr. Pramod Ingale, Dean (Academics), said Sion hospital ordered an inquiry and set up a three-member committee to look into the matter. The panel found that delays in removing bodies occurred as often relatives were not available, or traceable, or got delayed in reaching the hospital due to transport problems during lockdown. The 22-page affidavit said, “There was consistent shortage of sweepers due to last minute absentiism, refusal to work in COVID-19 areas due to fear, age associated co-morbidities. As per the guidelines, the bodies were to be handed over to the relatives from causalty/ward. All precautionary measures as per ICMR guidelines are being followed by hospitals right from declaring the death of the patient, use of proper PPE kits for body packing in body bags, applying of 1% hypochlorite solution, transporting body from the ward to morgue, from morgue to the crematorium. The concerned staff are also given training on handling of the COVID-19 dead bodies in the beginning of the epidemic in the city of Mumbai.”  State’s affidavit  Dr. Sadhana Tayad, Director Of Health Services, Mumbai, in her 93-page affidavit, also reiterated that the ICMR guidelines and the “COVID19: Guidelines on Dead Body Management” issued by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare on March 15, are being followed strictly.
04 July 2020||Thane,||State taking all steps to break virus chain: Tope||Health Minister Rajesh Tope has said that the State government has been taking all efforts to break the chain of transmission of the novel coronavirus. Mr. Tope held talks with senior officials from Thane and took stock of the COVID-19 situation in the district on Thursday evening. He said, “Within 10 days, all COVID-19 treatment facilities will be made available in Thane district. Five testing centres would be set up for Badlapur, Ambernath and rural areas in the district,” Mr. Tope said. The minister asked the district and civic administrations to step up the measures taken for the detection of COVID-19 cases. Mr. Tope also directed the local authorities to hold discussions with colleges and hotels for setting up quarantine facilities on their premises. He also hinted at taking stern action against private hospitals for charging hefty fees from COVID-19 patients. During the meeting with district authorities, Mr. Tope ordered the administration to take over an ayurvedic college at Ambernath to set up a 50-bed COVID-19 hospital with ICU facilities. “Facilities would be created at the local level for patients in Badlapur and Ambernath. Once it is done, they will not have to depend on Mumbai,” he said.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Despite COVID-19, 98.1% students appeared for SSLC examination||More than 7 lakh SSLC students heaved a collective sigh of relief as they stepped out of their exam centres on Friday, having given their last written paper. From June 25 to July 3, in the backdrop of a surge in COVID-19 cases, lakhs of students, clad in masks and armed with sanitisers, wrote the board examination under unprecedented precautionary conditions. “The examination went smoothly with the cooperation and coordination of various government departments, the district administrations, and also society at large and it was conducted as a Naada Habba ,” said Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar at a press conference. The exam was originally scheduled between March 27 and April 9, but was postponed owing to the lockdown. Mr. Suresh Kumar said that this year, 98.1% students appeared for the exam as compared to 98.76% in 2018-19. Of the 7,76,251 students who registered for the examination on Friday, 7,61,506 reported to centres and wrote the paper, said Mr. Suresh Kumar. There were also students who missed the exam owing to COVID-19 or related issues. “Thirty-two students were not allowed to appear as they tested positive for COVID-19, while 80 students were under home quarantine. Around 109 migrant students and 49 in neighbouring States also could not appear due to inter-State travel. All these children will be permitted to write the supplementary exam as fresh candidates,” he said. Students who also missed the examination due to genuine reasons, like accidents or health complications, will be given a chance to write the supplementary examination. Practical exam The practical and oral examination for Junior Technical School (JTS) candidates will be conducted on July 4
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India won’t import power equipment from China’||Union Power Minister R.K. Singh on Friday said India will not import power equipment from China, saying the sector, being strategic and essential, was vulnerable to cyberattacks. At a virtual conference with the States, the Minister said equipment imports from China and Pakistan would not be permitted. The State power distribution companies should not place orders with Chinese firms for equipment. Highlighting the need for self-reliance in the sector, Mr. Singh said the country’s power equipment import bill was about Rs. 71,000 crore during 2018-19, including purchases worth over Rs. 20,000 crore from China, even when the country had manufacturing facilities. As the sector was vulnerable to cyberattacks, Mr. Singh said, the imported equipment would be checked for any malware like Trojan.
04 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||After Mizoram, Nagaland bans sale of dog meat||The Nagaland government has decided to ban commercial import and the sale of dogs and dog meat. The Mizoram government took a similar decision in March. “The State government has decided to ban commercial import and trading of dogs, and dog markets, and the sale of dog meat, both cooked and uncooked,” Nagaland’s Chief Secretary Temjen Toy said on Friday. He added that the decision was taken by the Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio. The announcement followed an appeal by the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations (FIAPO), an apex body of animal rights groups, to the Nagaland government to ban the sale, smuggling and consumption of dog meat besides enforcing stringent animal welfare laws. “We are once again hit by shock and horror at recent images that have emerged from ‘animal markets’ in Dimapur, where dogs are seen in terrified conditions, tied up in sacks, waiting at a wet market for their illegal slaughter, trade and consumption as meat,” FIAPO executive director Varda Mehrotra said in a statement on July 2.
04 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Over 2 lakh flood-hit return home in Assam||The flood situation in Assam improved on Friday, but one more person drowned to take the toll to 35 since May 22. Landslips killed 24 more during this period. A spokesperson of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said the person drowned in Athani in Dhubri district. “The scenario, otherwise, is better with over 2.76 lakh people having returned to their villages and localities during the last 24 hours. The floods affected 13.27 lakh people across 20 districts,” she said. The number of people in relief camps has reduced. Compared to 12,597 inmates across 93 relief camps on July 2, there were 11,741 people in 92 shelters. The Brahmaputra and three of its tributaries, officials said, were flowing above the danger mark, but at fewer stretches than before. Barpeta continued to be the worst-hit district with 7.41 lakh people affected, followed by South Salmara (1.95 lakh), Goalpara (93,331), Nalbari (81,011) and Morigaon (46,118). More animals die The water level at Kaziranga National Park continues to recede, but the number of animals killed by the flooding rose from 25 to 33.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Don’t complicate situation’||Beijing on Friday warned India against making “a strategic miscalculation with regard to China”. It also described Mr. Modi’s comments on “expansionism” as being “exaggerated and fabricated”. The Chinese Foreign Ministry reacted to Mr. Modi’s visit by saying India should not “complicate” the situation along the border.page 9
04 July 2020||Kolkata,||Constable dies of bullet injuries||A police constable died of bullet injuries at Writers’ Building in Kolkata on Friday. Constable Biswanath Karak, 34, was posted at gate number six, which is used by ministers and senior bureaucrats. Sudheer Kumar Neelakantam, Deputy Commissioner of Central Division of the Kolkata Police, said, “Constable Biswanath Karak was with the 5th Battalion of the Armed Police. We are investigating the case. He was on some kind of medication,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that the direction of the bullet and other evidence indicated that the constable may have died by suicide. Writers’ Building had served as the State Secretariat for decades and still houses a number of prominent State government departments. Employees of different government departments housed in the building heard a gunshot at about 3.25 p.m. Police personnel saw the constable in a pool of blood with his service weapon by his side. He was taken to a hospital in an ambulance. The Kolkata suicide prevention helpline can be reached at 24637401/24637432.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon fury||
04 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||CID takes over probe into Rs. 512.52 crore bank fraud||The State Criminal Investigation Department (CID-Crime) has taken over the probe into the Rs. 512.52 crore fraud at Karnala Nagari Sahakari Bank in Panvel, the Navi Mumbai Police said on Friday. The FIR in the case was registered on February 17 at Panvel City police station after Umesh Tupe, Raigad district special auditor of the cooperation department, filed a complaint. The auditor’s report hinted at manipulation and forgery in disbursement of loans by the bank since 2008. The Economic Offences Wing, Unit II, of the Navi Mumbai Police then took over the case. Charges were booked against 76 accused, including Vivekanand Patil, the bank’s chairman and former MLA from the Peasants and Workers Party of India; the bank’s vice-chairman, CEO and its board of directors. Of the accused, 62 are people who took loans without surety. The loan amounts were allegedly transferred to a trust run by Mr. Patil. Navi Mumbai Police Commissioner Sanjay Kumar had requested the CID-Crime to take over the investigation.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally crosses the one-lakh mark||The COVID-19 case tally of Tamil Nadu, which recorded its first infection on March 7, breached the one-lakh mark on Friday. With 4,329 fresh cases, the State’s overall tally rose to 1,02,721. The number of patients undergoing treatment at various facilities stands at 42,955. Tamil Nadu’s case count crossed the 10,000-mark on May 15. In a little over a month, 40,000 more cases were added as the total number of infections touched 50,000 on June 17. It took just 16 days for the State to add another 50,000 cases. Cases started to rise in the first week of May after the Koyambedu cluster emerged in Chennai, and spread to nearly half of the State. The daily infection count topped 1,000 for the first time on May 31. Rising graph After reporting 2,000-plus cases every day for more than a week from June 17, the State’s daily tally touched 3,000 on June 25. The State has been reporting over 4,000 cases in the last two days. The total number of persons discharged in the State stands at 58,378. The death toll has increased to 1,385.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India won’t import power equipment from China’||Union Power Minister R.K. Singh on Friday said India will not import power equipment from China, saying the sector, being strategic and essential, was vulnerable to cyberattacks. At a virtual conference with the States, the Minister said equipment imports from China and Pakistan would not be permitted. The State power distribution companies should not place orders with Chinese firms for equipment. Highlighting the need for self-reliance in the sector, Mr. Singh said the country’s power equipment import bill was about Rs. 71,000 crore during 2018-19, including purchases worth over Rs. 20,000 crore from China, even when the country had manufacturing facilities.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||837 new COVID cases in State||The State recorded 837 new COVID-19 cases, including that of two foreign returnees and 46 who came from other States, in the last 24 hours. Eight persons died during the period — four in Kurnool, two in Chittoor and one each in Krishna and East Godavari districts. The total number of deaths as on date is 206. The cumulative number of cases in the State on Friday stood at 16,934 (A.P. cases 14,414, other States 2,111 and foreign returnees 409). The number of active cases and number of persons discharged are 9,096 and 7,632 respectively, including 258 sent home in the last 24 hours. The State has so far tested 9,71,611 samples, including 38,898 tested in last 24 hours.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. nod to BTC to conduct online betting||The Karnataka government, on Friday, gave in-principle approval to Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) to conduct online betting. The club will develop a mobile application where punters can place bets on races and receive dividends through a digital wallet.
04 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab nod for rapid antigen testing project||The Punjab government on Friday gave the go-ahead for launching a pilot project for COVID-19 rapid antigen testing from the coming week, as well as e-registration for persons entering the State through Shambhu border in Patiala, to ensure strict monitoring of people coming from the high-risk National Capital Region.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police link riots to ‘anger’ over Article 370, Ayodhya||In a chargesheet regarding stone-pelting in Khureji Khas on February 26, Delhi police have linked “anger” over Article 370 and 35A, and the Babri Masjid verdict, with the north-east Delhi riots. Seven persons, including Khalid Saifi and Ishrat Jahan, have been chargesheeted.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus death toll inches towards 3,000 mark||The Capital reported 2,520 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 94,695. The death toll has risen to 2,923 with 59 new deaths in a single day. Of the total cases, 65,624 people have recovered and there are 26,148 active cases.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,||03-Nearby-1||GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, on Friday, said that work for the railway-over-bridge (ROB) being built near Borabanda MMTS station, which falls on the way between Kaitalapur in Moosapet and Ayyappa Society road, was progressing at a quick pace. Work was presently on for construction of 12 pillars for the four-lane ROB to cut traffic between Madhapur and Kukatpally.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,||03-Nearby-2||A proposal to release a small portion of the pending government incentives to all industrial units to help them emerge from COVID-19 triggered disruption is being readied in Telangana. Talks were underway to examine the possibility of providing, as an interim relief, a small part of incentives. This is expected to translate into some relief, industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan said.
04 July 2020||HUBBALLI,||COVID-19 cases continue to rise in N. Karnataka||The northern districts of Karnataka have continued to register an increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases with Ballari district recording 97 on Friday, followed by 72 in Kalaburagi district. Meanwhile, the region also recorded eight COVID-19 related deaths. Kalaburagi recorded three fatalities, while Vijayapura recorded two. Raichur, Bidar and Ballari recorded one death each.
04 July 2020||MADURAI,||HC clears the decks for ring road project||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has cleared the decks for the proposed Madurai Ring Road phase-1 highway project, floated by the Central government under the Bharatmala Pariyojana Scheme.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Smartphones provided at RGGGH wards||Every COVID-19 ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) now has a smartphone and a walkie-talkie to enable better communication among caregivers. The hospital has purchased 20 smartphones and walkie-talkies each for all its COVID-19 wards.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,||CM announces extension of free ration scheme||In view of the extension of the COVID-19 lockdown till the end of the month, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palani- swami on Friday announced that free rations would be provided to family cardholders for July as well. The tokens would be distri- buted between July 6 and 9.
04 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,||‘No political intervention in Sattankulam probe’||The ruling AIADMK, which removed Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji as secretary of the party's Virudhunagar district unit about three months ago, on Friday made him in charge of the district unit till the appointment of a full-fledged district secretary.
04 July 2020||BENGALURU,||‘Equipment for COVID-19 bought over market rate’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday alleged misappropriation in the purchase of equipment related to COVID-19. Addressing presspersons here, he alleged that the government had procured equipment at Rs. 3,392 crore against the market price of Rs. 1,163.35 crore.
04 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka battles mortality, rising case tally||As more COVID-19 cases surfaced in Kerala, local transmission was seen as the reason for small clusters in districts such as Alappuzha, Kannur and Malappuram. The situation had aggravated in the urban areas in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam, where several cases had no known link. The number of new COVID-19 cases reported in a day stood at 211, and 34 of these were people who contracted the disease through local transmission. The rest were imported cases. Cases of local transmission included family clusters and those without a known source of infection. The 34 cases included six personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force at Kannur and one air crew member. But 201 recoveries were also reported on Friday, which meant that only 10 cases were added to active cases. Cumulative COVID-19 cases in Kerala since the start of the outbreak were 4,964, of which, those under treatment in hospitals was 2,098. So far, 2,839 persons had recovered. Samples tested in the last 24 hours stood at 7,306. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday that the disease was spreading in both urban and rural areas. While one had no control over the number of expatriates who were returning and who might have the virus, the effort was to minimise local transmission. In Ponnani, Malappuram district, where triple lockdown was imposed following intense disease transmission, sentinel surveillance of 989 samples, including 681 employees of two hospitals in Edappal and 308 samples from five nearby panchayats, yielded three positive cases. Andhra Pradesh recorded 837 COVID-19 positive cases including two foreign returnees and 46 others who came from different States. Eight persons died during the period: four in Kurnool, two in Chittoor and one each in Krishna and East Godavari districts. The total number of deaths was 206. Cumulative positive cases in the State on Friday stood at 16,934 (A.P. cases 14,414). Active cases and persons discharged stood at 9,096 and 7,632 including 258 sent home over the past day. The State had tested 9,71,611 samples, 38,898 of them in the last 24 hours. Kurnool had the largest number of positive cases at 2,236 (active 1,074) followed by Anantapur 1,972 (852), Krishna 1,611 (890), Guntur 1,610 (878), East Godavari 1,387 (991), Chittoor 1,183 (764), Kadapa 1,120 (693), West Godavari 1,120 (848), Nellore 658 (278), Visakhapatnam 624 (305), Vizianagaram 184 (126) and Srikakulam 93 (36). Another big surge was witnessed in Karnataka, with 1,694 new cases, touching a total of 19,710, besides 21 deaths taking the toll to 293. Active cases touched 10,608 on Friday. Among the new cases, Bengaluru Urban again recorded the highest, at 994. Five deaths were recorded from Bengaluru Urban, three each from Kalaburgi and Chikkaballapura, two each from Vijayapura and Shivamogga apart from one each from Ballari, Hassan, Davangere, Bidar, Bengaluru Rural and Raichur.   (With inputs from Vijayawada and Bengaluru bureaus)
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||M.P. Ministry exceeds size limit: Cong.||Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha has said the Congress will move the court as the strength of the Council of Ministers in Madhya Pradesh exceeds the prescribed limit. On Thursday, when 20 Cabinet Ministers and eight Ministers of State were included in the Ministry, expanding it to 34, Mr. Tankha accused Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan of violating the law. Describing the Council of Ministers as “illegal”, Mr. Tankha wrote on Twitter, “By appointing as Ministers more than 15% of the effective strength of the legislators at 206 the law has been violated.” Further, Mr. Tankha said that in the past, it was only after complaining to the President that Mr. Chouhan, who ran a government without a Cabinet, appointed five Ministers. State Congress spokesman Ajay Singh Yadav alleged the BJP government had violated Article 164 (1A) of the Constitution that prescribed, “The total number of Ministers, including the Chief Minister, in the Council of Ministers in a State shall not exceed 15% of the total number of members of the Legislative Assembly of that State.” Appealing to the President to take cognisance of the matter, Mr. Yadav said: “With an Assembly strength of 206, the strength of the Council of Ministers shouldn’t have exceeded 30. The appointment of 34 Ministers, including Mr. Chouhan, is a clear violation of Constitutional rules.” The Assembly strength of 228 dropped in March when 22 rebel Congress MLAs — 19 of them supporting Jyotiraditya Scindya — resigned, toppling the Kamal Nath government, and later switched over to the BJP. Two seats fell vacant earlier owing to deaths. The expansion of Mr. Chouhan’s Council of Ministers was pending since he returned as the Chief Minister after 15 months on March 23. Nearly a month later, five Ministers were appointed.
04 July 2020||Chennai,||Avoid miscalculation, says China||China on Friday warned India against making “a strategic miscalculation with regard to China”, in a sharp reaction to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise visit to Ladakh to meet Indian troops. China also described Mr. Modi’s comments on “expansionism” as being “exaggerated and fabricated”, underlying the tense state of relations. “China has demarcated boundary with 12 of its 14 neighbouring countries through peaceful negotiations, turning land borders into bonds of friendly cooperation. It’s groundless to view China as ‘expansionist’, exaggerate & fabricate its disputes with neighbours,” Ji Rong, the spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi, said on Twitter. Against ‘complication’ In Beijing, the Chinese Foreign Ministry reacted to Mr. Modi’s visit by saying India should not “complicate” the situation along the border. “China and India are in communication with each other through military and diplomatic channels,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a daily press briefing, when asked about the visit. “Neither side should make any move that may complicate the border situation.” Mr. Zhao warned India to “avoid a strategic miscalculation with regard to China”. “I would like to stress that China hopes that India will work with us, follow faithfully the important consensus reached between the two leaders, abide by the agreements reached between the two governments, strengthen communication and coordination on properly managing the current situation through diplomatic and military channels, and jointly uphold peace and stability in the border areas,” he said. “At the same time, we need to see that China and India, both major developing countries, bear the historic mission of accelerating national development and rejuvenation,” the official said. “China and India should follow the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and uphold overall bilateral relations,” he said. Mr. Lijian also warned against “artificial barriers” that would hurt economic relations, in reference to India’s recent moves on the trade and investment front, from banning 59 Chinese apps to announcing a halt to highway projects. On Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari’s remarks on July 1 to keep Chinese firms away from highway projects, Mr. Zhao said: “In recent days some politicians in India have kept issuing irresponsible remarks that are detrimental to China-India relations. It calls for concerted efforts on both sides to maintain China-India relations. Artificially setting up barriers for such cooperation not only violates WTO rules, but also hurts India's interests.” He said China would “take all necessary measures to safeguard the legitimate rights of Chinese businesses”.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Not the time to profiteer: NPPA||To ensure sufficient availability of critical medical equipment for clinical management of COVID-19 in the country, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday that it had identified a list of critical medical equipment and had requested the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) to ensure its availability at affordable prices.. “In order to keep a check on the price rise of critical medical equipment, NPPA, in exercise of powers conferred under DPCO, 2013, has called for price-related data from manufacturers/importers of Pulse Oximeter and Oxygen Concentrator to ensure that prices existing as on 1st April, 2020 should not be increased more than 10% in a year,” noted a release issued by the Ministry. All the medical devices have been notified as drugs and have come under the regulatory regime of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 2013, with effect from April 1. A stakeholders consultation with medical devices industry associations and civil society groups was held by the NPPA on July 1 wherein it was stressed that all the manufacturers and importers of critical medical equipment shall ensure sufficient availability of the same. “It has been reiterated that all the medical devices have come under price regulation accordingly, price increase of medical devices would be monitored,” the release said. The NPPA told the industry that it was not “business as usual” and not the time to profiteer. “The Medical Devices Industry Associations have been urged to bring down the retail price of critical equipment in the public interest in the prevailing situation as has been done by the manufacturers/importers of N-95 masks,” a senior health official said.
04 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Over 2 lakh flood-hit return home||The flood situation in Assam improved on Friday, but one more person drowned to take the death toll to 35 since May 22. Landslips killed 24 more during this period. A spokesperson of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said the person drowned in the Athani area of Dhubri district. “The scenario, otherwise, is better with more than 2.76 lakh people having returned to their villages and localities during the last 24 hours. The floods affected 13.27 lakh people across 20 districts,” she said. The number of people in relief camps has reduced. Compared to 12,597 inmates across 93 relief camps on July 2, there were 11,741 people in 92 shelters till the time of reporting.  The Brahmaputra and three of its tributaries, officials said, were flowing above the danger mark, but at fewer stretches than before. Barpeta continued to be the worst-hit district with 7.41 lakh people affected, followed by South Salmara (1.95 lakh), Goalpara (93,331), Nalbari (81,011) and Morigaon (46,118). More animals die The water level at Kaziranga National Park continues to recede. Now 48 of the total of 223 anti-poaching camps remain inundated, down from a high of 146 a few days ago. But the number of animals killed by the flooding increased overnight from 25 to 33. Park officials said 10 died of ‘other’ reasons that included hunting, nine died under treatment at a rescue centre, eight were run over by speeding vehicles and five drowned. A rhino had a natural death. Animals fleeing the flooded Kaziranga, which has a core area of 430 sq km, have to cross a highway to reach the relative safety of the hills in Karbi Anglong district. The park authorities had a week ago made it mandatory for vehicles crossing the stretch alongside the park’s southern edge to slow down to 40 kmph. In all, 41 animals were admitted at the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation at Kaziranga. Of these, nine were either brought dead or died during treatment, while 31 were released back in to the wild.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Panel on S&T to meet on pandemic||The standing committee on Science and Technology headed by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has scheduled a meeting for July 10 to discuss the “preparedness to deal with COVID-19 and other pandemics in future”. Mr. Ramesh confirmed that the committee will be deliberating on the vaccines for COVID-19 including the one being developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited partnering with Indian Council of Medical Research. Earlier in the day Mr. Ramesh, reacting to ICMR DG Balram Bhargava’s letter to institutions involved in COVID vaccine trial, claiming that the vaccine will be ready by August 15, tweeted, “Even assuming extraordinary times demand super extraordinary responses, this compression of all clinical trials and violation of all protocols is unwise.” Department of Biotechnology, Department of Scientific & Industrial Research, Principal Scientific Advisor to PM Vijay Raghavan and officials from Ministry of Science and Technology will depose during the meeting. Mr. Ramesh said he had been trying to hold a meeting of the committee for the last three months and virtual meetings should have been allowed to ensure that the work of parliamentary panels is not halted because of the pandemic. “Govt. does not want parliament to meet. That’s all there is to it. What happened to Modi hai to mumkin hai (is possible) in this case,” Mr. Ramesh said.
04 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha registers biggest single-day spike in cases||Odisha registered its biggest single-day surge in COVID-19 infections with 561 reported on Friday. The State’s total breached the 8,000 mark following the detection of 1,000 new cases in the first three days of July. What is worrying is that 136 positive cases were reported as local which indicates towards community transmission. Ganjam district continued to be the worst affected in Odisha. As many as 283 cases were reported from the district taking its tally to 1,850 — that constitutes close to 25% of the State’s total cases. Ganjam is closely followed by Khordha and Cuttack districts with 894 cases and 702 respectively. Two more deaths were reported from Ganjam. Total deaths stood at 29 while eight deaths were due to other reasons, said the Health and Family Welfare Department officials. After recovery of 5,502 persons, active cases stood at 2,567. The latest cause of concern is the rising of COVID-19 cases in leading healthcare institutions in the State. Fifty-five persons, including 18 cancer patients, were found infected in Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre, Cuttack, on Thursday. The government-run institute is the premier cancer facility in eastern region. The AHRCC had previously reported 15 positive cases on different days. The detection of 55 positive cases forced the administration to shut its out-patient department on Friday. Similarly, the SCB Medical College Hospital, Cuttack, reported 11 positive cases on Thursday. Massive contact tracing is currently underway. Similarly, a portion of Indira Gandhi Hospital, Rourkela, has been declared as containment zone following death of a person. Six doctors and nurses have been asked to undergo quarantine immediately. There is a long list of hospitals where COVID-19 infection has already reported. They include AIIMS-Bhubaneswar, MKCG Medical College Hospital, Berhampur, City Hospital, Cuttack and Narla Community Health Centre in Kalahandi district.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will accept marines case ruling: Centre||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Friday that it has decided to “accept and abide” by an international tribunal’s ruling that the Italian Marines accused of killing two fishermen off the coast of Kerala on February 15, 2012 enjoy immunity and are outside the jurisdiction of Indian courts. India is bound by the award of the arbitral tribunal formed under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), the government said. The award is “final and without appeal,” as India is a party to the U.N. Convention. Entitled to compensation The Centre asked the Supreme Court to close all the proceedings concerning the Marines, Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre. The two were detailed on the Italian ship ‘Enrica Lexie’ when they allegedly shot the fishermen, apparently mistaking them for “pirates.” The Marines, who are now in Italy, will face criminal investigation there. India is entitled to compensation for the loss of life. It’s freedom and right of navigation was violated by the Marines, the tribunal held. Constitutional expert and senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan said the government’s decision to accept the tribunal decision was a correct move, in tune with Article 51(c) and (d) of the Constitution. “The state needs to foster respect for international law and treaty obligations and encourage settlement of international disputes by arbitration. The award is a substantial victory for India inasmuch as concurrent jurisdiction was recognised, but immunity clause was applied to take the trial out of India. Compensation claim was allowed and the counter claim for compensation by Italy was denied.”  Seven-year wait The tribunal’s ruling comes seven years after the Supreme Court ordered the Centre to proceed with the investigation and trial in a decision on January 18, 2013. However, in 2014, the Marines had successfully gained a stay order on the investigation by the National Investigation Agency. A year later, the Supreme Court froze its own proceedings when the case reached the International Tribunal on Law of Seas. The apex court later, in September 2015, deferred the case till further orders.
04 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Main accused in Kanpur attack faces 60 criminal cases||Vikas Dubey, the main accused in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur, holds a notorious record of criminal activities and proximity to politicians. Dubey is named in 60 criminal cases in Kanpur, with several linked to murder, attempt to murder, robbery, and charges under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, the police said. He was acquitted in the murder of BJP leader Santosh Shukla, who was then a Minister of State, in 2001. According to the Special Task Force, Dubey’s animosity towards Shukla started during the political rivalry between Shukla and Hari Krishna Srivastava, who was then with the BSP, in the 1990s. They contested the Chaubeypur Assembly seat. In 1996, after Srivastava defeated Shukla by over 6,000 votes, Dubey, the victor’s associate, participated in a victory parade in which supporters of both clashed. A case was filed against Dubey, which led to the animosity between him and Shukla. This culminated in Shukla’s murder on the Shivli police station premises on November 11, 2001, when Dubey fired indiscriminately, the Special Task Force said in a statement issued in 2017. “That shows the nexus. It was so unbelievable that he was acquitted,” says Subhashini Ali, CPI(M) leader and former Kanpur MP. “Since then, he has committed many more crimes and has also been a land-grabber. The point is, how is he at large,” she asked. Ms. Ali says it must be investigated how Dubey intercepted the police team and ambushed it. She believes Dubey might have been given a tip-off by someone. A BJP leader from Kanpur says Dubey was well known for his association with Hari Krishna Srivastava, who himself changed his political affiliation many times. “Dubey had links with the party that was in power,” the leader said. Dubey himself was elected a pradhan and a zilla panchayat member. In 2015, his wife Richa Dubey won in the zilla panchayat election from Dhimau. Monu Tomar, whose mother Shanti Devi stood third in the election, says Dubey holds enough clout in several villages to decide elections. There were other crimes Dubey was linked to, including the murder of college manager Siddheshwar Pandey in 2000 and cable operator Dinesh Dubey in 2004. In 2000, from jail Dubey orchestrated the murder of Ram Babu Yadav in Shivli through his associates, the police said. In October 2017, Dubey was arrested by the STF in Lucknow in a murder case, when the police found him allegedly applying pressure on the complainant and witnesses to submit statements in his favour. A .30-bore spring field rifle and 15 live cartridges were recovered from him then, the police said. Dubey then carried a reward of Rs. 25,000 on his head. Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati said the government should not spare the accused, even if it needed to run a special campaign. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who visited Kanpur, said those involved in the killing would not be spared.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Tribal belts, forests will not be touched: Assam Minister||Facing widespread protests, the Assam government on Friday denied allegations that it was planning to “sell off” the State’s land resources through an “anti-indigenous people” ordinance allowing industrialists to set up shop without seeking clearances. Various political parties, tribal and social organisations and students’ bodies went on the offensive after the Sarbananda Sonowal Cabinet approved an ordinance on June 29 to provide hurdle-free land for investors to set up medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs). The ordinance awaits the approval of Governor Jagdish Mukhi. No hazardous factories “We appreciate the genuine concerns of the people. The reactions are probably because no one has seen the blueprint of the ordinance, which will not touch the tribal blocks and belts, reserve forests and ecosensitive belts,” Assam’s Industry and Commerce Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told presspersons. Hazardous industries would not be allowed to be set up through the ordinance to promote MSMEs, he added. He insisted that the ordinance was aimed at generating jobs for the State’s 20 lakh registered unemployed as well as some 3.5 lakh people who had been jobless since returning from other parts of India owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. “What we have envisaged is using non-farm patta (legally owned) land lying idle, after assessment by the district magistrate concerned, or spaces in industrial estates, with the highest investment of Rs. 50 crore for medium, Rs. 10 crore for small and Rs. 1 crore for micro industries,” Mr. Patowary said. Self-declaration will do To ensure ease of business, entrepreneurs would be allowed to start operations with a self-declaration and safety certificates from the fire and electricity departments. They need not submit any other document for three years. After three years of running the MSMEs, “he or she will have to possess all necessary documents within six months,” the Minister added. Farmers worried: Cong. The Opposition Congress, however, said it was not convinced. “The easy transfer of land for industrial use reeks of a plan to invite major investors. The ordinance will go against the very indigenous people the Bharatiya Janata Party had promised to protect in order to come to power. The farmers too are worried that their land would be taken away,” State Congress president Ripun Bora said. All Indian United Democratic Front president and MP, Maulana Badruddin Ajmal, also slammed the ordinance as a ploy to sell off large swathes of land to corporate houses posing as MSME players.
04 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||After Mizoram, Nagaland bans sale of dog meat||The Nagaland government has decided to ban commercial import and the sale of dogs and dog meat. The Mizoram government had taken a similar decision in March. “The State government has decided to ban commercial import and trading of dogs, and dog markets, and also the sale of dog meat, both cooked and uncooked,” Nagaland’s Chief Secretary Temjen Toy said on Friday. He added that the decision in this regard was taken by the Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio. The announcement followed an appeal by the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations (FIAPO), an apex body of animal rights groups, to the Nagaland government to ban the sale, smuggling and consumption of dog meat besides enforcing stringent animal welfare laws. “We are once again hit by shock and horror at the recent images that have emerged from ‘animal markets’ in Dimapur (Nagaland’s commercial hub) where dogs are seen in terrified conditions, tied up in sacks, waiting at a wet market for their illegal slaughter, trade and consumption as meat,” FIAPO executive director Varda Mehrotra said in a statement on July 2.  The FIAPO said it had been engaging with the Nagaland government since 2016, underlining how dogs suffer because of the demand for meat. It also claimed to have carried out undercover investigations on dog meat in the northeast. Smuggling racket The organisation said dogs are smuggled regularly to Nagaland from Assam and West Bengal. A dog, caught in Assam for Rs. 50, is sold for Rs. 1,000 in Nagaland’s wholesale market. “Dog meat sells for Rs. 200 a kg on the streets of Nagaland, which is about Rs. 2,000 per dog,” it said. Nagaland and Mizoram-bound vehicles carrying dogs tied in gunny bags with their heads sticking out are frequently caught in Assam. But many such vehicles slip through the security cordons.
04 July 2020||Patna,||Tejashwi’s apology fails to move NDA||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav’s “apology” for any “mistakes” during the 15 years of his party’s rule in Bihar failed to impress the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) leaders in the State. Ahead of the State Assembly elections — due in October-November later this year — the NDA has set a poll narrative of “15 years of RJD Versus 15 years of NDA”. On Friday, reacting to Mr. Yadav’s “apology”, ruling Janata Dal-United (JD-U) leader and Minister in Nitish Kumar’s Cabinet Neeraj Kumar said: “Seeking apology will not wash off 15 years of RJD’s misrule. He [Tejashwi Yadav] should apologise for the massacres of the poor, Dalits and upper caste people in the RJD regime. He should donate the ill-gotten money amassed by his parents to RJD workers. Maybe [then] some sin will wash off.” JD(U) party leader and Building Construction Minister Ashok Choudhary said: “Merely seeking apology will not do. Tejashwi Yadav should also accept that there was no one competent during 15 years of the RJD regime. At least he accepted the fact that there was jungle raj during the 15 years of Lalu-Rabri regime.” BJP leader and party spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “Fifteen years of RJD regime will never be forgiven by the people of Bihar. People still shudder merely at the mention of the RJD regime. I wonder why no regret has ever been expressed by RJD chief Lalu Prasad himself, who is currently serving his sentence in the infamous fodder scam cases in Ranchi.” Mr. Yadav, who is also Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly, was present on Thursday at the party headquarters in Patna when Karishma Rai, granddaughter of former Bihar Chief Minister Daroga Prasad Rai, joined the party. Later, addressing a gathering at the event, he sought an “apology from the people” for any “mistake” that may have been committed during the 15 years of the RJD’s rule of the State, headed either by his father and party chief Lalu Prasad or mother Rabri Devi. Slams Nitish regime The RJD leader also slammed 15 years of the NDA’s rule under Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for promises he [the CM] had made on various fronts. “I was very young when my party [the RJD] was in power.. But no one can deny that Lalu Prasad has not done social justice,” Mr. Yadav said, adding, “Still, if any mistake happened on our part during our 15-year regime, I apologise for that.”
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,||3 more die in Bengaluru for want of COVID-19 report||Unable to get admission in hospitals, three more non-COVID-19 patients lost their lives on Friday in Bengaluru. All three deceased — a senior male citizen from Kachakaranahalli, a 52-year-old male from Kamakshipalya and a 45-year-old female resident of Samatenahalli in Hoskote — were allegedly denied admission in private hospitals as they had not got COVID-19 tests done. Several hospitals The Kachakaranahalli resident, who had high temperature for the last three days, was refused admission in several hospitals despite his family members running from one hospital to another. “We were asked to get a COVID-19 test done and then bring him. But his condition deteriorated and he died this morning at home,” said a family member. The second patient, who developed sudden chest pain while on a walk in a park in Kamakshipalya, was rushed to a nearby private hospital by his fellow walkers. “But, they did not admit him and asked us to get a COVID-19 test done. He breathed his last in front of the hospital,” said one of his fellow walkers. Similarly, the family of the deceased woman, who slipped and fell near her house two days ago and suffered a head injury, first took her to a small hospital in Hoskote. “But as she had developed a blood clot in her head, doctors told us to shift her to a hospital with a ventilator facility. We knocked on the doors of at least four hospitals, but were refused admission. Her swab was taken at the first hospital but reports were awaited, and she died early morning on Friday,” said her daughter Jasmine. Stringent action Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said no hospital can refuse treatment to patients for want of a COVID-19 test. “Stringent action will be initiated against such hospitals to the extent of cancelling their KPME licence, if they refuse treatment to patients,” he said.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||In view of students’ safety, JEE, NEET postponed to Sept.||The JEE and NEET, examinations for admission to undergraduate engineering and medical courses respectively, have been postponed to September due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The exams had been scheduled for the second half of July. “Keeping in mind the safety of students and to ensure quality education we have decided to postpone JEE and NEET examinations,” said Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal in a tweet on Friday evening. The Joint Entrance Examination-Main (JEE-Main) will be now be held from September 1-6, JEE Advanced will be held on September 27 and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) will be held on September 13, he said, noting that “students’ health is the first priority”. Earlier in the evening, as Mr. Nishank participated in a webinar on fitness, over 3,000 people bombarded the comments of the live session with demands to postpone examinations, forcing the webinar host to raise the question with the Minister as well. National associations of parents’ have also been campaigning for their children’s health to be considered as most important. On Wednesday, parents of NEET candidates living in West Asian countries filed a plea in the Supreme Court demanding that examination centres be set up in those countries or that the examination be postponed. On Thursday, the Minister had set up a panel in response to the concerted campaign, asking National Testing Agency (NTA) Director General Vineet Joshi and other experts to review the situation. NTA conducts both NEET and JEE-Main —which have a total of 25 lakh candidates this year — although JEE-Advanced is run by the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). The Minister’s tweet regarding the postponement received over 22,000 likes within one hour, with most students expressing gratitude and relief through memes and hashtags.  Change in exam centre The postponement will lead to further delay in the beginning of the academic year for new students, potentially wiping out almost an entire semester. Usually, students start classes in August and the first semester runs till December. According to an NTA notice, students can request for a change in their examination centre until July 15, given that travel is still disrupted in many areas. Admit cards will be available for download 15 days before the examination date.
04 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan gets new Chief Secy. in major bureaucratic reshuffle||The Congress government in Rajasthan has changed the Chief Secretary in a major bureaucratic reshuffle carried out in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Rajeeva Swarup, a 1985-batch IAS officer, was appointed the new Chief Secretary, replacing incumbent D.B. Gupta, in the orders issued late on Thursday night. Mr. Gupta, who is due to retire in September this year, has not been given any posting. Speculation are rife that he may opt for voluntary retirement. Lockdown guidelines Mr. Swarup, who was earlier the Additional Chief Secretary (Home), will retire in October, unless he is given an extension. While heading the Home Department, he was instrumental in deciding the guidelines for enforcing the COVID-19 lockdown in the State since March 25. A total of 103 IAS officers were shifted. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh, who led the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and evolved the “ruthless containment” model for the worst-affected Bhilwara district, was moved to the Home Department to replace Mr. Swarup. Principal Secretary (Social Justice & Empowerment) Akhil Arora was named the new Principal Secretary (Medical & Health). Additional Chief Secretary (Industries) Subodh Agarwal, who coordinated the movement of stranded migrant workers from other States after the relaxation in lockdown restrictions, was posted as ACS (Mines & Petroleum). Principal Secretary (Tourism) Shreya Guha, who reportedly had some differences with Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh in the recent past, was shifted as the Principal Secretary (Forest & Environment). Special Secretary (Panchayati Raj) Arushi Malik, who had a turf war with Additional Chief Secretary of her department, Rajeshwar Singh, was shifted to Ajmer as Divisional Commissioner. The other three officers given the posting as Divisional Commissioners were Samit Sharma (Jodhpur), Bhanwar Lal Mehra (Bikaner) and Prem Chand Berwal (Bharatpur). 17 Collectors transferred The Collectors of 17 districts, including Jaipur, and Divisional Commissioners of five of the seven divisions in the State were transferred. Jaipur Collector Joga Ram was replaced by Antar Singh Nehra, while Divisional Commissioner Kailash Chand Verma was replaced by Somnath Mishra.
04 July 2020||Srinagar,||CRPF jawan, militant killed in encounter||A militant and a CRPF jawan were killed in a late-night encounter on Thursday, the third such operation in Srinagar in 43 days as security agencies raised the alarm on militants setting up bases in the city. The jawan was identified as head constable Kuldeep Kumat Urawan of 118 Battalion. “There have been no militant attacks in Srinagar. All the three incidents were the outcome of proactive action of the police and the CRPF, where leads were developed and the militants hiding in the city were tracked down and killed. A lead was developed on Thursday evening. The suspected spot was zeroed in and the militant fired indiscriminately,” Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said. The operation was launched in Srinagar’s Malbagh area. Mr. Kumar said Srinagar was being used by militants “to receive funds and medical treatment”. Five militants were killed earlier in Srinagar in two encounters since May 19. The police identified the slain militant as “IS-JK commander for Anantnag district Zahid Das”, a resident of Bijbehara. “Das, along with four militants, was involved in attacks on security forces, including in the recent Bijbehara attack. His two associates were recently killed in Bijbehara and two more of his group are on the run and will be killed soon,” the IGP said.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Some MPs may work from home this monsoon session||A hybrid of physical and virtual participation is being zeroed in for holding the monsoon session of Parliament, with a majority of members present physically in the House and a limited number joining in virtually. At a meeting on Friday, senior officials informed Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu that to enable virtual participation of all members, the existing capacity of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) had to be enhanced by manifold. Space constraints Mr. Naidu held an hour-long meeting to discuss the various options for conducting the monsoon session, according to sources. The session could be delayed from its usual end of July schedule and could get pushed to September, the sources stated. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat has estimated that the House can accommodate 127 members while adhering to physical distancing norms. This would mean that all visitors galleries except the one reserved for the media will be occupied by members. “Only a limited number of members can participate virtually because of capacity constraints of the NIC. Chairman Mr. Naidu has suggested that the effort shall be to enable the participation of the members in the proceedings from within the House to the extent possible through appropriate planning,” a senior Rajya Sabha official said. Screens to be installed Screens will be arranged both within the House and outside to enable virtual participation. Mr. Naidu has asked the Secretariat to draw up appropriate plans for seating based on the strengths of various parties in the House. For holding the question hour, voting in the House if required, administering the oath/affirmation to the newly elected members, planning the transportation of members and taking effective measures for physical distancing and sanitisation, a detailed action plan will be submitted by next week.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches Rs. 14.49-cr. assets in Pixion case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 14.49 crore belonging to the directors of the Pixion group of companies and others in a bank fraud case.  The attached assets are part of the alleged proceeds of crime acquired by causing a wrongful loss of Rs. 2,600 crore to public sector banks. The beneficiaries were Pixion Media Private Limited, Pearl Media Private Limited, Mahuaa Media Private Limited, Pixion Vision Private Limited, Pearl Studio Private Limited, Pearl Vision Private Limited and Century Communication Limited; their directors P.K. Tewari, Anand Tewari and Abhishek Tewari; and others, the ED said. The probe is based on seven chargesheets filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the companies, directors and others. Loans diverted The agency alleged that bank loans were taken on the basis of fictitious documents. The disbursed amounts were diverted through the bank accounts of suppliers and routed back to the group companies or personal accounts. The laundered funds were used to buy property and jewellery and were invested in the stock market and mutual funds.  Multiple accounts The accused persons opened several accounts in various banks in the names of these companies, individuals and family trusts for diverting the proceeds of crime, the ED said.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Someone is lying, says Rahul in a dig at PM||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday landed in Ladakh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi claimed that Ladakhis talk about China taking away their land, but Mr. Modi argues to the contrary. “Ladakhis say: China took our land. PM says: Nobody took our land. Obviously, someone is lying,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted and tagged a video. In the video, titled “Ladakh Speaks” , Congress leaders shared voices of people of Ladakh, who talked about Chinese troops coming into Indian territory, and stationing themselves at Pangong Tso. A note in the video read, “Our land was taken away, 20 Indian soldiers martyred, Why is the Prime Minister silent?” Separately, former Union Minister P. Chidamabaram, in a series of tweets, said: "For the third time in a week, PM did not name China as the aggressor, why? What is the purpose of talking about an unnamed ‘enemy’ to the people of India and the jawans in Ladakh?"
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Modi’s visit will boost soldiers’ morale: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday lauded the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Ladakh, and said the tour would “boost the morale of our valorous soldiers”. “Leading from the front. Prime Minister Shri @NarendraModi Ji with our brave and courageous personnel of Army, Air Force & ITBP at a forward location in Ladakh. This visit of honourable PM will surely boost the morale of our valorous soldiers,” he tweeted, along with multiple pictures of Modi with the soldiers. The Union Home Minister also used the hashtag ‘#ModiInLeh’ in his Twitter post. “ Veer bhogya vasundhara [a Hindi idiom meaning the brave will inherit the earth]. PM Narendra Modi’s words give words to the emotion of 130 crore Indians and act as a great morale booster for our armed forces! True leadership in action!” BJP president J.P. Nadda said in a tweet after the PM’s speech.
04 July 2020||MYSURU,||Traffic on roads abutting Nagarahole Park to be monitored||The Forest Department will soon put in place a traffic monitoring mechanism along the roads adjacent to Nagarahole National Park and criss-crossing Mysuru and Kodagu districts to ensure better compliance of forest laws by motorists and minimise road kills. This entails introduction of a time-stamped card system for vehicles passing through Alalur gate, Boodithittu and Majjigehalla Haadi, all of which have high traffic density 24x7. A portion of the road also connects the highway linking Mysuru and Tellicherry in Kerala and hence vehicle movement is high. D. Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, told The Hindu that time-stamping mechanism will help ensure that motorists don’t stop midway and litter the area or cause disturbance to wildlife. In the absence of any monitoring mechanism, littering along the 11-km stretch of road is high as many motorists stop midway on the road adjacent to the forests for lunch break and leave behind plastic water bottles and liquor bottles. “This shows that the instances of drunken driving through forest area is also high,” said Mr. Kumar. The department periodically conducts drives to clear the litter along the road stretch. A single drive along a 11-km stretch of the highway yielded 120 sacks of plastic bottles, liquor bottles and other materials recently, he added. The Deputy Commissioners of Mysuru and Kodagu districts have been apprised of the problem and they have issued in-principle approval for the introduction of the time-stamped card system. The vehicles on approaching the forest check posts will be provided with the time stamped card complete with details on the speed limit to be maintained and the exit time at the next check post. “This mechanism will ensure that the motorist do not hang around or over speed which can result in animal kills,” according to Mahesh Kumar. The forests abutting the highway stretch has also witnessed forest fires and illegal tree felling. Such a system is already in vogue on the road cutting through Nagarahole Tiger Reserve from Veeranahosahalli check post and connecting to Kutta. Apart from littering the heavy vehicle movement along the stretch has caused road kills some of which come to light if the animal dies on the road. But in most cases the injured animals tend to drag themselves into the forests and their subsequent deaths do not come to light. Hence a speed limit of 30 kmph is being introduced apart from having road humps to act as speed breaker at every 500 meter stretch.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Clinical trials a great opportunity for India’||Clinical trials present a great opportunity for India, but call for meticulous attention to detail, Biocon executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said on Friday. “It is a huge job creator, value driver and leads to innovation at the end of it,” she told a webinar organised by FICCI FLO, Hyderabad chapter. Stating that clinical trials can be on new molecules, drugs, or new therapies, and new regimens, she said that the country stood to benefit from the consequent creation of a strong experimental environment and ecosystem. “I think what we need to focus on is the clinical research part. Today, we are talking about developing new vaccines. We need to do all of that in a very stringent research mode,” Ms. Shaw said. A release on the webinar said that FICCI president and joint MD of Apollo Hospitals Enterprises Sangita Reddy, and chairman and CEO-IKP Knowledge Park Deepanwita Chattopadhyay participated, while CEO of WE Hub Deepthi Ravula moderated.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Make CBSE respondent in e-classes case’||Even the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR) campus on city outskirts did not have proper Internet infrastructure let alone areas where the tribal people live, the bench said. The bench also expressed dissatisfaction over the State government not taking a clear stand on permitting private schools to conduct online classes. “Why are the private schools conducting online classes in the backdrop of the pandemic. Why are they insisting on uniforms,” the bench sought to know from the government. When the SGP said the “government was not permitting online classes for school students”, the bench said at the same time it was also not stopping private schools from doing so. The government’s dilly-dallying on the issue was not correct, the bench remarked.
04 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala opposes Centre’s move on Italian marines||The State was not in favour of the Centre's plea to the Supreme Court to dispose off pending proceedings in the Enrica Lexie case, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He termed it unfortunate that the Italian marines were not being put on trial in India. The State government would convey its views to the Centre, he said, reacting to the latest developments in the case during his customary COVID-19 media briefing. “It is unfortunate that they are not standing trial in India. The media has reported that our country failed to present its case strongly and that lapses have occurred,” he said. In the matter of compensation, the Indian government needed to adopt strong follow-up action, he said. The Centre has totally failed before the international tribunal in ensuring punishment for the Italian marines, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said. The State government should impress upon the Centre the need to oppose the tribunal's decision, he said. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran also blamed the Centre for failing to ensure justice for the kin of the dead fishermen. The Centre was responsible for restricting the punishment to mere compensation, they said.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR looks at vaccine launch by August 15||“This vaccine has much potential but is at early stages. To promise delivery on a month’s timeline is overtly optimist. In exhorting partners for preparedness, due process and trial-site preparedness is also necessary,” the scientist said. Though the letter wasn’t officially released by the ICMR, the body confirmed its veracity. Two doctors who are leading trials at different locations told The Hindu they were awaiting clearances from their institutional ethics committees—a mandatory requirement—to begin recruiting volunteers. Only after such clearance could they proceed with tests. Both said that given how the trial was designed, it would be possible to assess the vaccine’s suitability or inadequacy for dissemination in the wider population. “We haven’t yet begun recruitment but are in the process of awaiting institutional ethics clearance,” said Dr. R. Vasudev, King George Hospital, Vishakapatnam, which is among the 12 sites. “We need 100-150 recruits per centre and by August 15, we should be able to get a sense of the safety, immunogenicity and possible efficacy. After four days, we are likely to get approval and begin recruitment.” Another doctor said that each trial site posed its own unique challenges in sourcing patients and, therefore, it was possible for one centre to finish phase-1 and phase-2 studies but for the others to lag behind. This was a common cause of delay in human trials. “Were everything to go like clockwork, it’s possible to confidently determine vaccine safety by August 15,” said Dr. Venkata Rao, Principal Investigator and based at the Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, Jajpur, Odisha, “However, until now, we weren’t made aware of a specific timeline, that it was to be ready by August 15.” The primary aim of the phase-1 trial was to check if there were side-effects or any adverse reactions. In phase-2, it would be to check if on administering the vaccine a measurable quantity of protective antibodies are produced by the immune system. Details of the study plan are available on the ICMR’s Clinical Trial Registry and this describes how 1,125 volunteers would be recruited pan-India, divided into appropriate groups with some getting the actual vaccine 14 days apart and others a placebo. Those tested are expected to be followed up at different stages: 7 days, 28 days, 104 and 196 days. It isn’t clear if phase-3 will follow this or depending on phase-2, be co-terminus.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Eight U.P. policemen killed during raid||Mr. Agarwal also said two weapons, including one looted from the police, had been recovered from the accused. Three other accused persons managed to escape, he said. The DGP said the incident could not have taken place without a well-planned conspiracy. UP ADG Law and Order Prashant Kumar, when asked, if there were any lapses by police team, said it was drawn from three police stations under a Circle Officer and was well prepared. “We will also probe if there were any lapses,” he said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who visited Kanpur, said those responsible for the killings would not be spared. The deceased were identified as DSP Devendra Mishra, posted as Circle Officer Bilhaur, Sub-Inspectors Mahesh Chandra Yadav, Anoop Kumar Singh and Nebu Lal, and Constables Jitendra, Sultan Singh, Bablu Kumar and Rahul Kumar.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India won’t import power equipment from China’||As the sector was vulnerable to cyberattacks, Mr. Singh said, the imported equipment would be checked for any malware like Trojan. The Minister said a lot had been achieved in the power sector, including capacity addition of 15,000 MW a year since 2014, and connecting the entire nation through one grid. India’s grid system was one of the best, as demonstrated during the light-out event on April 5 when the grid handled the steepest fall and climb in demand in a short span of time, he said. A major challenge, he added, was to make the distribution companies viable and the country self-reliant in equipment manufacture. Mr. Singh said Rs. 90,000 crore for the distribution companies was being given under a package announced by the Centre to meet the losses incurred till March 31. Against the demand for Rs. 93,000 crore from the States and the Union Territories, Rs. 20,000 crore had been approved, he said. Speaking to the media through video-conference, the Minister said the request for extending the Centre’s package to cover the losses up to June would be considered. ( With agency inputs )
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Age of expansionism is over, PM says in Ladakh||Pointing to the improvement in infrastructure along the border, something that the Chinese are believed to be concerned about, he said spending on the boundary had increased three-fold. India’s character was such that while it prayed to a flute-playing Lord Krishna, it also prayed to his Sudarshan Chakra-wielding avatar, he observed. Mr. Modi quoted Tamil philosopher Thiruvalluvar: “Bravery, respect, dignified conduct and reliability are the defining characteristics of any army.” He also quoted the Buddha. “Courage is related to conviction, courage is mercy and compassion, courage is that which makes us stand on the side of truth and do that which is right.” The Prime Minister made laudatory references to Rinpoche Kushop Bakula of Ladakh who, he said, helped foster nationalist sentiment in the area and who was the inspiration behind raising the Ladakh Scouts infantry regiment. “In the context of national security, I think of two mothers. One is Mother India and, the second, the brave mothers who have given birth to brave soldiers like you,” he stated. Later, Mr. Modi visited the Leh Military Hospital and met the soldiers who were injured in the June 15 Galwan Valley clashes. He told them that those who laid down their lives didn’t depart without reason and that they all gave a befitting reply.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Implead Centre, CBSE in online classes case: HC||Observing that ‘people sitting in Delhi must think of some schools in Thar desert’ while permitting private schools to conduct online classes, the Telangana High Court passed a direction that Central Board of Secondary Education and Central government be made respondents in a PIL petition questioning online classes for school students. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL plea filed by Hyderabad School Parents Association, directed the petitioner to implead the CBSE and the Centre in the petition. Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar, appearing for State government, suggested that the National Council for Teachers Education too be made respondents in the petition. July 13 next hearing The bench told the petitioner’s counsel to do so and implead others connected to the matter as well, posting it to July 13 for next hearing. Earlier during the hearing, the bench did not agree with the contention of lawyer Adinarayana Rao, appearing for some schools following Central Board curriculum, said that online classes were going on for the past two months for students following international programmes. He informed the court that there were schemes to make available laptops at subsidised rates to students so that they can avail online classes. “Those who can afford would provide three laptops to their three children. But some families find it difficult to provide two square meals a day to their children,” the Chief Justice observed. Describing coronavirus as 21st century’s pandemic, the bench sought to know whether governments can think of Internet in tribal areas. “Why cannot Delhi see the ground reality”, the bench said. When the counsel said academic activity would come to a halt if online classes were not conducted, the bench said in fact lives of migrant labourers and construction workers had come to a grinding halt due to COVID-19. Even the judiciary functioning got affected and the previous day, the Judicial Academy lost one of its employees, the CJ said. “This must be the critical moment of 21st century,” the bench said.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre alters guidelines for home isolation||Any patient under home isolation for COVID-19 will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. Thereafter, the patient will be advised to isolate again at home and self-monitor the health for a further seven days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over, the Union Health Ministry stated in its revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic cases. The guidelines supersede those issued on May 10. As per the guidelines, the patients should be clinically assigned as very mild/mild, moderate or severe and accordingly admitted to COVID Care Centre, Dedicated COVID Health Centre or Dedicated COVID Hospital respectively. “In view of the detection of a large number of asymptomatic cases, the current guidelines have been extended to asymptomatic positive cases also besides very mild and pre-symptomatic cases,” noted the Ministry. Patients eligible for home isolation should be clinically assigned as a very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic case by the treating medical officer and such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts. But patients suffering from immune compromised status (HIV, transplant recipients, cancer therapy, etc.) are not eligible for home isolation. Also, patients above 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease, cerebro-vascular disease, etc., shall only be allowed home isolation after evaluation. Also, the caregiver and close contacts of such cases should take hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the medical officer.
04 July 2020||KOLLAM,||Verdict leaves fishing community fuming||India losing jurisdiction over its maritime zones in the Enrica Lexie case has left the fishing community disappointed and enraged. Calling the verdict an invasion into the rights and dignity of fishers, they say this will set a bad precedence since the shooting happened on the fringes of the territorial waters. “If the incident had occurred in Italy will they let the killers go scot-free? This means our fishers will have to live in perpetual fear, which is unacceptable,” says Peter Mathias, president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association.  ‘A major setback’ The National Fishworkers’ Forum (NFF) and the Kerala Swatantra Matsyathozhilali Federation termed the verdict a major setback. “We wanted the Italian marines to be punished as per the law. But from the very beginning, the governments at the Centre have been taking a stand favouring them. They never considered our arguments in the matter, leaving many loopholes in the case,” they say. The NFF alleges that the Centre had insulted the fishing community by sitting on the verdict for around 40 days before releasing it. “However, the tribune endorsing that the Italian ship had violated national and international maritime laws will serve as a clear warning to foreign fright and passenger ships,” says T. Peter, general secretary, NFF. Recurring collisions “The State and Centre should bring an end to the recurring collisions in our maritime zone. The government should not allow shipping channels that cut through fishing areas, thereby affecting the livelihoods of fishers. Most ships pass near territorial waters and the repeating accidents show the inefficiency of the establishments in Kochi and Mumbai that regulate their route. The Coast Guard is also apathetic. The Centre should issue strict directions to the agencies concerned to rectify this,” he says.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Manmohan, Pranab to deliver talk on PV||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former President Pranab Mukherjee, former Union ministers P. Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh and other personalities will deliver lectures on the life of the late Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao as part of his birth centenary celebrations being organised by the Telangana Congress. These talks will be part of the year-long celebrations planned by the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) recalling the services of the ‘Telugu Bidda’ to the nation, according to chairman of the Centenary Celebrations Committee J. Geetha Reddy. The decision was taken at a meeting of the committee held through Zoom app and attended by TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy, AICC in-charge R.C. Khuntia and Celebrations Committee vice-chairman D. Sridhar Babu, convenor Mahesh Kumar Goud, and former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah, among others. Ms. Geetha Reddy described Narasimha Rao as father of economic reforms in India. The Economic Reforms Bill was introduced in Parliament on July 24, 1991, and to remember that, eminent personalities including Dr. Manmohan, Pranab Mukherjee and Chidambaram would be invited to deliver talk through video-conferencing.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||8 cr. migrants a liberal estimate: govt.||The Food Ministry did not have any data on the number of migrants across the country when it was decided to use a “liberal” estimate of eight crore for the purposes of providing free foodgrain under the Aatmanirbhar package, an official statement said. In a response to The Hindu 's  news report “Foodgrain distribution meets less than 15% of target”, published on Thursday, a Food Ministry spokesperson said “facts have been presented in a manner which is intended to create a negative perception in the minds of the readers”. “Since, no data on actual/estimated number of migrants/stranded migrants across the country was available with the DoFPD, a liberal figure of 8 crore migrant persons (10% of total 80 crore NFSA population) was estimated,” the Ministry statement said. “It is a matter of satisfaction that all those who needed to be fed were fed... It needs to be understood that 8 crore migrants should not be construed as the real target but an intended target to serve if it had existed,” the Ministry said.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Answered ED’s 128 questions: Ahmed Patel||A day after being grilled by officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an alleged money laundering case involving the Sandesara group, Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Friday said the agency had failed to answer his question on who in the Gujarat government had bestowed privileges on the group. “Thank you officials of ED for coming to my house thrice. I answered each of their 128 questions but they failed to answer my one fundamental question — Who in the Gujarat state government was responsible for bestowing multiple benefits, privileges and honours on the Sandesara group,” Mr. Patel tweeted. On Thursday, ED officials questioned Mr. Patelfor the thirdtime at his residence for about 10 hours in connection with a probe into the Sandesara money-laundering case. The Sandesara group is the promoter of the Vadodara-based Sterling Biotech Limited, a pharma company accused of multi-crore bank fraud and money laundering.
04 July 2020||Srinagar,||J&K lecturer arrested for ‘seditious’ posts||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday booked a higher secondary school lecturer for “seditious posts” on social media. A Sopore police spokesperson said Tahir Nazir Shalla, son of Nazir Ahmad Shalla from Sopore, violated the social media policy for government employees and ran an anti-national campaign, creating an “untrue and fake narrative.” “Shalla was circulating highly seditious and provocative posts through his social media accounts, which were highly prejudicial to the maintenance of law and order,” the police said. The accused, the spokesman said, was handed over to the Sopore police station by the cyber cell. “He has been booked under relevant sections of law... Investigations are set in motion to identify other persons involved in similar anti-state campaigns on social media and spreading a false propaganda,” the police said. The action comes days after the Sopore police was criticised for the photos and video of a three-year-old boy that went viral online from an encounter site. The photos of the boy were clicked as his grandfather lay dead, having been caught in the crossfire between militants and the security forces two days ago. A petition has been filed before the National Human Rights Commission for an impartial inquiry into the killing.
04 July 2020||Lucknow,||I’ve been framed due to political reasons: Ex-Faizabad DM to masjid demolition trial court||Former Faizabad District Magistrate R.N. Srivastava on Friday told a special CBI court holding trial in the 1992 Babri masjid demolition case that he has been falsely implicated in the case due to political vendetta. Deposing before the court of Special Judge S.K. Yadav, Mr. Srivastava claimed he was innocent and implicated in the case. He said the evidence led by the CBI was fabricated and the witnesses acted against him and other accused under political pressure.
04 July 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab records five more virus deaths||Punjab recorded 153 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday and reported five more deaths, taking the death toll to 157, an official statement said. The number of positive cases has reached 5,937. The patients who died were from Amritsar and Ludhiana districts. The major chunk of new cases, 54 and 19, were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. In Haryana, 494 fresh cases surfaced, taking the total tally to 16,003. The State also reported four deaths, taking the tally to 255. The major chunk of new cases, 156 and 130, were reported from Faridabad and Gurugram.
04 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha records highest surge in COVID-19 cases||Odisha registered its biggest-ever single-day surge in COVID-19 infections with 561 reported on Friday. The State’s total breached the 8,000 mark following the detection of 1,000 new cases in the first three days of July. What is worrying is that 136 positive cases were reported as local which indicates community transmission. Ganjam district continued to be the worst affected with 283 cases reported from the district taking its tally to 1,850 .
04 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Kanpur shootout: Catch the criminals alive to expose nexus with govt., says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) government of covering up its alleged nexus with the criminals involved in the Kanpur shootout, in which eight policemen were shot dead by a group of assailants. “The government, scared of getting unmasked, is engaging in drama of showing minor encounters in a hurried manner instead of arresting the main criminal,” Mr. Yadav tweeted. In an earlier tweet, he had demanded that the accused be caught alive in order to “expose” the State government’s alleged nexus with the criminals.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure OBC quota under NEET in State-run medical colleges: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday raised the issue of OBC candidates being denied reservations in medical colleges of States and Union Territories (UT) as the latter fill their All India Quota through National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Ms. Gandhi said reservation for OBC (Other Backward Classes) candidates is restricted only to central government institutions and urged the Centre to ensure that State and UT medical institutions extend the reservation benefits.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul sees ‘gundaraj’ in UP; Priyanka says jungle raj prevails||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government of Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) over the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur. While Mr. Gandhi termed it an example of ‘goonda raj’, Ms. Vadra, the party’s general secretary in charge of the State, said criminals in the State had become fearless as a jungle raj prevailed. Ms. Vadra said that Mr. Adityanath himself was in charge of the Home portfolio that looked after law and order in the State.
04 July 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra warns Ramdev’s firm||The Maharashtra government on Friday warned Baba Ramdev’s company, Patanjali, to not advertise its product ‘Coronil’ as a cure for COVID-19 and to be ready to face action if it did. State Food and Drug Administration Minister Rajendra Shingane said that ‘Coronil’ was nothing but a tablet made up of aswagandha, tulsi and giloy (gulvel). “It has been observed that ‘Coronil’ is being advertised as a cure for COVID-19. It is not true.” The minister said the Centre’s Aayush Ministry had recommended medicines with such ingredients only to increase immunity. “The name ‘Coronil’ and the publicity campaign to promote it had created doubts in the minds of the people. We want to inform the public that this tablet is not a cure for the novel coronavirus.” Mr. Shingane said his department had been given clear directions to keep a watch on publicity campaigns and advertisements for ‘Coronil.’ “We have also requested the Home Department to keep a watch. Failing to adhere to the guidelines will result in action under the relevant sections of the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954,” he said. The State , meanwhile, has asked zilla parishads to distribute Homeopathic medicines such as Arsenicum Album 30 and a few Ayurvedic medicines suggested by the Ayush Ministry to five crore citizens free of cost.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19: Cannot make undertaking to donate plasma mandatory for treatment, says Delhi HC||COVID-19 treatment could not be made conditional on a person giving an undertaking that he or she would mandatorily donate plasma after recovering, the Delhi High Court said on Friday. Reacting to the submission, the Bench asked, “If the person does not give the undertaking, should he be denied treatment? Treatment cannot be made conditional on a person. What kind of world are you imagining?,” the Bench remarked. The court, while declining to entertain the petition, asked the government to decide on the suggestions made by the petitioner.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Congress argues against expansion of postal ballots||A Congress delegation on Friday made a virtual presentation before the Election Commission against the decision to allow citizens aged 65 and above to use postal ballot in the coming elections. The party asked the Commission to withdraw the decision, which it said was taken without consultations with stakeholders and political parties. The Opposition party argued that the decision allows voters to come under “organized administrative influence”, violates the secrecy clause and makes election officials more vulnerable to COVID-19 infection.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many districts continue to witness a surge in infections||Fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in 35 districts across the State on Friday, with Ariyalur and Perambalur being the only exceptions. While Chennai recorded 2,082 of the 4,329 fresh infections, the other districts accounted for 2,182 cases, including 65 returnees. The city reported 2,000-plus cases for the fifth consecutive day, taking its overall tally to 64,689. Infections continued to surge in a number of districts, specifically Chengalpattu, Madurai, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, Kancheepuram and Theni. Chengalpattu recorded a new high with 330 fresh cases, followed by Madurai (287) and Tiruvallur 172. There were 145 cases in Tiruvannamalai, 144 in Vellore, 126 in Theni, 121 in Kancheepuram, 99 in Salem, 90 in Ranipet, 85 in Kallakurichi, 73 in Ramanathapuram, 65 in Virudhunagar, 54 in Kanniyakumari and 53 in Sivaganga. With 32 new cases, Villupuram joined the list of districts with more than 1,000 COVID-19 cases. Sixty-four persons succumbed to the infection, including 42 in government hospitals and 22 in private hospitals. As many as 33 of these deaths occurred in Chennai, nine in Chengalpattu and eight in Madurai. This took the overall death toll to 1,385. A 27-year-old man from Kancheepuram was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on June 30. He had no co-morbidities and tested positive for COVID-19. He died on July 1 due to respiratory failure and viral pneumonia. A 29-year-old woman with chronic kidney disease (stage V) and systemic hypertension was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 22. She died on July 2 due to factors including respiratory hyperkalemia, refractory metabolic acidosis, internal jugular vein catheter related sepsis and cardiogenic shock. A 35-year-old man admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate died on July 2 including due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, acute respiratory failure, COVID-19 pneumonia and morbid obesity. A 84-year-old man from Chennai was declared brought dead at the Government Royapettah Hospital on July 1. His swab returned positive for COVID-19 on July 2. His death was due to viral pneumonia and COVID-19. With this, Chennai accounts for the highest number of fatalities at 996 followed by 106 in Chengalpattu, 82 in Tiruvallur and 51 in Madurai. On Friday, another 2,357 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State. They included 1,164 in Chennai, 145 in Tiruvallur and 140 in Tiruvannamalai. As on date, a total of 23,581 persons are undergoing treatment in Chennai, followed by 2,919 in Chengalpattu, 2,405 in Madurai and 1,468 in Tiruvallur. During the last 24 hours, a total of 35,028 samples were tested in the State, taking the overall figure to 12,70,720. More beds The number of children under 12 testing positive for COVID-19 is on the rise. As of date, a total of 5,053 children have tested positive, while 12,363 persons aged above 60 have contracted the infection. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that already, 400 beds had been allotted to COVID-19 patients at Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. “This has been increased to 800 beds now. Work on increasing them further to 1,200 has begun,” he said, after inspecting the facilities at the hospital on Friday. He added that work to install oxygen lines at government hospitals had been taken up on a war-footing through the Public Works Department.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||14 routes identified for private trains in Southern Railway||The opening up of the railway routes for private players in the country has spurred mixed reaction among regular railway commuters in the city. The Indian Railway has planned to offer 14 routes of 16 sets of trains in the Southern Railway for which Request for Quotations (RFQs) was issued on Wednesday after giving in-principle approval for public private partnership (PPP). A senior official of the Southern Railway said that the PPP mode, similar to the opening of the airways for private operators, would see Indian railways competing with private train operators. He said as per initial plan, a total of 12 routes of the Southern Railway have been identified, of which eight routes (not trains) originating from Chennai, two routes via Chennai and two routes outside Chennai division, are proposed to be given to private operators. Though the number of train sets have been fixed at 16, the number of trains to be operated on private routes would be decided later, he added. The eight routes originating from Chennai are Coimbatore, Kanniyakumari, Madurai, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, Mumbai, Mangaluru, and New Delhi. Similarly, two routes passing through Chennai would be the Puducherry-Secunderabad and Kochuveli-Guwahati. The two routes to be privatised outside Chennai division are Tirunelveli-Coimbatore and Kanniyakumari-Ernakulam. Two trains with Chennai as destination and to be operated by Jaipur and Howrah clusters are in the route map. In the Jaipur cluster, a private train from Jodhpur to Chennai and in the Howrah cluster, a private train from Howrah to Chennai would be operated. The railway official said though the routes would be privatised, the trains would be operated by the loco pilots and guards of the Indian Railways. However, consumer activists are sceptical about the privatisation of train routes, though they do believe it would improve the efficiency of train operations. T. Sadagopan, a regular train commuter and consumer activist from Avadi, said the first victim of privatisation would be the various concessions being offered to senior citizens and economically backward people. Unions oppose decision Railway employees’ unions have flayed the Centre for having invited bids from private players to operate 105 trains. Southern Railway Mazdoor Union accused the Centre of misusing the COVID-19 lockdown to promote its privatisation policy. “Since we cannot mobilise people for major protests under the lockdown conditions, the Centre is going ahead with its anti-people policies,” according to SRMU Madurai divisional secretary, J.M. Rafi. Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union Madurai divisional secretary, R. Sankaranarayanan, said that operation of private trains would lead to manifold increase in passenger fare.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Used safety kits dumped at Kodungaiyur||Used safety kits, including coveralls, masks and goggles, are being disposed of at the Kodungaiyur dump yard. Recently, a garbage-laden lorry that was transporting used Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits was spotted near the garbage dump yard, while rag-pickers said they found several of these blue protective coveralls, masks and goggles in the landfill. The lorry of the Greater Chennai Corporation was spotted on the road leading to the dump yard recently. It carried blue disposable coveralls worn by healthcare providers/workers involved in COVID-19 management. The hospital waste was transported without being covered. The lorry driver said the waste was brought from the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. Ragpickers near the dump yard said at least two or three lorries were bringing used safety kits and dumping them at the landfill. “We are regularly finding blue gowns, masks, goggles and face shields used in hospitals in the dump yard. In fact, we asked some of the lorry drivers why such hospital waste was being brought here. The kits are dumped in a pit and covered inside the yard,” a ragpicker said. Social activist Jawaharlal Shanmugam said he had raised the need for proper disposal of biomedical waste with Health Department officials. ‘Contaminated products’ “Used PPEs are highly contaminated products and should be treated and disposed of according to the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016. These products should be disposed of through an incinerator as they are non-woven fabric. They should be collected at source by the government authorised common biomedical waste treatment facility providers. It is the responsibility of the Health department, the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to see that these kits are disposed of appropriately,” he said. A hospital authority said that all government hospitals had a tie-up with a common biomedical waste treatment plant operator. “All biomedical waste is segregated and collected by the firm for a charge. We will verify if the waste was being disposed of appropriately,” he said. Officials of the Corporation could not be reached for comment.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retired HC judge should head SPCA, says MNM||Actor Kamal Haasan led Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) has moved the Madras High Court challenging the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Tamil Nadu Police Reforms Act of 2013 and insisted that the State Police Complaints Authority (SPCA) should be headed only by a retired High Court judge and not the Home Secretary. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy on Monday directed State Government Pleader to accept notice on behalf of the government and file a counter affidavit within two weeks. Senior counsel Satish Parasaran, representing MNM, said the constitution of SPCA in the State was skewed and against Supreme Court directive. In an affidavit filed through counsel on record Vijayan Subramanian, the party’s general secretary — organisation (North and East) A.G. Mourya, a former Indian Police Service officer, said, Tamil Nadu had maintained an abysmal record in curbing police excesses and custodial deaths. The government had failed to identify and counsel troubled officers. He said, according to a report based on Central government statistics, 76 custodial deaths, the highest among southern States, had occurred in Tamil Nadu in 2018. Of those 76 deaths, 65 had died in judicial custody. Even according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Tamil Nadu had the second highest number of custodial deaths in 2018, he said. The National Campaign Against Torture in its ‘India: Annual Report on Torture 2019’ had stated that 1,731 died in custody in 2019 and of them 1,606 were deaths in judicial custody and the rest of 125 deaths in police custody. As per this report too, Tamil Nadu stood second in the country with as many as 11 deaths reported in police custody. The reports highlight the grave need to create an impartial and effective SPCA which could ensure higher accountability and scrutiny on the practices employed by the police.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tokens for free rations will be distributed from July 6, says CM||In view of the extension of the COVID-19 lockdown till the end of the month, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday announced that free rations would be provided to family cardholders for July as well. The tokens for receiving the essentials would be distributed at the doorstep of the beneficiaries between July 6 and 9. They can be exchanged for commodities from ration shops during specified timings from July 10. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said rice cardholders would get their entitlements as received during April, May and June. The other cardholders would receive 1 kg each of sugar and toor dal and a litre of edible oil. “For those living in COVID-19 containment zones, the essential supplies, as per their entitlement, would be delivered at their doorstep,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He reiterated his appeal to the public to wear a face mask and maintain physical distance while receiving the supplies. Following the imposition of the lockdown from March-end, the State government has been distributing essential supplies — rice, sugar, dal and edible oil — free of cost, besides providing financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 to rice cardholders since April. As the lockdown was extended in May and June, essential supplies, including 1 kg of dal and a litre of edible oil, were distributed to ration cardholders, besides rice and sugar, as per their entitlement. In view of the Centre’s direction to distribute an additional 5 kg to rice cardholders, the supplies were provided from April to June, based on the number of persons attached to each card, the CM pointed out.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile medical units at building sites soon||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch mobile medical units at all construction sites in all the 15 zones. At least 10,000 construction sites of non high-rise buildings and at least 1,000 sites of high-rise buildings are expected to be covered under this. As the number of workers had come down at construction sites, the Corporation planned to launch 15 mobile medical units in the first phase. A few construction sites have reported a spurt in COVID-19 cases, the officials said. “Major construction sites are expected to become hotspots of COVID-19 after the return of workers. The mobile medical units will focus only on construction labourers, estimated at 1.5 lakh in the city,” said an official. The commencement of work made hundreds of labourers engaged at the construction sites susceptible to COVID-19. The civic body has requested the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) to depute more doctors for the mobile medical units. “We have requested 10 additional doctors. Nurses, technicians and other staff will be recruited on contract by the Corporation. The number of doctors may increase later,” said an official. Monitoring app Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Friday launched an app for monitoring COVID-19 patients under home isolation. “At least 50% of patients are under home isolation. The app will facilitate quick response to the request made by residents on home isolation. For some patients in COVID-19 care centres, we have adopted an integrated approach with the right combination of Indian medicine and advanced medical technology. Of the 744 COVID-19 patients, 569 have been cured at care centres,” said Mr. Prakash. The Corporation has increased fever surveillance using the services of more volunteers. “The doubling period of active cases is 18 days,” said Mr. Prakash. Responding to allegations of a few outreach workers who demanded COVID-19 testing, a senior official of the Corporation said the workers had been permitted to use all facilities free of cost. Property tax About property tax collection, an official said the civic body was aware of hardship faced by residents during the pandemic. “A decision has not yet been taken by the government,” said the official.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on Pattabiram Tidel Park begins||Construction work for the first Tidel Park of the AIADMK government is under way at Pattabiram, and the first client will login by 2022. “We started work a month ago when the State government announced relaxation for the real estate sector. Work is in progress and a lot of cleaning up is happening with skeletal staff,” Tamil Official Language and Culture Minister ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan said. “Tidel Pattabiram would be the first integrated project in the northern part of the city and would hence be able to capitalise on the early developer advantage,” he added. Pattabiram falls in his Avadi constituency. Currently, 90% of IT parks are concentrated in the Southern parts of Chennai. Managing the resultant traffic congestion — as a considerable number of employees of these IT industries commute from various places in north Chennai — is a challenge for civic authorities.  Traffic congestion The State government’s theory is that once the Pattabiram Tidel Park opens, people in that zone would opt to work there. It will also help in easing traffic distribution and congestion and, in turn, enhance the productivity and profitability of IT companies. The Minister said that an analysis done by the State government showed that every day, close to 5,000 software professionals from this region were taking buses to various IT belts.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 wards at RGGGH get smartphones, walkie-talkies||Every COVID-19 ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) now has a smartphone and walkie-talkie to enable better communication among healthcare providers. The hospital has purchased 20 smartphones and walkie-talkies each for all its COVID-19 wards, including the ones at the Rheumatology block and the specialty block and in Tower-3. Residents had made a representation to the hospital dean that walkie-talkies and smartphones, with data, be provided to all COVID-19 wards, as they were not allowed to carry mobile phones to the wards. “We purchased 20 smartphones for the COVID-19 wards. This will enable easier and quicker communication with the staff on duty in the wards. Consultants can inquire about patients and provide opinions to the duty doctor,” E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, said. When asked about the possibility of transmission through the use of common devices, he said that hospital officials had given clear instructions on frequent sterilisation of the devices. With this, each floor will have a common phone number for the use of doctors, staff nurses and other workers on COVID-19 duty. The phone numbers will be given to relatives of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 and are admitted at the RGGGH, he said, adding: “We have completely restricted visitors to the hospital. We are making the list of numbers available for contacting the wards. Relatives can contact the wards too.” Dr. Theranirajan said that walkie-talkies were made available at all COVID-19 wards and the COVID-19 outpatient department in Tower 3. “This will facilitate immediate communication between the first point of care and the wards. Healthcare personnel can communicate easily and instantly on aspects including bed vacancy and availability of ventilators,” he added.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajenthra Bhalaji back in the helm||The ruling AIADMK, which removed Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji as secretary of the party's Virudhunagar district unit about three months ago, on Friday made him in charge of the district unit till the appointment of a full-fledged district secretary. This was announced in a release issued by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, co-coordinator and coordinator of the party respectively. Mr. Rajenthra Bhalaji, who has been in news invariably for wrong reasons, was stripped of the district secretary post in late March after he posted a controversial tweet on his handle. The tweet, which was later deleted, bordered on providing a communal angle to the task of tackling the situation in the light of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. In the months preceding his removal from the post, the Minister had made several statements, adopting a posture of being an “extreme Hindu.” The DMK went to the extent of petitioning to Governor Banwarilal Purohit, seeking his dismissal from the Cabinet, a stand endorsed by other parties, including the Congress. However, of late, he is one of the Ministers being fielded by the party to rebut criticism of DMK president M.K. Stalin on issues concerning the COVID-19 management. A few hours after the party made him in charge of Virudhunagar, Mr Rajenthra Bhalaji issued a statement, criticising Mr. Stalin on the Sattankulam custodial death case. As far as the Virudhunagar district unit is concerned, there are expectations among members of the party in the district over the last few weeks regarding the bifurcation of the organisation unit. A leader of the party from the district feel the development, which signalled that the revamping of the district unit has been kept in abeyance, may turn out to be a “dampener.” A veteran from a neighbouring district, who held the post of secretary of his district on four occasions at different points of time, said though it was not unusual in the party for any functionary getting back to his or her earlier position after a considerable gap of time, the case of Mr. Rajenthra Bhalaji appeared to be different from others as somebody else would have been appointed normally in the intervening period. In this case, no one looked after the district. However, a senior leader said that under the given circumstances, there was “no better option” than having him there. In another release, the party announced the formation of the central zone’s unit of information technology (IT) wing and appointed B. Vinubalan secretary for the central zone With this, the number of zonal units of the wing has gone up to five.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid pandemic pain, residents of old-age home present a picture of hope||It was sheer courage and self-confidence that helped 90-year-old Chandra Govind, 77-year-old Nirmala and seven other residents of an old-age home on East Coast Road recover from COVID-19. The institution houses 42 residents, many of whom are retired Central and State government employees. Each of them has an individual room. Nine residents had recently tested positive, including two persons in their nineties, one person above 80 years of age, five in their seventies and one aged above 50. It all began two weeks ago, when a 78-year-old resident of the home tested positive for COVID-19. Subsequently, the nurse who had attended to him also contracted the infection. Several others followed. “When we were taken to a hospital for testing, I felt a shiver run down my spine. But after I tested positive, I mustered the courage to see it through,” said Ms. Nirmala. Ms. Nirmala is a retired headmistress of a school in Bengaluru. “I used to meet government officials and handle crisis situations. This helped build my confidence, and came in handy now,” said the septuagenarian. Narrating her experience, Ms. Chandra Govind, who joined the home over a year ago, said she prayed when she tested positive. “Trust in God and the decision to face the problem head on helped me overcome the virus,” she said. She recalled that she had sung at Rashtrapati Bhavan during the tenure of President R. Venkataraman, and had given a television performance as well. R. Balamurugan, sanitary inspector, zone 15, said the residents of the home had become like family to him, and many of their children, mostly settled abroad, call him to inquire about their health. “They are very disciplined. They stayed inside their rooms and broke the transmission chain,” he said. ‘Courageous, not careless’ N. Gomathy, health officer, zone 15, said all the residents showed great courage and confidence. “They followed all our instructions, and such discipline helped them overcome COVID-19. They put up a good fight,” she said. Alby John, regional deputy commissioner, south, said, “Early identification, testing, proper nutrition and self-confidence can help defeat the virus. One should be courageous, but not careless.” So what is the message that the elderly residents, who have beaten all the odds, have for others? “Do not fear COVID-19. Take proper nutrition, medicines and rest,” Ms. Nirmala said.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pension applications to be accepted only online||The State government has decided to accept applications for old-age pensions (OAP) under eight schemes only online. In a communication to the Director (Social Security Schemes) in the Commissionerate of Revenue Administration, Chief Executive Officer of the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) said only a few districts were filing applications online. “Hence, it is requested to provide necessary instructions to District Collectors and SSS tahsildars to facilitate the service in online mode only through Common Service Centres and stop receiving manual applications,” the communication stated. In compliance, necessary communication was sent by the Director (SSS) to all District Collectors on Friday.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New office-bearers for BJP’s State unit announced||Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan on Friday announced new office-bearers for the party’s State unit. Former DMK leader V.P. Duraisamy, who recently joined the BJP, was appointed State vice-president, while Vanathi Srinivasan, who was earlier general secretary, is now also vice-president. In May, the DMK had sacked Mr. Duraisamy from his post of deputy general secretary, a few days after he met L. Murugan. P. Kanagasabapathy, who was State intellectual wing president, has also been elevated as State vice-president. Chakravarthy, Nainar Nagendran, K.S. Narendran, M. Muruganantham, M.N. Raja, A.R. Mahalakshmi and Puratchikavidasan have also been named as State vice-presidents. K.T. Raghavan, G.K. Selvakumar, Prof. R. Srinivasan and Karu Nagarajan have been named State general secretaries. K. Shanmugam, Dolphin Sridar and T. Varadharajan, among others, have been appointed as State secretaries, while S.R. Sekar has been named State treasurer. New district heads were named for the Nilgiris, Salem West and Cuddalore East, among other areas. Representatives were also appointed for various party wings and State working committees and national executive committees.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin concerned over rising case count||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday expressed concern over the rising number of COVID-19 cases as well as deaths in districts (other than Chennai and its surroundings), including villages, and urged the State government to take measures to combat this. Mr. Stalin charged that the Chief Minister and the Health Minister were still in denial about community spread of the virus, and were pushing people into danger.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijaya Hospital suspends patient care services||After many employees tested positive for COVID-19, Vijaya Hospital in Vadapalani here has decided to suspend patient care services with immediate effect. The hospital will be subjected to disinfection and other infection-control measures as per government guidelines, the managing trustee & chief executive officer wrote to all doctors and staff on Friday. The CEO said that all types of admissions, including emergencies, would be temporarily stopped in Vijaya Group of Hospitals (Vijaya Hospital and Vijaya Health Centre). Any type of emergency coming to the Vijaya Health Centre (VHC) casualty would be referred to other hospitals after stabilisation without much inconvenience to the patients. However, employees working in Vijaya Medical & Educational Trust seeking admission for COVID-19 related illness would be admitted. “All in-patients admitted in the Vijaya Hospital would be transferred to relevant areas in VHC. The out-patient services will function in VHC for all consultants with alternate day consultation… These are very challenging times, but I am confident that with your co-operation we can sail through this crisis,” the official said. Vijaya Hospital is the first major healthcare facility in Chennai that has suspended services due to the spread of COVID-19 among staff. In a few other hospitals in the city, doctors, nurses and para-medical staff who reported COVID-19 related symptoms or illness were advised to quarantine themselves after going through the standard operating procedure as prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Sources in the Health Department said the hospital would resume full-fledged services in about a week or 10 days after complete disinfection and sanitation. A few doctors in nearby hospitals also quoted senior consultants in the Vijaya Group of Hospitals as saying that the patient care services would resume in a few days.  The hospital will be subjected to disinfection and other infection-control measures as per government guidelines
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajenthra Bhalaji made in charge of Virudhunagar||The ruling AIADMK, which removed Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji as secretary of the party's Virudhunagar district unit about three months ago, on Friday made him in charge of the district unit till the appointment of a full-fledged district secretary. This was announced in a release issued by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, co-coordinator and coordinator of the party respectively. Mr. Rajenthra Bhalajiwas stripped of the district secretary post in late March after he posted a controversial tweet on his handle. The tweet, which was later deleted, bordered on providing a communal angle to the task of tackling the situation in the light of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. In the months preceding his removal from the post, the Minister had made several statements, adopting a posture of being an “extreme Hindu.” The DMK went to the extent of petitioning Governor Banwarilal Purohit, seeking his dismissal from the Cabinet, a stand endorsed by other parties including the Congress.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All efforts on to enforce lockdown: Police Commissioner||Commissioner of Police Mahash Kumar Aggarwal said the police had been making efforts to enforce the lockdown and contain the COVID-19 spread. Accompanied by Additional Commissioner of Police (South) R. Dhinakaran and other officials, Mr. Aggarwal visited the IIT-Madras campus, where over 100 police personnel are under quarantine. He enquired about their health and the treatment given to them. Later, Mr. Aggarwal told presspersons that the State government was trying its best to contain the pandemic. Although the number of cases was high, excellent arrangements were in place and patients were getting proper treatment. The number of persons tested was high in Tamil Nadu as compared to other States. In every police district, the police were holding meetings with vendors on implementing the rules and the government’s advisory during the lockdown.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||18 ED officials test positive for infection||Eighteen employees, including senior officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), have tested positive for COVID-19. “We had collected samples from 77 people, and of these, 18 have tested positive so far. We are waiting for the results of some more employees,” said a Greater Chennai Corporation official. He indicated that results for the others would come in by Friday evening or Saturday. An official whom The Hindu spoke to said, on condition of anonymity, that he had tested positive. Since he was showing no symptoms, he was under home quarantine, he added. Two Joint Directors have also tested positive.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM hospital a site for vaccine trial||The SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre (MCHRC) has been chosen as a clinical trial site by the Indian Council of Medical Research for the country’s first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine. SRM MCHRC is one among 12 institutions in the country and the only one from the State selected for the human clinical trials, according to a release. Satyajith Mohapatra, associate professor from the Department of Pharmacology, has been chosen as principal investigator for clinical trails at the hospital. SRM MCHRC president P. Sathyanarayanan said, “This is great news for us. I appreciate Dr. Satyajit Mohapatra and his team for making our institution a part of this prestigeous project. We will provide him with all necessary support to perform the exercise. My best wishes to him and the entire team.”
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM condoles death of medical officer||A medical officer from the Madhurantakam Taluk Hospital in Chengalpattu district died of COVID-19 on Friday. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami condoled his death and said that solatium would be granted to the bereaved family. S. Sugumaran tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to a private hospital on June 20. He had diabetes and hypertension and developed infection in his lungs. He was later shifted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on June 30.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK writes to PM against it||DMK parliamentary party leader T.R. Baalu has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the Railway Ministry’s move to privatise operations. “On behalf of DMK President M.K. Stalin, we want to strongly condemn the Railway Ministry notification on July 1 for private participation for operation of passenger train services,” he said in the letter. “When the initial move of privatising railways was undertaken in 2017, based on the Bibek Debroy Committee recommendations, it was emphasised by the then Finance Minister Arun Jaitely and Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu in Parliament that privatisation would not be allowed on rail operations,” the letter noted. “Railways are the cheapest means of transportation. Privatising railway operations is a move against the welfare of the people,” it added.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ISKCON plans Gita classes||ISKCON Chennai is conducting a free 18-session online course “Gita Made Easy-Hindi” from July 6. Participants will get a course completion certificate. The sessions will be held on Facebook and YouTube from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. (Monday to Friday). For details, contact 9840229226.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Selvan is TNUSRB chief||Senior IPS officer N. Tamil Selvan has been posted as Director-General of Police and Chairman of the Tamil Nadu Uniform Services Recruitment Board. Prior to this, he was the DGP in Tangedco, Chennai.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apollo Proton Centre gets JCI accreditation||Apollo Proton Cancer Centre (APCC) has been accredited by the Joint Commission International (JCI), a global leader in healthcare accreditation. APCC was the country’s first dedicated advanced cancer centre to receive the international accreditation. Over 200 patients from across the globe have benefited from proton therapy within one year of operation of APCC, said Prathap C. Reddy, chairman of Apollo Hospitals. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson of the group, said APCC had been recognised for patient safety, good processes and performance of staff.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electricity Minister seeks Central assistance to settle dues||Electricity Minister P. Thangamani requested the Central government to speed up the process of sanctioning Rs. 20,622.63 crore loan for repaying dues to the power companies. The Centre had announced Rs. 90,000 crore loan for State power utilities in the country facing financial stress during the pandemic, he said.
04 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Don’t insist on building completion certificate, Corpn. tells Tangedco||Coimbatore Corporation, it appears, has opened the floodgates for illegal construction in the city, violated the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019 and also asked the Tangedco to do so. The Corporation’s transgression comes in a June 30 letter Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath wrote to Chief Engineer, Coimbatore Distribution Circle, asking the Tangedco to not insist on building completion certificate, but go by its tax assessment book to grant power connection to buildings. The Corporation wrote the letter saying it had learnt that the Tangedco demanded the certificate from people applying for power connection and those people in turn approached the Corporation. In the city, the Corporation assessed buildings for property tax only after the construction was complete. Therefore, the Chief Engineer would do well to instruct his subordinates to not insist on building completion certificate, the Commissioner had added in the letter. Objecting to the Corporation’s stand, consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said the Corporation had opened the floodgates for illegal construction in the city because the Tangedco not asking for building completion certificate would mean that every illegal or unauthorised construction could have power connection. This went against the very purpose for which the State Government had framed the Rules – stopping illegal or unauthorised buildings. If owners of such illegal or unauthorised buildings could get power and water connection what mechanism was the government left with to check the construction, he asked. Mr. Kathirmathiyon, who had also taken to court the Corporation on the illegal construction issue, said that the Commissioner’s letter equating property tax assessment with building completion certificate was wrong because the Corporation assessed all buildings, irrespective of violation. Whereas, building completion certificate was different in that it issued the certificate only for buildings built as per the approved plan, he added. The letter also went against the very undertaking that the Corporation had given to the Madras High Court that it assessing buildings for tax did not mean that it approved of violation in construction. S. Kanagasundaram, head of the licensed building surveyors, said the Corporation Commissioner’s letter had set a dangerous precedent and went against the need for regulating construction. That the Corporation had chosen to do so would mean that people need not approach even the Local Planning Authority to obtain building completion certificate and then use it to avail of power connection. The Authority issued the certificate for the buildings whose plan it approved.
04 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Recovery rate high in Coimbatore’||The number of persons who recovered from COVID-19 is high and deaths due to the disease is low in Coimbatore district because of the intensive preventive action taken by the district administration, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said here on Friday, after chairing a review meeting at the Collectorate. Of 60,282 samples collected so far, 608 tested positive. Of the positive persons, 318 had returned home after treatment. The remaining 287 were under treatment. Out of 19,161 passengers who arrived here by 131 flights, 111 were found to be COVID-19 positive. While 46 of the positive cases were from Coimbatore, the others belonged to areas outside the district. At present, 8,302 persons were in quarantine at their houses. Mr. Velumani said the administration had strengthened vigil at the district border. Fifty doctors, 60 Revenue Department staff, 320 police personnel, 75 staff of local bodies and 24 Transport Department officials had been posted at 13 check posts to monitor the entry of people into Coimbatore. At the inter-State check post at Walayar, a medical team lifted samples from every person entering the district. On an average it collected 200 to 250 samples. The Minister visited the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex, where the administration had set up a 400-bedded COVID-19 Care Centre to house asymptomatic persons. Collector K. Rajamani, Commissioner of Police Sumit Saran and other senior officials participated in the review meeting.
04 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Golden Leaf India awards announced||Harrisons Malayalam Limited and United Nilgiri Tea Estates Company have won five awards each in the 16th edition of Golden Leaf India Award: Southern Tea Competition organised by the United Tea Planters’ Association of Southern India (UPASI) and the Tea Board of India. According to a release, the first screening was held at UPASI, Coonoor, in March this year. The technical analysis of the tea leaves was done at UPASI’s Tea Research Foundation laboratories. With the lockdown in force, the final tasting session was held in Guwahati, Kochi, and Kolkata. Arun Kumar, convenor, said 62 teas were short-listed at the first and second levels. The teas were evaluated by C. Karumbaiahh of Paramount Tea Marketing in Guwahati, Nimish B. Parokh of J. Thomas & Co in Kochi, and Satyajeet Hazarika of J. Thomas & Co in Kolkata.
04 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New product launched||KG Denim has launched BioRefresh range of coveralls that can be used by those in food, hospitality, and the health sector as a safe apparel. According to B. Sriramulu, Managing Director of KG Denim, these are made of reusable, polycot fabric tested for multiple washes. The company developed the technology in-house and has applied for patent. It plans to use the fabric to produce bed linen and other home textile products for domestic and export markets. It has launched Trigger HealtHive range of masks treated with herbs.
04 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||139 Indians land from Brunei||A repatriation flight with 139 Indians arrived here from Brunei on Friday. The Royal Brunei Airlines chartered flight (BI 4111) landed around 12.15 p.m. There were 101 men, 31 women and seven children on board the flight. The swab samples of all the passengers were collected on arrival for COVID-19 test at the airport, Coimbatore International Airport sources said. This was the first repatriation flight from Brunei to land in Coimbatore Airport, according to the sources. The flight departed from the airport to Brunei with four passengers – three women and a man – around 1.10 p.m.
04 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation fines 23 shops, 243 persons||The flying squads formed by the Coimbatore Corporation to check COVID-19 safety guideline violations, imposed a fine of Rs. 16,600 on 23 commercial establishments on Friday. Sources in the civic body said it found the shops not maintaining visitors’ register, placing sanitisers or ensuring physical distancing norms. The squads had checked 267 commercial establishments. As many as 243 persons were also fined for not wearing mask. The Corporation has so far penalised 116 commercial establishments and 12,817 persons, sources added.
04 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Toll rises to 7 in NLCIL boiler blast||The death toll in the recent fire accident in Unit V of Thermal Power Station-II in NLC India Ltd (NLCIL) rose to seven, with the death of G. Sivakumar, Deputy Chief Engineer, at a private hospital in Chennai on Friday.  Dies in hospital Mr. Sivakumar, a permanent employee of NLCIL, was admitted to the hospital along with 15 others, including two supervisors, three non-executive employees and contract workmen following the accident on Wednesday. The others who died include Silambarasan, Arun Kumar, Padmanabhan, Ramanathan, Nagaraj and Venkatesa Perumal, all contract workers.
04 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||78 test positive in Cuddalore||The district continued to witness a spike in COVID-19 cases with 78 persons testing positive on Friday. The total number of cases in the district now stands at 1,201. Of the 78 new cases, 46 were primary contacts of positive cases.
04 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Takes charge||M.S. Muthusamy assumed office as the new Deputy Inspector General of Police for Dindigul range after his successor Joshi Nirmal Kumar was promoted as Inspector General of Police. Dindigul and Theni districts come under his jurisdiction.
04 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Testing intensified in Erode||With 78 persons testing positive for COVID-19 so far in the Corporation limits, the civic body has intensified testing in the city. Most of the positive cases were reported from Valayakarar Street and Rajajipuram where the civic body has established check posts to screen people and lift samples. With a staff at the Head Post office testing positive on Thursday, swab samples were lifted from all the employees on Friday. Swab samples were also taken from conservancy workers, vegetable traders and call taxi drivers in the city. Since more than 40 cases were reported in the Corporation limits in the last three days, testing has been intensified, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu . He said that around 10,000 swab samples were lifted from people in the city. Four streets where positive cases were reported earlier were released from the containment zone list, but disinfection measures are continuing, he added.
04 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable shops at VOC Park Ground to function from today||As many as 800 traders have been allotted shops at the VOC Park Ground here, and they would start functioning from Saturday. Following the COVID-19 outbreak in the city, shops at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market on R.K.V. Road were shifted to the Corporation Central Bus Stand premises on March 29. After resumption of bus services, the civic body set up a temporary market at the VOC Park Ground with basic amenities to shift the traders. Allotment of shops to traders was completed on Thursday and shops were supposed to open on Friday. However, traders had sought a day’s time to shift the goods. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that the shops will start functioning at VOC Park Ground from Saturday.
04 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai preferred destination for medical emergencies||There were persistent requests from people from other districts to visit Madurai for medical emergencies despite tight restrictions, said Collector T.G. Vinay here on Friday. He said that patients not only from southern districts but also from central, west and northern parts of Tamil Nadu intended to visit here for consultation with specialists in cardiology and oncology for review cases and scans. Those patients, who underwent surgical intervention about two or three months back, had to visit the hospital here for a review. In some cases, they said there was no PET scan facility in their district. So they had to travel to Madurai, he said and added that due to the presence of many big hospitals in the city, there would be continuous movement. More than 50% of the e-passes issued were based on letters issued by doctors. Officials do cross check with hospitals whether they had issued such letters in the name of persons seeking e-pass, Dr. Vinay clarified and said the hospitals, including Government Rajaji Hospital, had separate entry for non COVID-19 patients. Vadamalayan Hospitals Managing Director V. Pugalagiri said people from Virudhunagar, Theni and other towns visited their hospital for chemotherapy and taking scans. “While our doctors issued letters on some occasions, people who were regularly coming for treatment on a weekly/ fortnightly or monthly basis, showed the patient card and reached here by duly getting the e-pass,” he added. Even if they were explained about the surge in COVID-19 cases in Madurai, people still preferred to meet the doctor in person, said cardiologist C. Vivek Bose of Bose Hospitals. “I do get frantic calls from people in southern districts. At least, five to six people from other stations call me for consultations and emergencies,” he said. Doctors in Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre said only for emergencies and review of post-surgical cases, they issued letters to the patients for visiting the hospital. Apollo Speciality Hospital Director Rohini Sridhar said they received 30 to 35 patients from many districts for periodic review by surgeons and for treatment in Oncology department. To enable the patients to travel by road, the hospital issued letters. “Patients undergoing radiotherapy have to necessarily come frequently. Hence, it cannot be postponed or avoided,” she added. Only very few departments took patients from other cities in view of the COVID-19 situation, she said. An official at the e-pass issuance centre said from July 1 (5 p.m) to July 2 (5 p.m.), 412 applications were received from 30 districts across the State seeking e-pass for travel by road. As many as 746 patients had sought pass for themselves and accompanying attendant/driver. After verifications, the passes were issued.
04 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Care for elders crucial now, say experts||The rise in number of COVID-19 fatalities in Madurai district has shed light on the need for caring for the elderly (above the age of 60) as this age group has accounted for 64.7% of all deaths as of Friday. When fatalities of those in the 51-60 age bracket are taken into account, these two age groups together account for 80.4% of all deaths due to COVID-19 in the district. According to data obtained from the district administration, as of July 2, of the 2,156 active cases, only 328 are above the age of 60. It means the elderly population accounts for only 15% of the total number of active cases. However, the number of deaths is disproportionately high. Experts say caring for the elderly is crucial to bring the fatalities down. There was a significant number of deaths last week in Madurai. Until May 31, only three deaths were reported - contributing to 5.9% of 51 fatalities that have occurred till date. June saw a rise in the number of cases. This month accounted for 94.1% of the total number of deaths. Three-fourth of all deaths took place in one week - between June 27 and July 3. Of the 38 deaths that took place in this period, 24 were of those above the age of 60 and another six in the age group of 51 to 60. Collector T. G. Vinay says care for the elderly has become a priority for the administration. The Corporation is taking a count of elderly people in the district. Health workers are noting down their co-morbidities. This exercise will be extended to peri-urban areas soon. “A majority of the elderly people have been given medicines for co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. If we keep co-morbidities under check, we should be able to keep the risks to a minimum,” he says. The elderly must avoid visiting public places. Families should keep a safe distance from the elderly in their house. “In case there are any symptoms, they must be isolated. Families must immediately contact the district administration as we have provided telephone numbers to them. It will help in expediting the treatment,” he says. Senior Consultant and Geriatric Physician of Preethi Hospital N. Raja says those who can afford can get pulse oximeter, blood pressure apparatus and glucometer. This can help monitor oxygen saturation level which must not drop below 95%. “In case of a drop, they must be shifted to a hospital,” he says. One must improve immunity through a nutritious diet and vitamin C and zinc supplements. “Apart from isolating elders who display symptoms, youngsters who have mild symptoms must keep away from them and show restraint while interacting. This process is called reverse cocooning. We observe that children and grandchildren who move out of an isolated home environment often become carriers of the disease,” he says. He adds that elders must not step out to buy essentials. “It is better if they use the aid of youngsters or reach out to government authorities in case they need to purchase condiments and other essentials,” he says.  Children and grandchildren who move out of an isolated home environment often become carriers of the disease Geriatric Physician
04 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||2,045 patients under care||A total of 287 people in Madurai district tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The district maintained a high number of active cases with 2,045 under treatment. The district also recorded the highest number of deaths in a single day with eight fatalities according to the bulletin, taking the toll to 51. While five of the deaths occurred at private hospitals, three were recorded at Government Rajaji Hospital. Two patients from Ramanathapuram and another from Dindigul also died at the GRH. There were 80 discharges in the district as on Friday. Virudhunagar district on Friday registered 65 new positive cases taking the total cases to 679. With a discharge of 296 patients, the district has 376 active cases. The district has recorded seven deaths. In Theni, 126 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported taking the total cases to 927. This included 77 men, 41 women and eight children. There have been 234 discharges so far. In Dindigul, 17 persons tested positive. While the total cases was 618, 310 patients have been discharged so far. In Ramanathapuram district, the number of fresh cases was 74 taking the total positive cases to 1,143. Keezhakarai, Ramanathapuram Town, parts of Paramakudi had complaints of COVID-19. So far, 318 persons have been discharged from hospital. Sivaganga, which accounted for the lowest number of positive cases in southern districts of Tamil Nadu from the initial days, had a total positive cases at 376, with 45 new cases reported on Friday. A total of 118 persons had been treated and discharged from the Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital. Kanniyakumari district added 53 more cases, including 53 indigenous cases, taking the total number of infections to 489 and active cases undergoing treatment in the Government Medical College Hospital to 308. Woes of Thoothukudi district continues to grow with the addition of 27 more cases that took the tally to 1,055 and the active cases to 293. A total of 35 patients were discharged from the hospital on Friday. In Tirunelveli, 294 active cases are undergoing treatment in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital with the addition of 41 more cases on Friday. The district has so far recorded 921 COVID-19 cases. As an employee of a leading textile showroom tested positive for the viral infection on Friday, the shop at Vannarpet was closed and disinfection operations were started immediately. Tenkasi district added only four positive cases on Friday that took the tally to 391 and active cases to 293.
04 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Government staff stage protest against additional workload||Members of Tamil Nadu State Government Employees’ Association gathered in 30 locations across Madurai district on Friday as part of a nation-wide protest to condemn additional workload thrust on employees of various departments such as health and revenue. Hundreds of employees from various departments took part in the protests. They also sought filling up of vacancies in essential services immediately. The association’s district secretary, K. Neethiraja, said the Centre and State government must awake to the demand in the health sector. “While they are ramping up health infrastructure on need basis, the manpower must also be strengthened so as not to overburden the present workforce. Not one employee from either the health or revenue department has taken leave during COVID-19 lockdown. They are fatigued,” Mr. Neethiraja said. “Moreover, employees who died due to COVID-19 must be compensated. The government which has frozen Dearness Allowance until July 2021 must withdraw the movet and compensate employees in full. Working hours are being extended from mandatory eight hours to 12 hours. The government must respect our time,” he said. “Many employees surrender 15 days earned leave for encashment. This year, this facility has been withdrawn. It cannot be permitted. It is understood that we cannot take 15 days leave during this period. Is it not right that they compensate us,” Mr. Neethiraja said.
04 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||AIIMS: notification issued||The Central government has notified the establishment of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai on Friday. A notification was signed to this effect in Gazette of India by Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Sunil Sharma. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project in Thoppur near here on January 27, 2019. “The notification confirms and provides credence that the AIIMS project will be on track. We are positive that Madurai will get better health infrastructure soon,” said Su. Venkatesan, MP. People’s Movement for AIIMS Madurai Coordinator V. S. Manimaran thanked the Centre for providing the notification. The work should be expedited as soon as the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) loan was through, Mr. Manimaran said.
04 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Officials relieved||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday relieved the Revenue Officers who were deputed to Sattankulam police station by the Thoothukudi Collector, as per the court’s order, after the court was informed by the State government that the CB-CID had collected the clue materials from the police station. Earlier, taking a serious view of the fact that the police personnel involved in the custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks were not cooperating with the Judicial Magistrate, Kovilpatti in the inquiry, the court had directed the Thoothukudi Collector to depute revenue officials to the police station to preserve the clue materials. The court adjourned the hearing till July 9.
04 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Faculty development programme||Madurai Kamaraj University conducted a faculty development programme on ‘Academic excellence in digital teaching and learning’ to help bridge gap between teaching and transition to the Internet on July 1. The programme highlighted methodsto improve online teaching and learning practices. The programme was conducted to clarify and address teaching needs of professors. Although lecture, practical classes and face-to-face teaching are the usual method followed for ages, teachers need to adapt to changing times, said Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea in SC seeks stripping of Home from CM||A lawyer moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking a direction to relieve Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of the Home portfolio till the completion of the investigation and trial in the alleged custodial torture and murder of a father and son in Sathankulam. Petitioner A. Rajarajan accused the Chief Minister of “screening and safeguarding” the accused police officers. The plea alleged that the Chief Minister issued a public statement on June 24, approximately six days before the investigation started, claiming that trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks died of “illness”. Mr. Rajarajan said Mr. Palaniswami should be charged with screening with the accused using the influence of his office. “The statement on June 24 was highly improper, condemnable and contrary to law, because the investigation procedure starting from 154 Cr.P.C and culminating in 173 Cr.P.C. had not even started until June 30. A magisterial enquiry to determine the cause of the death was at a preliminary stage”, the plea said. The public statement was made to avoid any adverse remarks being made about his government, it stated.
04 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One more COVID death; 24 new cases||The death of a 93-year-old woman with COVID-19 took the toll in the Union Territory to 13 on Friday. The woman, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease, died on Thursday night at the IGMCRI COVID designated hospital.
04 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Good Samaritans’ gesture to a poor man||G. Ramesh, 37, who lost the ability to walk in an accident years ago, has got a new lease of life by selling vegetables thanks to four good Samaritans in Pudukottai. He lives with his aged parents and his father suffers from locomotor disabilities. Following a bike accident, he did not have any means to earn a living, as he was not able to go to work, and debts built up as funds were required for treatment. After months of search, he took the job of collecting the user fee outside public toilets at the Pudukottai town bus stand. “I was doing the job for a few years and earned Rs. 200 a day, which was the only source of income for my family. Now, with the bus stand shut due to the lockdown due to COVID 19 pandemic, we were pushed into a state of penury,” he said. Meanwhile, a group of good Samaritans, Syed Ibrahim, S. K. Omraj, C. Harishwar and K. R. Surya, who had been mobilising funds to help out those in need during the crisis heard of Mr. Ramesh’s plight. “My friends who live in the same locality told us about his struggle. For the first three months of the lockdown, we gave Mr. Ramesh's family groceries, including rice, pulses and Rs. 4000, for their personal expenses,” Mr. Ibrahim said. As the group got to know Mr. Ramesh, they saw his will to work and realised that a more sustainable means to help them would be to help him get a job. “Using some funds, we helped him set up a vegetable stall near the Pudukottai town fish market,” Mr. Ibrahim said. Mr. Ramesh began selling fruits and vegetables from the stall since Saturday. These days, Mr. Ramesh wakes up early in the morning and, along with his mother, goes to the market to purchase fruits and vegetables for his shop. They then reach their spot by 7 a.m. and get ready for the day’s sales. “On weekends, we make at least Rs. 500. At a time like this, we are grateful to be able to eat three meals a day,” he said. Mr. Ibrahim and his friends also installed a basket in Mr. Ramesh’s retrofitted vehicle to help him transport large quantities of vegetables daily. “We are looking to mobilise some more funds to rent a shop for them to have a permanent location for the vegetable shop,” he said.
04 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief given to family of murdered girl||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Friday handed over a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh announced by the Chief Minister to the family of the seven-year-old Dalit girl who was raped and murdered at Embal in the district. She also handed over Rs. 4.12 lakh, being the first instalment of compensation sanctioned under the SC/ST Act, to the family. Ms.Uma Maheswari consoled the family members after paying respects to the body at the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital where the post mortem was conducted. Aranthangi MLA E.A. Rathinasabapathy also paid his respects to the body in the presence of the Superintendent of Police P.Ve. Arun Sakthikumar and other officials. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Uma Maheswari said the district administration was taking efforts to provide compensation to the family and necessary action under the POCSO Act through the Mahila Court. Steps were also being taken to provide free house site patta and a house under the Green House Scheme. All efforts would be made to ensure due punishment was awarded to the accused. The body was later buried at the village, police sources said.
04 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl falls into well, dies||A 13-year-old girl died after accidentally falling into a well in a dry ‘oorani’ at Koppanampatti near Ponnamarathi in the district on Friday. She was grazing goats along with her parents inside the oorani when she fell into the well with water. An alert was sounded to the firefighters of Ponnamaravathi station who rescued and gave her first-aid. However, she died while being brought to a private hospital in Ponnamaravathi. No case had been registered, said police.
04 July 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||542 solar-powered pumpsets allotted for Ramanathapuram||Ramanathapuram district has been allotted 542 solar-powered farm pumpsets for 2020- 2021 under the Central government’s PM-KUSUM scheme. According to a press release from Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao, solar-powered farm pumpsets with a capacity between 5 HP and 10 HP will be available for openwells and borewells. The government will provide financial subsidy of 70% to farmers. For installing a 5 HP pumpset, the maximum cost will be Rs. 2.42 lakh. For 7.5 HP motor, it is Rs. 3.67 lakh and 10 HP motor Rs. 4.39 lakh. The seniority list of farmers registered with TangedcoCO for free farm power supply will not be disturbed. Farmers availing the subsidy must give a declaration that micro-irrigation systems will be installed in their fields. Priority will be given to farmers from SC/ST communities. Interested farmers from Ramanathapuram, Thiruppullani, Mandapam, RS Mangalam and Tiruvadanai can contact Assistant Executive Engineer (AEE) of Agriculture Department at 9443323374. Farmers from Paramakudi, Nainarkoil, Mudukulathur, Bogalur, Kamudi and Kadaladi can contact the AEE at 8525033365.
04 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Patient leaves hospital, brought back||A 65-year-old man from Shevapet here managed to leave the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on Wednesday even as he was undergoing treatment for COVID-19. After a search, police and health officials brought him back to the hospital in the late hours of Thursday. The man was said to gone to a TASMAC liquor outlet and then to his house. Police and Salem Corporation officials were alerted when he reached home, and they brought him back to the hospital in an ambulance. Police are asking him which were the places he visited after leaving the hospital. This is the third incident of a COVID-19 patient leaving the hospital premises during treatment.
04 July 2020||SALEM /ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Co-operate during lockdown, people told||Salem Collector S.A. Raman has asked people to adhere to the norms of complete lockdown on Sundays (July 5, 12, 19 and 26). All shops and establishments except pharmacies, hospitals, milk delivery and ambulances services would remain closed on these days, he said in a release. The Collector asked the public to refrain from morning or evening walks. Cases would be registered against persons who stepped out without a valid reason and their vehicles seized. They would also be quarantined and subjected to COVID-19 tests. A press release from Erode Collector C. Kathiravan said that all shops, vegetable markets, commercial establishments, meat shops and Tasmac outlets across Erode district would remain closed during the complete lockdown on Sundays. He has asked people to follow the norms and not to venture out of their homes. Action would be taken on violators as per law, the release said.
04 July 2020||Staff Reporter,TAMIL NADU||HC relieves revenue officials||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday relieved the revenue officials who were deputed to the Sattankulam police station by the Thoothukudi Collector, as per the court’s order, after the judges were informed by the State government that the CB-CID had collected the clue materials from the police station. Earlier, taking a serious view of the fact that the policemen involved in the alleged custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks were not cooperating with the judicial magistrate, Kovilpatti, in the inquiry, the court had directed the Thoothukudi Collector to depute revenue officials to the police station to preserve clue materials in the case. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian made a mention before a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi to modify its earlier order and relieve the revenue officials as the CB-CID had taken over the investigation and collected the clue materials. The court relieved the officials from the said duty and adjourned the hearing in the case till July 9.
04 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI deplores lack of water flow in channel||Communist Party of India cadre staged a demonstration near the Public Works Department office at Kumbakonam on Friday to draw the attention of the authorities to lack of water flow in the Thirubhuvanam irrigation channel despite the water release in the Cauvery. The demonstrators, led by district secretary, M.A. Bharathi, entered the Thirubhuvanam channel and raised slogans condemning the PWD for not ensuring water flow in the irrigation channel which serves as a lifeline for agricultural operations. They also claimed that agricultural operations had been affected in the ayacut areas served by the Theperumanallur channel, Ullur, Pazhavathankattalai and Perumandi irrigation channels as there was no water flow in them. These channels had not been desilted at several places and also been heavily encroached upon, they alleged. Further, tanks and waterbodies in the Kumbakonam town also remain barren even two weeks after the release of water from the Grand Anicut. They demanded that the encroachments on the waterways in Kumbakonam town be cleared immediately.
04 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Plea to close down TASMAC shops||The Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Munnetra Kazhagam has appealed to the District Administration to close down TASMAC shops in Orathanadu taluk temporarily in view of COVID- 19 positive cases in the taluk. Staging a demonstration near the Orathandu Taluk Office, the members, led by its Thanjavur South District president, Poigai.Chinnaraja, raised slogans alleging that people of Orathanadu were in danger of contracting the virus through customers at TASMAC shops. Hence, they sought for temporary closure of the shops.
04 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘No political intervention in custodial deaths probe’||Inspector General of Police (CB–CID) K. Shankar on Friday said neither the ruling party functionaries nor the Ministers interfered in the ongoing investigation into the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. “It’s not true and we’re carrying out an unbiased investigation into the twin custodial deaths,” Mr. Shankar told reporters here during an informal chat with media persons when asked about the alleged intervention by the ruling party functionaries in the probe. He said the First Information Report had been registered against the accused under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code. He made it clear that the CB-CID would also investigate the alleged role played by the Friends of Police in the custodial deaths. Meanwhile, the CB-CID police on Friday night arrested constable Muthuraj of Sattankulam police station, who was wanted in connection with the custodial deaths. Sources said he was hiding at Poosanoor near Vilaaththikulam when a CB-CID team nabbed him and brought to Thoothukudi for interrogation. With this, the investigating agency has nabbed five personnel of the Sattankulam police station. The arrested include inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head-constable Murugan and Muthuraj.  IG refuted the information shared on social media that Muthuraj had been detained and questioned at an undisclosed location
04 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Dowry row: two killed||Eral police have arrested three persons for murdering a woman and a youth at Sivakalai near here on Thursday night. Police said Vignesh Raja, 22, of Sivakalai near Eral, had fallen in love with Sangeetha, 20, of the same village and married her on June 18. The girl’s family was initially against their getting married though they belonged to the same caste. It is alleged that Vignesh Raja demanded more dowry from Sangeetha’s family. Her brother A. Muthuramalinga Raja, 23, a cousin, Muthu Chudar, 19, and a friend, A. Arunachalam, 21, invited Vignesh to the bus stop for talks. An argument broke out and the three attacked Vignesh Raja who sustained cut injuries on his hand and ran for life towards his house. On seeing him, his parents Lakshmanan, 52, and Muthupetchi, 42, and cousin Arun Mahesh, 26, ran towards him to save the youth. However, they also came under attack. Vignesh’s mother Muthupetchi and Arun suffered cut injuries and died on the spot. Vignesh and Lakshmanan have been admitted to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital.
04 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi airport receives first evening flight||The 28-year-old Thoothukudi airport crossed a milestone on Friday as it received its first flight in the evening. When the scheduled Indigo flight from Chennai approached the airport for landing at 2.50 p.m. on Friday with 42 passengers, it had to be diverted to Tiruchi airport due to dust storm in the airport area. After storm subsided and the visibility improved, the flight that took off from Tiruchi at 5.45 p.m. landed in Thoothukudi at 6.20 p.m. It left for Chennai with 32 passengers at 7 p.m. After prolonged efforts, the airport recently obtained permission for operation at night. Airport Director Subramanian, Manager Jayaraman and Fire Officer B. Ganesh received the passengers.
04 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees 116 new COVID-19 positive cases||The central region recorded 116 more cases of COVID-19 on Friday with Tiruchi district registering the highest number of 47 cases in the region. Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam reported 17 new cases each, Pudukottai 18, Thanjavur 13 and Karur four. Among the 47 cases in Tiruchi, three were vendors of the temporary vegetable market functioning at the Madhuram Grounds on East Boulevard Road. “Of the 47 vendors, three have tested positive. Although we will be contact tracing, there is no need to close the market,” S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner said. The three patients were shifted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) for treatment on Friday. The total number of positive cases reported in Tiruchi so far stood at 803. Meanwhile, a total of 26 patients who had been admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH were discharged from the hospital after recovering from the infection. Among them are 24 patients from Tiruchi and one each from Pudukottai and Perambalur. The patients were asked to stay in home quarantine for a period of 14 days. Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu visited the containment areas in Manapparai, Ponnampatti and Chinna Kadai Street on Friday and advised the residents to stay indoors and maintain personal distance. Mr. Sivarasu checked if stickers were pasted on the doors of those who were home quarantined and in containment zones for a period of 14 days. He asked the residents not to step outdoors, to wear face masks and regularly wash their hands with soap and water. He also asked them to keep their surroundings clean. In Thanjavur, 13 patients tested positive taking the total number of active cases undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital to 183. Tiruvarur saw an addition of 17 new positive cases on Friday In Pudukottai, seven of the 18 who tested positive were vendors at the Pudukottai town fish market. The other 11 had returned from other districts or were contacts of those who returned to the district. A 21-year-old man from Gandharvakottai had also tested positive in Chennai and has been admitted to a private hospital in the city. All other patients have been admitted to the Ranee’s Government Hospital, Pudukottai. Seventeen patients, including an 8-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy tested positive for COVID-19 in Nagapattinam. Among the 17, seven had returned from Chennai, one each from Sivaganga, Erode and from Thiruvallur. Two patients who returned from other States, Maharashtra, and New Delhi, and another patient who travelled from Muscat also tested positive. Four patients were immediate contacts of a patient who tested positive earlier. The total number of cases recorded in the district so far stood at 273. In Karur, four patients tested positive on Friday. Among them were three men aged 37, 63 and 40. The 40-year-old man hails from Bengaluru and had travelled to the town. The other two are patients who hail from Pallapatti and have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital (KGMCH). A total of 11 patients, seven men, two women and two male children, all hailing from Karur were discharged from the KGMCH on Friday.
04 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||44 teams formed to monitor adherence to lockdown norms||Forty-four teams of officials have been constituted in the district, police station wise, to monitor the enforcement of lockdown restrictions in force. The teams comprise officials from Revenue, police, health and the local bodies concerned. Each team will include an officer in the rank of a deputy tahsildhar, a sub inspector of police and a constable and a sanitary inspector. The teams would maintain vigil in their designated areas focusing on whether the public and business establishments adhered to the lockdown guidelines, Collector S. Sivarasu said. The teams would also initiate action against violators under Disaster Management Act 2005, he added. Among other tasks, the teams would monitor whether residents were venturing out with face masks and maintaining social distance in public places and whether government guidelines were being adhered to. Mr. Sivarasu said that not more than 50 persons should participate in events such as marriages. Shops should not allow more than five persons inside their premises at any point of time. Tea stalls, vegetable shops and eateries would be allowed to function only between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. Other shops can remain open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Drinking alcohol, smoking and spitting in public places have been banned. The teams would monitor whether all these guidelines were followed. Assistance Mr. Sivarasu also disclosed that the COVID-19 assistance of Rs. 1,000 announced by the government for persons with disabilities would be distributed to them at their residences by the village administrative officers. Persons with disabilities can receive the assistance by producing copies of their national identity cards, Aadhaar card, bank account passbook and voter identification card to the VAOs. In case of any difficulty in receiving the assistance, persons with disabilities can contact the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer over the telephone by dialling 0431-2412590/9499933492. If assistance was refused or not received, they can contact the State helpline 18004250111. Persons with speech and hearing disabilities can convey complaints, if any with respect to the distribution of the relief, through a dedicated WhatsApp number 9700799993 with facilities for video calling and translation of sign language. The relief amount will be handed over only to the beneficiaries concerned or their parents or guardians in extraordinary cases.
04 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Patronise BHEL for thermal power plants’||Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi citing the several measures taken for survival and growth of MSME Sector, BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSSIA) has sought his direct intervention to ameliorate sufferings of stressed fabrication units in Tiruchi. “Though Tiruchi is ranked globally among the best fabrication hubs of South Asia accounting for 450 steel fabrication units with a combined capacity of seven lakh tonnes per annum through a workforce of 40,000, the lower order position for BHEL has put all the units under several stress. The capacity utilisation was less than 25%. Hence, corporate sectors in India must be encouraged to place their orders for thermal power plants to BHEL instead of Chinese firms,” BHELSIA President Rajappa Rajkumar said in a letter addressed to Prime Minister on Friday. Requesting settlement of the pending thermal power plant orders of Talcher-Orissa, Lara-Chhattisgarh, and Singrauli-Madhya Pradesh at a negotiated price with BHEL, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said such a measure will pave way for optimal utilisation of the capacity created, and ensure survival of the MSME Units. The order must be placed on BHEL for Tamil Nadu's Power Plant project at Cheyyur, he said, emphasising that the process of clearance from the Ministry of Environmental and forest has to be expedited, alongside facilitation of coal linkage and financial support “We will be thankful to you for receiving an acknowledgement and the action taken on our genuine request for the welfare of MSME Sector which is considered as backbone of Indian economy,” Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said in the letter.
04 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protest by defence civilian employees||Hundreds of Defence civilian employees of Ordnance Factory Tiruchi and the Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project unit observed a Nationwide Protest Day by holding demonstrations opposing corporatisation of ordnance factories and listing the production units in share market with the motive of privatisation. At Ordnance Factory here, about 700 employees of OFT Employees Union, INTUC, Progressive Workers Union, BPMS and Ambedkar Employees Union took part in the protest. About 400 employees took part in the protest conducted at HAPP by members of HAPP Employees Union, HAPP Workers Union, INTUC and BPMS, representatives of the employee unions said. Wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing, the protesting workers demanded that there should be no Government Owned Contractor Operator (GOCO) model in Army Base Workshops and Ordnance Depots under Army. Criticising abolition of posts in Military Engineer Service and Army units, the protesters raised slogans saying that privatisation/ outsourcing and foreign direct investment in defence will not be accepted. They also demanded that there should be no reduction of manpower in DGQA (Directorate General of Quality Assurance) under the pretext of rationalisation and that there should be no outsourcing and abolition of posts in Navy. Likewise, there should be no outsourcing in Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and services of all casual and outsourced employees must be regularised.  All posts lying vacant in Defence and other government departments must be filled, speakers at the protest meeting said. C. Srikumar, General Secretary of All India Defence Employees' Federation, said the federations will take a decision after the second week of July on the date of start of the indefinite strike by four lakh employees in 41 ordnance factories against the Central Government's move to corporatise ordnance factories as a prelude to privatisation.
04 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Do not ‘crush’ labourers, say trade unions||Various trade unions staged a demonstration here on Friday condemning the Centre and the State government for “favouring corporates and crushing labourers” and in support of their various other demands. The demonstration was held near the Head Post Office in which trade union representatives from AITUC, CITU, INTUC, HMS, Labour Progressive Front and AICCTU participated. The trade unions urged the government to provide Rs. 7,500 each to all workers in the unorganised sector during the lockdown which had severely affected their source of income. The demonstrators also wanted the government to provide food materials to workers for six months. They urged the government not to cripple the labour welfare laws and not to increase working hours from eight to 12 hours. They urged the government not to sell public sector undertakings making use of the COVID-19 period. Among those who participated in the demonstration included the AITUC district general secretary K. Suresh.
04 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Jeshtabhishekham’ performed to Sri Namperumal||‘Jeshtabhishekham’ was performed to the processional deity Sri Namperumal at the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple here on Friday. ‘Jeshtabhishekham’ is performed every year in the Tamil month ‘Aani’ in Kettai nakshathiram at the Srirangam Temple — the foremost among the 108 Divya Desams. As the prohibitory orders were in force this year, the customary practice of bringing holy water in a golden pot on the temple elephant Andal from the Amma Mandapam could not take place. However, holy water from the Cauvery at Amma Mandapam was brought in silver pots to the temple premises. The holy water was thereafter taken in a golden pot on the temple elephant Andal from the Renga Vilas mandapam inside the shrine to perform ‘Jeshtabhishekam’ for the processional deity Sri Namperumal, a press release from the temple said. The event was organised by adhering to the government guidelines issued in the wake of the prohibitory orders with a limited number of persons taking part. Those who participated wore masks and maintained personal distancing. They were also subjected to screening using thermal scanners and provided with hand sanitisers, the release added.
04 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man murders father||An aged man was murdered by his son at their house at Alambakkam village in Kallakudi police station limits on Friday. The Kallakudi Police have arrested D. Arokiaraj (35 ) on the charge of killing his father P. Durai. Police said Arokiaraj had committed the murder by using an iron road after his father reportedly did not give money. A case has been registered in Kallakudi Police station.
04 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Now redress your grievances through skype, says Passport Office||With operations at the Regional Passport Office in the city remaining temporarily suspended in view of the COVID-19 pandemic since the last week of March, the Passport Office has now made arrangements for redressal of grievances through skype. In order to facilitate emergency need of applicants, whose applications are pending for issue of passport due to various reasons, the passport office would now redress grievances through Skype ID: Passport Office Trichy. The facility will be open from July 7 and applicants can interact with the public grievance officer between 9.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. on any working day, regarding pending applications, R. Anand, Passport Officer, Tiruchi, said in a press release. The facility will be available only with respect to passport applications which are pending for various reasons. General enquiries would not be entertained through this facility, Mr. Anand said. General enquiries can be made through telephone 0431-2707203 or 2707404 or through email:rpo.trichy@mea.gov.in or through WhatsApp to 7598507203. A toll-free number 18002581800 is also available, he added.
04 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Only essential services on Sunday||Complete lockdown will be in force on Sunday without any relaxation and only essential services would be allowed, Collector S. Sivarasu has said. The complete lockdown would start from midnight of Saturday and remain in force till 6 a.m. on Monday. Only essential services such as milk supply, ambulances, hospitals and medical shops would be exempt during this period. Private vehicles would be allowed only for medical emergencies. All those involved in COVID-19 containment measures should travel within the district with their identity cards. The govt., while extending the lockdown with relaxations across the State till July 31, had said that complete lockdown would be in force on all Sundays during the month.
04 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Woman head constable questioned||The CB-CID on Friday questioned S. Revathy, a head constable of Sattankulam police station, whose testimony in the custodial torture of trader P Jayaraj and his son J Benicks was taken into account by the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) to hold that prima facie material existed to book the erring policemen for murder. Ms. Revathy, who was present at the Sattankulam police station on June 19 night when Jayaraj and Benicks were beaten up by the police, earlier in the day appeared before Chief Judicial Magistrate Hema and recorded her statement. In the evening, she went to the CB-CID office where she was questioned for over two hours. Since, Ms. Revathy had been provided with police protection on the direction of the High Court she came to the District Court Complex and also the CB-CID office with police security. There were reports that Maharajan, a constable, who allegedly abused the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate-I Bharathidasan during an inquiry in the case, came to the CB-CID office in the evening. However, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID K. Shankar denied these reports.
04 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Will ensure people-friendly policing’||Inspector General of Police G. Karthikeyan, who took charge as the new Commissioner of Police for Tiruppur city on Friday, said that he would ensure “people-friendly” policing. The former Deputy Inspector of General (DIG) of Police for Coimbatore range told mediapersons the Tiruppur City Police would tackle the present COVID-19 situation with the help of the public, along with maintenance of communal harmony and law and order in the city. “This place is not new to me,” Mr. Karthikeyan said, referring to his previous tenures as the Superintendent of Police of the erstwhile combined Coimbatore district and as Deputy Superintendent of Police of Avinashi. Initiatives to improve ties between the police and the public would be announced soon, he said. Mr. Karthikeyan took charge as the DIG Coimbatore range in February 2018. During his tenure, tribal welfare programmes were implemented to curb Naxal activities, according to his profile. He was also credited with bringing down the number of accidents in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris districts and promoting citizen-inclusive policing in these districts. He joined the Tamil Nadu Police Service in 1995. After serving as Deputy Superintendent of Police and Additional Superintendent of Police in various regions across the State, he was promoted as Superintendent of Police in 2003. Mr. Karthikeyan was promoted to DIG rank in 2016 and was posted at Dindigul range for two years, following which he was posted at Coimbatore. He received the President’s Police Medal in 2017.
04 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Around 10,000 bags of paddy pile up for want of takers’||A village at Valangaiman taluk in Tiruvarur district has turned into a veritable open granary with mounds of paddy or gunny bags containing paddy stacked all over the village waiting for takers. Farmers who have taken up the paddy cultivation during this summer in and around Arithuvaramangalam had a bumper harvest. “Each of us has harvested not less than 35 bags of paddy per acre. But our jubilation died down as we are not able to encash our produce at the right time”, said Sasikumar of Arithuvaramangalam. The harvested paddy stacked in open at Arithuvaramangalam had started sprouting after a few showers the village had received in the past few days. Mr. Sasikumar, who blamed the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, for not coming forward to procure all the produce, evaded the question when asked why their produce had not attracted the attention of private traders. He criticised the State government for not coming forward to procure the paddy through the Arithuvaramangalam DPC. Around 10,000 gunny bags of paddy, each weighing 50 to 55 kg, remain stacked in open places, lamented Raju, another farmer. On the other hand, the TNCSC official sources said that they could not procure paddy from the farmers like in the past in view of the changes made in the procurement process. “Nowadays, if a farmer has to sell his produce at the DPC, he has to submit the ‘adangal’ and other documents to substantiate that the produce has been harvested from the agricultural land owned or taken on lease by him. These documents are not required for selling the produce to private traders,” they pointed out. When their attention was brought to the allegation that Arithuvaramangalam DPC staff were turning away the farmers despite an adequate stock of gunny bags, the sources said that the DPC staff could not refuse to procure the paddy if the farmers had produced the necessary records.
04 July 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||No mustering for pensioners this year||The State government has done away with ‘mustering’ for pensioners for the year 2020-21. According to a press release issued by the District Treasury Department, the pensioners in Tiruvarur district need not appear in person at the Treasury or at the Sub-treasury offices to confirm their existence in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. They have been advised to approach the Treasury or Sub-treasury offices only in unavoidable circumstances, the release added.
04 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||80% of employees of private firm tested in Yellanalli cluster||Testing has been done on 80 % of the employees of a private firm in Yellanalli, which emerged a cluster of COVID-19 infections over the last few weeks. 115 active cases Of the 115 active cases recorded in the district till Thursday evening, around half are employees of the private firm in Yellanalli as well as their primary and secondary contacts, officials said. Officials from the district administration said that around 750 employees were working in the company, and around 80 % of them as well as their primary and secondary contacts were tested over the last couple of weeks. “The remaining persons will be tested within the next 10 days,” said the official. “Many of the positive cases reported from this cluster are of neighbours and family members of the people who had been working at the factory. We are tracing all the contacts of the workers and are testing them as well,” the official said. The factory has been temporarily closed till all employees are tested and complete their quarantine period, officials said. In the days since the cluster was identified, the areas surrounding the factory where many of the workers and their contacts live – Yellanalli, Ketti and a few surrounding areas, have been declared as containment zones. Around 20 cases have been registered against people who were found exiting the containment zones, officials said.
04 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works to be conducted at Jagathala and Sandynallah sub-stations, there will be no power supply in the following areas between 12.30 p.m. and 5 p.m on July 4 .  Jagathala sub-station: Aravankadu, Coonoor, Burliar, Bandishola, Singara, Wellington, Yeddapalli, Brookelands, Adderlie, Bedford, Ottupattarai, Currency, Mount Pleasant, Beratty, Sims Park, Elithorai, Hossatty and Hubathalai.  Sandynallah sub-station: Sandynallah, Lovedale, Kuruthukulli, Parsons Valley, Thalaikundah, Naduvattam, Dhavani, HPF, Glenmorgan, Porthimund and Sterling Biotech.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||99 new cases and two deaths in Salem district||With the death of two persons with co-morbid conditions and 99 new cases on Friday, Salem district continued to lead in the Western region in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Coimbatore district had 34 cases followed by Erode district with 14. Two persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH) in Salem died on Thursday and Friday. They were identified as a 52-year-old man from Chinnapudur and a 57-year-old woman from Attur. Health department sources said the man had liver ailments and the woman was undergoing dialysis. Of the 99 new cases, 93 were indigenous. The six others had travel history to Odisha, Karnataka and Mumbai. Namakkal district reported four cases. Three persons, including two girl children aged eight and 11, are under treatment at the Perundurai Medical College in Erode. A 25-year-old woman from Tiruchengode is admitted to GMKMCH. In Dharmapuri, 10 indigenous cases and four imported cases were reported. The indigenous cases included a 25-year-old female doctor who was about join duty at a primary health centre. In Krishnagiri, nine indigenous cases and five imported cases were reported. 3 of a family positive Two anaesthesiologists were among the 34 new positive cases in Coimbatore. One works in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and the other in a private hospital. Health Department sources said the 34 cases comprised nine women, 23 men and two boys aged two and seven. The two-year-old boy and two women aged 29 and 60 belong to same family from Nehru Nagar. The cases were reported from Coimbatore Corporation limits, Othakalmandapam, Somanur and Periyanaickenpalayam, the sources said. Erode Fourteen persons tested positive in Erode district. Health officials said that seven cases were reported in corporation limits, four cases in Modakurichi block, one each in Bhavani, Perundurai and Gobichettipalayam. Total number of active cases in the district is 123. Tiruppur Out of the five new cases in Tiruppur district, a six-year-old girl from Kangeyam and a 50-year-old woman from Iduvai in Tiruppur Block were contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. The remaining -- a 74-year-old man, a 49-year-old man and a 29-year-old woman -- were from Tiruppur Corporation limits with travel history. Two cases reported on Thursday were cross-notified to Salem district. Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said on Twitter that 55 containment zones had been set up across the district. The Nilgiris One more person tested positive in the Nilgiris, taking the total number of cases in the district to 117. The latest person to get infected is an 85-year-old woman, believed to have contracted the infection from relatives who had come from Karnataka.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 positive patient goes to hospital on a two-wheeler||A 59-year-old man from Avinashi, Tiruppur district, who tested positive for COVID-19, went to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital to get himself admitted after waiting for over 12 hours in vain for an ‘108’ ambulance to pick him up. Sources in the Health Department told The Hindu that he was a hospital worker at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore who was residing at Narasa Street in Avinashi. The Health Department informed him that he was COVID-19 positive on Wednesday afternoon, following which he dialled the 108 helpline for an ambulance. However, despite him making multiple calls, none of the ambulances reached his residence as all were occupied. After waiting past midnight with no sign of ambulance, he asked his son to take him to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital in the early hours of Thursday, sources said. Requesting anonymity, a sanitary inspector from Avinashi Town Panchayat who followed him to the hospital said that the ‘108’ ambulance was initially scheduled to arrive at 1.15 p.m. on Wednesday, which was repeatedly postponed to 4 p.m., 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. “He isolated himself inside the house and we locked the gates from the outside to ensure he did not come out,” he said. “He obeyed all our directions, so it is only fair to give him this chance,” the inspector said when asked why he agreed to this proposal. He along with a police officer from Avinashi police station followed him on the 18-km drive to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and the patient was admitted at around 5.30 a.m. on Thursday. Both the father and the son wore masks during the drive and the 21-year-old son, who rode the two-wheeler, was later placed under house quarantine, he noted. Around 75 swab samples were lifted from the residents of Narasa Street on Friday, the sanitary inspector said. Sources at the ESI Hospital confirmed that the man was employed there as a hospital worker. He was assisting the staff nurses at the COVID-19 ward. His swab sample was lifted on Sunday, according to the hospital sources. Health Department sources acknowledged that the lack of adequate number of ambulances for Tiruppur district must be addressed at the earliest. Although COVID-19 patients could visit hospitals in their own vehicles for admission, driving all the way in a two-wheeler is a highly unsafe act, according to the sources. When contacted, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that the entire route from the patient’s residence in Avinashi to the hospital was disinfected. “We are inquiring into (this issue) and will take necessary action. Private ambulances are also to be (made) available compulsorily in cases of emergency,” he told The Hindu, noting that private ambulances have already been instructed to be readily available.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC clears decks for Ring Road project||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has cleared the decks for the proposed Madurai Ring Road phase-1 highway project, floated by the Central government under the Bharatmala Pariyojana Scheme. Dismissing a batch of public interest litigation petitions that challenged land acquisition and notification for the project, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi imposed cost on petitioners and observed that the petitions were devoid of merits. The petitioners had sought a direction to the Centre and State to re-align the proposed highway project. They had contended that prior environmental clearance was not obtained for the project and there would be famine in the future if agricultural lands were acquired. They also said that the project would run through reserved forest areas. Pursuing the documents, the judges observed, “We find from the records that out of the 2,844.55 hectares of wetlands available in the area, NHAI is acquiring only a miniscule extent of 81.73 hectares, which is only 2.83 %”. Further, the court observed that out of the 1,307 persons whose lands were acquired, only six of them had filed petitions, challenging the acquisitions and even those petitions had been dismissed by the court earlier. Relying on a Supreme Court judgement, the court observed that NHAI was an expert body having expertise in the field of development and maintenance of national highways. “We cannot issue a direction based on their (petitioners) assertion calling upon the NHAI to re-align the road,” the court said. The court directed two petitioners to pay Rs. 50,000 each to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund as the State exchequer was cash-strapped to combat the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The fund can be used for providing treatment to those affected by the pandemic, the court said.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Judge leaves with a word of praise||Administrative Judge P.N. Prakash, whose three-month tenure at Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has ended and who goes back to principal seat, thanked advocates for their cooperation and support during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter addressed to Bar members of the High Court Bench, he thanked them for having come forward to work with the district administration as volunteers for distribution of essentials to the public. “The COVID-19 pandemic threw several challenges to both of us. Together, we were able to march thus far, thanks to providence. I do not know what is in store for us. However, I am confident that with courage, fortitude and faith in the almighty, we will be able to come out of these trying times like the mythical phoenix,” the judge said. Though the physical hearing of cases was tried successfully for a week during the first week of June, the venture had to be abandoned due to spread of COVID-19, he said while thanking office-bearers of the Bar associations. He asked members not to lose hope in the goodness of humanity and not to allow fear to grip them.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Poompuhar focuses on online sales||Poompuhar, the retail arm of Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation, is focusing more on online sales, especially in tier-two and tier-three cities in the State. According to R. Narendra Bose, manager of the Poompuhar outlet in Coimbatore, efforts are on to organise a virtual expo soon, involving artisans in and around Coimbatore district. Usually, when there is an online order, the goods are sent to Chennai to be packed and shipped to customers. With Chennai becoming a hotspot for COVID-19 cases, the goods are packed and sent from Coimbatore. "On July 1, we sent a brass lamp and black metal statue to New Delhi for an order worth Rs. 1.12 lakh," he said. The plan is to showcase more products that are made by artisans in the region. "We have contacted a kolu doll maker and an artisan who make wooden carvings. We will gradually rope in artisans who make products out of coconut shells, etc. They will be supported to shoot photos and videos of their products and these will be uploaded on the Poompuhar website. The aim is to make the customers get a feel of the products," Mr. Bose said. "There are several products unique to this region. We want to display more of those online," he added. So far, sales through online platforms had not been much for Poompuhar in Coimbatore. Now, it has become a focus area. Poompuhar is also selling on e-commerce portals such as India Mart and Amazon, Mr. Bose added.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ailing elephant dies||An ailing male elephant died at Pethikuttai beat of Sirumugai Forest Range on Friday, becoming the third elephant to die in Coimbatore Forest Division within three days. Forest officials said the elephant, aged around 10, was undergoing treatment in the reserve forest at Pethikuttai from June 30. When officials and veterinarians visited the elephant on Friday at around 11.45 a.m., the elephant was found to be lying motionless on the ground. Upon inspection, the veterinarians declared it to be dead, officials said. On June 28, the ailing elephant was able to walk back into the forest after being treated for the whole day. However, it fell ill again the next day, following which veterinary doctors from the Forest Department administered fluids intravenously from June 30 to July 2. On Wednesday night, one female elephant was gunned down by two farmers near Mettupalayam and on Thursday, an ailing female elephant was found dead in Sirumugai range. With this, 15 elephants have died in Coimbatore Forest Division since January. Meanwhile, DMK MLA and former Minister Thangam Thennarasu urged Forest Minister Dindigul C. Sreenivasan to order an inquiry into the deaths of elephants in Coimbatore Forest Division. In a social media post on Friday, he condemned the alleged inaction of the Department over the multiple deaths.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Train travel will become costly if rail routes are auctioned’||Railway employees’ unions have criticised the Centre for having invited private players for an auction of 105 rail routes to operate trains. Southern Railway Mazdoor Union said the Centre was misusing the COVID-19 lockdown to fast-track its privatisation policy. “Since we cannot mobilise people for major protests under lockdown conditions, the Centre was going ahead with its anti-people policies,” said its Madurai divisional secretary J.M. Rafi. The railways had planned to close down non-viable branch lines and convert hundreds of long-distance passenger trains into expresses. “When these two measures are bound to deny train travel to a majority of rural people, the move to allow private players to run trains will further hit the common man,” he said. Dakshin Railway Employees Union Madurai divisional secretary R. Sankaranarayanan said in such a scenario, private players would increase the fare manifold and deny concessions for senior citizens, differently abled persons, students and others. Train journey would become out of reach for poor and middle class people. Railway jobs would go to the private sector, dashing the hopes of educated youth of getting a secure government job. Three lakh posts lying vacant in Indian Railways would never be filled. The Centrre had asked the railways to surrender 50% of posts lying vacant for the past two years, said SRMU assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar. He said ‘rail hostesses,’ recruited for Delhi-Lucknow Tejas Express that was handed over to a private player, did not receive their salaries at all. Mr. Sankaranarayanan said the railways was operating trains at a maximum speed of 160 kmph in certain sectors and speeding up of trains could be extended to many parts of the country. But, the government was trying to sell the profit-making sectors, which would indirectly further weaken the economy. He condemned the attempt by the Centre to give the Indian Railways, created with taxpayers’ money’ on a platter to private players.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents of Perumpallam Canal area told to vacate houses||The district administration has asked tenements in I, II and III phases in the Perumpallam Canal area to vacate the structurally unsafe houses immediately and warned the occupants that the administration would not be responsible for damage to life or property in the case of any eventuality occurring due to rain. Deplorable condition Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board had constructed 468 houses in three phases near the canal in the corporation limits of which 396 were found to be in a deplorable condition now. The board in its letter dated November 26, 2019 said that maintenance works could not be carried out and the tenements were unsafe. Since rains would further damage the houses, occupants are asked to vacate the houses with their belongings immediately and move to safer places. The press release said that the State Government, district administration or the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board will not be responsible for damage to life or property in the case of any accidents.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Privatisation anti-national: MP||The proposed privatisation of various public sectors announced as part of the Rs. 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package by the Centre is “anti-national,” alleged Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan on Friday. Six trade unions – AITUC, CITU, LPF, INTUC, HMS and MLF – staged demonstrations in 217 locations across the district as part of the nationwide protests on Friday condemning the Centre’s proposal to amend the labour laws and open various public sectors to private companies. Mr. Subbarayan, who is the State president of AITUC, led the demonstration near the Tiruppur Railway Station.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 3   Persons tested +ve so far: 645 Domestic cases: 629 Imported cases: 16 Persons recovered: 252 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 391    House quarantined: 3,471 Positive: 197 (Five fresh cases on Friday; two cases cross-notified) Discharged: 124 Active cases: 72 Death: 1 (Yet to be officially declared)
04 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Nurse, thief test positive||A nurse at the district’s designated COVID-19 hospital and a thief arrested two days ago tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi on Friday. The nurse had treated a 72-year-old man who died two days ago. After the thief tested positive,police officers said the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police and the jurisdictional police station would be sealed.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nurse in charge of ICU is now battling for life||A COVID-19 positive 51-year-old senior staff nurse, who was in charge of the ICU in a private hospital in the city, is now battling for life in the ICU of the same hospital. The irony is that she has no staff to attend to her, as most of her colleagues are also infected and admitted in the COVID-19 ward of the same hospital, and those who are not infected have not turned up for work. This is the story of Selvi Pandian, a senior employee of Santosh Hospital near Coles Park in the city. The hospital authorities, late on Friday evening, arranged to shift her to Victoria Hospital. Her husband Chella Pandian is distraught. “My wife attended to so many critical patients all through her career. Now, she is battling for life and there is none to attend to her. I contacted several nurses and requested them, but no one is ready to attend to a COVID-19 patient,” he said. Mr. Pandian believes that his wife got infected while attending to a COVID-19 suspected patient in the ICU. “My wife and her colleagues were not given PPE kits at work and that is why they got infected,” he alleged. Refuting this, hospital director Santosh Saklecha said all required protocols had been followed. Dr. Saklecha said the hospital hired two doctors and two nurses from outside to attend to Ms. Pandian in the ICU. “They attended to her for three days and intubated her as she needed ventilator support. But unfortunately, they did not turn up today. The other seven non-infected staff too left us without any notice. We are helpless. We have been running from pillar to post to get her admitted to another hospital and finally succeeded in getting her referred to Victoria hospital through the BBMP,” said Dr. Santosh. Asserting that the hospital did not run away from the situation, Ritesh A., hospital administrator, said Ms. Pandian had been admitted in the hospital for the last 10 days. “We have a total of nine patients, all of them being our staff, eight in the COVID-19 ward and one in ICU.” He said they did not know how she got infected as, before her, they did not have any positive or suspected patient. “She first reported with mild fever and when we tested her on the fifth day, she was negative. However, we repeated the test again on the seventh day and she turned positive. After that, her pneumonia aggravated as she has co-morbidities — uncontrolled diabetes, hypertension, and cardiac issues. Following that all ICU staff got infected. We have left no stone unturned to help the family as she is our senior staff and we need her back,” said the doctor.  My wife attended to so many critical patients all through her career. Now, she is battling for life and there is none to attend to her. Chella Pandian Husband of senior nurse Selvi Pandian
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. takes the Ordinance route in times of pandemic||The BJP-ruled State government is taking the Ordinance route to make sweeping legislative changes, particularly in two vital sectors — agriculture and industry —, since COVID-19 pandemic set in. The government, led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, since the March 25 lockdown, has taken Cabinet decisions to promulgate more than half a dozen Ordinances, including key laws governing land acquisition, agriculture marketing, and establishment of industries. The amendments to the APMC Act, 2017, is for removing restrictions on the sale of farm produce anywhere outside the APMC yards. The changes introduced in a hurry, at the behest of the Centre, has faced strong opposition. The State Congress has termed it “interference” of the Narendra Modi-led Union government in the law-making process of the State Legislature. Moreover, agriculture is a State subject. The other major law that is set to be amended is the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961. The Ordinance will repeal Sections 63, 79 and 80 of the Act to enable any non-agriculturalists to buy farm land and remove existing ceiling limits to own farmlands. Again, the Congress said that such changes in the law would spell doom for marginal and small land-holders. The Congress plans to hold a “jail bharo” against these changes. The decision to amend the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) Act, 1976, to regularise unauthorised houses built in BDA layouts, has also not gone down well with owners of houses. They have questioned the huge penalties, ranging from 10% to 40%, imposed for legalising their constructions. The government’s decision to amend the Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act, 2002, for allowing entrepreneurs to set up industries on identified lands in districts, without waiting for clearances for three years, is also likely to create a storm during the next legislature session. Congress leader Siddaramaiah has alleged that the government has been “subverting the democratic process” by bringing in Ordinances to amend laws. The State legislature is not in session owing to widespread COVID-19 pandemic. In fact, the Budget session of the State legislature was curtailed as a precautionary measure.   Laws and amendments   Proposed  Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961 Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act, 2002  Which have been ratified  APMC Act, 2017 Bangalore Development Authority Act, 1976 Karnataka State Universities Act, 2000 Karnataka Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017 Karnataka Legislature Salaries, Pensions, and Allowances Act, 1956
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Strict enforcement of curfew tomorrow||The Sunday curfew, announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa recently, will be strictly enforced from 8 p.m. on Saturday to 5 a.m. on Monday. It will not be any different from the restrictions imposed during previous curfews and lockdowns, said B.H. Anil Kumar, Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). “The restrictions that were in place then will be imposed now also,” he told The Hindu . Exceptions will be made only for essential services and emergencies. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao reiterated that enforcement will be strict. “Barring an emergency, vehicles on the road will be confiscated.” he said. Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) bus services will not be open to the general public, but a fleet of 100 buses will be operational for those in essential services. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has stated that while service will be normal on Saturday, there will be no bus service on Sunday. Services will resume on Monday morning. Pharmacies and drug stores will remain open, as will hotels and eateries, which will offer only take-away services. No lockdown in State The Chief Minister’s Office on Friday clarified that no discussions were held on imposing a lockdown in the State. The clarification came amid speculation over the government’s recent announcement of implementing stricter curbs after completion of the SSLC exams. “No meetings have been held on the lockdown,” the Chief Minister’s Office said.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to augment fleet of ambulances by Saturday||Friday was a tough day for the small fleet of ambulances shifting patients to hospitals or COVID-19 Care Centres. The city reported 994 positive cases, but there were only 134 ambulances to take them to suitable facilities. Each ambulance had to make nearly eight trips in a matter of a few hours, obviously leading to delays. “With COVID-19 being demonised, many patients suffer from panic attacks,” said a senior civic health official. With the city reporting cases in the range of 500-900 cases each day over the last one week, to record an all-time high single-day spike of 994 on Friday, the civic body is overwhelmed. A week ago, the civic body was managing with a fleet of just 50 ambulances, which was then augmented to 100 after a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. As of Friday, the fleet was 134 strong. However, there are too few ambulances in comparison to the rise in the number of cases every day. “We have decided to augment the fleet to 200 by Saturday morning,” civic Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told The Hindu , adding that it would still be insufficient. “We aim to augment the fleet to 400 in the coming week, to ensure at least two ambulances for every ward,” he said. However, ambulances are hard to come by. “We haven't roped in ambulances from private hospitals, as it would affect non-COVID-19 emergencies. We are roping in private ambulance service providers apart from government ambulances, including 108,” he added. Officials hope that with the new rules allowing asymptomatic patients to remain in home quarantine, the burden on ambulances will reduce. “Asymptomatic patients, who have a separate room with an attached bathroom, will be quarantined at home. Only asymptomatic patients, who are vulnerable by age or do not have such facilities at home, will be admitted to COVID-19 Care Centres or hospitals. This will reduce the demand for ambulances significantly,” said Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who is overseeing COVID-19 management in the city.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Active cases cross 10,000||Karnataka on Friday saw another COVID-19 surge with 1,694 new cases, taking the total to 19,710. It also recorded 21 deaths, taking the toll to 293. The number of active cases touched 10,608 on Friday. The State has been recording a spike in numbers in the last one week. As many as 8,705 of the total 19,710 positive cases and 113 of the 293 deaths have been recorded in the last one week alone. As many as 1,889 patients have recovered during this period. Till mid-June, the State was recording an average of 300 cases per day except on two days when the number crossed 500. However, after June 27, the average number of cases per day has been 1,000. In the last three days, the number has been hovering around 1,500. After a dip on Thursday, the number of patients being monitored in the ICU again rose to 201 on Friday. As many as 121 of these patients are in the ICUs of designated hospitals in Bengaluru urban. Among the new cases, Bengaluru urban continued to record the highest number with 994. With this, the total number of positive cases here touched 7,173. With two more districts — Ballari and Dakshina Kannada — crossing the 1,000 mark in terms of total number of positive cases, the State now has five districts with over 1,000 cases, apart from Bengaluru urban. While five of the deaths recorded on Friday are from Bengaluru urban, three each are from Kalaburgi and Chickballapur, two each from Vijayapura and Shivamogga, and one each from Ballari, Hassan, Davangere, Bidar, Bengaluru rural, and Raichur.  Spike in tests too While the State has been testing an average of 14,000 samples per day, Friday saw the highest number of tests done. According to the State health bulletin, as many as 18,307 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Scientist demonstrates innovative mango cultivation||At a time when educated people are scouting for remunerative options in the farming sector, a reputed scientist has shown the way by successfully demonstrating a model of reaping good profits from mango cultivation through “ultra high-density planting”. Molecular plant pathologist P. Chowdappa, who retired as Director of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute in Kasaragod, Kerala, a few months ago, has taken to full-time farming now and is successfully experimenting with various horticultural models. Going against the conventional method of planting 40 to 50 mango saplings an acre, Dr. Chowdappa has planted 674 a acre on his farm, located beyond Doddaballapur in Bengaluru Rural district. “I have planted alphonso and kesar varieties of mangoes at a rate of 674 plants an acre on 10 acres. I have given a spacing of nine feet between the rows and six feet between the plants. While the yield per plant will be low when compared with the conventional planting system, the total yield per acre will be higher,” he said. This method has been taken up for the first time in the State on a large scale. A salient feature of the method is that almost all the fruits will be of good quality. Pruning them “I allow the plants to reach a height of just six or seven feet and prune the branches thereafter. The idea is to ensure that the branches of one plant do not touch the branches of another,” he said, pointing out that maintaining a proper canopy architecture was crucial for sufficient sunlight to reach the plants. “We are getting 50 fruits from a plant, which amounts to 10 kg. As of now, we are not allowing more than 50 fruits. We also pluck the additional fruits at an early stage for easy maintenance,” he said. This year, which marks the fifth year of planting saplings, he was able to sell his produce to an online commodity firm at a farmgate price of Rs. 60 a kg. With this, he has earned a profit of over Rs. 2.5 lakh an acre, after deducting expenses of about Rs. 1 lakh an acre. What is important in this kind of ultra high-density planting is proper crop management. In addition to drip irrigation for some dry months, he also provides nutrients and sprays medicines at three intervals a year. “In fact, I hinder the growth of branches to an extent so that the plants yield early. The yearly yield helps in getting good prices for the fruits as the demand for mangoes will be generally high during the early season owing to fewer arrivals in the market,” Dr. Chowdappa said. Getting such a high yield from mango plants is being seen as a possible game changer for farmers from dry and semi-dry areas as mangoes require less water.
04 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Equipment for COVID-19 care purchased above market rate’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday alleged major misappropriation amounting to over Rs. 2,200 crore in the purchase of equipment related to COVID-19 in the State. Addressing presspersons here, the Congress leader alleged that the BJP government had procured equipment at Rs. 3,392 crore against the market price of Rs. 1,163.35 crore. Citing examples, he said that about 1,000 ventilators had been purchased at Rs. 120 crore against the market price of Rs. 40 crore. He claimed that the price of each PPE kit was Rs. 995 and the amount for 4.89 lakh kits should be Rs. 48.65 crore. But the actual bill produced by the government was Rs. 150 crore. Similarly, the government had siphoned off funds in the purchase of masks and gloves, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged, demanding a probe. A few days ago, in the wake of allegations of corruption and nepotism in the management of the disease, Mr. Siddaramaiah had demanded the government constitute an all-party COVID-19 management panel to monitor treatment-related issues in hospitals. He had also demanded the government come up with a White Paper on COVID-19 management.  ‘Allegations baseless’ Reacting to this, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said they were “baseless” and maintained that all purchase of COVID-19-related equipment had been made in the most transparent way by senior officials under the supervision of Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. “I am pained by the allegations and it is unfortunate. If he had doubts, he could have asked the Chief Secretary or Ministers, and we would have clarified. This will not send the right message,” Mr. Sudhakar said. The government is ready for any probe, he said. Earlier, Head of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and senior Congress leader H.K. Patil had alleged misappropriation and said that it needs to be investigated by PAC. However, the office of Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri had said that inspections cannot be conducted now in view of the pandemic.  Karnataka has procured medical supplies at double the market cost. Close to Rs. 2,200 cr. has been misappropriated by various departments. There needs to be a detailed investigation into this. Siddaramaiah Leader of the Opposition   I am pained by the allegations. If Mr. Siddaramaiah had doubts, he could have asked the Chief Secretary or Ministers, and we would have clarified. This does not send the right message. K. Sudhakar Medical Education Minister
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State moving in reverse direction: private schools||The State government on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that the expert committee set up to advise the State on technology-enabled education will submit its report on July 6. Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi made these submissions during the hearing of petitions filed by parents and education institutions challenging the government’s decision of banning online classes as well as its subsequent decision to allow limited sessions of online classes up to class 10. Restrictions Appearing for private schools affiliated to CBSE, ISCE and international curriculum, Senior Counsel Udaya Holla contended that the State government cannot impose restrictions on online education to these schools under the provisions of the Karnataka Education Act. The State government is moving in the reverse direction when international organisations such as UNICEF and the World Bank are emphasising on continuing education through online mode when the world is facing challenges from COVID-19, Mr. Holla said. ‘Only god can save us’ “We are living in the silicon valley of India and if our government does not want our children to get education during this pandemic, then only god can save us,” Mr. Holla argued while pointing that many States in the country have already moved towards online mode when the Union government itself has encouraged continuing education through this mode when it is not possible to give education in regular mode. The decision to chose the medium of education such as language and other modalities is the domain of parents as per the apex court’s verdict and the State government cannot interfere in this field as the online mode is part of medium of education. The government has no control over private individuals and institutions offering online classes when over 5 million students have joined them, and the ban and restrictions imposed only on the recognised schools “says everything”, he contended. To a query by the court that can the schools make online mode mandatory, Mr. Holla said that it has be decided by schools and the parents of students depending on the need of each school. ‘No powers’ Appearing for a group of parents, advocate Pradeep Nayak argued that when the government lacked powers to impose such restrictions on private unaided educational institutions, any recommendation to be made by the expert committee would be only recommendatory in nature and cannot be made mandatory on private unaided educational institutions. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangamswamy, which is hearing the petition, will continue further arguments on July 6.  Parents, schools have challenged the government’s decision of banning online classes as well as its subsequent decision to allow limited sessions of online classes up to class 10
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Raid on brothel, 27 women rescued||The police raided a large brothel running out of a two-storey independent house in Puttenahalli and rescued 27 women, making it one of the biggest raids against prostitution in recent times. During the raid, they arrested Yogesh, a man from Rajasthan who is allegedly the main pimp, and two customers Ayaz and Patarullah. Of the 27 women rescued and now handed over to the government shelter home, nine each are from Nepal and Punjab, four from Delhi, two from Maharashtra and one each from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Jammu & Kashmir, said the police. The racket came up in the last one month. When neighbours got a wind of it, they complained, said sources. “This is a new brothel that has come up during lockdown. Prior to the pandemic, we had shut down various dance bars in the city and rescued women. Now that they are closed, Yogesh got some of the women together and started running this brothel,” a senior official said. A Central Crime Branch police officer said that it was ‘shocking’ that during a pandemic, the brothel was able to find customers regularly. “The police party that conducted the raid had to go in with all safety gear as a precautionary measure against the virus,” said the CCB sleuth. All those rescued and arrested will be tested for COVID-19.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Evaluation: Exemption for teachers above 55||Teachers aged above 55 and those with serious health complications will be exempted from SSLC evaluation duty this year. The evaluation is scheduled to be held from July 13 to 30, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said on Friday. This comes in the wake of the vulnerability of the elderly for COVID-19. Mr. Kumar said that a separate standard operating procedure (SoP) would be prepared and evaluation would be conducted strictly based on it. SSLC exam results would be probably declared in the first week of August and II PU results around the third week of July. “We have decided to exempt those above 55 and those with comorbidities from the evaluation duty. However, if they wish to participate in the process, they are welcome,” said the Minister. Demand for insurance He also said that various teachers’ organisations and a few members of the Legislative Council had requested the Ministry and the department to provide insurance cover for teachers involved in the evaluation. “We will have a discussion with them and see what best can be done,” he said. Basawaraj Gurikar, vice-president of the All India Teachers Federation, told The Hindu that evaluation centres should be decentralised and teachers should be provided with all facilities, including transport, to reach the centres. Evaluation of II PUC science subject papers were delayed owing to centralised process. “Teachers should be given insurance on a par with what COVID Warriors are given,” he said, and added that there would likely be shortage of people for evaluation. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said many teachers of unaided schools might not take part in evaluation. “Teachers of private schools are in deep trouble as many have not got paid for months now and there is uncertainty as far as job is concerned,” he said. Some expressed fears that the likelihood of those above 55 years and many from private schools not participating could lead to a either shortage of evaluators or a more prolonged process. “The evaluation period has been kept long keeping this in mind,” said a source.
04 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||He is helping farmers after retirement||Molecular plant pathologist P. Chowdappa’s 20-acre farm, which he has been developing for nearly 15 years, resembles a miniature demonstration field. “Associating with farming, whether as a scientist or as a farmer, is my passion. This is because I hail from a farming family,” he said. The 20-acre farm has multiple fruit varieties in addition to mango and bamboo plants for supply under the national bamboo mission. For effective harvesting of rainwater, he has built four farm ponds. He even rears fish in these ponds and earns a revenue of about Rs. 1.5 lakh a year from each of them. The farm resembles a miniature demonstration field in a research station because of its quality and proper maintenance. Dr. Chowdappa’s intention is not earning great sums as revenue through the farm; he wants to help fellow farmers earn sustainable incomes. “My larger aim in retired life is to help farmers, especially the farm youth, get sustainable incomes. I have decided to provide practical training to them in various aspects of commercial farming, including the preparation of bio-fertilisers,” he said. In fact, he is building a training facility at his farm for imparting scientific skills to youngsters. “The current situation, created by COVID-19, has increased the relevance and importance of farming for a sustainable future,” he said.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four police stations sealed in 24 hours||Four city police stations — Sadashivanagar, JC Nagar, KP Agrahara and Annapoorneshwari Nagar — were sealed in the last 24 hours. While a burglar arrested and brought to the police station tested positive in Sadashivanagar, three murder accused tested positive in Annapoorneshwari Nagar. Two assistant sub-inspectors tested positive for COVID-19 at J.C. Nagar and K.P. Agrahara Police stations on Friday, resulting in the stations being sealed for three days.Over 170 personnel in the city police force have contracted COVID-19, of whom four succumbed to the virus. Commissioner Bhaskar Rao held a condolence meet, garlanded their photographs, observed a minute’s silence and paid his respects at his office on Friday. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai recently distributed ex-gratia of Rs. 30 lakh to the families of three deceased. The ex-gratia amount for the fourth was under process and would be given soon, sources said.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New industrial policy to be brought before Cabinet soon||A draft of the new industrial policy, with a focus on businesses in tier II and tier III cities across the State, will be brought before the Cabinet in the next 10 days, Minister for Medium- and Large-Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar has said. He said that amendments made to legislation such as the Karnataka Industrial Facilitation Amendment Act would play a key role in making Karnataka the number one industries-friendly State in the country. He was addressing a gathering at the International MSME Day celebrations organised by the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), here on Friday. According to the Minister, the draft industrial policy will focus on developing industries in the tier II and III cities of the State. “It will encourage investors to favour the establishment of industries in the backward taluks and hoblies. This will ease the pressure on Bengaluru city. Migrant workers of north Karnataka will find a source of employment in their respective districts with the development of industries in the second tier cities in the State,” Mr. Shettar said.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four arrested on murder charge||The police have solved the murder of a 29-year-old man in Chikkajala on June 26, and arrested four men including history-sheeter Gajendra, 29. The accused had allegedly had a bitter rivalry with the victim, Subramani, and murdered him, the police said. Others arrested have been identified as Shashidhar, 28; Ravikumar, 29; and Naveen Kumar, 20. One more accused in the case is still at large.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Comments expunged||Following an application filed by the State’s prosecution for expunging certain comments made on the conduct of a complainant in a rape case, Justice Krishna S. Dixit of the Karnataka High Court has expunged four lines of the judgment of June 24 in which bail was granted to the accused. The expunged lines are: “...explanation offered by the complainant that after the perpetration of the act she was tired and fell asleep, is unbecoming of an Indian woman; that is not the way our women react when they are ravished.” The prosecution had stated that the comments made were likely to influence the investigation and trial. The counsel for the accused did not object to expunging the comments. The prosecution had moved the application for expunging the remarks after a host of women rights organisations, led by historian Ramachandra Guha, wrote an open letter taking objection to the articulation made in the case.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. publishes list of hospitals in State with COVID-19 beds||With increasing complaints of beds not being available for COVID-19 patients, the State government has published a list of 410 hospitals identified for COVID-19 treatment on the website of Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, the nodal agency for facilitating the State’s health insurance schemes. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey tweeted that the State has reserved 50% beds in government and private hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 patients in the city. The beds will be allotted by the central bed allotment system based on symptoms and other criteria stipulated by the government, he said. He also posted a list of 73 city hospitals with phone numbers where patients can get treatment. The list of 410 hospitals is available onwww.arogya.karnataka. gov.in/sast
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Health Commissioner tests negative||The test reports of State Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey and other contacts of the COVID-19 positive driver from the Health Directorate have returned negative. Mr. Pandey confirmed this to The Hindu. The complex of the Health Directorate has been sealed for fumigation.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exam postponed||The Karnataka Open School Examination to be held from July 6 to 15 has been postponed. According to an official release, the fresh dates will be announced shortly.
04 July 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Immediate action is the objective||Under Article 213 of the Constitution, Ordinances are issued by the Governor based on advice from the Cabinet. The objective of Ordinances is to allow the government to take immediate legislative action, if circumstances make it necessary to do so at a time when the legislature is not in session. Ordinances are only temporary laws that must be approved by the State legislature within six weeks of reassembling. Else, they shall cease to operate. In 1986, the SC judgment in the D.C. Wadhwa vs. State of Bihar case declared that “the power to promulgate an ordinance is essentially a power to be used to meet an extraordinary situation and it cannot be allowed to be perverted to serve political ends”.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru/Belagavi/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Relief, happiness as SSLC students finally finish their exam||Mini celebrations outside examination centres across the State were a common sight after SSLC students wrote their last paper on Friday. Parents and students were seen congratulating each other and relief was evident on their faces. This year, the board examination was conducted while the State is witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases. Staff at the centres, too, appeared more relaxed, while Education Department officials heaved a collective sigh of relief. Garland for drivers It was a memorable drive for the NWKRTC staff whoferried SSLC students from Belagavi to their villages of Bendigeri and Badas on Friday. Bus drivers A.M. Gullannanavar, M.G. Magemmanavar, and R.K. Hugar were felicitated by the students and their parents at the Bendigeri bus stand. Parents garlanded the drivers and presented them with sweets. They thanked the NWKRTC staff for ferrying their children, most of them girls, safely to the examination centres in Belagavi. Threat of heavy rain In Kodagu, students not only had to contend with the virus but also the threat of heavy rain and floods. DDPI P.S. Machado said the emergency response plan was ready considering Kodagu’s rain record. Boats and men had been kept on standby to ferry students from Kottambudi to Napoklu in case of floods. “Fortunately, no such situation surfaced,” the DDPI said. Students, however, felt that the stress may have affected their performance. “I am relieved now as the examination is finally over. We had to wait for over three months as it was postponed because of COVID-19. Though I was at home, the uneasiness of having the exam in the near future and the uncertainty will always haunt me,” said a student at an exam centre at K.R. Puram in Bengaluru. Others felt the long break helped them prepare more thoroughly. Nitin Kumar V., who wrote the exam at Bagalagunte, Bengaluru, said, “I cannot tell you how happy and relieved I am as I need not revise again. I am now looking forward to joining a good college,” he said. Parents said that for the most part, they were impressed with the arrangements made. Sandhya A.S., who was waiting for her daughter outside a centre, said she was initially sceptical of the level of preparedness on part of the authorities and was hesitant to send her daughter for the examination. “However, after the first day I saw all the precautions that were put in place. But the fear was always there in the corner of my mind,” she said.
04 July 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||38 acres of encroached forest land cleared||Amidst protests and tearful requests not to disturb the crop, the Forest Department staff members cleared the encroachment in Masagali State Forest area in Chikkamagaluru taluk on Friday. The department cleared the encroachment of 38 acres and eight guntas, cultivated by 23 families, in Masagali, Belagodu, Thotadamakki, Emaralli and Horakere villages, in presence of the police force. As the staff members began to cut coffee plants, areca trees and pepper, the family members protested. Women members were in tears as they witnessed well-grown coffee plants being cut. N.H. Jagannath, Deputy Conservator of Forests, told The Hindu that department took action as per the High Court’s order. “The court had asked us to submit a compliance report. However, it was delayed to clear the encroachments and submit the compliance report, due to COVID-19 related developments,” he said.
04 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||SSLC exam completed smoothly||Amid the fear of COVID-19, the SSLC exam concluded here on Friday without any hassles and students returned home with the joy of having cleared another hurdle. On Friday, 25,455 out of 26,360 students appeared for the third language paper. While 915 students remained absent, 240 candidates belonging to containment areas appeared for the exam. Of these students, 35 who showed some symptoms of illness were allowed to appear for the exam in isolated rooms. The district administration had made elaborate arrangements and taken all precautionary measures. Because of fear, 12 students had refrained from appearing for the exam in the district. However, following the efforts of teachers and officials, these students wrote exam in separate rooms, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Mohankumar Hanchate said. Mr. Hanchate said that along with the department staff, health workers and volunteers of the Civil Defence Force, Dharwad unit, worked with the government for the smooth conduct of the exam. A team of doctors and health staff, including Satish Irkal, Umesh Hallikeri and others, held a series of sensitisation programmes to motivate the students, he said.
04 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 spread under check: Dharwad DC||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said on Friday that the COVID-19 pandemic was under control in the district and people should not unnecessarily panic over it. Speaking after felicitating the nurses at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Hospital who are serving COVID-19 patients in Hubballi, he said all steps were being taken to check the spread of the disease. Mr. Patil said that because of the changed weather in the wake of monsoon, chances of people contracting the infection were more and thus, citizens should stop going out of their homes without valid reason. Mr. Patil also said that as more tests were being conducted in the wake of capacity enhancement of the testing facilities in the district, the district had recorded an increase in cases in quick succession. “However there is nothing to worry about. The nurses and doctors are giving treatment to the patients by following precautionary measures, including wearing PPE kits. They are doing a commendable job and there should not be any discrimination against them because of their work,” he said. Beds available The Deputy Commissioner also said that apart from the 250 beds at KIMS Hospital for COVID-19 patients, an additional 500 beds were available in other hospitals. He said experts doctors were treating patients and the recovery rate was very good. Earlier in the day, Mr. Patil, along with municipal commissioner Suresh Itnal and KIMS director Ramalingappa Antaratani, felicitated 11 nurses, including Manjula Kotare, Kamala, Balakrishna, Gangamma Ballari, Shweta Banna, Asha S.B., Jyothi D.C., and Rajeshwari H. The speakers lauded the service of the nurses during this time of crisis.  There is nothing to worry about. Nurses and doctors are treating patients by following precautionary measures, including wearing PPE kits. They are doing a commendable job and there should not be any discrimination against them because of their work Nitesh Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad
04 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Driving away their fear||In Dharwad district alone, there were 12 students who, despite having prepared well for the examination, decided to refrain from appearing for the SSLC exam owing to fear of getting COVID-19. They were, however, persuaded by teachers and officials of the Department of Public Instruction. “Fearing COVID-19 infection, some students had remained at home. The department identified 12 such students, instilled confidence in them and helped them write the exam in separate rooms,” Deputy Director of Public Instruction for Dharwad Mohankumar Hanchate said.
04 July 2020||HUBBALLI/DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||JCTU leads protests seeking aid for common man||In response to the call for a nationwide strike given by the Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU) to press for the fulfilment of various demands, members and office-bearers of various organisations staged protests in Hubballi and Dharwad on Friday. JCTU has given a call seeking regularisation of frontline staff engaged in the fight against COVID-19, direct transfer of Rs. 7,500 monthly for six months to those outside the ambit of income tax, corona incentive for others, extending the number of person days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act to200, as well as extending the scheme to urban areas, and supply of ration to the labour class for six months, among other things. In Dharwad, the protesters gathered outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner and raised slogans against the Union government for its “failure to mitigate the sufferings of the common man”. Addressing the protesters, Stephen Jayachandra of the Bank Employees’ Association and Gangadhar Badiger of All-India Trade Union Congress condemned in strong terms the failure of the State and the Centre in handling the fight against COVID-19. The protesters subsequently submitted to the district administration a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister. In Hubballi Under the banner of of JCTU, members of various organisations staged a demonstration in front of the Mini-Vidhana Soudha and called for remedial measures to help citizen, particularly the working class. The protesters alleged that the State and Union governments had failed to uphold their own orders pertaining to the working class and had once again proved to be pro-capitalist and pro-industrialist. Submitting a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister through the Hubballi tahsildar, they demanded immediate steps to mitigate the sufferings of the common man who has been badly affected the COVID-19-induced lockdown which they said had resulted in loss of livelihood for crores of people.
04 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ballari will get electric crematorium: Minister||Taking note of the disrespectful burial of COVID-19 victims in Ballari recently, B. Sriramulu, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, has directed the district administration to ensure such incidents would not happen in future. He has also said that the government would provide an electric crematorium in Ballari for the respectful cremation of those who die of COVID-19, as is being done in Bengaluru. “We are establishing four electric crematoriums in Bengaluru for respectful cremation of COVID-19 victims. Since Ballari is reporting more COVID-19 deaths these days, we have decided to provide a similar crematorium here as well. You can establish it at Guggarahatti or any place you feel suitable,” he told district officials at a meeting in Ballari on Friday. Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul said at the meeting that the district administration had procured 10,000 antigen test kits that could detect COVID-19 within 30 minutes and had already started using them.
04 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Three COVID-19 deaths reported in Kalaburagi||Three more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Kalaburagi on Friday, taking the toll to 22. As per the media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, a 58-year-old man (P-15,463) with co-morbidities of Diabetes Mellitus (DM), Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD), Ischaemic Heart Disease (IHD), and hypertension was admitted on June 30 and died on the same day. His swab later tested positive for COVID-19. A 25-year-old woman (P-16,785) with CKD and Pancytopenia who was admitted on June 28 died on Friday, while a 46-year-old woman with DM who was admitted on June 30 died the next day. Her swab later tested positive. The district also reported 72 new cases on Friday, taking the total number cases to 1,560. This number includes the 1,143 people who have been discharged. There were 395 active cases in the district as on Friday. Ballari reported a death and 97 new cases, taking the toll to 34 and the total number of cases to 1,081, including the 495 people discharged after recovery. Bidar also reported a death and 28 new cases, taking the number of deaths to 22 and cases to 675, including the 500 people discharged after recovery. One death in Hassan Hassan Special Correspondent writes: A 75-year-old woman with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Friday. She was being treated in the ICU of the COVID-19 hospital. The woman, a native of Sakleshpur taluk, breathed her last around 2.50 a.m. With this, the number of COVID-19 deaths in Hassan district rose to six. As many as 13 more people tested positive in the district on Friday. They included a police constable posted at the office of the Superintendent of Police in the town. The district administration has sealed down the SP’s office. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district rose to 454, include 255 who have recovered.
04 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Don’t stop testing samples, says Khader||Expressing concern over Health Department officials testing positive for COVID-19, MLA for Mangaluru U.T. Khader said on Friday that the district administration should ensure that testing of samples does not stop. Speaking to reporters, he said a senior official of the Health Department and a staff member of the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory of Wenlock Hospital were among those who have tested positive. An officialholding the charge of senior health officer is reportedly unwell. “I find fewer officers on the field,” he said, pointing out that there was too much burden on the two teams involved in the collection of throat swabs in the city. Asking people not to be frightened if they test positive, Mr. Khader said most of them would recover after getting treatment in 15 days at the hospital. He asked the State government to arrange isolation facilities for asymptomatic positive persons who do not have space in their homes to follow home isolation. Mr. Khader also asked the district administration to identify space for cremating the dead. Appreciating the work of an eight-member team of trained volunteers in cremating bodies, he said such teams should be available in other districts too. He also said the random sampling being done in Ullal had helped people understand the magnitude of the spread of COVID-19 and take preventive steps. The MLA also said the district administration should make alternative arrangements to ambulances at the ward level for quick shifting of symptomatic persons to hospitals. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh told The Hindu that sample testing at the VRDL had not been stopped and would continue.
04 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||VRDL now provides COVID-19 test reports in eight hours||With effective management of the load of throat and swab samples, the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory at Government Wenlock Hospital here is now providing COVID-19 test reports within eight hours of collection. Earlier, it took more than 24 hours to get the results. The laboratory has undertaken both external and internal quality tests to ensure precision and accuracy in results. “We have reworked the working pattern at the laboratory to ensure reports are generated within eight hours of sample collection,” hospital superintendent Sadashiva, who is also the district surgeon, told The Hindu . The VRDL at Wenlock started working on April 7. Initially, it handled samples from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada, and the huge quantity of sample collection forced the staff work in three shifts for nearly two months. With the change in testing norms followed by private medical colleges setting up five laboratories in Mangaluru and one in Udupi, the load on VRDL has come down. Now, it is handling samples from Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada, Dr. Sadananda said. Till June 28, the VRDL had conducted testing of 20,130 samples, of which 771 were found positive. To assure accuracy in reports, 20 negative and positive swab samples are sent every month to the laboratory authorised by the Indian Council of Medical Researchfor external quality assessment. Internal quantity testing is done on a daily basis, said senior specialist Sharath Kumar and microbiologist E. Madhusudhan. Women lead Among the staff members working in the laboratory are four new women technicians. “These four have now mastered the process of testing,” Dr. Kumar said. Girisha S.K., assistant professor from the College of Fisheries, continues to assist in analysing results. All the swabs are preserved in freezing temperature for use in future studies.
04 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||47-year-old man dies in DK||A 47-year-old man hailing from Madikeri died, while 97 persons tested positive for COVID-19, in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. According to an official release, the man had high blood pressure and also suffered from multi-organ dysfunction syndrome. He was admitted to a private hospital in the city, where he was tested positive for COVID-19. He was brought to the Government Wenlock Hospital on Thursday and died on Friday. This took the toll in the district to 17. Of those who tested positive on Friday, 28 had Influenza-like Illness. As many as 28 persons from Ullal, whose samples were collected during the ongoing random collection exercise, were found positive. The release said 25 persons, including an official of Mangaluru District Prison, have been confirmed as primary contacts. Seven persons admitted to hospitals for surgery and three international travellers tested positive.
04 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly MNG||The Forest Department has banned the entry of people to its tree park at Tannirbhavi Beach in Mangaluru city till July 31. It is to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
04 July 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Zoos grapple with impact of pandemic||Poor footfall in the State’s zoological gardens, including Mysuru zoo and Bannerghatta Biological Park, since their reopening on June 8 has forced the Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) to mull over launching an Android mobile application for raising contributions. This is in view of the unprecedented crisis caused by COVID-19. As zoos are grappling to sustain themselves over steep fall in revenue, the ZAK, which has already sought a special grant from the government, is developing the app to be launched on Google Playstore, where anybody can make a donation to the zoo of their choice and get a virtual certificate acknowledging their gesture. Zoos are run solely on gate collections, which had dried up due to the lockdown. Domestic and global tourism were badly hit, affecting tourist arrivals. A sum of Rs. 16 lakh a day was needed to maintain State zoos. This includes feeding cost, staff salaries and other expenses. Since reopening, the zoos have been getting less than 1,000 visitors a day, earning collective revenue of only Rs. 1 lakh. ZAK member secretary and APCCF B.P. Ravi said the zoos managed to sustain themselves on reserve funds available in Mysuru and Bannerghatta zoos and the donations raised in the form of animal adoptions during the lockdown. “The situation appears very uncertain and we don’t know when the zoos will get visitors like they used to earlier.” During lockdown, Mysuru zoo alone raised Rs. 3.13 crore through extensive adoption of animals and birds. Last year, the zoo had raised Rs. 50.34 lakh. Bannerghatta park managed to generate contributions to the tune of Rs. 21.41 lakh. Last year, a sum of Rs. 7.02 lakh was collected. First donations Some zoos also received donations for the first time since their inception. They include Gadag zoo (Rs. 95,000), Belagavi zoo (Rs. 49,000) and Chitradurga zoo (Rs. 1.28 lakh). The newly-opened Hampi zoo, which mobilised Rs. 1 lakh through animal adoptions last year, received a contribution of Rs. 10 lakh during lockdown. A sum of Rs. 3.5 crore was mobilised from public and corporate companies. Mr. Ravi said: “Until the situation becomes normal, we want more animal lovers and companies to help sustain the zoos. To help the public reach the zoos effortlessly, the app with many features has been proposed. It will make adoption simple.”
04 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tourism Dept. puts the brakes on promotion as cases rise||The Tourism Department has put the brakes on its drive to revive the sector in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the State. Many of the campaigns especially designed to encourage limited travel, including ‘Love Your Local’ to urge people to visit places of tourist interest within their city or district, too have been put on the back burner for now. A senior official in the department admitted that they were going slow on tourism promotion as holiday and leisure activity was not considered a priority in view of the changing situation and surge in cases. “The thrust is on safety and and tourism could be blamed in case of a community spread and hence the cautious approach,” the official added.There have been instances of locals resenting influx of tourists into their regions given the fear of the pandemic. When contacted, Kumar Pushkar, MD, KSTDC, said the promotional activity has been a low key affair in view of the evolving situation. Besides, a few properties of the KSTDC across the State will be used for institutional quarantine, he added. He said the decision of the authorities in different districts dealing with the pandemic has to be respected and there cannot be mass promotion or mass tourism under the current circumstances. He added the unlocking since June 8, 2020, was to kickstart economic activity essential for sustenance leading to gradual recovery and once the situation attained near normalcy and stabilised the promotional drive too would pick up. That people too are not keen on undertaking a holiday or visiting places of tourist interest is evident from the number of visitors to the Mysuru palace where the number of people visiting after the unlocking, hovers around 90 to 110, as per the records maintained by the palace board. This is against its normal footfall of nearly 3 lakh tourists in pre-COVID-19 times. Promoting MICE tourism is also part of the revival scheme, but it will take a back seat for the present.
04 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Masks: Mysuru police to slap fines||Even as the Health Department of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is planning to step up the drive to enforce compulsory wearing of face masks or covers in public places over surging cases, the city police have been empowered to slap a penalty on those flouting the rule. In Mysuru city, 940 cases had been booked so far, collecting a fine of Rs. 94,000. The penalty for not wearing masks in public has been doubled - from Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 - and the same would be levied hereafter in the municipal area limits. MCC Health Officer D.G. Nagaraj told The Hindu that the police are expected to step up the drive simultaneously with the MCC.
04 July 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Lab closed||The lone COVID-19 testing laboratory in Madikeri has been closed for two days after two of its technicians tested positive for COVID-19. The lab will resume testing from July 5 after completing the sanitisation procedure on Saturday and Sunday. The lab is located in the Microbiology Department of Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences.
04 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Man tested for COVID-19 dies of kidney failure||A 53-year-old man fromYadgir district, who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier and later negative, died of kidney failure and diabetes at the ESIC Hospital in Kalaburagi on Wednesday, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir Prakash Rajput said in a release on Friday. The deceased was from Hiremural village in Muddebihal taluk of Vijayapura district and was settled in Hunsagi town of Yadgir district. He tested positive on June 22 and was shifted to the ESIC Hospial as he was suffering fromkidney-related ailments. But his subsequent test report came back negative on June 30. 20 cases in 2 districts As many as 20 fresh cases of COVID -19 were reported in Raichur and Yadgir on Friday. Of this, six were from Raichur and 14 from Yadgir. The total number of cases in Raichur and Yadgir is now 517 and 970, respectively. Three deaths were recorded in Raichur and one in Yadgir.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||155 km of roads to be developed around city||Road development works around Bengaluru worth over Rs. 2,000 crore have been announced by the government. Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol said here on Friday that it will help reduce traffic congestion in the capital. Speaking at the 132nd board meeting of the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd. (KRDCL), he said four roads of 155 km length will be developed around Bengaluru at a cost of Rs. 2,095 crore in 10 packages. According to a release, Mr. Karjol said the road network to be developed would contribute by reducing traffic volume within the city. KRDCL officials said work on these roads was outside the scope of the Peripheral Ring Road, and had already begun. He said that 3.5 km of the 20.11 km Hoskote-Budigere cross road through Singahalli and Mylahalli to KIA was completed while work on the 15.25 km Nelamangala-Madhure Road, 23.99 km Madhure-Devanahalli Road, 33 km Bidadi-Jigani Road, 22 km Bannerghatta-Anekal Road, and 39 km Anekal-Hoskote Road was on. Varthur elevated corridor   Work on constructing railway overbridges at Rajanakunte, Narayanapura, Gollahalli and a railway underbridge at Basavanahalli would begin as soon as the Railways gives the nod. Work on the elevated corridor at Varthur and railway overbridge at Kadugodi will also begin soon.Citizen activists expressed surprise at the mention of an elevated corridor in Varthur. Some also questioned priorities in spending at the time of COVID-19. Srinivas Alavilli of Citizens for Bengaluru, which spearheaded the movement against the steel flyover, said, “I’m not sure if it is prudent to spend Rs. 2,000 crore on road infrastructure when our resources should be first used to strengthen public health infrastructure. These projects come at tremendous cost to our fragile ecology and due process needs to followed that includes public consultations and environment impact assessment,” he said. A recent environmental assessment conducted by researchers from Azim Premji University on the impacts of the widening of peripheral roads around Bengaluru had found that the stretches pass through the Junnasandra Mini Forest, Anekal Reserve Forest contiguous with BNP, as well as scrubland and agricultural fields. Disturbance of these can negatively impact fauna, including the endangered slender loris, accorded protection under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, palm civet, the Indian hare and the Indian jackal, it said.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Body of COVID-19 patient lies unattended on road for nearly three hours||A 63-year-old man, who had tested positive for COVID-19, collapsed on a road and died a few yards from his house in Hanumantha Nagar around 4 p.m. on Friday. He was on his way to the main road where he was expecting an ambulance to pick him up. He had reportedly developed breathing issues. The ambulance arrived nearly three hours later and removed the body. Till then, the man lay dead on the road, the body drenched in the rain that lashed the city on Friday evening. As he had tested positive, neither his family members nor his neighbours came forward to shift the body. “We called everyone – police, civic authorities and media – but he lay dead there on the road for nearly three hours,” his wife said. Civic Commissioner Anil Kumar has ordered an inquiry into the delay. “This should not have happened. We will take strict action against those whose lapses led to this incident,” he said. Revenue Minister R. Ashok termed the incident ‘tragic and inhuman’, and said all measures will be taken to ensure COVID-19 patients are shifted to hospitals or care centres at the earliest.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Need of the hour||
04 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||21 new cases in Alappuzha||The district on Friday logged a total of 21 COVID-19 cases, including 12 through contact. Of this, eleven are immediate family members and relatives of a 65-year-old man from Kayamkulam who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier this week. This included a 54-year-old man, two young men, two young women, and three boys and a girl, all hailing from Kayamkulam. Two of his relatives, a 46-year-old woman and her daughter from Cheruthana, too tested positive on Friday. One of the women works at the Public Works Department (Road Wing), Alappuzha. The sexagenarian tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday while undergoing treatment for other ailments at a hospital in Kollam. The source of his infection remains unknown. In the subsequent days, his daughter, who was staying with him at the hospital, wife, son, and daughter-in-law contracted the disease. Apart from him, 15 of his family and relations have so far contracted the disease through contact, said a health official. 19 in quarantine “Immediately after the 65-year-old tested positive, 19 of his close family members and relatives were put in quarantine. Besides, we have identified 74 primary contacts of these people and sent them into quarantine. Results of samples collected from some of them are still awaited. We expect some more members of the family/ relatives to become COVID-19 positive,” the official added. Other cases Apart from the 11 cases from Kayamkulam and Cheruthana, a pregnant woman from Arattupuzha tested positive on Friday. She was found to have contracted the disease during a medical check-up. The source of her infection is unknown. Of the rest of the nine cases, five came from abroad and four from other States. All the 21 patients have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. Meanwhile, two persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. The number of active cases in the district stands at 202.
04 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Police question Vellappally||The police team probing the death of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam leader K.K. Mahesan on Friday interrogated SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan. Officials said the team led by Mararikulam circle inspector S. Rajesh questioned Mr. Natesan for over four hours and recorded his statements. Report Officials said that a report would be submitted in court after completing the investigation. The police had earlier registered a case of unnatural death. Mahesan, a former aide of Mr. Natesan, allegedly ended his life. His body was found hanging inside the union office at Kanichukulangara on June 24. A note allegedly written by Mahesan and found pasted on the wall of the office room where he was found dead contained the names of Mr. Natesan and his aide K.L. Ashokan. Mr. Ashokan was questioned by the police on Wednesday. Mahesan was the State coordinator of the SNDP Yogam’s controversial microfinance scheme.
04 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||2 cases in Idukki||Two persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. One is an Udumbanchola resident who came from Cumbom on June 19. The other person is a Nedumkandam resident who had travelled in a taxi with his friend who came from the United Arab Emirates on June 23.
04 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Murder accused, two others held||The Vythiri police on Friday arrested three persons, including the third accused in a heist and murder case at Kodanad, and seized 3.38 kg of ganja from them at Poonchola, near Vythiri. The arrested have been identified as Jamsheer Ali, 35, of Karat house, Perumgoda; Muhammed Shinas, 20, of Mampetta Parambil house, Chuzhali; and Midlaj, 27, of Kolapparamban house, Gudalayi. Ali is the third accused in the heist and murder case at Kodanad in Tamil Nadu, District Police Chief R. Ilango said. He is also wanted in many cases. They were arrested from a homestay at Poonchola on a tip-off, Mr. Ilango said. The police seized a car and Rs. 35,520 from them.
04 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Collector warns NRIs of legal action||Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla said on Friday that legal action would be taken against those Non Residents Indians (NRIs) who returned to the district without registering in the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. It was noticed that some NRI returnees who had landed in Kozhikode and Kannur airports had failed to register themselves in the portal, Ms. Abdulla said. The district administration was preparing a list of such persons and legal measures would be initiated against them. People who returned from other States could enter Kerala without any pass, but they too should register their names in the portal in order to enable the Health department to collect their details, she said. As many as 32,575 persons had entered the State through the facilitation centre at Muthanga on the Kerala-Karnataka border till now, including 546 persons on Friday, Ms. Abdulla said.
04 July 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Endosulfan: doctors to be called back to Kasaragod||Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan has said that the doctors appointed to help endosulfan victims in Kasaragod but currently working elsewhere would be called back to the district. Presiding over a district-level meeting on the rehabilitation of endosulfan victims here on Friday, the Minister said two neurologists and a psychiatrist, who had been appointed in the district for treating the victims, were now working in other districts. Steps would be taken to immediately bring them back, he said. Rs. 2 crore allocated During the meeting, it was informed that the National Health Mission had allocated Rs. 2 crore for the treatment of endosulfan victims on the orders of the Social Justice Department. The Endosulfan Cell decided to ask the government for Rs. 217 crore for the implementation of a Supreme Court order to grant relief to the affected. According to the order, the grants are available in five categories, namely bedridden, mentally ill, frail, cancer, and others. The Department of Social Justice decided in the meeting to seek guidance to eliminate ineligible entries on the list of endosulfan victims, who were identified during an investigation conducted following a report submitted by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam fishing harbour, ward turn containment zones||The fishing harbour and Ward 15 at Chellanam have been declared containment zones and over a hundred people across the district quarantined, after a 64-year-old woman, whose family members work at the harbour, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. She developed fever on June 19 and had visited the local primary health centre. She later visited a private hospital at Chellanam where her scans showed symptoms of pneumonia. She was admitted to the Ernakulam General Hospital on June 29 and since she had no travel history and was not on any primary contact list, she received treatment there for pneumonia without being sent to a COVID care centre, health officials said. As many as 72 staff members and doctors at the General Hospital have gone into quarantine and antigen tests were conducted among them on Friday. All their tests have returned negative. A second layer of staff has been deployed to sustain hospital functions. Eight patients who had been in the hospital ward that the woman had been admitted to and the staff at the health centre have also been quarantined. She had taken up work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) on June 22 and 27. Twenty-nine people who worked with her have been asked to go into quarantine, while the private hospital she visited is temporarily closed. Chellanam panchayat president Mercy Josy said the harbour had been closed as a precautionary measure from Friday morning onwards after the pregnant wife of one of the fishers had tested positive in Cherthala, in nearby Alappuzha district. The fisherman, who frequented the harbour, and had 11 people from Chellanam working on his boat, had developed fever two days ago and his test results were awaited, she said. He had last taken his boat out on June 27, she added. The people working on his boat have gone into quarantine. The husband and son of the 64-year-old woman who tested positive on Friday worked at the harbour and she might have acquired the infection from there, said health officials. Positive cases A two-year-old child and 11-month-old infant who returned from New Delhi by flight are among the 17 positive cases in the district on Friday. Two of their close relatives have also tested positive. A 38-year-old who returned by road from Bengaluru and his close contact have tested positive, besides another 64-year-old who returned from Bengaluru by flight. A 25-year-old who returned from Qatar, a 26-year-old native of Vengola who returned from Dubai, a 47-year-old who returned from Pune, a native of Kothamangalam who returned from Sharjah and a 27-year-old who returned from Delhi by flight have also tested positive. Ernakulam market As many as 136 people have been tested from the area around Broadway and the Ernakulam market. Nine tests have returned negative results. The rest are awaited and there were no fresh positive cases from the area on Friday. Meanwhile, 11 people, including KSRTC staff and an employee at a photocopy shop, remain in quarantine in Angamaly after a KSRTC bus conductor on duty in the area tested positive in his home town of Malappuram earlier.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Registration of e-autos begins in Kochi||The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has opened registration for electric autorickshaws (e-autos) in Kochi, with a dozen vehicles registering at the Ernakulam Regional Transport Office. The increasing price of petrol and diesel, high operational expense sand the State government policy against issuing fresh permits to autorickshaws that run on fossil fuel in cities have resulted in drivers showing a marked preference for CNG and e-autos in the city. Most of the e-autos purchased by individual drivers have begun operating in the city following relaxation of lockdown norms. A dozen e-autos began operating here from prominent metro stations as a pilot initiative over two years ago. The COVID-19 lockdown resulted in a bulk of the 250 e-autos not arriving from different States. They were to be operated under the banner of Ernakulam Jilla Autorickshaw Thozhilali Sahakara Sangam, a collective of different autorickshaw drivers’ trade unions. “We are in no hurry to introduce them, since patronage for public transport has to pick up following COVID-19 scare,” said an office bearer of the collective. About half a dozen manufacturers had made presentations before representatives of the body earlier this year. A decision on procurement is suffering delay due to the lockdown, it is learnt. Kinetic Green, which rolled out the pilot fleet of e-autos in Kochi, is seen as a forerunner. Former Senior Deputy Road Transport Commissioner B.J. Antony said readying adequate number of battery-swap facilities and recharging points would catalyse the introduction of e-autos in Kochi.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Centres for first-line treatment identified||In the wake of two containment zones being declared within Kochi Corporation limits, the civic body has heightened its vigil. The Jana Sevana Kendra operating in the Kochi Corporation main office will be shifted to Yathra Auditorium near the Government Law College to prevent crowding at the office, Mayor Soumini Jain said. All public services including issuing birth, death, and marriage certificates and payment of taxes will be available at the auditorium from Monday. The corporation has identified A.J. Hall, Kaloor, and Mattancherry Town Hall as prospective COVID-19 first-line treatment centres to treat asymptomatic patients once the existing first-line treatment centres at Adlux Convention Centre, Angamaly, and the CIAL Convention Centre reach full capacity. Infrastructural changes such as providing beds, bathroom facilities, nurses stations and rooms for doctors will soon be made at the halls. The civic body is also in the process of identifying additional institutional quarantine facilities in each division, Ms. Jain said. She said that strict action would be taken against shops and other establishments violating COVID-19 prevention protocol. A close watch would be maintained over markets such as the ones at Chambakkara and Palluruthy.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. coffers hit by double whammy||COVID-19 restrictions and the Kochi Corporation’s failure to provide online tax payment facilities have jeopardised tax collection. The revision of property tax should have raked in an additional Rs. 45 crore for the corporation as per figures with the civic body's revenue department. After several years of delay, the corporation began issuing revised property tax notices late last year. While the revision applies to over 50,000 tax payers, only around 25,700 revised notices had been issued when COVID-19 restrictions were enforced. The absence of an online system to issue demand notices and collect taxes and fines meant that the 46 bill collectors would have to cover all 74 divisions of the corporation to ensure payments, and this came to a halt with the pandemic situation. Lack of a functioning e-governance system that could improve the speed of governance has been causing much of the trouble. “Around 300 to 400 people visit the office every day, making something like social distancing difficult. Besides, bill collectors are stuck here. They are not able to visit houses and make collections,” said Rahul R., Secretary, Kochi Corporation. While property tax worth an average of Rs. 70 lakh fell into the corporation’s coffers daily towards the end of the 2018-19 financial year, the amount dipped in March this year. Compared with over Rs. 23 crore collected in March last year, the corporation collected only Rs. 13.85 crore in the same month this year. In April, only a little over Rs. 1 crore could be collected, while in May, despite relaxations in restrictions on movement, Rs. 4.96 crore was collected. If all property tax revision notices had been handed out, the corporation’s demand for property tax would have been nearly Rs. 146 crore this year, including arrears, as against Rs. 99.7 crore last year. Despite the revised demand of Rs. 146 crore, the corporation collected only Rs. 121.47 crore as property tax up till April. Against a profession tax demand of Rs. 44.08 crore, collection stood at Rs. 38.61 crore. Only Rs. 3.80 crore has been collected as rent for the corporation’s buildings, against a demand of Rs. 6.12 crore. Only a little over Rs. 20 lakh as rent, and around Rs. 6 crore as profession tax, was collected in March and April, though the end of the 2019-20 financial year should have seen a spike in collection.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cases of alcoholism rise, again||After a significant drop during the lockdown, cases of alcoholism and related troubles have re-emerged in the district. The pattern is in keeping with the prediction by experts who said people who would be forced to give up drinking owing to non-availability of liquor during the lockdown would dive headlong into it once bar and liquor outlets opened. The initial wave of withdrawal symptoms that triggered an avalanche of calls to the helpline numbers run by the Excise Department by addicts and even their families had subsided gradually during the lockdown. They either made peace with the non-availability of liquor or their needs were met by illicit brewing. “Increased number of cases of alcohol dependence and related psychiatric issues like aggression are being reported. From near zero calls, we received 10-15 calls in the last week alone,” said Faris Basheer, medical superintendent at the de-addiction centre at Muvattupuzha run under the Vimukthi programme of the Excise Department. Cases of binge drinking are also being reported. “The only silver lining is the significant drop in cases of illicit brewing,” said A.S. Ranjith, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam. Psychiatrist C.J. John said the soaring number of trauma cases and incidents of alcohol-induced violence immediately after the reopening of bars and liquor outlets was indicative of the re-emergence of alcohol dependence. “When a habitual drinker suddenly restores his drinking pattern to previous levels after a prolonged period of enforced abstinence, his brain, which was getting back to normal, acts up, leading to behavioural disorders, including violence,” said Mr. John.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Another infant assaulted by father||Even as members of the public are recovering from the shock of a new-born being brutally assaulted by her father at Angamaly and needing surgery to recover from brain injury, a similar incident involving an eight-month-old child was reported from Thiruvankulam, near Thripunithura on Friday. An incident in which the child had a providential escape after being thrown by her father, came to light after her mother complained to the Ernakulam District Child Welfare Committee (CWC). The father was reportedly in the habit of assaulting the child. The council, in turn, reported the matter to the Thripunithura police. “The father, a resident of Keshavan Padi, Tiruvankulam, has been arrested under the Juvenile Justice Act. The infant’s life could have been endangered but for her mother managing to catch the child when he threw her. The child was taken to hospital for medical check-up and later taken home,” the police sources said. The father who was under the influence of alcohol, allegedly behaved in a very rude manner to CWC officials, Anganwadi teacher, ASHA worker and people’s representatives who visited the house to enquire about the incident. It came as a shock since the infant from Angamaly who used to be assaulted by her father and was similarly thrown against a wall, has not been discharged from hospital, where she was admitted a month ago in a critical condition, said Sunil Hareendran, CWC secretary, who led the team which visited the house.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||TDB not to lease out its land for cultivation||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) on Friday informed the Kerala High Court that it was decided not to lease out its land under its various temples for cultivation to private parties. The TDB made the submission in an affidavit filed in response to a petition by R.V. Babu, general secretary of the Hindu Aikya Vedi, Kerala, challenging the move to auction bronze utensils, including nilavilakku, offered by devotees and to lease out its land. The TDB further submitted that the board had resolved to cultivate the vacant lands owned by it in all temples. The board thought of leasing out the property for cultivation to individuals or organisations through a public auction for three years if the cultivation could not be carried out by the employees and the temple advisory committees. However, the proposal was given up as it felt that the property would go into the hands of third parties if the land was leased out. Therefore , it was decided by the board on June 19 not to lease out temple land for cultivation to third parties. Segregation The TDB also said that the segregation of gold items kept in the temples and strong rooms would be completed within three months.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID-19 kits handed over||K. Narayana Kurup, former acting Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, and administrator of Bhagyodayam Company, has handed over to vicar of Mt. Carmel Church, Chathiath, 3,000 kits containing masks, soaps and leaflets for distribution among the laity, as part of the firm’s fight against COVID-19.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||ED seeks materials from VACB||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday sought a directive from the Kerala High Court to the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to furnish all relevant materials, including the copies of the mahazar, on the search at the house of former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju and the documents seized during the probe in the case relating to the alleged money transaction into the account of Chandrika , the mouthpiece of Indian Union Muslim League. The Enforcement Directorate submitted that it had already launched an investigation in the money transaction case as directed by the court.
04 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||23 more test positive in Kollam||A total of 23 persons from the district, all of them Non-Resident Keralites, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. While 17 persons are from abroad, others had travelled from Hyderabad and Bengaluru. The patients include six persons from Saudi Arabia, four from Kuwait, two from Dubai, and one each from Ethiopia, Qatar, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi and Kazakhstan. Among the domestic travellers, four are from Hyderabad while the two others came from Bengaluru. New cases  The new cases are from Thevalakkara, Edamon, Anchal, Thalavur, Neduvannur, Sooranad West, Chittumala, Pavithreswaram, Punalur, Kottarakara, East Kallada, Kanjaveli, Puthanambalam, Odanavattam, Umayanallur and Kallelibhagam. The Thevalakkara resident is a 60-year-old who travelled from Hyderabad with his relatives including two women and a child aged nine, reaching Kollam on June 26. All were under home quarantine when they tested positive. From Edamon, two women tested positive. They arrived in Kollam on June 30 from Bengaluru. Others include an Anchal resident, Thalavur resident, Chittumala resident, Punalur resident, East Kallada resident, and Kottarakara resident who travelled from Doha on various days of June. The patient from Anchal was in institutional quarantine after he arrived from Saudi Arabia on June 29. The one from Kanjaveli arrived from Dubai on June 21. Also among the new patients is another Punlaur resident who arrived from Kuwait on June 27. Kazakhstan-returnee Friday’s patient list also included a Puthambalam resident who was in institution quarantine, an Odanavattam resident who is a Kazakhstan-returnee, and an Umayanallur resident who came from Ethiopia, both of whom were under home quarantine. The Anchal resident who arrived from Abu Dhabi on June 30 is currently undergoing treatment at Ernakulam.
04 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vigil against arrival of migrant fishers||Police and Health Department squads have intensified vigil around fishing harbours in Kozhikode following complaints from local residents that fishers from other States were enjoying unrestricted entry into harbours, derailing safety arrangements taken to fight COVID-19. One such incident, in which a group of fishermen who were reportedly brought to Chaliyam from Tamil Nadu by local boat owners, had been brought to the notice of the authorities. Officials said the labourers who were found staying in a rented building near the Chaliyam fish landing centre had been asked to follow quarantine rules. According to the complainants, there were about 12 such persons and they tried to roam around the place, throwing quarantine rules to the wind. The complainants also alleged that the labourers were from hotspots in Tamil Nadu. However, the Health Department authorities did not disclose the details of the workers. The increasing rush in Koyilandy harbour, which emerged as a main trade point with the closure of many other harbours following the lockdown, too has been brought to the notice of the Health Department and the police. Meanwhile, the Koyilandy police said they had taken steps to prevent the entry of buyers and sellers from containment zones.
04 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Commuters demand resumption of passenger train services||The demand to resume passenger train and Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) services within the State, especially north Kerala, has been growing in the wake of lockdown relaxations. Now, passengers in north Kerala depend on two Jan Shatabdi trains, one starting early morning from Kannur (via Kottayam) and one in the afternoon from Kozhikode (via Alappuzha). The other train is Netravati Express which has halts at Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Tirur, Shoranur and Thrissur stations. Because of the COVID-19 threat, regular halts have been discontinued for the two pairing Jan Shatabdi trains running within the State. “Only passenger trains have not been allowed to conduct services even though other public transport services have been resumed in a phased manner,” C.E. Chakkunny, working chairman of the Confederation of All India Rail Users Association, said. The Trivandrum Express via Kottayam has been beneficial to a certain extent to rail commuters travelling between Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram. “However, rail passengers need train services from Kannur or Kozhikode to reach destinations till at least Thrissur,” he said. Mr. Chakkunny said that steep rise in prices of fuel as well as bus, car and autorickshaw charges had put a burden on commuters. A MEMU service should be introduced immediately on the Thiruvananthapuram-Ernakulam- Kozhikode-Kannur-Kasaragod route for people travelling for work in towns and cities. The Southern Railway had plans to begin a MEMU service in the Mangaluru-Shoranur sector in April. However, the lockdown derailed its plans. “The Ministry of Railways and the State government should work out a viable alternative for the travelling public,” he said.
04 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lorry owners to go on strike on July 10||Irked by the hike in fuel price and the reluctance of the State government to reduce road tax, the Lorry Owners Federation in Kerala has decided to go ahead with their indefinite protest. A token strike by suspending all inter-State and State services will be organised on July 10 to draw the attention of the government to their demands. The federation says the government, which has been considerate to the demand of private bus owners in view of COVID-19 crisis, is least bothered about discussing the lorry owners’ plight. Since the enforcement of lockdown, lorry owners have been going through a critical situation that can be addressed only with a favourable government intervention. E.K. Shaju, State general secretary of the federation, says there is no hike in the lorry service charge despite the recent hikes in fuel price. “We operate the services despite all health threats during the COVID-19 time. If we had stopped service, it would have been a big trouble for the State,” says Mr. Shaju. Road tax According to Mr. Shaju, the government should be ready to suspend the road tax and decrease the amount to be contributed to the lorry owners’ welfare fund.  The proposed token strike, according to the federation leaders, will ensure the support of the Lorry Owners Welfare Federation, All Kerala Truck Owners Association, and Kerala Container Carriers’ Association.
04 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Youth missing||A 22-year-old youth from Pulloorampara was reported missing in an incident of flash flood in the area on Friday. The police said James Shino went missing while he was bathing in a nearby river in the village.
04 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram registers another spike with 35 new COVID-19 cases||Malappuram district registered 35 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of infected persons currently under treatment to 254. All but three of the 35 fresh cases were imported from abroad and other States. Three contracted the virus through local contacts. While as many as 29 came from abroad, three returned from other States, said District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. In Thrissur Thrissur district reported 21 new COVID-19 cases. Among the new patients, 12 returned from abroad and eight came from other States. A 15-year-old boy from Chalakudy contracted the virus through contact. In all, 181 patients are undergoing treatment for the disease in the district. A total of 19,206 persons are under observation. Meanwhile, divisions 36 and 48 of the Thrissur Corporation were removed from the list of containment zones. In Kannur Kannur reported 18 more COVID-19 cases on Friday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said that eleven of them arrived from abroad, one person came from Delhi, and six were CISF personnel. Those who returned from abroad were residents of Mayyil, Thalassery, Taliparamba, Peralassery, Panoor, Kolayad, Pinarayi and Muzhappilangad. The person who returned from Delhi was a Peringome resident. In Palakkad Fourteen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district. The total number of infected cases currently under treatment in the district is 191. As many as 68 persons were cured of the disease on Friday. Three of the newly found cases had returned from the UAE, six from Saudi Arabia, two from Qatar, and one from Kuwait. Two of them got the infection from their local contacts. In Kozhikode Fourteen persons tested positive for the virus in Kozhikode. Among them, one person got infected through contact. Eleven patients were discharged. At present, there are 92 positive cases in the district. As many as 975 persons were also quarantined on Friday. COVID hospital Facilities to treat 3,000 COVID-19 patients would be arranged in the district, said Minister A.K. Saseendran at a review meeting on Friday. He said that the Government General Hospital (Beach Hospital) would be converted into a COVID hospital. Only severe cases would be treated at the Government Medical College Hospital. Other COVID-19 patients would be treated at first-line treatment centres, he said adding that more such centres would be set up. In Kasaragod Seven more persons in Kasaragod district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said all the seven were returnees from abroad. In Wayanad One more person who returned from Saudi Arabia tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad. Health Department sources said the infected was a 23-year-old youth from Vengappally who landed at the Karipur airport on June 29.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur, Kozhikode, and Wayanad bureaus)
04 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Karimpuzha sanctuary comes into being||The Karimpuzha Wildlife Sanctuary has become a reality now. Minister for Forest K. Raju declared the formation of Karimpuzha as the 18th wildlife sanctuary in the State at a function at Nedumkayam, near Nilambur, on Friday. The Minister said the new sanctuary would help lift the living conditions of the local people, including tribal people. More employment would be created through ecotourism projects. A model Kerala has become a model for other States by expanding its forest limits in the last four years. The 227.97 sq km sanctuary will comprise the new Amarambalam reserve forest and Vadakkekotta vested forest. However, the Manjeri colony of the primitive Cholanaikar tribes has been exempted from the sanctuary.  Many species Forest officials said they could record 226 bird species, 213 butterfly species, several endangered fish species, 23 species amphibian species, and 33 reptile species in the sanctuary. It borders the Mukkuruthi National Park in the south and the Silent Valley National Park buffer zone in the northeast. P.V. Anvar, MLA, presided. over the function. P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, was the chief guest. Karulai grama panchayat president V. Asainar and several government officials were present. Model forest stations The Minister inaugurated the model forest stations of Chakkikkuzhi, Vaniyampuzha and Kanhirapuzha at a separate function. He said the government would ensure the safety and protection of farmers along with the conservation of forest and wildlife. He also inaugurated a new building of the Edakkode forest station. A.P. Anil Kumar, MLA, presided over the function.
04 July 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Web registration for inter-State travel a must||The government has done away with the stipulation that inter-State passengers should get a pass from the authorities. However, anyone coming to the State via the Walayar check-post should register their details in the COVID-19 Jagratha web portal, said District Collector D. Balamurali.
04 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||7 patients in Pathanamthitta||A total of seven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday, taking the number of COVID-19 cases in the district since March 7 to 330, an official bulletin said. The number of active cases is 170, with 159 people recovering from the disease. There has been one death in the district. Twenty persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from hospitals on Friday. New cases A 63-year-old man who came from Madhya Pradesh on June 18, 42-year-old man (Kuwait, June 20), 44-year-old man (Saudi Arabia, June 14), 19-year-old girl (Maharashtra, June 9), 33-year-old woman (Maharashtra, June 19), 31-year-old man (Damam), and a 54-year-old man (Saudi Arabia) are the Non-Resident Keralites who tested positive for the viral infection on Friday. A total of 5,395 people are in quarantine in the district.
04 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||At 17 cases, capital district sees highest single-day spike||The district reported 17 COVID-19 cases on Friday — the highest single-day spike so far — even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced that restrictions would be tightened in the capital, given the ‘serious situation.’ More containment zones also emerged in the district on Friday, which included several areas in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits; Connemara Market, Saphalyam Complex and Paris Lane in the Palayam ward; Athani Lane in the Vanchiyoor ward; and the Poonthura ward. Vazhuthoor in Neyyattinkara municipality and Thalayal in Balaramapuram grama panchayat are the other containment zones. Seventeen people tested positive in the district on Friday, including three members of a family, a police officer attached to the AR Camp, and three men hailing from Tamil Nadu. The highest single-day spike thus far in the district had been 14 cases reported on June 3. The nephew of a fish worker from Poonthura who tested positive on July 1 also has tested positive for COVID-19. The 38-year-old from Manacaud was infected through contact with his uncle. From Neyyattinkara The other COVID-19 positive cases included a 47-year-old man from Neyyattinkara who returned from Kuwait, his one-year-old son and seven-year-old daughter. A 46-year-old police officer from Nagaroor attached to the AR Camp has tested positive. He had served at the AR Camp, the Secretariat premises, and Anayara. A CRPF jawan from Vellanad who returned from Jammu and Kashmir and a 25-year-old woman from Kozhivila, Parassala, who has no travel history, have tested positive. Three men from Tamil Nadu who arrived in Thiruvananthapuram from Saudi Arabia and UAE and several NoRKs from Nedumangad, Varkala, Ayiroor, Nemom, Kulathummal tested positive on Friday. A 37-year-old man from Thirumala who arrived from Chennai by road also tested positive. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who held a review meeting on Friday, underlined the need for heightened vigilance, but ruled out locking down the district. Steps have been initiated for doubling the number of tests in the district, including antigen tests, he said. The police have registered cases against 60 persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, for violation of COVID-19 restrictions.
04 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Stricter curbs on the cards||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said the public should brace themselves for further tightening of restrictions on travel, shopping, dining and socialising with COVID-19 cases showing a worrying rise on the third day of the second phase of the ‘unlock’ process in the State. The government has clamped down on normal life in pandemic-hit Ponnani taluk in Malappuram district. The capital, which faces the threat of local transmission, could expect more stringent controls on outdoor activities. Mr. Vijayan announced restrictions on visitors to government offices, including the Secretariat, until further notice. He placed constraints on official meetings and urged officers to communicate through electronic means. He said government employees should promote the use of the e-file system. The Chief Minister expressed concern over a police officer contracting the infection and said efforts are on to trace his contacts. Targeted confinement (An official clarified that the targeted confinement strategy aimed at tempering new flare-ups by locking down localities within a limited radius of the outbreak while allowing a semblance of normality outside the perimeter of the coronavirus cluster. The influx of expatriates has caused a surge in new cases. Only a minimal number of these is from unknown sources. Future lockdowns would be imposed in a distributed manner based on the local situation and threat of transmission. They would focus on markets, neighbourhoods, harbours, shopping malls and groups of houses, instead of a district or a taluk as a whole.) Against ostracisation Mr. Vijayan warned that the police would prosecute those who attempted to harm, isolate or ostracise persons in quarantine. The police have recruited 2,364 persons, including 166 women, as law enforcement volunteers to extend their reach and help officers impose the health protocol. The Chief Minister condemned the attack on the house of an expatriate who was in quarantine. He noted with disapproval that the family of a woman, mother of two children aged four and seven, had refused to accept her into their fold after she completed quarantine. She had arrived in the State from Bengaluru. He said such isolated acts of cruelty have brought infamy to Kerala. Humaneness, willingness to protect oneself and others from the disease, a sense of civility and readiness to advance the interest of society are weapons that would enable the State to defeat the contagion.
04 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Palayam market closed for 7 days||The city Corporation stepped up vigilance in Palayam and surrounding areas on Friday, after an employee at a shop in Saphalyam Complex tested positive for COVID-19. Mayor K. Sreekumar issued an order to close down the complex as well as the adjacent Connemara market for seven more days, after the whole area was declared as a containment zone. On Thursday, when the case in Saphalyam Complex was first reported, it was decided only to close the complex, while keeping the market open with restricted entry. But with Palayam becoming a containment zone, it was decided on Friday morning to expand the restrictions to the market too. Instructions were also issued to the owners of the restaurants and shops in the area, which usually witness large crowds, to remain closed for one week. The street vendors and wayside eateries also were asked to close down. ‘Only necessary trips’ On Friday, a 46-year-old policeman who was on duty near the adjacent Secretariat area on June 23 tested positive, underlining the need for more controls in the heart of the city. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, at his press meet on Friday, said the three who tested positive in the city, including the salesman in Saphalyam Complex, the policeman, and a fish vendor, are those who usually come into contact with a large number of people. Hence, strict vigilance was needed, and all trips except the urgent ones should be avoided. The Corporation’s emergency response team carried out disinfecting activities from the Connemara market till Ayurveda College, covering Saphalyam Complex, the Accountant General’s office, the Secretariat and the other establishments in the area. Disinfecting activities were carried out in Vanchiyoor too. Mr. Sreekumar said the restrictions earlier imposed in Chala and Palayam markets would be expanded to the other markets, supermarkets, and all the areas where crowds usually gathered. The Corporation has stipulated that shops can function only till 7 p.m. All the existing restrictions in markets, malls and supermarkets will continue. The Mayor requested the people to keep a ‘Break the Chain’ diary while leaving home, to note down their travel history, including the places visited and the people met. Police phone numbers District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the public should avoid visiting police stations. Instead, complaints can be emailed or sent via WhatsApp, Mr. Upadhyay said. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City): cptvm.pol@kerala.gov.in, 9497975998. DCP (Law and Order, Traffic): dcptvclo.pol@kerala.gov.in, 9497975998. Other numbers and email IDs are ontvmcity.keralapolice.gov.in/  The Corporation has stipulated that shops can function only till 7 p.m.
04 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC plans to issue season tickets to regular passengers||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will issue season tickets to regular passengers for one month or in multiples with a concession of 25% of the regular bus fare. The season tickets, with photographs, will be for select routes and passengers can avail themselves of the facility to travel on all days of a month. The government, while notifying the COVID special bus fares effective from July 3 for KSRTC and private buses, has permitted the KSRTC Director Board to charge a fare lower by up to 15% on inter-State super express and services above super express during lean season. During peak months, a fare hike of up to 10% can be levied for these services. The peak months are April, May, August, September, November, December and January while the lean months are February, March, June, July and October. Minimum fare On ordinary and mofussil services, the minimum fare will be Rs. 8, city fast Rs. 10, fast passenger/limited stop fast passenger Rs. 14, super fast Rs. 20, express and super express Rs. 28, super air express Rs. 35, super deluxe/semi sleeper Rs. 40, luxury/hi-tech and air conditioned Rs. 60, single axle Rs. 60, multi axle Rs. 100, low-floor AC Rs. 26 and low-floor non-AC Rs. 30. The fare for subsequent km varies from 90 paise in ordinary/mofussil to Rs. 2.50 in multi-axle buses. On Ghat roads The fares for services on the Ghat roads have been enhanced by 25% of the rates for the respective services on plains. The operator can realise 30% of the rates in addition to the fares fixed during 53 listed festivals. The minimum fare for the student concession ticket will continue to be the existing Rs. 1 for the initial 2.5 km. A student travelling up to 7.5 km will have to pay Rs. 2 while a student travelling a distance up to 12.5 km pays Rs. 3.
04 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VSSC should step up screening, says Minister||With the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) reporting its second COVID-19 case on Thursday, the authorities have decided to ask the ISRO facility to step up disease surveillance on the campus. The VSSC will be asked to introduce stringent measures to screen all employees and visitors, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran told reporters after assessing the COVID-19 scenario at a district-level review meeting on Friday. District Collector Navjot Khosa will convey the decision to the VSSC director, he added. The VSSC would also be asked to isolate visitors or personnel exhibiting symptoms on the campus, he said. “We will advise them to step up their own surveillance. All standard operating procedures have to be followed,” Ms. Khosa told The Hindu . Sources remain vague The VSSC had reported its first COVID-19 case on June 26. A 41-year-old technician hailing from Manacaud had tested positive, prompting the space facility to disinfect on June 27 areas on the campus visited by the patient. On Thursday, July 2, a graduate trainee associated with the Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) project hailing from Neyyattinkara tested positive. In both instances, the sources of infection remain vague. Over 50 employees/other personnel on the campus have been directed to go into quarantine after the VSSC trainee tested positive. Disinfection of various locations on the campus which began on Friday is expected to be completed by Saturday. ‘No interstate travel’ Meanwhile, no official response was forthcoming from the VSSC in connection with the Minister’s remarks. The campus has remained shut since Monday. Sources pointed out that interstate travel between ISRO facilities across the country has been more or less non-existent since March.
04 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hantex begins farming||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan on Friday inaugurated the cultivation of vegetables and fruits on the premises of the public sector Hantex at Balaramapuram. The initiative is under Subhiksha Keralam project.
04 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Airport contract staff call off stir||The contract workers employed by the Air India SATS Airports Services Pvt Ltd. (AISATS) for the ground-handling services at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport called off their strike on Friday following talks held by the joint action committee of trade unions with the Central Regional Labour Commissioner. The three-day stir, launched against retrenchment of staff, was called off after AISATS management said the workers would be taken back in a month, a release from the action committee said. Promise of talks The management gave assurance in the presence of Commissioner S. Antony Adima that it would not retrench personnel and talks would be held with the workers to overcome the pandemic-induced crisis. AISATS is a joint venture of Air India and Singapore Airport Terminal Services.
04 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Supplyco set to go online||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) will enter online marketing to face the COVID-19 crisis. The objective was to take essential goods to the doorstep of consumers, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies P. Thilothaman has said. He was speaking after the online inauguration of eight renovated Supplyco superstores in the State on Friday. At lower prices The stores will ensure essential goods at lower prices compared to the open market. The consumers will get facilities to select products from these stores. In a step to attain more reach, Supplyco had earlier started door-to-door delivery of goods in some areas. Supplyco superstores would be started in 14 more panchayats soon, the Minister said. Education Minister C. Ravindranath inaugurated the Nandikkara superstore at Parappookkara grama panchayat.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mysticism abounds, but soul goes missing||Whirling dervishes, a protagonist named ‘sufi’, background music with the word ‘roohi’ thrown in at regular intervals every time the sufi’s lady love appears on screen, a clarinet-playing old Sufi saint in a Jinn mosque — all the elements that one could associate with a mystical romance are in place in Naranipuzha Shanavas’s Sufiyum Sujatayum , streaming in Amazon Prime now. But, all the visual elements being there would still not make up for the absence of a film’s ‘rooh’ (soul), a script with well-etched characters. Ironically, much of the work in burnishing the movie’s Sufi credentials remains limited to the surface, in its visuals and music, which it gets right. In that respect, it is a stark contrast to Shanavas’s debut film Kari , a bare-to-the-bone independent work that was noted for its strong critique of casteism.  Sufiyum Sujatayum begins with the nomadic Sufi (Dev Mohan) returning to the Jinn mosque after years. A soulful ‘Azaan’ call later, he collapses and dies. A message informing the death reaches Rajeevan (Jayasurya), the husband of Sufi’s former lover Sujata (Aditi Rao Hydari), who decides to take his wife to see his face for one last time, hoping that it would save their unhappy marriage. Loose threads Much of the first half of the film is then set in the flashback, of the Sufi arriving in the village, somewhere on the Kerala-Karnataka border, meeting the aurally challenged Sujata during her visits to the clarinet-playing saint at the mosque and them falling in love. But, this love remains under-explored, so is the character of Sufi. If the intention was to maintain the element of mystery on a mystic, it does not cut it in a film where we would be keen to know what made him what he is or what makes them fall for each other. Inevitably, the film also addresses the fake propaganda of ‘Love Jihad’, which sees Hindu women as helpless victims being lured by evil Muslim men. Here, the initiative comes equally, or even more, on the part of Sujata. But the script sticks to just a mere mention of ‘Love Jihad’, staying safely away from the other complicated societal issues behind it. But at a time when symbols of Muslim-ness become targets of hate, the film celebrates them unapologetically. Yet, the treatment of the film harks back to a past era, despite all the pleasing visuals conjured up by cinematographer Anu Moothedath. We are also left confused as to the timeline of the story. The love and Sufism in Sufiyum Sujatayum disappointingly remains skin-deep, which is a tragedy considering the promise it held. S.R. Praveen
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Supplyco superstore opened||
04 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stand-off between Revenue, Health officials leads to boycott of work||Employees of the Department of Medical and Health office in Anantapur boycotted their duties along with District Medical and Health Officer KVNS Anil Kumar on Friday following a stand-off with the Revenue Department officials, and staged a dharna in front of the Government General Hospital in the evening. Joint Collector A. Siri and Assistant Collector G. Surya Sai Praveen Chand went to the DMHO office and sat in his chamber seeking some information regarding COVID-19, but the DMHO remained standing and then left his own chamber at around noon. Construing it as an insult to the department, the health department staff boycotted work and locked their rooms even while the Joint Collector was present in the DMHO’s chamber. The issue took a serious turn by evening and at 6 p.m. all the employees came out of the office and staged a dharna in front of the Government General Hospital, which is opposite the DMHO’s office. The Health Department employees’ union leader Nagendra told mediapersons that the Revenue Department officials had insulted the DMHO and as a result of that they wish to give a representation to the District Collector.
04 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four killed in road accident at Piler||Four persons, including three women, were killed on the spot and three others were seriously injured when the autorickshaw carrying them collided with a mini-lorry at Sorakalayapeta village of Piler mandal on Friday night. According to information, seven members of a same village and related to each other of KV Palle mandal reached the Government Hospital at Piler in the evening to see the body of a relative who was killed in a road accident in the morning. While returning home, a mini-lorry on its way to Tirupati collided with the auto, killing four on the spot. The driver abandoned the vehicle and fled the scene. The police have launched a search for the absconding driver.
04 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grama volunteer booked for ‘rape bid’||A grama volunteer allegedly tried to sexually assault a 14-year-old girl at Gurudupalle village of Punganur mandal a couple of days ago. The incident came to light on Friday night. According to the Punganur police, who registered a case, the gram volunteer, who was on the errand of distributing social pension to the girl’s grandmother, had allegedly tried to sexually assault her when she was alone at home. When the girl shouted for help, the youth left the place. The girl’s parents lodged a police complaint on Friday.
04 July 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||People in a dilemma over performing family functions||People planning to perform marriages or family functions are in a state of confusion over increasing COVID-19 cases in the city. Many are in fear that attending a function or even a birthday party could even lead to contracting virus. According to the COVID-19 protocol, not more than 50 persons are allowed to attend any marriage or family functions. While a few people have postponed marriages to next year, some are organising in the presence of their beloved ones only. With gradual increase in the cases, people say that conducting a marriage and inviting people from various places could lead them into trouble. In a recent case in Jaipur in Rajasthan, a man was fined Rs. 6 lakh for conducting his son’s wedding violating COVID-19 norms, resulting in death of one person and over a dozen attendees getting infected. Moreover there are number of incidents of people getting infected with coronavirus after attending functions. “Hundreds of people from a few regions of East Godavari district are believed to have contracted virus after attending marriages where norms were flouted. Though we follow norms by inviting just 50 people, we feel it is not the good time to organise a function,” said G. Gopi, who postponed his marriage to November this year. There are people like Hari Satyanarayan, who have decided to perform marriage next year, anticipating more relaxations and decline in COVID-19 cases. DCP (Law & Order - 1) Aishwarya Rastogi said that it is recommended to intimate the police personnel in case of any function where more than five persons could be attending. If some police pass through the area, when they come and enquire, the family may feel uncomfortable.
04 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT panel to look at illegal sand mining||The National Green Tribunal (Southern Zone-Chennai) has constituted a joint committee to inspect the “illegal” beach sand mining and aqua ponds, and assess the damage being done to the coastal ecosystem along 25-km stretch of coastline in Malkipuram, Sakhinetipalli and Razole mandals in East Godavari district. On July 1, the NGT chaired by Justice K. Ramakrishna heard the case, filed by Venkatapathi Raja Yanumula, and constituted the joint committee. According to the order issued on July 1, the committee comprises Senior Scientist (MoEF and CC-Chennai Regional Office), Senior Scientist from Central Pollution Control Board (Chennai Region), Senior Officer from A.P. Coastal Zone Management Authority, Scientist nominated by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (Chennai), Senior Officer from the A.P. Pollution Control Board and District Collector, East Godavari. The committee has been directed to inspect the places and submit a factual and action taken report, if any violation is found, on or before October 8. It will also assess whether any contamination of groundwater was reported in the respective area. The NGT has asked the committee to recommend action to be taken against the violators. The petitioner had alleged before the NGT that illegal sand mining and aqua ponds were thriving and sand mounds along the beachside were being removed illegally without proper procedures, along the 25-km stretch. “The illegal beach sand mining and aqua ponds have come up near eight villages — Pallipalem, Gogunnamatam, Sankaguptam, Padmatipalem, Turupalem, Gollapalem, Karavaka and Kesinapalli — in the mandals of Malkipuram, Sakhinetipalli, and Razole. The villages of Kesavdasupalem, Chintalamori, and Srugavarapupadu have been witnessing the entry of seawater into these habitations due to the illegal beach sand mining activity,” stated the petitioner. The petitioner had appealed the NGT, seeking action for restoration and compensation from the violators for damaging the coastal ecosystem and seeking the removal of illegal aqua ponds in the CRZ area.
04 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 APSP constables test positive for COVID-19||Ten constables of the AP Special Police 3rd battalion tested positive for COVID-19 in Kakinada in East Godavari district in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning. Battalion’s Additional Commandant Ch. Bhadrayya said, “Ten constables tested positive on Thursday evening. Six of them tested positive after their recovery 28 days ago.” Four constables have been admitted to the GSL Hospital near Rajamahendravaram, he added. A total of 69 new cases, including 26 in Rajamahendravaram and 13 in Kakinada Urban limits, were reported in the district during the period, a health bulletin said.
04 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mudragada reminds CM of his ‘promise’||Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham on Friday urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to raise the long-pending issue of BC status for the community with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a letter to Mr. Jagan, Mr. Padmanabham reminded the former that the YSR Congress Party had supported the cause while it was in the Opposition. “Your party had supported our movement aimed at fulfilling the desire of the Kapus. You also had admitted that our demand was genuine. You had even raised your voice in the Assembly,” he said and wondered why Mr. Jagan had not initiated any action so far. ‘Don’t lose goodwill’ Asking the CM to “ introspect,” the Kapu leader said : “Except in a few places, did you not get support from Kapus to register a success (in the 2019 gene4ral elections)? Did you not gain the sympathy of the Kapus by broadcasting the protracted stir and the Tuni incident (2016) in the run-up to the elections in your own media organisation?”
04 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steep rise in Prakasam’s daily tally as 90 more test positive||Prakasam saw a steep rise in daily tally as at least 90 persons tested positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours. Friday’s cases pushed up the count to 752 in the district with Ongole accounting for a maximum of 176 cases, followed by Chirala with 96 cases and Markapur with 93 cases, according to a health bulletin released by the district administration. Three of the new cases pertained to persons who had returned to the district from neighbouring Tamil Nadu, while two others from Telangana. One patient had returned from Karnataka. Meanwhile, at least 1,970 persons tested negative for the disease. Test reports of 1,796 persons were still awaited. In view of the spurt in fresh cases, total lockdown was implemented in the 39 very active clusters and 62 active clusters. All roads leading to Srinagar colony, Nirmal Nagar, Lawyerpeta, and Vijayanagar colony were sealed where new cases were registered. Alarmed over the rapid spread of the virus, District Collector P. Bhaskar asked the medical staff to compulsorily test all those aged below 10 and above 60 in the containment zones, and symptomatic persons in the buffer zones. The health officials scrambled to identify all the primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons to shift them to quarantine centres. So far, 13,216 were put on institutional quarantine and 1,567 persons under home isolation. The tally in Nellore district rose to 881 with 32 new cases being reported on Friday, according to a health bulletin issued by the district administration. While the city accounted for 25 cases, Kavali recorded four and Marripadu and Varikuntapadu one each.
04 July 2020||Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF personnel hail Modi's visit to Ladakh||Officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 10th Battalion, based at Mangalagiri in Guntur district, thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for visiting Ladakh on Friday. The NDRF personnel, who watched Modi’s visit on television and heard his speech, said the Prime Minister’s tour in the wake of the clashes with Chinese troops killing 20 Indian army personnel on June 15, will instill courage in the forces guarding the borders at Ladakh. The force was all praise for Mr. Modi who visited the area for the first time and interacted with the injured jawans and also with the Air Force, the Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel.
04 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu is yet to recover from defeat, says Speaker||TDP supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu is yet to recover from the humiliating defeat of his party in the elections, Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam has said. Mr. Naidu had never expected such an ignominious rout of his party at the hands YSRCP president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the Speaker said here on Friday. “Probably, that is the reason why Mr. Naidu has been criticising every action of the government, which is eroding his own credibility among the people,” Mr. Seetharam said. “It is time for Mr. Naidu to realise that his words and actions are doing more harm to his party,” he added. “We respect him as a senior politician and expect good suggestions on issues relating to people’s welfare,” Mr. Seetharam said. While Mr. Reddy was marching ahead with the single-point agenda of eradicating poverty by introducing a slew of schemes and taking up several developmental activities, a desperate Mr. Naidu was bent on criticising every move of the government, he said.
04 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restrict use of endowment properties: BJP leader||BJP leader Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the State Government should enact a legislation discouraging the use of endowment properties for governmental needs, operations and other non-religious purposes. Speaking to reporters on Friday, Mr. Reddy said that the funds contributed by donors should be utilised only for the protection and promotion of Hindu dharma and other religious activities in concurrence with the wishes of donors. Extolling the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for its recent decision to protect the endowed properties, he said the endowments department should take a leaf from it and implement the decision at all temples in the State. When asked for his reaction with regard to his party leaders meeting former SEC N. Ramesh Kumar, he said that in a democratic setup, any individual is free to meet whoever he wishes.
04 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Controversy over priest escalates in Srikalahasti||A newly-appointed priest in the famed Srikalahastheeswara temple at Srikalahasti stirred up a controversy by reportedly crossing the line and offering prayers to the main deity inside the sanctum sanctorum. According to the age-old practice, only those from the lineage of ‘Bharadwaja Gotra’ and having been initiated into priesthood by Sivacharyas are authorised to touch the presiding deity of Vayulingeswara. Other priests can only touch and perform ‘archana’ to the processional (miniature) deity. However, the priest had reportedly performed rituals to the main deity, which is reportedly considered a ‘sacrilege’. The issue leaked when another priest in the vicinity observed him and complained to the chief priest K. Sambandham Gurukkal. The priest in question is already in the midst of a row, after he secured regular appointment just before lockdown allegedly using ‘high level connections’ in the Endowments Ministry. “It is a miracle that a regular job was given to him within one month of submitting his application,” remarks P.R. Mohan, who had earlier served as the temple trust board’s Chairman. He accused the temple authorities of resorting to large-scale corruption and nepotism. Meanwhile, the temple officials are learnt to be discussing the issue threadbare.
04 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day fest concludes at Govindaraja temple||The three-day Jyeshtabhishekam festival concluded in a grand manner at the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams’ Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple on Friday. Glittering armour was adorned to the processional deities of Sri Govindaraja and His consorts Sridevi and Bhudevi during the ‘Kavacha Samarpana’ ritual. Jyeshtabhishekam is performed at every temple once a year when the armours adorned to the deities are removed, prayers offered to them and again adorned on the third day of the annual festival. The armours were removed on Wednesday, cleansed and special prayers offered on Thursday and Friday.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thammineni has violated Constitution with remarks against judiciary: TDP MP||Telugu Desam Party MP Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar has found fault with Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam for his comments against the judiciary. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Ravindra Kumar alleged that the Speaker violated the Constitution by making derogatory remarks against the orders of the courts and the functioning of the judiciary. The Speaker should realise the fact that the Constitution was supreme over and above the legislature, judiciary and executive. In the BR Kapoor Vs Tamil Nadu government case, the Supreme Court said the Constitution was supreme and it prevails over the will of people that is expressed through the majority party government, he said, adding, “Dspite holding a constitutional post, Mr. Seetharam is making irrational comments. He should engage experts to learn what safeguards were provided in the Constitution against undemocratic activities of any kind.” The Speaker should realise that the courts were setting aside the orders of the State government as they were in violation of various Articles in the Constitution. Instead of correcting their mistakes, the ruling party leaders were launching attacks and even defaming the judges and the courts, he said. The Apex Court had clearly said in the Tamil Nadu former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa's case that the elected governments should be bound by the Constitution. The courts would take cognisance of the Constitutional violations and set them right wherever necessary. Contrary to this spirit, the ruling YSRCP leaders were committing lots of undemocratic activities and, when the courts intervened, they were not hesitating to pass highly defamatory comments even against the judges, he alleged.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outsourced staff can now breathe easy: Chief Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the A.P. Corporation for Outsourced Services from his camp office on Friday. The corporation would facilitate payment of salaries to the outsourced employees through a green channel and statutory benefits such as ESI and EPF and meet their other requirements.  Quota for women Its basic and most important function would be to fill 50% of the vacancies with candidates from the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes and minorities (50% of them to be women). On the occasion, Mr. Jagan said he had come to know about the plight of the outsourced employees during his marathon ‘Praja Sankalpa Padayatra’ and had then decided to put an end to their woes. The outsourced employees used to be fleeced for jobs and salaries would not be paid on time.  ‘Recruitment on’ The worst part of the story was they had to pay bribes to get their salaries. They were also underpaid. The CM said the process of recruitment of 50,449 outsourced employees was under way and the number would increase over a period of time. Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana and Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney were among those present.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left leaders slam Centre's policies||The Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Communist Party of India- Marxist (CPI-M) have extended their support to the workers, affiliated to various trade unions, who staged protests against the State and central government’s ‘anti-worker’ policies. The trade unions staged protests at various places in the city on Friday. Addressing the gathering, leaders of the Left parties said that the Centre was ignoring all the representations from trade unions and continuing its aggressive attack on workers’ rights. The Centre had used the pandemic Coronavirus and lockdown as an excuse to push through its agenda of disinvestment and wholesale privatisation of public sector enterprises. The government was handing over civil aviation, coal and other sectors on a platter to the corporate sector, they alleged. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said that workers were agitating against the bankrupt policies of the Centre. The government was all set to privatise maintenance of 151 passenger trains. Most prestigious ISRO and the Defence were being privatised. The government plans to sell away Air India. The Atmanirbhar package of Rs. 20 lakh crore was of no use to migrant workers, daily wage workers, construction workers, he said.  State too not spared CITU leader Ch. Babu Rao said that the State government, which boasts of welfare, did nothing for the unorganised sector. Hardly any assistance was given to it. The State government washed its hands off by giving a mere Rs. 1,000 to the workers. The Central government did nothing for the welfare of the workers if the government’s ‘loot’ through increase in prices of petrol and diesel were to be considered. The Centre spends Rs. 8,000 crore to purchase flights for a few at the helm of affairs, but has no money to extend financial assistance to the workers and the poor. Under the garb of self reliance, the Centre was handing over coal, civil aviation and space to the corporate on a platter. The workers would intensify the agitation against the anti-labour policies, he said.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus won’t be present after 6 hours of death: official||Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy said the bodies of patients who died of COVID-19 would not have the harmful virus after four to six hours of their death. He suggested that the cremation of such persons should not be obstructed. He said coronavirus infection could be prevented if people wore masks, maintained a physical distance of six feet and did handwash frequently. Addressing media persons here on Friday, Mr. Jawahar Reddy said since March 9 when the first COVID-19 case was registered, the number had reached 16,934 on July 3 as testing had been scaled up (so far 9.70 lakh persons were screened). Home quarantine A total of 15 government laboratories and five private ones were functioning now. Home quarantine was being allowed in cases where the infection was mild subject to the condition that there should be no elders and children in the house. Mr. Jawahar Reddy said the number of cases had gone up after the lockdown was eased. In the present scenario, if COVID-19 was to be kept under check, people should protect themselves while the government played its part to the extent possible. Random testing would be continued to ensure proper surveillance and necessary remedial action, he added.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2.89 lakh to get house-site pattas||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz on Friday said 2,89,608 beneficiaries in Krishna will be given house-site pattas on July 8. Speaking at his camp office after making a mandal-wise segregation of the house-site pattas, the Collector said 1,36,893 of the beneficiaries were from rural areas and 1,52,715 from urban pockets. The Collector said the latest technology would be used to conduct land surveys in the district. Speaking after distributing the survey equipment to village surveyors who completed a training programme, he said the new mode would not only save time and energy but would also be more accurate.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP will stand by Amaravati farmers’||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has extended support to the farmers who have been agitating for the retention of Amaravati as State Capital. On Saturday, the protest will complete 200 days. In a series of tweets on Friday, Mr. Naidu said that the fight would continue and the TDP would march shoulder to shoulder with the protesting farmers until Amaravati is declared as the only Capital just as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy promised in the Assembly when in the Opposition. ‘Learn from history’ History is proof that no country or State had ever prospered by dividing regions or people. Amaravati was an idea that was born out of the pangs of unjust bifurcation. It was envisioned to unite Telugus and be the building block of a powerful AP, he said, adding, “we only had our will, our manpower and the intellectual capital of our people, and we worked hard to build a self-financing Capital that generated jobs for the residents and strengthened economy with generous tax contributions owing to economic activity.” Farmers had voluntarily parted with their hard-earned 33,000 acres of land as part of pooling. The three capitals idea is flawed and with the outbreak of COVID-19, it would only be viewed as inappropriate and ill-timed considering the plunging industrial and agricultural output, rising unemployment, and failing healthcare systems. “I salute the indomitable spirit of thousands of farmers who have chosen the path of protest to not let the authoritarian government put the future of the State at risk,” he added.
04 July 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narsapuram MP challenges party action in High Court||Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju filed a writ petition in the High Court (HC) seeking a stay on the proceedings of the show-cause notice issued to him on June 23 by Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy for alleged anti-party activities, till the Election Commission of India (ECI) disposes of his application for information related to the party. Mr. Ramakrishna Raju also prayed to the HC to direct the ECI (respondent 1) to forthwith consider his application for the following details: whether the ‘Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress’ sought permission to change its name to ‘YSR Congress Party,’ whether the issue of the notice on the letterhead of ‘YSR Congress Party’ is valid in the backdrop of instructions by the ECI not to use the same, whether any intimation of approval of the constitution of a disciplinary committee or change of office - bearers was received from the ECI before the notice was issued and whether the general secretary of a political party is authorised to issue such a notice on behalf of the disciplinary committee or its chairperson. The MP argued that the notice was illegal, arbitrary and violative of the principles of natural justice as it was issued without following the procedures stipulated in the Representation of People Act, 1951, Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. He claimed to have always upheld the policies of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The MP further said it was pertinent to note that ‘Anna YSR Congress Party’ was another political party registered with the ECI. He told the court that if ‘Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress’ and Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy (respondents 2 and 3 respectively) succeeded in their efforts (to expel him from the party), he would be put to irreparable loss and it would open the floodgates to other parties to bypass the parameters set by the ECI.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wait for A.P.-TS bus operations gets longer||The wait for people from neighbouring Telangana looking forward to restoration of public transport facility to return home may get longer. The lockdown, necessitated by the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, brought to a halt buses operating between Andhra Pradesh and its neighbouring States. After a gap of over two months, the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) gradually started operating, first the intra-State services and later focused on services to neighbouring States. It resumed services to Karnataka in a phased manner. To resume services to Hyderabad, APSRTC officials held talks with their Telangana counterparts, in Vijayawada, putting forth their proposal to operate buses in four phases and to cover a distance of 70,000 km in the first phase. Parity of distance Parity of distance is an issue between the two States that is said to be causing a delay in operations. Sources said the Telangana officials are firm on parity of kilometres from the first phase of operations. The APSRTC covers a distance of 2.6 lakh km in Telangana , while the latter plies its buses covering 1.6 lakh km in AP. For the APSRTC, it is a climbdown from 3.37 lakh km in 2014, while its Telangana counterpart increased the area of operation in the State from 94,000 km to 1.6 lakh km now. Confident that the issue can be resolved without much ado, the APSRTC officials are waiting for the TSRTC to present their plan of operating buses in the first phase. The second round of talks that was scheduled to be held at the head office of the TSRTC had to be put off after reports that some of the staff in the operations wing had tested positive for COVID-19. “At the moment, their focus is on how to fight the virus that has crept into the department,” said an official of the APSRTC.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 more held in drugs scam||Sleuths of Central Investigation Unit (CIU) of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Friday arrested T. Karthi, proprietor of Tirumala Medical Agencies, located in Vijayawada, in the ESI drugs scam. The accused allegedly colluded with officials of the Directorate of Insurance Medical Services (DIMS), arrested in the scam, obtained the purchase order by submitting fabricated quotation on behalf of other firms. The ACB has so far arrested nine persons in the case, including former minister and Tekkali MLA K. Atchannaidu. Krathik was produced in theACB Special Court and was remanded in judicial custody till July 16. He was sent to Vijayawada Sub Jail, the CIU officials said in a press release.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police solve missing patient mystery||The One Town police on Friday solved the mystery over the disappearance of a patient, who was admitted in the New Government General Hospital (GGH), a designated COVID-19 treatment facility, by his wife on June 24. Following the directions of Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, an investigation was launched by One Town station inspector P. Venkateshwarlu after the woman lodged a complaint on June 29 that her husband was missing. The police, after examining CCTV footages of the New Government General Hospital, found that the body of the patient, who died with symptoms of COVID, was preserved in the mortuary of the same hospital. Medical and Health Department and police officials heaved a sigh relief as the case was solved within five days.  Probe ordered Krishna district Collector A. Md. Imtiaz termed the incident unfortunate and directed Vijayawada Sub-Collector H.M. Dhyana Chandra to conduct an inquiry and submit a report.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sakambari Devi festival begins||The three-day Sakambari Devi festival at Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam (Kanakadurga Temple) atop Indrakeeladri began here on Friday. The temple was decorated with vegetables and greens on the first day. Priests transformed the presiding deity at Indrakeeladri into Goddess Sakambari Devi to propitiate her for bountiful rain and a good harvest of food, grains and vegetables. The festival began with Vighneswara pooja, punyah vachanam, and akhanda deeparadhana rituals. Priests performed vastu homam. A host of rituals are planned for the festival, such as Chandi Parayana, Chandi Homam, and Santi Poushtika Homam for the well-being of the people. The premises is brimming with brinjal, coccinia, lemon, ridge gourd and other vegetables. The idol of the Goddess is also decorated with vegetables. A garland of green chillies is part of many vegetable garlands used on the occasion. The temple received 19 tonnes of vegetables from donors this year. Temple Executive Officer M.V. Suresh Babu said that a small number of devotees were allowed for Khadgamala archana, Sri Chakra Navarnacharna, Chandi holam, santi kalyanam, rudra homam, Navagraha Santhi and laksha kumkum archana. “Devotees have to wear masks and follow the COVID-19 guidelines. The tickets and time slot can be booked online,” he said.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPT qualifying examination to be held from July 20||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) will conduct a qualifying test in proficiency in office automation with usage of Computer and Associated Software (CPT) scheduled from July 20 to 23. The qualifying examination is meant for the candidates who had attended the process of verification of original certificates for various posts that are falling under Group-II services. Candidates are advised to download the hall-tickets from the commission’s website,https://psc.ap. gov.in, one week before the date of the examination.
04 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Differently-abled teachers exempted from duties||The Department of School Education has granted exemption to the visually challenged and physically handicapped teaching and non-teaching staff from the duties assigned and from attending the schools till further orders. In a statement on Friday, Commissioner, School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, said the candidates should produce proper medical certificates to the respective Inspecting Officers. He said the teachers and headmasters, who were in quarantine or living in the containment and red zones, were also exempted from attending the schools.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGH among the 12 centres to undertake clinical trials of vaccine||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has selected King George Hospital (KGH) to undertake human clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccine developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL). The vaccine named as Covaxin is likely to be launched on August 15, and KGH is one among the 12 centres in the country, which will conduct the human clinical trials. KGH is the oldest hospital in the State and has a century-old history attached to it. Established in 1845 as a civil dispensary, it was later upgraded into a 30-bed hospital in 1857. Officially it was inaugurated as KGH on May 19, 1923, by the then Raja of Panagal. Speaking to The Hindu, KGH Superintendent G. Arjuna said that the order has been communicated, but guidelines from the State government are awaited. R. Vasudev of KGH, who is tipped to part of the team along with Dr. Arjuna to conduct the human clinical trials, said that the trials will be made on fully fit and healthy volunteers who are free from any strains of virus and infections, including COVID-19. Basically, human clinical trials are conducted to understand the efficacy of the vaccine developed and check on the possible adverse effects, he said. According to Dr. Arjuna, for understanding the effects of any new vaccine on human body it may take four to six weeks and after administering the vaccine and the volunteer is monitored on a daily basis. “We basically check on the changes of Immunoglobulin in the body,” he said. It is learnt that the ICMR has partnered with Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) to conduct the trials. “BBIL is using the virus strain isolated at the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, to develop the vaccine,” said a scientist from the virology laboratory in KGH. A team of doctors and scientists from the Department of Microbiology, virology laboratory and general medicine will be involved in the clinical trials. “Once we get the guidelines from the government and ethics committee, the work will begin,” said Dr. Arjuna.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||81 new cases take tally to 1,136||A total of 81 new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Friday, the biggest single-day spike till date, taking the tally to 1,136. Meanwhile as many as 45 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged after testing negative. With the new discharges, the total number of persons recovered will be 447 and the total number of active cases are 682. It may be noted that seven persons died in Visakhapatnam, district due to COVID-19. Out of seven five are from Visakhapatnam district, while one is from Srikakulam and another from Hyderabad. According to officials, new cases have been reported from Peda Jalaripeta, Appughar, Seethammadhara, One Town, Kancharapalem, Gurajada Nagar, Narendra Nagar, Vedullanarava, Aganampudi, Pendurthi, Gopalapatnam, Butchirajupalem, Simhachalam, Takasi Veedhi and several other areas. Several air and train travellers also tested positive. Three police personnel from district police limits also tested positive, it is learnt. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V Sudhakar, as on Friday, the total number of very active clusters is106, while active clusters are 91 and dormant clusters are 50. About 30 clusters have already denotified. According to officials from the Health Department, a number of sporadic cases from the district is leaving them worried. The officials are finding that these cases do not have any close contacts with patients or any of their contacts. However, officials are tight-lipped when asked whether community transmission of the virus is already on. A number of police personnel from both city and rural police have tested COVID-19 positive while performing their duties at containment areas. Police Commissioner R.K. Meena has been conducting awareness sessions on precautions to be taken to personnel from some police stations which have more number of containment zones in their limits. He has also asked them strengthen vigil at the containment zones, especially those having more number of cases, and also book cases against those who come out with no reasons during the curfew hours.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outsourcing corporation will benefit 50,000 employees in State: Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy formally launched the AP Corporation for Outsourcing Services (APCOS) on Friday. He handed over appointment letters to some of the beneficiaries. Interacting with the Collectors of various districts in the State, Mr. Jagan said that the objective of the corporation was to prevent cheating of candidates by middlemen and to ensure transparency in appointments. Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that outsourcing employees and contract workers were not having any job security and were being exploited by middlemen. The corporation launched by the Chief Minister would benefit about 50,000 outsourcing employees in the State, he said District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that about 3,000 outsourcing employees were required in 99 government and public sector organisations in the district. There would be total transparency in the recruitment as a database would be maintained by the corporation and the rule of reservation followed. Government Whip Budi Mutyala Naidu, MLAs Kannababu Raju, Karanam Dharmasri, Gudivada Amarnath, Tippala Gurumurthy Reddy, Adeep Raj and Petla Umashankar Ganesh participated in the video conference.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. should introspect why courts are interfering: Sabbam||The Legislative Assembly Speaker should restrain himself from making comments and levelling allegations against the judiciary, or a court of law, former Mayor and TDP leader Sabbam Hari told the media here on Friday. Mr. Hari was reacting to the comments allegedly made by Speaker Thammineni Seetharam that the High Court had never in the past interfered in the functioning of the government as it was doing now. “It may be true. But the government and the Speaker should introspect why the court is interfering,” Mr. Hari observed. “It is rare for the courts to interfere in the functioning of the government in any State. But why is it happening in Andhra Pradesh? The government should ponder upon this question. Only then will it realise its wrongdoings,” Mr. Hari said. ‘Wrongdoings’ “Court interferes only when peace is threatened, or basic rights of people that are enshrined in the Constitution are infringed upon,” he said. Citing examples, Mr. Hari said, “It is the right of the people to pursue education in their mother tongue. When the government tried to abolish it, the court had to intervene and restrain the government. The CRDA was established after farmers parted with their precious land. When the government tried to dump it and hurt the farmers, the court had to interfere. The curtailing of the term of State Election Commissioner (SEC) too was unconstitutional, and that was why the court’s ruling went in N. Ramesh Kumar’s favour.” “Similarly, the painting of government buildings was unconstitutional, and the court had to put a brake on the government’s plan,” he said. “The Speaker is an elected representative, but his or her duty is sacred. It will be good if Mr. Seetharam confines himself to the proceedings of the House,” he said. Mr. Hari was also critical at the way TDP MLA and former Minister K. Atchannaidu was arrested. “The MLA was forced to travel by car to Amaravati just a couple of days after undergoing a surgery,” he added.
04 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||DLS comes out with UV-based sanitisers||The Diesel Loco Shed in Visakhapatnam, the biggest loco shed in Asia in terms of holding capacity, has come out with an ultraviolet radiation-based disinfection sanitiser for currency notes, papers and tools. The DLS staff have come up with several products like preparation of thousands of litres of hand sanitiser for the use of employees, masks, sanitising tunnel, leg-operated (hands-free) handwash booths and sensor-based hand sanitisation dispensers. Railways deal with currency notes at Passenger Reservation Counters and parcel offices. There are also paper transactions in the form of receipts, tickets, and files. It is the need of the hour to have sanitisers to check the spread of the COVID-19 infection at various vulnerable locations. The fabrication of UV sanitisers was done by DLS staff under the guidance of Waltair Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, under the supervision of Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer (Diesel) Santosh Kumar Patro, with in-house available sources. The equipment works on the principle of UV radiation emitted from a Germicidal UVC lamp that kills up to 99.9% of most viruses, airborne bacteria and mold spores by destroying nucleic acids and disrupting their DNA. East Coast Railway sought fabrication of 150 such currency sanitiser equipment to be provided at all ticket counters across its jurisdiction.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag health officials prepare for the worst||The month of June was not a good one for the Health Department in Visakhapatnam district. With the reopening of the economy, the number of COVID-19 rose sharply to about 787, and consequently, the tally crossed the 1,000-mark. Officials fear that the situation could worsen in July. Till May, the number of cases in the district was 113. But in June, on an average 26 new cases were reported per day, with the last day of the month witnessing the biggest single-day spike of 76. Also, four more patients died. There were about 35 cluster containment areas till May-end which increased to 200 by June-end with 84 very active ones. “Till May-end, the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), the State nodal COVID hospital which handles only severe cases in north Andhra districts, had about 30 in-patients. By June-end, the number increased to 315,” said VIMS Director, K Satya Varaprasad. People need to be more cautious and stay away from crowded places, he said. A senior health official said the pandemic is spreading fast. Area-specific approach Making an interesting observation, Chief Medical & officer of Health, GVMC, K.S.L.G Sastry, earlier a cluster containment zone used to encompass an area of about three km, but now it could be within 100 metres to 1,000 metres based on the number of cases and the type of locality. “After two cases were reported near Oxygen Towers at Seethammadhara, the area was fixed at 100 metres, but in densely populated localities such as Dandu bazaar, it was extended to 1,000 metres,” he said. According to the officials, there are about 10 COVID care centres in the city and a few are being set up in rural areas also. The authorities are planning to increase bed strength from 5,500 to 6,000 in the coming weeks. Testing to be ramped up Testing might be ramped up, especially in the containment zones. Priority would be given to senior citizens and and those having long-term health issues. The focus would be on early detection to minimise casualties, the officials said.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct safety audit of all industries: MLC||BJP leader and MLC P.V.N. Madhav has expressed concern over the growing number of industrial accidents in the city. Speaking to the media here on Friday, he said that failure to comply with safety norms was the cause of the accidents at LG Polymers and at Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited at Parawada. There were not even alarms and oxygen cylinders at the industries. It was mandatory for every company to have an ambulance but none of the companies seems to have it. He said safety audit should be conducted for all the industries and compensation be paid to the dependents of the deceased in Sainor mishap as was done in the case of LG Polymers gas leak incident. The MLC said that the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant was incurring losses. He attributed it to the expansion of the plant with Rs. 1,500 crore without raising any loans or seeking assistance from the Centre. He said that 60% assistance was being extended by the Centre for 104 and 108 ambulances but the State government was projecting as though the ambulances were its sole achievement. He alleged that a huge amount was being allocated towards maintenance of each ambulance as nowhere else in the country.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AITUC seeks withdrawal of Major Ports Authority Bill||Visakhapatnam Harbour and Port Workers Union (AITUC) has demanded withdrawal of the Major Ports Authority Bill, which will pave the way for privatisation of ports. At a demonstration organised by the Central trade unions at the Port AOB here on Friday, honorary secretary of the union and CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said that it was unfortunate that the rights of workers, achieved after prolonged struggles, were being taken away by the governments. At a separate protest organised jointly by the CITU and the AITUC at Maddilapalem on Friday, CITU leader A. Aja Sarma said that the governments should provide job security to workers.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay Rs. 50 lakh to bereaved families of railway staff: NFIR||The National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR) has appealed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to extend compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the family members of railway employees, who had succumbed to COVID-19 in the line of duty. “Railway employees have been risking the pandemic to perform duties. The nature of their work puts them at greater risk compared to other government employees,” said M. Raghavaiah, general secretary of the union, in a letter to the Union Minister. While several staff have tested positive for COVID-19, some have also succumbed to the infection. At present, there is no provision for payment of ex gratia.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||23-year-old youth feared drowned||A 23-year-old youth had gone missing at Revu Polavaram beach under S Rayavaram police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. The missing person was identified as B. Pujith, a resident of Payakaraopeta According to reports, Pujith along with four other friends had come to beach for a photoshoot. After finishing the photoshoot, Pujith had entered the waters to clean his shirt, when he was reportedly swept away by high tide. Police said that the sea was very rough on Friday which could have led to strong tides. Search operation has been launched to trace the missing youth. A case has been registered in the S Rayavaram police station.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vasupalli protests arrest of BC leaders||TDP Urban District president and Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has alleged that BC and SC leaders are being booked in false cases and arrested. Addressing a media conference here on Friday, the TDP leader alleged that the YSR Congress Party government had foisted false cases against former Ministers Atchannaidu and Yanamala Ramakrishnudu in the past and now Kollu Ravindra was being targeted. He said that cases were booked on 65 TDP leaders so far. The MLA handcuffed himself to express his disapproval of the arrest of BC leaders.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to GITAM founder||GITAM Deemed to be University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivarama Krishna, officers and staff paid floral tributes to GITAM founder-president M.V.V.S. Murthi at his statue on the occasion of his 82nd birth anniversary here on Friday. Mr. Krishna said that Mr. Murthi made invaluable contribution in the field of higher education.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||People cautioned against middlemen||Some middlemen are trying to mislead people by trying to sell government lands, after occupying them, and passing them off as private lands. District Collector V. Vinay Chand cautioned the public in a statement on Friday not to fall a prey to such people. The list of government lands in the district are declared in the prohibited lands list (22 A). The lists can be obtained from the Tehsildar Offices, RDO Office and the official website of the district.
04 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Blood Bank to have automated blood component separator||Rotary Blood Bank will soon install an automated blood component separator, said the new chairman G.S. Raju here on Friday. Mr. Raju, past president of Rotary Club Visakha Port City, took over as the chairman of the blood bank here on Friday. G .Rambabu will continue as secretary.
04 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI optimistic about business despite lockdown impact||The State Bank of India(SBI)-Vizianagaram Regional Office appointed a high-level committee with ten officials to achieve the target of Rs. 5,500 crore business in the current financial year, said Regional Manager D. Raja Rama Mohana Rao. The committee would guide all the 36 branches in adopting new strategies and explain to them the advantages such as availability of loans at around 7 percent interest rate, said the regional manager. Mr. Raja Rama Mohana Rao said that the bank had 2,800 crore deposits and 1,800 crore advances in the 2019-2020 financial year and now plans are on to mobilise around 500 crore deposits and release 400 crore-worth loans for the fiscal year. He said that the Fort City would have a bright future given its proximity with Visakhapatnam and proposal of an international airport at Bhogapuram. He said that the demand for home loans would pick up within no time as properties were available at affordable cost in Vizianagaram compared to Visakhapatnam. “In spite of the impact of lockdown, the business is picking up in branches with inquiries for home loans, among others, increasing. It revived our hopes to reach the target of Rs. 5,500 crore for 2020-2021 as against the target of Rs. 4,600 crore achieved last year,” he said.
04 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Voluntary lockdown in Vizianagaram||The Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce directed shopkeepers in PW Market and Chinna Market to close their businesses till July 7 after it emerged that a rice seller and some workers had tested positive for coronavirus in the town. A press release by VCC president K. Sitaramamurthy and secretary Kapuganti Srinivas said that the voluntary lockdown is expected to have a serious impact on business transactions as the PW Market is a major commercial centre in North Andhra region, with daily revenue from the sale of essential commodities going into crores of rupees. It is also a major hub for transport of goods to Odisha, Chhattisgarh and other places. Other shops and establishments including textile showrooms and gold shops will be open from 8 a.m. till 2 pm. Many shopkeepers are reluctant to open their establishments due to a shortage of manpower. A majority of the workers come from Gajularega village which has been declared as a red zone after more than 25 positive cases were reported from there.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hoping for big catch||
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||City-based Bala Vikas Foundation (BVF) has been running tailoring centre for the benefit of fishing community women at ward No 8, Fishing Harbour, Beach Road, for the last six years. Since masks have become essential due to the COVID-19 crisis, the BVF has decided to arrange masks for children with pictures. Nearly 25 fishing community women were trained to stitch cloth masks. The cloth is provided by Quant Systems India private Ltd, Visakhaptnam, and Vizag Smiles.
04 July 2020||Bhongir,TELANGANA||Rowdysheets against Nayeem associates||Bhongir police on Friday opened rowdysheets against five town residents, who were identified as associates of slain gangster Mohammed Nayeemuddin. Kathula Jangaiah was accused in 91 criminal cases, Gurram Sivaraj, a painter, in three cases, Puli Nagaraju, Bacchu Nagaraju and Saragada Hari were accused in at least five incidents. According to Bhongir DCP K. Narayana Reddy, they were involved land grabbing, criminal intimidation, kidnapping and extortion in Bhongir limits.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clamour for more testing centres, hospitals in Old City||It was on June 24 that Saleem Ahmed (name changed) rushed his father-in-law, a resident of Santosh Nagar in Old City, to the Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda, in a private vehicle after the latter showed severe coronavirus-like symptoms. With no ambulance available at the time, the patient died before he could be admitted. Now, with his mother-in-law also falling sick, Mr Ahmed points out the pressing need for an increase in COVID-19 testing centres as well as hospitals in Old City. “It took us over an hour to travel from Santosh Nagar to Chest Hospital. There was unavailability of ambulances and beds in private hospitals. An influential person tried to help us but that did not yield any result. Old City needs more private testing centres and hospitals for COVID-19 patients,” Mr Ahmed says. The Telangana government’s COVID-19 website lists 23 private hospitals across the city with isolation facility. Only two of these – Thumbay Hospital in Chaderghat and Yashoda Hospitals in Malakpet – are in Old City. “The Old City has a population of at least 30 lakh. There should be more hospitals for a population of this size. The other side of the city has so many private hospitals which are admitting COVID-positive patients. There are six in Banjara Hills alone,” he adds. Recently, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen had recommended that Nizamia Tibbi Hospital in Charminar, popularly known as Unani Hospital, be made into a first referral hospital, and also asked the government to conduct at least 20,000 tests in Hyderabad Parliamentary Constituency as well as Nampally Assembly segment. While the government has listed the Unani Hospital as a free testing centre, residents say that too is inadequate. Take the example of Old City resident Ghulam Ghouse Jeelani’s brother, who tested positive. On Friday, Mr Jeelani’s family reached the Unani Hospital for testing. What he witnessed made him uneasy. “It was a mockery of social distancing. My sister, one-year-old niece, mother, and sister-in-law were registered for testing in the morning. It was after many hours, around 1.45 p.m., that our samples were collected. As regards follow-ups calls from the department given my brother testing positive, there is no problem. But giving samples takes long. That must be improved,” he says. Syed Azharuddin, a driver and resident of Kalapather, had developed coronavirus-like symptoms nearly a fortnight ago. He went to a private testing centre in Himayatnagar but that was closed for the day. He returned for the test two days later. Expensive tests “Not everybody can afford a Rs. 2,200 test. We need more testing centres in our area. There was a rush for testing almost everywhere. There should be more sample collecting centres,” he asserts. Activists say area hospitals across Old City should have a COVID wing, like Area Hospital, Kondapur. “Load on frontline staff will be reduced,” activist S.Q. Masood says.  The other side of the city has so many private hospitals admitting COVID-positive patients. There are six in Banjara Hills alone. Saleem Ahmed, Son-in-law of COVID victim
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State may release a portion of incentives to all industrial units||A proposal to release one, small portion of the pending government incentives to all industrial units as a measure to help them emerge from the COVID-19 triggered disruption is being readied in Telangana. Though the State budget, presented in February, had provided Rs. 1,500 crore towards clearing all incentives till last year, the implemention of the same seems a tough task given the stress on revenue following the pandemic outbreak. It is in this backdrop discussions were underway to examine the possibility of providing as an interim relief a small part of the incentives for all units. This is expected to translate into some relief in hand for the enterprises, Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said on Friday. Calculations related to the part incentive disbursal were being undertaken and soon a proposal in this regard would be presented to the Finance Department. The intention behind opting for such part disbursement of the incentives was to help everyone, in the present times of crisis, as opposed to issuing incentives in full to units based on the seniority in the waiting list. He was addressing an online session organised by FICCI on ‘Making Telangana a golden State for MSMEs’. “Idea is to give some support to everyone,” the senior official said, explaining that once cleared by the Finance Department the proposal would be placed before the Cabinet for approval. Overall, the pending incentives due to industries in the State is Rs. 2,100 crore.  Adjustments Another proposal being evaluated is that of the State government creating an instrument, based on the incentives and tax adjustments it owes to industrial units that the latter as a guarantee to seek working capital loans from banks. “We are on the job, very shortly you will hear something,” Mr.Ranjan said, adding discussions with the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) on this were required. On the post-COVID restart process for industries, the senior official, who was addressing a webinar organised by FICCI, said there was need for industries to explore alternatives to the migrant workers that had returned to their home States. These include training local people or automating the process. Elaborating on the labour issue, he said had the industrial units treated them well the migrant workers would have stayed back. “If you have been nice to them, they will come back. Treat them with respect, do not deny them their rights,” he said.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kaitalapur ROB to be 676m long||GHMC Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar, through a press release on Friday, informed that works were progressing at a quick pace for the railway overbridge (ROB) being built near Borabanda MMTS station, which falls on the way between Kaitalapur in Moosapet and Ayyappa Society road. 12 pillars Work was presently on for construction of 12 pillars for the four-lane ROB, which was aimed to reduce traffic congestion between Madhapur and Kukatpally. Funds to the tune of Rs. 83.06 crore were allocated for the ROB under Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). Of this, Rs. 18.06 crore was earmarked for railway crossing portion, while Rs. 65 crore was for construction of flyover, approach roads and for property acquisition, the note said. The ROB is 676.5 metres long including the length of the approach roads, and 16.61 metres wide. Service road is 5.5 metres wide. Coupled with a parallel road recently laid between Ayyappa Society and 100 feet road on the way to Madhapur, the ROB would reduce the distance by five km, by preventing a detour, the statement said. Besides, GHMC had modernised the nala originating from the Mullakatwa Tank in the upper region of the bridge, and built a culvert over it with three outlets spending Rs. 1 crore, which would benefit the residents of Allapur in Borabanda. As of now, vehicles travelling between Green Hills Road and Ayyappa Society had no facility to cross the railway line. As traffic had increased manifold between these two areas owing to development of IT hub, connectivity had become a problem. The existing ROBs at Kukatpally and Bharatnagar, and the one near Hitec City, though facilitating traffic between Kukatpally and Hitec city, were experiencing heavy vehicle flow during peak hours. The ROB near Borabanda MMTS would be an effective alternative to both, the statement said.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State govt. opposes changes in power bill||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy has made Telangana stand on the Electricity (Amendment) Bill clear by opposing it outrightly during a meet over video conference convened by Union Minister of Power R.K. Singh on Friday. Along with the Minister, Chairmen and Managing Directors of TS-Genco/TS-Transco, and two Discoms D. Prabhakar Rao, G. Raghuma Reddy and A. Gopal Rao, respectively, and Special Chief Secretary (Energy) Ajay Misra attended the video-meet. The Minister stated that Telangana government was opposing the amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003 keeping in mind its possible adverse impact on farmers and domestic consumers of lower strata. Mr. Jagadish Reddy said the State had registered its strong reservations over the provisions of the bill which would harm the interests of getting subsidy and cross-subsidy in the power tariff such as farmers who are getting 24×7 free power in the State and domestic consumers who use energy of about 200 units a month. The amendments, once take the shape of Act, would deny the subsidy to the two sections. Further, he observed that the Centre was planning to take over the States’ control over power sector by getting it under its control entirely and later hand it over to the private players, who would have no social obligation except commercial interests. Stating that the Centre was adamant on the bill, Mr. Jagadish Reddy said in spite of large scale opposition to the bill by several States, it had failed to accommodate any changes suggested by the latter in the bill. Reduce interest On the loans proposed to be given to Discoms as part of the Centre’s stimulus plan, the Energy Minister requested the Centre to provide some relief to States by reducing the interest rate to 8.5% from the existing 9.5%.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Online classes neither helpful nor affordable, says TSUTF survey||Majority of parents of children studying in government schools neither consider online teaching extends any benefit nor do they can spare their phones for their children to use it for education purpose given the poor connectivity issues and insufficient exposure of their wards to such methods. A survey conducted by the Telangana State United Teachers Federation (TS-UTF) in 489 mandals and 1,868 villages covering 39,659 students and 22,502 households revealed that both parents and teachers prefer offline teaching methods. The survey, in which 1,729 teachers participated, claimed that about 70% of children argued in favour of classroom teaching only. Among the respondents, 48.9% families had a smartphone and 39.6% didn’t while the rest had two smartphones. Among them, 58.78% said they don’t have data facility despite owning phones — be it smartphones or normal ones. Even if they have data, it was not sufficient for online classes. Interestingly, among those who had smartphones, 78% said they cannot spare it for their children as they go to work. About 90% of the respondents don’t have an internet connection at home. Based on their survey results, TSUTF suggested to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to consider opening of schools in rural areas where the impact of COVID-19 was not much to ensure that children were occupied with academic activities. TSUTF president K. Jangaiah and general secretary Chava Ravi said in a letter to the Chief Minister that Maharashtra has started schools in rural areas unaffected by COVID. They said schools can function in two shifts to maintain social distancing, and priority should be given to classes 9 and 10. Online classes can be held in areas where COVID-19 is severe but the government has to ensure that tablets or smartphones are made available to the students.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||AIIMS Bibinagar emerges a favourite in the region||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Bibinagar that started its outpatient services a month ago during the COVID-19 was able to reach out to patients and has also endeared itself through tele-consultation. The AIIMS that started its OPD on June 2, coinciding with the formation of Telangana state, has treated about 500 patients in the one month both through personal attention and tele-consultation . The space was originally held by the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), which stopped its operations in March this year after the Central government allotted the AIIMS to Telangana as part of the A.P. Reorganisation Act. After scouting for several locations, the Telangana government decided to convert the NIMS Bibinagar centre into AIIMS. However, the NIMS staff continued to function till March this year before handing it over to the AIIMS management. The first batch of MBBS students was admitted here in the last academic year itself and classes were being held by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences staff. AIIMS Bibinagar Executive Director Vikas Bhatia said the OPD saw good response despite coronavirus fears. As of now, departments of General Medicine, General Surgery, Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Orthopaedics, Ophthalmology and Community Medicine & Family Medicine are functioning. Dr. Govind Rao, Deputy Medical Superintendent, said the one-month report of the patient care services was released recently and the response was satisfactory even in the unprecedented times of pandemic. Majority of the patients who visited it were to the Orthopaedics department followed by General medicine. The Orthopaedics department here had gained popularity since its NIMS days as the institute was headed by Dr. Maheshwar Reddy, orthopaedic of NIMS. It continues to attract more ortho patients than others. Dr. Govind Rao said tele-consultation had really helped people seek medical advice on phone during this pandemic and its popularity was likely to increase. Patients should book the call a day in advance for tele-consultation and they could call up on 08685-295050 from 9 am to 4 pm.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||356.9 kg ganja seized||Sleuths of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Thursday seized 356.9 kg ganja worth Rs. 71.38 lakh from a heavy goods vehicle. The vehicle, which was proceeding to Maharashtra, was intercepted near Isnapur on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Bombay Highway. On examination, it was found that the lorry was empty. However, the officers noticed a specially-designed cavity behind the driver’s chamber meant to conceal the ganja. We found 156 packages of ganja weighing 356.9 kg. The contraband and the lorry were seized and investigation is in progress, the officials said.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Pharma City no harbinger of hopes and dreams’||Three organisations — Citizens Against Pollution, Human Rights Forum and Socialist Party (India) — have issued a joint statement on Friday contending the Minister for Industries K.T. Rama Rao’s claim projecting the Pharma City as Hyderabad’s answer to COVID-19 pandemic. They challenged him to prove that the existing pharma industry in the city has improved the health of the residents of Hyderabad and Telangana. Mr. Rama Rao’s claim has laid bare his lack of awareness about coronavirus, the statement said, and added that the alarming spread of the disease and governance chaos are contrary to the projected claim of the Minister during a review on Thursday. “A false promise of putting Hyderabad on international map through setting up Hyderabad Pharma City ignores the fact that this city is already on international map for several reasons, including severe pharma pollution and existence of anti-microbial resistant bacteria in its water bodies,” the statement signed by Donthi Narasimha Reddy from Citizens Against Pollution, K. Babu Rao, a scientist and member of HRF, and Lubna Sarwat, the State general secretary of Socialist Party (India) read. Telangana is already suffering immensely from industrial pollution particularly by pharmaceutical companies, which are compromising the quality of rivers, lakes and ground water. Several villages in Medak, Nalgonda, Ranga Reddy and Mahabubnagar districts are facing the brunt, by way of lost livelihoods and health issues, the statement alleged. Hyderabad Pharma City project at Medipally is a being opposed by local people, for those very reasons, and it cannot be a harbinger of their hopes and dreams as claimed by the Minister, it said, and questioned the silence of all political parties on this issue. The project will push rural population into poverty to enable profits of a few through exports of drugs which cannot be manufactured in US and European countries due to severe restrictions there on polluting technologies. Among its demands, the statement asked for scrapping of pharma city project, re-assessment of the Telgangana growth model by all political parties and a statement by each of them on Hyderabad Pharma growth, a fund started with Rs. 1,500 crore to compensate pharma industry victims in Telangana, and a review of Telangana Industrial policy.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘India competent enough to handle cyber security issues’||India is capable of handling cyber security and promoting indigenisation is a priority, said National Cyber Security coordinator Lt. Gen.(Dr.) Rajesh Pant on Friday. “The country has all the capabilities to handle cyber security issues and the workforce manning them have an edge over other countries,” he said, while addressing a webinar on ‘Cyber crime management during COVID-19: How to protect organisations and businesses’, organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. “Our systems are well in place and more importantly, people who are handling cyber security in our country have an edge along with the software, which is key in this.” Emphasising on the need to promote ‘Make in India’, he urged entrepreneurs to come forward and develop substitutes so that dependency on other (international) software is reduced. “Our focus area today is on ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, anything indigenous is a priority for us. We are promoting indigenisation and all those who have capabilities for substitutes should come forward,” said Lt. Gen. Pant. Highlighting the need for cyber audits in various companies, he said that companies have to play an important role in ensuring that cyber security audits are not just a mere a tick-box activity. “All companies are expected to have a cyber audit done. The audit is done by an empanelled auditor and we have many auditors empanelled in India as on today. A lot of companies focus on minimum audits but more need to be done. I urge all enterprises to get their cyber audits done, it’s for your own good,” he added. He further stressed on increasing awareness on cyber security. “The human being is the weakest link in cyber security chain and so, whatever you do, human beings become very important. Training, good cyber hygiene and good social engineering practices, are essential,” he said. He also said that ‘PPT’ (People, Policies & Procedures, and Technology) is very important and still stands valid in current times. “Only one set of standards will not make the difference. It has to be done collectively by enterprises, and human beings along with laid down policies,” he said.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||57 lakh ryots get Rs. 7,184 crore Rythu Bandhu benefit||Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy on Friday stated that an amount of Rs. 7,183.67 crore has been credited to the bank accounts of 56,94,185 landholding farmers under the investment support Rythu Bandhu scheme for the current Vaanakalam season. In a statement issued here, he asked the farmers to submit their bank account and other details to the Agricultural Extension Officers (AEOs) concerned by July 5. The Rythu Bandhu support could not be credited to 34,860 farmers due to mistakes in the details given by farmers in their bank account numbers, wrong IFSC code or closed bank branches. They could meet the AEOs concerned to get the mistakes in the details rectified. Another 3,400 farmers could be given the Rythu Bandhu benefit due to differences in their names in bank accounts, Aadhaar card and pattadar passbook. The officials concerned were instructed to rectify the mistakes and the farmers concerned could meet the AEOs for the purpose. Phone numbers of AEOs are available on the department websitewww.agri.telangana.gov.in ‘Give it up’ Farmers unwilling to avail the benefit could give it up by meeting the AEO of the cluster concerned. In case of any grievance related to Rythu Bandhu, farmers could also call on cell phone No.7288876545 or could lodge it by mail atdda-rbgc-agri@telangana. gov.in  Officials instructed to rectify mistakes, and farmers concerned can meet AEOs for the purpose. B. Janardhan Reddy, Secretary (Agriculture).
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railways to focus on cutting costs up to 50%||Indian Railways has decided to cut all activities except safety and COVID-19-related ones by 33%-50%, curtailing expenditure on publicity, travel, meetings, entertainments and so on in view of the drastic fall in revenues due to the pandemic. Instructions have been issued to General Managers of zonal railways across the country to move official functions and meetings online and desist from purchasing any new furniture, vehicles and computers even for replacement. Financial Commissioner Manjula Rangarajan in her official communication to GMs called for curtailing annual inspections as it was a ‘big affair’ involving huge expenditure and manpower. These should be “silent” and “low-key” affairs. Stationery articles, cartridges and others too should be reduced by more than 50% in view of electronic offices taking shape. Expenditure on vehicles should be reduced to the minimum required. The managers have been clearly instructed not to merely defer bill payments but to control activities, works, purchases and other contractual obligations so that allocation of funds could be prioritised. They have also been asked to curtail ‘re-engaged’ staff and surrender the posts if they are not filled in last two years. Save for safety-related posts, there is a freeze on new posts. The commissioner was categorical that maintenance spares should be reduced. Grounding of diesel locos over 31 years, reducing outsourcing in linen management, station cleaning etc., contracts prior to 2018-19 and with completion period less than two years should be reviewed and closed. No new revenue tenders should be initiated and non-core activities by RPF like colony security should be reviewed.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Smuggled foreign cigarettes seized, five held||Smuggled foreign cigarettes valued at Rs. 1.03 crore were seized by Hyderabad city police on Friday. The contraband was concealed in 503 cartons. Acting on a tip-off, sleuths of the Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) intercepted a goods vehicle near Rishab Agency in Siddiamber Bazar and found huge quantities of foreign cigarettes, which were smuggled into the city. The team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao apprehended five persons — Vipul Ranka, Jagadish Kumar, Doongarchand Shrishrimal, Pavan Kumar Perthani and M.A Haneef —, who were illegally importing the cigarettes from Delhi via Sarna Transport without valid invoice, delivery challan or even GST invoice. They were selling the contraband to pan shops, kirana shops and petty vendors in around Hyderabad. Police said Vipul Ranka, hailing from Rajasthan, had migrated to Hyderabad a few years ago. He ran tailoring and Agarbatti material business at Begum Bazaar and was illegally procuring and selling foreign cigarettes. According to officials, the seized cigarettes were being smuggled from countries like China, Malaysia, Switzerland and South Korea to evade taxes and sell them in Delhi, Hyderabad and other major cities in the subcontinent. “When compared to Indian brands, consumers prefer to buy such cigarettes due to international quality,” the investigators said. The Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) makes it mandatory to have a graphic health warning on the 85% space of the cigarette packet and the Union government levies heavy taxes on tobacco products to discourage their sale. But these foreign cigarettes had no health warning on the packets. The accused and the seized material were handed over to Shahinayathgunj police.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Protests against fuel price hike today||The Telangana Congress termed both the Central and State governments as anti-people and said they were trying to fleece the common man even during the pandemic and it reflects in the rising fuel prices and the hefty electricity bills. To protest against the ‘inhuman’ attitude of both the governments the party would organise protest against the rising fuel prices on July 4 and against the inflated electricity bills on July 6, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said. Explaining the programmes to the party workers on his social media platforms, he said protests would be organised at all the mandal headquarters, towns and municipalities on July 4. He asked the party cadre to conduct hour-long dharnas from 11 a.m. and submit memorandums addressed to the President to the tahsildars and municipal commissioners concerned. Later, they should upload the video and photo clippings of agitation on the social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and others as part of the ‘Speak Up’ programme. He reminded that during the UPA regime in 2004 petrol was priced at Rs. 30 per litre and diesel at Rs. 25/ when per barrel cost of crude oil was $40. The price of crude oil in the international market today stands at $40 but petrol and diesel are more than Rs. 80. He said the KCR government was collecting the highest Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel in the country which boosted the prices of petrol and diesel to Rs. 83.49 and Rs. 78.69 in Hyderabad. Mr. Reddy also condemned the TRS government for the inflated electricity bills charged to the people for the lockdown period. He said each and every family in the State received bills which are 2 to 4 times higher than the average. On July 6 the party would protest with black flags and badges demanding waiver of bills for the three months lockdown period. Protests will be held before the offices of electricity firms in all Assembly and district headquarters, he said.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dispose of journalists’ representation for aid: HC||Justice A. Abhishek Reddy of Telangana High Court on Friday directed the State government to dispose of the representation seeking financial assistance for journalists in the backdrop of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Hearing a writ petition filed by a journalist M. Satyanarayana from Shadnagar, the judge said the representations made by journalists seeking financial aid be cleared first. The petition was posted after four weeks for next hearing. The petitioner said the State government had created a fund with Rs. 25 crore for lawyers facing financial difficulties during the lockdown. Similar financial assistance must be extended to journalists, the petitioner’s lawyer, V. Raghunath, appealed to the judge.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prestigious accreditation for Apollo cancer centre||Apollo Proton Cancer Centre (APCC), Chennai, announced accreditation by Joint Commission International (JCI) and became the first dedicated advanced cancer centre to receive this international recognition in the country. Apollo Hospitals chairman Prathap Reddy told a virtual press conference on Friday that the group had embarked upon advanced cancer care 25 years ago noticing the growing prevalence of cancer in the country. “This is a recognition of our quality standards and it will further strengthen our resolve to keep raising the bar in oncology,” he said, and noted that the hospital has top cancer care specialists equipped with advanced ultramodern medical technology to deliver the best of care to patients. JCI accreditation is considered as gold standard and is given to organisations practising and following the highest international standards for providing world-class patient care and safety. A team of expert JCI physicians, nurses, and health care administrators evaluated more than a 1,000 measurable elements and assessed the level of performance in relation to established standards and efforts for continuous improvements.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Home Minister, kin discharged||Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali,, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Apollo Hospitals here, was discharged on Friday. His son Azam and grandson Furqan Ahmed were also discharged from the hospital. Mr. Ali had been admitted on Monday after testing positive the day before. He urged people not to be afraid of seeking treatment as soon as symptoms of the infection appear. Last week, five security personnel of the 67-year-old Minister were diagnosed with COVID, following which his staff went into self-isolation and did not report, while his five gunmen were asked to quarantine themselves.
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BTPS second unit starts commercial operation||The commercial operation of the second unit of 4×270 MW Bhadradri Thermal Power Station (BTPS) near Manuguru in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district commenced on Friday. The first unit of the project owned by TS-Genco commenced its commercial operation early last month. Minister G. Jagadish Reddy announced here on Friday the commencement of commercial operation of the BTPS second unit. He stated that plans are afoot to commission the remaining two units of the generating station soon. Officials of TS-Genco stated that the remaining two units would go on commercial operation by December-end.
04 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ISB increased student job offers||The Indian School of Business (ISB) has increased student job offers by over 50% while the faculty strength has been doubled, bringing stability to its global programme delivery capabilities since Prof. Rajendra Srivastava took over as its Dean. Prof. Srivastava, who will be retiring on December 31 this year, ensured that ISB was now one of the few schools in Asia, and certainly the youngest in the world, with the “triple crown” accreditation by AACSB, EQUIS and AMBA – the accrediting agencies, according to an ISB release. He also enhanced the Post Graduate Programme portfolio by introducing new programmes including the PGPpro for working professionals in four cities across the nation. Dr. Srivastava, who is now in the USA, shared a mail with the faculty and staff, saying he would be transitioning to research and teaching as Novartis Chair in Marketing Strategy and Innovation. He would continue with his work on Business Model Innovation and Organisational Transformation. At the same time, he would be available to Executive Board to assist in the transition period.
04 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘No to pvt. passenger trains’||The Centre’s move to allow private participation in passenger train operations on various routes across the country drew sharp criticism and protest from the CITU and other frontal organisations of the CPI (M) here. Activists of the CPI (M) and its affiliated organisations staged a demonstration in front of the railway station in the town on Friday condemning the bidding process reportedly initiated by the Centre to allow private companies operate passenger trains on 109 routes with 150 modern trains. Leading the protest, CPI (M) State secretariat member P. Sudarshan Rao flayed the privatisation move terming it as an “onslaught” on the transport lifeline of the common man. Even as the entire country is grappling with the coronavirus pandemic, the BJP-led Central government unleashed a vigorous privatisation, he charged. The Centre’s privatisation drive will pose a serious threat to the livelihoods of lakhs of poor people dependent on the Indian Railways and job security of the employees of the national transporter, he alleged. CPI (M) district secretary N. Nageswara Rao, State committee member P. Venkateswara Rao, former Khammam municipal chairperson Afroz Sameena, and others took part in the protest.
04 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Craft entrepreneur’s paper napkin a ‘seed’ of an idea||Arunjyothi Lokhanday is a traditional craftsperson from Nalgonda. Like one would flip through the pages of an album to revisit the past with excitement, she is full of enthusiasm as she takes out each leaf of her collection. “They don’t smell. This is tomato, and this is mirchi,” she said, holding each seed paper napkin. For Ms. Lokhanday, a craft entrepreneur, each ‘leaf’ is embedded with at least 50 lives, soon to emerge as seedlings. It has been six months since she made some 35 leaves out of waste from her vegetarian kitchen, and they are all waiting to burst into life. Lokhanday’s seed paper napkins, a best-out-of-waste idea, is a do-it-yourself project that converts wet waste into a medium that preserves seeds. The napkin or a portion of it when sown, mixes with earth to emerge afresh. Her seed paper napkins are based on a quick ‘sandwich recipe’. Vegetable and fruit peels, rotten greens, neem leaves to keep off insects, along with ‘okra’ (lady’s finger) are ground to make a stock paste.  The mush is then spread on a paper napkin, followed by sprinkling of collected seeds in square or desired shape. Another napkin on the top completes the ‘sandwich’, ready for sun-drying. Ms. Lokhanday says, “Paper napkins are thin and easily biodegradable. There is a recent trend for seed paper wedding cards, calendars and token gifts, but the germination takes longer or mostly fails since the paper is pressed and they are above 200 gm.” “While a full napkin of tomato, marigold or basil seed, made at home would be joyful activity, an A5 size sheet of the seed costs not less than Rs. 500 for a set of 50,” she adds. However, Ms. Lokhanday, who also runs a hosiery store for a living, does not intend to sell her craft. Coconut shells, broken bottles and old water filters re-purposed as pots, wall hangings, yoga mats, carpets and bouquets from cardboard, natural rangoli powder, clay Ganesha and nearly 100 seed papers, were freely shared among enthusiasts and young learners. The range of paper and cardboard-based products, including small furniture, which she prepared over the years is testament to the amount of repurposable waste her small store produces.
04 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Postpone public hearing on NIMZ’||Despite the spread of corona pandemic, officials have announced conduct of public hearing on National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) at Nyalakal on July 10. However, farmers are opposing the hearing stating that this might trigger the spread of corona cases again. Vyavasaya Kramika Rytu Sangham office-bearers on Friday submitted a memorandum to Pollution Control Board officials urging them to postpone the hearing in view of the pandemic. In a related development, Vivekanada Institute of Knowledge & Services (VIKAS) also made a similar appeal to the authorities.
04 July 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||‘Urban forests help fight climate change’||Stressing the need for better environment, in wake of fast-paced urbanisation and growing population, Minister for Forest A. Indrakaran Reddy on Friday said only urban forest ecosystems will be able to lead the fight against climate change. Health is wealth is more relevant than ever, he said and added that the demand for more greenery would be met, as forest development works in Hyderabad metropolitan area were being carried out with an outlay of Rs. 495 crore. In Yadadri, district urban forest parks would be developed in 10 of the total 37 forest blocks, spread across 1698 hectares, he said on Friday. Inaugurating the two prominently developed parks — Anjaneya Aranyam and Narasimha Aranyam — located less than three km from the Yadadri Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam, Mr. Reddy said the parks will have an educative value for the temple visitors. The Minister along with MP B. Lingaiah Yadav walked through the Anjaneya Aranyam, inspecting the works and posed for a photo at the selfie-point and under the gazebo. Narasimha Aranyam, located on NH-163 at Raigir village is nearly 100 hectares, already has 23,000 saplings planted and the whole park is being developed at an expenditure of Rs. 3.61 crore. In addition to the common visitor and development features, the park will have animal dens, deer rescue centre and an amphitheatre, works on which are underway. Mr. Indrakaran Reddy along with officials, also laid foundation for a new district forest office complex.
04 July 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Aler MLA tests COVID-19 positive||Aler legislator G. Sunitha tested COVID-19 positive on Friday. Sample results of her husband, Nalgonda District Cooperative Central Bank, G. Mahender Reddy, are awaited. Ms. Sunitha released a media statement on Friday, after unauthorised information went all over social media circles that the Aler couple tested coronavirus positive.
04 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘No probe conducted against 4 accused in Khwaja Yunus case’||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that despite its order, no departmental or disciplinary inquiry was conducted against the four police officers accused in the custodial death of Khwaja Yunus in 2003. The State’s response came after a Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and N.R. Borkar asked the government counsel if any departmental inquiry was carried out against the four officers as per the previous order of the HC. The Bench then directed the State to file a detailed affidavit in reply, and adjourned the matter for two weeks. Yunus (27) was arrested by the Powai CID on December 25, 2002, following the Ghatkopar bomb blast. Two days later, his brother, who visited him in Mumbai, found him weak and unable to stand. On January 6, 2003, Yunus had either died in custody at the Powai unit or thereafter, while being taken to a prison in Aurangabad. Assistant police inspector Sachin Hindurao Vaze and police constables Rajendra Rajmani Tiwari, Sunil Vasant Desai and Rajaram Kisan Nikam were charged with Sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code. They were suspended in 2004, and Mr. Vaze resigned in 2007. However, on June 6, 2020, all the four officers were reinstated. On June 12 this year, Yunus’s mother 72-year-old Asiya Begum sent a contempt notice to Param Bir Singh, Commissioner of Police, who is also the chairman of the review committee set up for review of the suspension orders of various officers of the Mumbai Police, to withdraw the revocation of their suspension. Soon after, Ms. Asiya filed a petition through advocate Chetan Mali. The petition said that on April 7, 2004, the HC had said, “Till date, no disciplinary action has been taken against Mr. Vaze and the three absconding police constables. We find from the record that the investigation conducted by the State has been totally shoddy and improper. Hence, we direct the State government to suspend all the three constables and Mr. Vaze immediately, and start a disciplinary inquiry against them as they have been prima facie found to be involved in the offence.”
04 July 2020||Mumbai,||Plant 115 more saplings before axing 23 trees for freeway: HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to plant 115 more saplings on a plot in Uttarshiv village in Thane before cutting 23 trees for the proposed freeway from Airoli to Katai Naka. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice N.J. Jamadar was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Thane resident Rohit Joshi through advocate Ankit Kulkarni. The PIL challenged the permissions granted by the Thane Tree Authority (TTA) during a meeting on May 22 last year. It was proposed in the meeting that the MMRDA could cut 23 trees to construct the freeway and transplant 69 trees. On September 30 last year, another Bench stayed the proposal and MMRDA filed an application to vacate the stay order. On June 12 this year, the court allowed MMRDA to transplant 69 trees and directed the TTA to supervise the process. On June 19, Mr. Kulkarni in a plea said there were discrepancies in MMRDA’s proposal and the site for compensatory plantation was not yet identified. The court then directed TTA to identify a site to plant 115 saplings within a week. On June 25, TTA and MMRDA officials conducted a site visit in the presence of Mr. Joshi and identified Survey No. 38, Uttarshiv village, Botheghar, Kalyan-Shilphata Road. On June 26, the TTA filed a report informing the court that it was satisfied with the site and MMRDA would be going ahead with transplanting trees and planting saplings. On Friday, MMRDA informed the court that it has already carried out compensatory plantation, but the Bench said it would have to plant another 115 saplings on the site before being granted permission to axe 23 trees.
04 July 2020||Mumbai,||BJP forms new executive, Pankaja to get ‘national’ role||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Friday announced the party’s new executive committee for the State, and said that former minister Pankaja Munde will get a role in the party at the national level soon. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Patil said that apart from her position at the national level, Ms. Munde will be made part of the State BJP’s core committee. Mr. Patil, who was the Revenue Minister in the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government, was appointed the State BJP president in July last year. He had replaced Raosaheb Danve, who had resigned from the position after his induction into the Union Cabinet. The constitution of the new executive committee of the State unit had been pending since then. “In the new body, there are 68 executive committee members, 12 vice presidents, five general secretaries, 12 secretaries, one treasurer, and one general secretary (organisation). Apart from them, there are 139 invitees and 58 special invitees,” Mr. Patil said. “Ms. Munde will be given a party position at the national level soon. She will also be made part of the State BJP’s core committee,” Mr. Patil said.
04 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Banks delaying cyclone relief work: Raigad MP||The Lok Sabha MP from Raigad Sunil Tatkare of the Nationalist Congress Party on Friday blamed banks for slowing down the relief work in the cyclone-affected areas of the district. In an interaction with the media after a survey of the areas affected by the recent Cyclone Nisarga, he alleged that the banks were delaying the release of funds. He also took stock of the COVID-19 cases in the district. Of the Rs. 373 crore allocated for post-cyclone relief work, Rs. 242 crore is meant for repair to houses damaged and of this, Rs. 162 crore has already been transferred to the banks. “The banks are working at a slow pace due to which the farmers are suffering. If the banks do not speed up the process, action would be taken against them,” Mr. Tatkare said. He added that banks have been asked to work at full strength even on weekends. The Raigad district collector and district magistrate Nidhi Choudhari had earlier issued an order, under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the National Disaster Management Act, to all banks to ensure 100% attendance on all days till the relief funds are disbursed. “There is a delay because not all bank staff are regular in their attendance. While some of them have to travel from different places, others come from containment zones. The government too had issued orders that only 15% staff was required in banks due to which attendance was a problem,” Ms. Choudhari said. While Raigad has received Rs. 373 crore from the State government, the district authorities are yet to get any relief funds from the Centre government. Taking a dig at the Devendra Fadnavis government, Mr. Tatkare said during his tenure, the funds allocated for agricultural damage was just Rs. 18,000 per hectare. This has now been raised to Rs. 50,000 per hectare. “For the losses to supari and coconut crop, even this amount is not justified and hence I have requested the Chief Minister to consider paying relief per damaged tree. We are hopeful that this will be done in a week,” Mr. Tatkare said. Cyclone Nisarga had made landfall at Murud on June 3, damaging 1.9 lakh houses and 16,060 hectares in 15 talukas of the district.
04 July 2020||Pune,||Delay in rainfall: Pune’s dams have enough stock to last till end of July||While Mumbai and parts of Konkan received rain on Friday, Pune is yet to witness its first proper bout of monsoon showers. However, despite the delay, State Irrigation Department officials said the four dams — Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar — which supply water to Pune city, have adequate stock to last till the end of July. The collective water stock in the four dams is around 5.3 TMC (thousand million cubic feet) — about 20% of the total cumulative capacity of the dams, which is 29.15 TMC. 50% more stock Officials said the present collective stock is nearly 50% more than the last year’s collective stock (of 2.5 TMC) for the same period, and that there are adequate reserves to cater to the city’s potable water needs till the month-end. City’s ‘lifeline’ Khadakwasla dam, which is considered the city’s potable water ‘lifeline’, presently is filled to 56% of the total capacity of 55,910 million litres, as compared to 31% at the same time last year. The Pune Municipal Corporation draws around 1,350 million litres from the reservoir each day and supplies it to the city. The catchment areas under Temghar dam have received 500 mm rainfall, while Varasgaon and Panshet have received 350 mm rainfall during the whole of June. In contrast, Khadakwasla has received only 204 mm. Yet, authorities do not see any cause for alarm. Panshet presently is filled to 21% of its capacity (as compared to 13% at the same time last year), while Varasgaon has a water stock of 13.84% of its total capacity, as compared to the 9% in the same period last year, officials said. Cyclone effect They further said the dams had added more than 1 TMC, thanks to the heavy showers received across the district in the wake of Cyclone Nisarga in June. The excess rainfall received during the last monsoon season, too, had ensured that the cumulative capacity of the four dams was maintained at the level of 5 TMC.
04 July 2020||Pune,||IAS officer to monitor testing in Pune||Deputy Chief Minister and Pune Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday recommended that an IAS officer be appointed as a ‘testing in-charge’ to monitor the COVID-19 sample testing processes in Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Mr. Pawar further said preventive measures must be rigorously implemented across the ‘containment zones’, while people found roaming about without face masks must be penalised. “It is indeed worrying to see the drastic spike in COVID-19 cases in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and the Pune rural region. I have accordingly directed that an IAS-level officer be appointed to monitor the sample testing process in the district,” Mr. Pawar said. Meanwhile, the district saw another staggering surge of 788 new cases till Friday evening, as the total cases shot to 25,732.
04 July 2020||Hong Kong,||Hardliner to head new Hong Kong body||China appointed a hardliner to head a new national security agency in Hong Kong on Friday as police brought the first charges under a sweeping new anti-subversion law that has shaken the semi-autonomous finance hub. Zheng Yanxiong — a party official best known for tackling protests on the mainland — will lead the office set up by the legislation that empowers mainland security agents to operate in Hong Kong openly for the first time, unbound by the city’s laws. The appointment came as a man accused of deliberately driving his motorbike into a group of police officers became the first person in Hong Kong to be charged under the new national security law. China’s leaders say the suite of powers will restore stability after a year of protests and will not stifle freedoms. But police have already begun arresting people for possessing flags and banners while the local government has made clear certain political views, especially calls for independence, are now outlawed. On Thursday evening, Nathan Law, one of the city’s most prominent young activists, announced he had fled overseas to an undisclosed location, fearing arrest days after the pro-democracy party he helped found said it was disbanding. Many Western governments — led by Britain and the U.S — have condemned the law and have angered Beijing by threatening to hit back with sanctions or offer sanctuary to Hong Kongers. ‘A tough enforcer’ The new national security agency is just one new element of Beijing’s landmark law targeting subversion, secession, terrorism and colluding with foreign forces. The office has investigation and prosecution powers and will monitor intelligence related to national security and process cases, in some circumstances handing them over to the mainland for trial. Mr. Zheng rose through the ranks of the local government in southern Guangdong province which borders Hong Kong, to serve as secretary general of the provincial Communist Party committee. The 56-year-old is known as a hardliner who stamped out often-violent anti-corruption protests that erupted in Wukan, a village in the province, in 2011 after a local activist died in police custody. “He is a tough enforcer, a law and order person,” said Willy Lam, an expert on China’s Communist Party at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Hong Kong was rocked by several months of huge and sometimes violent pro-democracy protests last year, a movement which Beijing has vowed to end with its new security law. China has dismissed protesters’ demands for greater democracy and portrayed the unrest as a foreign plot to destabilise the motherland. It has sought to ramp up oversight on Hong Kong’s government. On Friday, the State Council also named Luo Huining -- the current director of Beijing’s Liaison Office in the city — as the National Security Adviser to the newly-formed National Security Commission, chaired by Chief Executive Carrie Lam. A loyalist of president Xi Jinping, Mr. Luo built a reputation for enforcing Communist Party discipline and tackling corruption. Hong Kon’s mini-constitution forbids mainland officials from interfering in the running of Hong Kong’s day-to-day affairs. But Beijing has argued national security is purely the purview of central authorities. The most serious offences carry up to life in jail. On Friday afternoon, Tong Ying-kit, 23, was charged with the first national security crimes — terrorism and inciting secession. A police source said that Mr. Tong drove his motorbike into a group of police officers on Wednesday during protests, wounding three.
04 July 2020||London,||U.S. sees 53,000 new cases, U.K. eases quarantine rules||Britain on Friday announced the first exemptions from its quarantine rules as the COVID-19 outbreak slowed in Europe, but the pandemic accelerated in the United States and across the Americas. With Europe reopening after an unprecedented lockdown, travellers arriving into England from more than 50 countries will from July 10 no longer be required to undergo 14 days’ self-isolation. But across the Atlantic the news was increasingly grim with the U.S. posting a record 53,000 new COVID-19 cases, while the number of infections in Latin America overtaking those in Europe for the first time. While much of the planet pursued a return to some semblance of normality, the United States soared past 50,000 new infections on Thursday for the second time in two days. Now the epicentre of the pandemic, the United States has recorded nearly 1,29,000 deaths out of more than 2.7 million cases and is expected to record its three millionth infection next week. So-called “Sun Belt” States in the south and west have been forced to re-shut restaurants, bars and beaches, casting a grim pall over the nation’s upcoming Independence Day celebrations on July 4. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis blamed the surge on “social interactions” among young people at parties, beaches, bars, swimming pools and elsewhere, as well as a more “robust” testing programme. In Texas, Governor Greg Abbott ordered people in counties with 20 or more cases to wear masks and banned gatherings of more than 10 amid a spike in infections. California has meanwhile seen a 56% increase in hospitalisations over two weeks. But President Donald Trump, under fire for his handling of the crisis, highlighted positive jobs data that showed 4.8 million people were back to work in June. In Asia, swift lockdowns have largely made progress against the disease. The Chinese capital Beijing was lifting most travel restrictions, weeks after a new wave of infections broke out.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||With economic measures, India seeks to turn tables on China||India is considering a range of economic measures aimed at Chinese firms amid the border tensions. The move to ban 59 Chinese apps may be just the start, with other measures likely to follow if tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) continue, without disengagement. On Friday, Power Minister R.K. Singh said India would not import power equipment from China — worth $2 to $3 billion annually — while Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari said on July 1 Chinese companies would not be allowed to take part in road projects. Reports have said the government is considering trade and procurement curbs targeting China. The government is also increasing scrutiny of Chinese investments in many sectors, and weighing a decision to keep out Chinese companies from 5G trials. The moves could potentially cost Chinese companies billions of dollars. The message from Delhi is it cannot continue trade and investment relations as normal, if China does not agree to return to the status quo of April before its incursions along the LAC began. The Chinese government has hit out at the measures, while state media have widely criticised calls in India to boycott Chinese goods. China is itself no stranger to such moves, having frequently deployed economic countermeasures, from restricting market access to boycotting goods, in the midst of its own disputes, with countries ranging from South Korea and Japan to the Philippines. China’s state media spearheaded a boycott of South Korean goods in 2016 and 2017, when Seoul deployed the U.S. Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense missile system. China then placed curbs on outbound tourism to South Korea, and closed almost 90 Korean-owned Lotte Mart stores in the mainland. In 2010, China began restricting exports of rare earths elements to Japan — a key ingredient for many electronics industries — following a collision near disputed East China Sea islands. Two years later, mass protests were organised by China over the islands issue, which led to boycotts of Japanese brands. With the Philippines, a dispute over the Scarborough Shoal in the South China Sea in 2012 led to China curbing imports on bananas. China’s leverage In all those relationships, China had particular leverage that it used to inflict immediate economic pain. In the India-China economic relationship, where trade is lopsided in China’s favour, both sides have different levers that they could turn to, but options are tilted in China’s favour because China is far less dependent on India’s market than India is on Chinese imports. India’s biggest lever is its market. For TikTok, one of the 59 apps banned, India is the biggest overseas market with more than 100 million users. While the parent company ByteDance reported modest earnings of $5.8 million in 2018-19, its first full year in India, a source close to the company told the Chinese finance magazine Caixin that ByteDance “is anticipating a loss of more than $6 billion, most likely more than the combined losses for all the other Chinese companies behind the other 58 apps banned in India.” If India does have leverage that could hurt potential revenues of Chinese companies, the problem for New Delhi is China could inflict immediate economic pain should it choose to. In 2019-20, India’s imports from China accounted for $65 billion out of two-way trade of $82 billion. India relies on China for crucial imports for many of its industries, from auto components to active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). Between 70% to 90% of APIs come from China. Industry representatives have expressed concern over delays in customs clearances. If China curtailed exports to India, consequences would be more serious. India faces difficult choices and needs to be selective in its measures, said former Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran. “You have to choose areas where you don’t get hurt more than they do,” he told The Hindu . “TikTok is a good candidate as India is their largest market. Telecom is another. This is a huge market for Huawei.” Whether India’s measures will influence China’s behaviour on the border will ultimately depend on Beijing’s calculus, and whether its perceived gains from the current border stand-offs outweigh the potential costs of losing a key market.
04 July 2020||Istanbul,||Trial begins of suspects in Khashoggi’s killing||Twenty Saudi suspects, including two former aides to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, went on trial in absentia in Turkey on Friday, accused of killing and dismembering journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018. Turkish prosecutors claim Saudi deputy intelligence chief Ahmed al-Assiri and the royal court’s media czar Saud al-Qahtani led the operation and gave orders to a Saudi hit team. They were formally charged in March with “instigating the deliberate and monstrous killing, causing torment”. Eighteen other suspects were charged with “deliberately and monstrously killing, causing torment”. The prosecutor has already issued arrest warrants for the suspects who are not in Turkey. Khashoggi’s Turkish fiancee Hatice Cengiz, who is a complainant in the case, was attending the trial alongside the UN special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, Agnes Callamard. Yasin Aktay, a close friend of Khashoggi and adviser to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s ruling party, was also in the courtroom.
04 July 2020||Lahore,||19 Pak. Sikh pilgrims die in train-van collision||At least 19 pilgrims of Pakistan’s minority Sikh community were killed when a train collided with a passenger van in on Friday. According to police, the dead, which include two children, were all residents of of Peshawar, home to most of Pakistan’s nearly 40,000 Sikhs. Unmanned crossing The accident occurred at an unmanned railway crossing close to the city of Sheikhupura in Pakistan’s largest province, Punjab, said Railways public relations official Quratulain. The 19 killed were all in the van, travelling from the town of Nankana Sahib to Farooqabad — both revered by followers of Sikhism. Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan expressed dismay at the accident in a message on Twitter. Mr. Khan also said Pakistan's railway safety would be reviewed. “Investigations are under way to figure out negligence behind it,” said district police officer Ghazi Salahuddin. Pakistan Railways also said an inquiry had been ordered.
04 July 2020||Brussels,||EU clears use of remdesivir to fight virus||The European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, on Friday authorised the use of anti-viral drug remdesivir to treat COVID-19. “Today’s authorisation of a first medicine to treat COVID-19 is an important step forward in the fight against this virus,” said EU Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides. At least two major U.S. studies have shown that remdesivir can reduce the duration of hospital stays for COVID-19 patients.
04 July 2020||Paris,||Paris, July 3, 2020 (AFP) -||Google said on Friday that it has sought clarification of the ruling that it negotiate with French news publishers to reach a deal on paying them to display their news content. France’s competition regulator issued a preliminary ruling in April that Google must start paying media groups for displaying their content, ordering it to begin negotiations.AFP
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||When protectors turn perpetrators||An eerie silence prevails along the narrow stretch that leads to the tiled house of a small mobile shop owner in Sattankulam town. As outsiders walk through the mostly deserted lane, the residents, on hearing footsteps, peep through the windows in fear and suspicion. The mobile shop owner, J. Benicks, 31, is no more. Two weeks ago, he and his father, P. Jayaraj, 58, were arrested by the police for a seemingly trivial reason and brutally beaten at the Sattankulam police station, barely 600 metres away. They both died in hospital. Their deaths have shaken not just Thoothukudi district of Tamil Nadu, where Sattankulam is located, but the whole country. The two men were tortured in the most gruesome manner, according to witnesses, and the minutest details of the incident are in the public domain. Public anger is evident in the town — soon after hearing about the deaths, protesters filled the streets of Sattankulam demanding justice. Altercation and arrest The first version of the story in the media quoted locals who said Jayaraj was arrested on June 19 after an altercation between him and the police on keeping his son’s mobile phone shop open in violation of lockdown rules. When Benicks questioned the detention of his father, he was also taken into custody. At the Sattankulam police station, they were both allegedly thrashed by the policemen, particularly by Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh in the presence of Inspector Sridhar. As is the case with such incidents, several theories now float around. However, the most authentic seems the following sequence of events, as P. Veerapandi recounts. Veerapandi drives an autorickshaw from a stand close to Benicks’ mobile phone shop and is an associate of the family. He says: “On June 18 night, at about 8 p.m., the workers of a tile shop close to Benicks’ mobile phone shop were waiting in front of their closed workplace to get their wages from the owner. Sub-Inspector Balakrishnan and constable Muthuraj, who arrived at the spot, abused them verbally and asked them to leave the place. After the police left the spot, the workers also started leaving slowly. Jayaraj, who was going to buy idli batter for the household, stopped on the way and asked them why they were glum. Upon hearing their story of the policemen’s attitude and verbal abuse, Jayaraj asked them to wait for a few more minutes. Apparently, a police head constable, who was watching the whole episode from a distance, passed on this information to his colleagues.” The matter didn’t end there. The next evening, Veerapandi says he noticed a police vehicle parked near the Kamaraj Statue, which is about 50 feet away from Benicks’ shop. Inspector Sridhar was waiting inside the vehicle, he says, ostensibly to intercept bike riders who were riding without masks. While Sridhar sat inside the police vehicle, Balakrishnan and his team stopped errant bikers. After a few minutes of checking, Balakrishnan started abusing the traders in an apparent retort to Jayaraj’s support for them the previous night. Onlookers reported later that the policeman threatened physical violence against Jayaraj, even at that point. “The constable who overheard the previous night’s conversation was also in the vicinity. He made a phone call to the Sub-Inspector and informed him that Jayaraj was present there. The police asked Jayaraj some questions about Benicks’ shop being open and forced him into the police vehicle,” Veerapandi says. When Benicks, who was inside the shop, saw this, he rushed to the police station. He apparently found Sridhar and Balakrishnan verbally abusing his father in the presence of a few more people, including local advocates who had come to the police station in connection with their cases. As the policemen beat his father, Benicks intervened. In the melee that ensued, Balakrishnan lost his balance and fell. “On seeing this, Sridhar screamed in anger and asked all the policemen there to thrash both Jayaraj and Benicks,” says Veerapandi, who had gone to the station along with a few other auto drivers to attempt to free Jayaraj and Benicks. “When we asked the police to release them, Sridhar and Balakrishnan warned all of us, including the advocates, to get out of the police station. Thereafter, we could only hear Jayaraj and Benicks screaming as the police thrashed them,” he says. ‘Tortured till 1:30 a.m.’ Meanwhile, Jayaraj’s wife J. Selvarani and her brother also went to the police station and pleaded with the police to release them. “But they asked me to bring a new lungi for my son who was bleeding profusely,” says Selvarani. “I rushed back to my house and brought a fresh set of clothes. Even though I begged them to release my husband and son and assured them that we would take them only to a private hospital for treatment of their injuries, the police refused to budge. They tortured them till 1.30 a.m.,” she claims. After torturing the father and son at periodic intervals for more than four hours, the police detained them in the station. They told the family members that Jayaraj and Benicks would be released in the morning. Believing them, the family left the police station. But the next day, Jayaraj and Benicks were sent to jail. After being taken to the Sattankulam Government Hospital around 9.30 a.m. the next day, for obtaining a fitness certificate, the two men were remanded to judicial custody and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail, situated about 100 km from Sattankulam. It remains a mystery why the police took them there instead of lodging them in the sub-jails at Peroorani or Srivaikundam or the Central Jail at Palayamkottai, all located within 40 km of Sattankulam. The woman doctor on duty at the Sattankulam Government Hospital said in the case sheet of Benicks and Jayaraj that they had sustained blood clot injuries all over their body, particularly on their thighs, buttocks and backs. When asked the reason for his injuries, Benicks reportedly told the doctor that he fell down while trying to escape from the police, even as Jayaraj remained inconsolable. Since they had high blood pressure, the doctor administered medicines and had them stay in the hospital for about two hours until their blood pressure dropped to normal levels. She also mentioned in the case sheet that though they had blood clots all over the body, there was no cause to admit them in the hospital. Benicks and Jayaraj, who had been lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail and were subsequently taken to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital following “health complications”, died on June 22 night and June 23 morning, respectively, in the hospital. Benicks’ death triggered instant protests in Sattankulam on June 22 night. Deputy Superintendent of Police Prathapan tried to pacify the protesters, but in vain. The agitation became intense as the news about Jayaraj’s death also reached the town the next morning. The court steps in The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took suo motu cognisance of the incident and called for a report from the Judicial Magistrate who was probing the deaths of the father and son. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami later announced the State government’s decision to transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Meanwhile, Balakrishnan, Raghu Ganesan and Sridhar were suspended. This move failed to put the controversy to rest. Instead the matter flared up further when the Kovilpatti Judicial Magistrate-I M.S. Bharathidasan submitted a report to the court that the police personnel in Sattankulam police station had not only refused to cooperate but had also behaved in a high-handed manner with him. The CCTV footage at the police station too had been erased. In an unprecedented turn of events, the court ordered revenue authorities to take over the police station and initiated contempt proceedings against the Additional Superintendent of Police, the Deputy Superintendent of Police, and the constable. To ensure that the inquiry into the case was not scuttled, a Bench of Justices comprising P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi ordered that the probe be immediately handed over to the CB-CID till the CBI takes charge of the investigation. Within hours of the case being transferred to the CB-CID, the agency altered the offence, Section 176 (1A) of the Criminal Procedure Code, which states that a Judicial Magistrate shall conduct an inquiry into death in police custody, to Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. It arrested the Inspector, the two Sub-Inspectors and the two police constables responsible for the incident, all within 48 hours. Though some people burst crackers soon after the arrests, not many came forward to disclose any information on what they saw on the evening of June 19. Investigation moved forward thanks in good measure to constable Revathy who was on duty that night at the station. Animosity towards the police Locals say they were shocked by the death of the two innocent men, who had a very cordial relationship with people from all communities and castes in the area. It was just two years ago during the anti-Sterlite protests that Thoothukudi witnessed police firing in which 13 people were killed. The police claimed then that they had tried to quell the protests. Today, locals charge the policemen of the Sattankulam station with corruption. “Illicit sand mining in the Karumeniyar riverbed has been rampant for many years with the connivance of the Sattankulam police,” says a land broker. He claims that he was also forced to face the high-handedness of the police for having forwarded petitions to the Collector and the Superintendent of Police about illicit sand quarrying. Residents also allege illegal round-the-clock sale of liquor. “During the total lockdown, a 180 ml liquor bottle was sold for Rs. 700 in Sattankulam,” one of them says. At the same time, some traders say Raghu Ganesh was upright, unlike others. However, he was rude and constantly flaunted his caste and this made him unpopular among the public, they say. “He was part of the team that investigated a case pertaining to the murder of a police informer from Peikulam. As the police team thrashed the suspects from another community, one of them, a 25-year-old youth, died after a week of undergoing treatment in the hospital. The police’s constant intimidation forced the family to perform the last rites without making any protest,” says S. Murugan, a trader from Peikulam. Strong community bonds Having lost both their men, the Jayaraj family is devastated. From all accounts, the family was popular in the neighbourhood. “Both Benicks and Jayaraj had an excellent relationship with everyone. They were Christians, but the family was like one of us. Whenever we celebrate our temple festival, we used to give him mutton cooked with the goat sacrificed in the temple. It was a ritual for us,” says an auto driver, C. Mani. Jayaraj and Selvarani’s daughters – Persis, Beulah, and Berlin – are married; Benicks was to get married in May. “Due to the pandemic, the marriage was postponed to December. The police have destroyed our happiness,” says Persis, who lives in Vijayawada with her husband Augustine, a service engineer. “My brother voluntarily used to help everyone,” Persis says. “He had completed a Masters degree in Social Work from a college in Pollachi. He opened the mobile phone shop just a few years ago after working with an NGO and as a medical representative. Right from his college days, he used to donate blood. As his blood group, O negative, was rare, he would donate blood every three months. Now, he and my father have bled to death due to police torture. We believe in god and then in the judiciary. We will get justice,” she says. After his palmyra trade waned, Jayaraj set up the mobile phone shop for Benicks. That ensured a modest income for the family. “Both Benicks and Appa [father] would call us thrice a day as we sisters live in Vijayawada, Pollachi, and Chennai. Benicks would make video calls every night to speak with my kids. He had made it clear that he would get married only after the youngest sister was married. He was a loving boy and took care of all the members of his family well,” the sister says. “The happiness we once had will never return. But speedy justice for the death of my father and brother will bring back the confidence that was shattered by the police,” Persis says.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Reset rural job policies, recognise women’s work||The COVID-19 pandemic has had a huge impact on women’s work, but as official statistics do not capture women’s work adequately and accurately, little attention has been paid to the consequences of the pandemic for women workers and to the design of specific policies and programmes to assist them. A survey by the Azim Premji University, of 5,000 workers across 12 States — of whom 52% were women workers — found that women workers were worse off than men during the lockdown. Among rural casual workers, for example, 71% of women lost their jobs after the lockdown; the figure was 59% for men. Data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) also suggest that job losses in April 2020, as compared to April 2019, were larger for rural women than men. The pre-COVID-19 situation To comprehend the effects of COVID-19 on women workers, we need to begin with the situation before the pandemic. I draw here on the experience of the last 10 years with village studies conducted in collaboration with the Foundation for Agrarian Studies (FAS). According to national labour force surveys, a quarter of adult rural women were in the labour force (or counted as “workers” in official data) in 2017-18. If we examine data from time-use surveys, that is, surveys that collect information on all activities undertaken during a fixed time period (usually 24 hours), the picture changes radically. There are no official time-use survey data: the National Statistical Office did conduct a time-use survey in 2019 but the results are not available (a previous pilot survey was conducted 20 years ago). I use detailed, village-level time-use surveys from Karnataka, with data for 24 hours a day for seven days consecutively over two agricultural seasons in 2017-18, to illustrate the ground-level situation. Taking time spent in economic activity (or what falls within the production boundary in the System of National Accounts or SNA) and using the standard definition of a worker as one who spent “major time” during the reference week in economic activity, time-use data show that, although there were seasonal variations in work participation, almost all women came within the definition of “worker” in the harvest season. Crisis of regular employment These data suggest — and this finding is echoed in observations by women activists — that rural women face a crisis of regular employment. In other words, when women are not reported as workers, it is because of the lack of employment opportunities rather than it being on account of any “withdrawal” from the labour force. This crisis of regular employment will have intensified during the pandemic and the lockdown. A second feature of rural women’s work, brought to light by gender-disaggregated data at the household level in villages across India surveyed by FAS, is that women from all sections of the peasantry, with some regional exceptions, participate in paid work outside the home. In thinking of the potential workforce, thus, we need to include women from almost all sections of rural households and not just women from rural labour or manual worker households. A third feature of our village-level findings is that younger and more educated women are often not seeking work because they aspire to skilled non-agricultural work, whereas older women are more willing to engage in manual labour. A fourth feature of rural India is that women’s wages are rarely equal to men’s wages, with a few exceptions. The gap between female and male wages is highest for non-agricultural tasks — the new and growing source of employment. Finally, an important feature of rural India pertains to the woman’s work day. Counting all forms of work — economic activity and care work or work in cooking, cleaning, child care, elderly care — a woman’s work day is exceedingly long and full of drudgery. In the FAS time-use survey, the total hours worked by women (in economic activity and care) ranged from 61 hours to 88 hours in the lean season, with a maximum of 91 hours (or 13 hours a day) in the peak season. No woman puts in less than a 60-hour work-week. Lockdown and jobs How did the lockdown affect employment for rural women? A rapid rural survey conducted by FAS showed that in large parts of the country where rain-fed agriculture is prevalent, there was no agricultural activity during the lean months of March to May. In areas of irrigated agriculture, there were harvest operations (such as for rabi wheat in northern India) but these were largely mechanised. In other harvest operations, such as for vegetables, there was a growing tendency to use more family labour and less hired labour on account of fears of infection. Put together, while agricultural activity continued, employment available to women during the lockdown was limited. Employment and income in activities allied to agriculture, such as animal rearing, fisheries and floriculture were also adversely affected by the lockdown. Our village studies show that when households own animals, be it milch cattle or chickens or goats, women are inevitably part of the labour process. During the lockdown, the demand for milk fell by at least 25% (as hotels and restaurants closed), and this was reflected in either lower quantities sold or in lower prices or both. For women across the country, incomes from the sale of milk to dairy cooperatives shrank. Among fishers, men could not go to sea, and women could not process or sell fish and fish products. Non-agricultural jobs came to a sudden halt as construction sites, brick kilns, petty stores and eateries, local factories and other enterprises shut down completely. In recent years, women have accounted for more than one-half of workers in public works, but no employment was available through the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) till late in April. The first month of lockdown thus saw a total collapse of non-agricultural employment for women. In May, there was a big increase in demand for NREGS employment. One of the new sources of women’s employment in the last few decades has been government schemes, especially in the health and education sectors, where, for example, women work as Anganwadi workers or mid-day meal cooks. During the pandemic, Accredited Social Health Activists or ASHAs, 90% of whom are women, have become frontline health workers , although they are not recognised as “workers” or paid a regular wage. Effect on health and nutrition While the lockdown reduced employment in agriculture and allied activities and brought almost all non-agricultural employment to a standstill, the burden of care work mounted. With all members of the family at home, and children out of school, the tasks of cooking, cleaning, child care and elderly care became more onerous. There is no doubt that managing household tasks and provisioning in a situation of reduced incomes and tightening budgets will have long-term effects on women’s physical and mental health. The already high levels of malnutrition among rural women is likely to be exacerbated as households cope with reduced food intake. A new road map As we emerge from the lockdown, it is very important to begin, first, by redrawing our picture of the rural labour market by including the contribution of women. While the immediate or short-run provision of employment of women can be through an imaginative expansion of the NREGS, a medium and longer term plan needs to generate women-specific employment in skilled occupations and in businesses and new enterprises. In the proposed expansion of health infrastructure in the country, women, who already play a significant role in health care at the grass-root level, must be recognised as workers and paid a fair wage. In the expansion of rural infrastructure announced by the Finance Minister, specific attention must be paid to safe and easy transport for women from their homes to workplaces. As the lockdown is lifted, economic activity is growing but the young and old still remain at home. Further, as the COVID-19 infection spreads, given a higher likelihood of cases among men than women, the burden on women as earners and carers is likely to rise. We need immediate measures to reduce the drudgery of care work. To illustrate, healthy meals for schoolchildren as well as the elderly and the sick can reduce the tasks of home cooking. It is time for women to be seen as equal partners in the task of transforming the rural economy. Madhura Swaminathan is Professor at the Economic Analysis Unit, Indian Statistical Institute
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Police violence and how some lives do not matter||As you begin to read this article, we would like you to think of the reactions to the Hyderabad police killing Chennakesavulu, Mohammed Areef, Naveen and Shiva, in the ‘Disha’ case. That incident, from December 2019, must surely bring back memories of collective celebration at ‘justice’ having been executed swiftly. The showering of petals, the raucous calls for adopting such measures of instant justice, and our pride in such police officers must still be vivid in our memory. Now contrast that to the reactions in response to the custodial killings, of Jayaraj and his son Benicks in Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu. Celebrities, media platforms, politicians, Twitter and Facebook users, the general public, all aghast at the brutal violence inflicted on these two men. Everyone collectively reminding us that we need to keep our police in check, and that we must not tolerate such abuse of police powers while lamenting the lack of ‘rule of law’ in our society. The contrast in the response to these two incidents could not be starker. What lies at the heart of this contrast? Was it because the four men in Hyderabad were accused of raping, murdering and burning the body of the victim? It revolted us so much that we were willing to accept this version of instant (but illegal) justice and trust the police when they told us that it was indeed these four men who were responsible. Despite no court having looked into it, we were convinced that they ‘deserved’ to be killed in that manner for what we believed they had done, conveniently blurring the lines between our moral judgment and the limits we must place on police power. A different reaction But with Jayaraj and Benicks, we must ask what really shocks us? Is it just that they were brutally assaulted and violated in a manner that caused their death? Or is our shock inextricably connected to what they were accused of — that they were tortured in this manner for keeping their shop open for a few minutes after lockdown timings? What we will or will not accept from the police in terms of their abuse of powers seems to be intrinsically linked to our moral evaluation of what they tell us people in their custody are accused of. When they present to us sexual offenders, terrorists and anti-nationals, we find ourselves reposing great faith in the narratives they feed us, and are even eager for it to be true. It literally is a few steps away from mob justice. It is just that we let the police and the legal system do our dirty work. But thankfully for the family of Jayaraj and Benicks, we have judged differently and we are on their side this time. In different circumstances, our reactions would look, sound and feel very different. The data We must be careful not to mistake our reactions in this case as some commitment to the rule of law and due process. The track record of our public and legal conversation on torture and fixing accountability for it present a very different picture. In the last three years, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), India has received nearly 5,300 complaints of custodial deaths (police and prison) and we can be sure that it is only a fraction of the actual number of such deaths. If reporting such deaths is difficult, the legal process to investigate, prosecute and fix accountability has even more hurdles. This is evident from the fact that while government data recorded 1,727 deaths in police custody between 2000 and 2018, only 26 police officials were convicted. In a country where custodial torture and killing is an open secret, it is baffling that we still do not have a domestic law that enables torture prosecution by accounting for the particularities of custodial torture. We continue to struggle with the inadequacies of our regular criminal law in this regard. An issue glossed over Despite a suggestion by the Law Commission of India that if a person dies in police custody the burden should be on the police to show that they are not responsible for it, the law still requires the prosecution to prove that the police caused the death. India’s political commitment to address torture is symbolised by its failure to ratify the UN Convention Against Torture, and thereby putting itself in the list of only 19  countries to have not adopted it. The Supreme Court of India has laid down many measures to prevent torture and fix accountability, but these judgments are rarely followed. Even legislative mandates suffer the same fate. Besides the usual police investigation into a custodial death, the law mandates an independent magisterial inquiry. It is perhaps a reflection of our institutional apathy that such inquiries have happened in only about 20% of custodial deaths. And to top it all, prosecution of police officials for custodial torture requires the sanction of the government. The question about why torture is rampant has no straightforward answers. One of course is that the system incentivises torture by seeking convictions without modernising the police force. However, police violence is not limited to investigations and goes well beyond that. The use of torture is also often justified by police personnel as being required to teach ‘hardened criminals’ on behalf of society. But here in killing Jayaraj and Benicks, the police seem to have inflicted violence out of sheer expectation of impunity. It reflects a deeply worrying aspect of torture where police unleash violence because they know that the chances of being held accountable are slim. The worst thing we can do now is to think of the incidents at the Sattankulam police station in Tamil Nadu as being perpetrated by a few errant police personnel. There is an institutional and public culture that breeds, protects and even celebrates this kind of violence. At the heart of that culture is our proclivity to embrace mob justice in situations where we feel it is ‘deserved’. And in instances where we are forced to confront murders such as those of Benicks and Jayaraj, we must acknowledge that our celebration and tolerance of police brutality is just as much to blame as anything else. The blood of Benicks and Jayaraj are on all our hands. Anup Surendranath and Neetika Vishwanath are with Project 39A at National Law University, Delhi
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Not new in Sattankulam||Sattankulam police station is no stranger to allegations of custodial death. For the past 14 years, D. Femina has been fighting for justice for her brother, Arun, 20, who was beaten by the police in the station in 2006. He also died in a hospital. She recalls: “The policemen violently knocked at the main door of our house around 10.30 p.m., on June 17, after a complaint was registered against Arun following a petty dispute. They barged into our house to pick him up. They beat him severely with their lathis. Then Inspector Srikumar kicked my brother on his abdomen as he was being taken to the police vehicle. When he fell down in pain, he was folded into the police vehicle like a piece of cloth.” Arun’s brother Vijay rushed to the police station only to see his brother being thrashed mercilessly by the police till he fainted. When the police tried to wake up Arun, he lay motionless, says Femina. The police asked Vijay to take him after midnight. When Vijay took a grievously injured Arun to a private hospital, the doctor there asked to rush him to the Government Hospital. There the doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. “My brother was healthy till the police detained him and killed him in just two and a half hours,” says Femina. She visited J. Selvarani, Benicks’ mother, to console her.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons for India||The long quest for justice for the two Kerala fishermen shot dead by Italian marines from the Enrica Lexie about 20.5 nautical miles off India’s coast in February 2012 has ended in disappointment. An international arbitration court has ruled that India does not have jurisdiction to try the marines, who, it held, were entitled to immunity as they were acting on behalf of a state. The Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) in The Hague admitted that both India and Italy had concurrent jurisdiction in the matter but concluded that the marines’ immunity precluded India’s jurisdiction. In India’s favour, the PCA found that the Italian vessel had violated the right and freedom of navigation of the Indian fishing vessel under UNCLOS, and that the action, which caused loss of lives, property and harm, merited compensation. It asked the parties to consult each other on the compensation due to India as a result. More significantly, the PCA rejected a key argument by Italy that India, by leading the Italian vessel into its territory and arresting the marines, violated its obligation to cooperate with measures to suppress piracy under Article 100 of UNCLOS. This may mean that the arbitration court did not view the incident as one related to piracy at all. The incident had caused national outrage as the public saw these as wanton killings, inasmuch as the circumstances indicated no attempt by the fishing vessel at piracy. The fishing vessel was within the country’s Contiguous Zone and it was quite clear that the offence warranted arrest and prosecution under domestic law. With the piracy angle ruled out, a regular trial was in order. The Union government should have taken over the prosecution and ensured a quick trial. However, as legal tangles were being sorted out, and India was dealing with the diplomatic fallout, the marines managed to obtain orders to leave the country. The Supreme Court ruled that only the Centre, and not Kerala, can prosecute the marines. A bigger legal issue, which caused more delay, came later. The National Investigation Agency invoked the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against Safety of Maritime Navigation and Fixed Platforms on Continental Shelf Act, 2002. This caused a diplomatic furore as it provides for the death penalty. The EU threatened to impose trade sanctions. Ultimately, it took time for these charges to be dropped. The PCA’s award, which is final and has been accepted by India, is a huge setback for the expectation that the two marines would face a criminal trial in India. In the end, Italy succeeded in taking the matter out of India’s hands. It should now make good on its commitment to have the marines tried under its domestic laws. The takeaway for India should be the lessons, in the legal and diplomatic domains, that can be drawn from the experience.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Bend it like Italy||Five months after WHO declared COVID-19 as a public health emergency of international concern and three-and-half months after it called the disease a pandemic, its spread does not seem to be slowing down globally. Instead, infections and the death toll continue to rise alarmingly. After a sharp increase in March, the fresh cases reported have steadily increased, breaching the 10 million mark on June 29; the death toll too touched a grim milestone of 0.5 million. With the addition of each million new cases taking fewer days than the previous one, the pandemic is truly accelerating. As if the summer heat has invigorated the virus, June alone accounted for 60% of all cases reported so far. The second half of June has been particularly bad with over 1,50,000 cases reported almost daily. On June 26, 0.19 million new cases were recorded, the highest reported on a single day since the outbreak in China; U.S. (2.7 million), Brazil (nearly 1.5 million) and India (0.6 million) have been driving the spike. On July 1, the U.S. witnessed the single largest spike of nearly 50,000 cases, which is more than the total number of cases reported by Singapore, South Korea and other countries. As on July 3, India has reported over 0.6 million cases and 18,662 deaths. The acceleration of fresh cases began in the first week of May and increased sharply in June. While Maharashtra has the most cases, infections in Tamil Nadu and Delhi have been steadily increasing. With over 92,000 cases, Delhi has surpassed China (nearly 85,000) while Mumbai (just over 82,000) and Chennai (64,689) are close behind. After months of low testing, Delhi increased the number done per day to close to 20,000 with a concomitant increase in cases to reach a peak of over 3,900 before falling by nearly 40% in the last few days. Though belated, Tamil Nadu began aggressively testing in hotspot areas in Chennai a fortnight ago. Moving from a smaller number of targeted tests to increased community testing about two weeks ago has led to the test positivity rate reducing from 35% to about 20% in certain areas in Chennai. A test positivity rate of about 20% is highly suggestive of community spread in these areas. Equally important is tracing and isolating contacts. Tamil Nadu, however, has the lowest case fatality rate of 1.3% compared with 4.4% in Maharashtra, 3.1% in Delhi, and 5.6% in Gujarat. It is important for every State to take a leaf out of Maharashtra’s book and test large numbers daily unmindful of the rise in fresh cases each day. Dithering on testing, tracing, isolating and treating will inevitably lead to uncontrolled spread and increased deaths, undermining efforts to contain the pandemic. After all, China, Italy, and Spain have demonstrated that it is possible to bend the curve through a comprehensive approach that is centred around testing.
04 July 2020||MADRID,||City honours, then routs Liverpool||Manchester City generously applauded new champion Liverpool onto the field before its Premier League match on Thursday — and promptly showed no mercy by thrashing it 4-0 at the Etihad stadium. After the guard of honour, which included City manager Pep Guardiola, the visitors started brightly and Ederson had to be alert to keep out a fourth-minute effort from Mohamed Salah. First strike In the 25th minute, Joe Gomez could not cope with Raheem Sterling’s twisting and turning in the box, pulling him to the ground before Kevin de Bruyne converted the penalty. Sterling doubled the lead 10 minutes later when after a swift break, Phil Foden found him inside the box and the ex-Liverpool forward cut inside Gomez and slid the ball home. The 20-year-old Foden made it 3-0, firing past Alisson after a swift exchange with Kevin De Bruyne. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain rounded up a night of misery for Reds by turning a ball into his own net. Real Madrid captain Sergio Ramos scored a late penalty to secure a win over Getafe on Thursday for a sixth consecutive LaLiga victory, taking his side four points clear of Barcelona in the title race. Real, which has not won the title since 2017, leads with 74 points with five games left.  The results:   Premier League: Manchester City 4 (De Bruyne 25-pen, Sterling 35, Foden 45, Oxlade-Chamberlain 66-og) bt Liverpool 0; Sheffield United 3 (Berge 31, Mousset 69, McBurnie 84) bt Tottenham 1 (Kane 90).   LaLiga: Eibar 0 lost to Osasuna 2 (Santos 6, 74); Real Sociedad 2 (Willian Jose 56, Isak 84) bt Espanyol 1 (D. Lopez 10); Real Madrid 1 (Ramos 79-pen) bt Getafe 0.   Serie A: Atalanta 2 (Pasalic 47, Gosens 55) bt Napoli 0; Roma 0 lost to Udinese 2 (Lasagna 12, Nestorovski 78) .
04 July 2020||SPIELBERG,||Hamilton means business||Lewis Hamilton began his quest for a record-equalling seventh World title by topping the times on Friday as Formula One roared back with a full day’s practice for the belated season-opening Austrian Grand Prix. Three months after the cancelled traditional curtain-raiser in Australia and six months on from the last race, it was business as usual from the dominant ‘Black Arrows’ Mercedes men with Valtteri Bottas next fastest as the sport re-started after its longest off-season. Racing Point follows Hamilton, in commanding form in both the morning and afternoon sessions, was quickest in one minute and 4.304 seconds to lead Bottas by 0.197 seconds and third-placed Sergio Perez, in Racing Point’s pink Mercedes, by 0.657. Sebastian Vettel, in his last season with Ferrari, was fourth for the Italian outfit ahead of McLaren-bound Daniel Ricciardo of Renault and Lando Norris of McLaren. Lance Stroll, in the second Racing Point car, modelled on the hugely-successful 2019 title-winning Mercedes, was seventh ahead of Red Bull’s Max Verstappen, Charles Leclerc in the second Ferrari and his future team-mate Carlos Sainz of McLaren. Hamilton, who has been an outspoken supporter of the campaign for equality and diversity since the death of American George Floyd last month, revealed a statement ‘Black Lives Matter’ helmet before climbing into his Mercedes. Making a statement His Mercedes W11 car was also running in revised new black livery, instead of the team’s traditional silver, with a message to ‘End Racism’ on the halo. “For a long time, we’ve been planning for the livery change for the car, for the (driver) suit change and I have also designed my helmet in black,” said Hamilton, speaking on a video released on social media.
04 July 2020||KOCHI,||Hima Das running 400m remains unclear||She is the World junior 400m champion and the Asian Games silver medallist but nobody is sure whether Hima Das would be able to run the quarter-mile in a major international meet again. Two years ago, when Hima broke the 400m National record with a stunning 50.79s at the Jakarta Asiad, many wondered how long it would take for the young Assam girl to go below 50s. Just a month earlier, Hima had won the under-20 Worlds gold in Finland, the first Indian woman to do so. But something snapped last year. Hima pulled out midway through the 400m with a back injury at the Doha Asians in April and though she ran two 400m races in the Czech Republic, she only clocked 53.07s in her last race in August and missed September’s Doha Worlds. Strangely, the back injury did not appear to trouble Hima in the 200m, she won five races last year in Poland and the Czech Republic. Almost a year has gone by, so will Hima, now 20, be fit for the quarter-mile this year? Workload “We don’t know, she started three weeks ago, we will have to see how she responds to training. She had a lot of issues with her back. “Though she has been treated, we will have to see when she actually takes the load whether she can run the 400m. If she can’t, we will switch her to 200m,” said Athletics Federation of India president Adille Sumariwalla to The Hindu . “She’s got the speed to even run the 100m, whether we will put her there time will tell. The federation is doing what is in the best interest of the athlete. And there are times when I have to hold back on certain things.”  “Till I know the full results, I’m not going to give any explanation to anybody. I don’t owe an explanation to anybody, I owe it to the athlete. There is also something called ‘athlete privacy’,” said Sumariwalla. “I will protect my athlete’s privacy about the injury or whatever it is. Nobody has a right to know.”
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,||One State-one association policy will kill the sport in the State, says BHA secretary||Bengaluru Hockey Association (BHA) and Hockey Coorg expressed serious concern over Hockey India’s one State-one association policy, which came into effect on July 1. Unlike previous years, when teams fielded by Hockey Karnataka and its associate members BHA and Hockey Coorg could compete in various National championships, the new policy allows only one team per State. This will rob several talented players of the chance to shine, BHA and Hockey Coorg office-bearers believe. “We received a letter on this front in January. We replied asking them to reconsider, as such a move will kill the sport in the State. Karnataka and Bangalore have produced so many Olympians, Arjuna awardees and medal winners in major events. Hockey is very popular in Karnataka. With three teams, more players were able to compete in nationals. Just one team results in less opportunities for players,” BHA secretary K. Krishnamurthy stated. There is also a worry that teams fielded by Hockey Karnataka — now the sole team which will represent the State — consists primarily of players from either SAI (Sports Authority of India) or DYES (Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports). “BHA gave chances for players from other districts who couldn't make the cut for SAI or DYES. We'll reach a State where if you don't make it to the SAI or DYES sides, it's the end of the road,” Krishnamurthy said. Krishnamurthy added that BHA officials have no ambitions of holding office in Hockey India. “When we were granted associate membership, it was very clear that we won't have voting rights and we would not be acting as an impediment for the State body. We are complying with that. I request the IOA president (Narinder Batra) and Sports Minister (Kiren Rijiju) to kindly make an exception to the IOA charter and allow associate units — who have given so much to the sport for decades — to compete in nationals,” Krishnamurthy said. These concerns were echoed by B. Chengappa, Hockey Coorg secretary. "Coorg has been a nursery for Indian hockey. Our district has produced nearly 70 India internationals. Kids here love hockey more than cricket. This policy will hit the sub-junior and junior categories,” Chengappa said.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||AICF factions propose different teams for online Chess Olympiad||With the two warring factions of the All India Chess Federation (AICF) proposing separate Indian teams for the upcoming FIDE online Olympiad, the on-going crisis has assumed new proportions. The differences between president Venketrama Raja and secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan have split the AICF down the middle. Acting on a letter from Chess Players’ Forum, the Sports Ministry sought clarifications from both factions. Since the last date for sending names to the FIDE is July 13, a consensus over the names is still likely. The new online event, in mixed format, will take place from July 22 to August 30. Each participating team comprises six players (and six reserves). Not surprisingly, both teams include Viswanathan Anand, Vidit Gujrathi, K. Humpy, D. Harika, besides reserves P. Harikrishna and Bhakti Kulkarni. Differ on juniors However, the factions differ on the selection of the juniors. Chauhan’s list includes Nihal Sarin and R. Vaishali, with R. Praggnanandhaa and Divya Deshmukh as reserves. Raja’s proposal has National junior champions Aradhya Garg and Srishti Pandey, with runners-up Mitrabha Guha and Arpita Mukherjee, as reserves. Chief selector Grandmaster R.B. Ramesh cleared the air. “We, selectors, have not approved two teams. The first proposed team (from Chauhan) was based on three-month average rating, as decided by AICF in 2017. I checked everything and gave my nod. One more selector also approved this proposal. “Subsequently, I received another provisional team (from Raja) in which the junior players were chosen based on their performances in the National junior championship, and not rating. I wrote back saying, ‘this is not correct.’ Chauhan said, “Four out of six playing members (not counting reserves) have confirmed their participation. Anand and Humpy have asked for a couple of days to decide.”
04 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Neha Aggarwal serves it well for her fraternity||Former Olympian and table tennis champion, Neha Aggarwal, joining hands with the big names from India — G. Sathiyan and A. Sharath Kamal, donned the role of a saviour for the needy in her fraternity. “I felt that the three-month lockdown has badly affected the lifestyle of the support staff, especially coaches who were solely dependent on the sport to make a living. So, I launched this initiative ‘Our Chance To Serve’ with the help of Olympic Gold Quest to help them,” the 30-year-old Neha told The Hindu . “We are glad that the initiative, launched on June 23 and closing on July 5, to take care of about 100 needy families has actually crossed the target of Rs. 10 lakh within a week. We now have funds which should meet the minimum needs of about 150 families,” said Neha, who is now settled in Hyderabad having married City-based table tennis player Shubham Sharma about three years ago. The beneficiaries The beneficiaries are mostly from Tamil Nadu and Bengal, which are the major hubs of the sport in India, besides Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Jharkhand. “The primary objective is to give at least Rs.10,000 to each of the needy and that too after intense scrutiny to ensure only the deserving are benefited,” the former Asian Games player explained. “To be frank, this initiative is similar to what both Sathiyan and Sharath have done in Chennai earlier on a smaller scale. So, since I was involved in the Olympic Gold Quest for a similar campaign for the hockey fraternity, I took up this one in a big way,” Neha said. The champion player, who retired in 2015 after winning medals including gold in the 2008 Commonwealth Youth Games and three medals in Commonwealth Championship, says the whole idea was more of a social responsibility. “There are no future plans on these lines for sure. We will see as and when the situation arises,” Neha concluded.
04 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||It’s Ushenina vs Gunina again||It will be Anna Ushenina of Ukraine against Valentina Gunina of Russia in the final of the second Grand Prix leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women’s Speed Chess, too. In the first leg's final, Ushenina had triumphed. She had it tough in Saturday’s semifinal though, as she was stretched by Sarasadat Khademalsharieh of Iran. She won 8-7 in the tie-breakers. The other semifinal wasn’t as close, as Gunina defeated Kateryna Lagno 6.5-4.5 in all-Russian semifinal. The final will be played on Sunday.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Giri escapes with a draw||World champion Magnus Carlsen frittered away a clear advantageous position and Anish Giri saved the opening set of the $150,000 Chessable Masters final on Friday. Playing black, Carlsen gained a sizable advantage in the middle game, but could not sustain the pressure. Late on Thursday, Giri bounced back from losing the opening rapid game and knocked out Ian Nepomniachtchi in the second blitz game to book a place in the final. Giri won the three-set semifinal 2-1 by claiming the deciding set 3.5-2.5. After the four rapid games ended at 2-2, the first blitz game was drawn before Giri won with white pieces.  The results:   Final: Set One: Rapid (Game One): Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor). Semifinal: Set Three: Rapid (Game One): Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) bt Giri; (Game Two): Giri bt Nepomniachtchi; (Game Three): Nepomniachtchi drew with Giri; (Game Four): Giri drew with Nepomniachtchi.   Blitz (Game One): Nepomniachtchi drew with Giri; (Game Two): Giri bt Nepomniachtchi .
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Kartik live!||Catch former India cricketer and broadcaster Kartik Murali in a live chat on Sportstar’s Instagram handle (@sportstarweb) on July 4 (Saturday) at 4 p.m. IST.
04 July 2020||Colombo,||WC final match-fixing probe dropped||Sri Lankan police on Friday dropped a match-fixing investigation into the 2011 World Cup final saying they found no evidence of Sri Lankan players letting India win. “We questioned two players and the chief selector and are satisfied with their explanation. The inquiry is now closed,” said a top police official. The ICC on his part said there was no reason to doubt the integrity of the match, asserting that it had not been provided any evidence that would merit an investigation.
04 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Online chess tournament||Tiruvallur District Chess Association-Go Checkmate Singapore and Guna Chess Academy will organise an online chess tournament on July 5 at 10.30 a.m. for u-7, 9, 11 & 13 categories. Entries close on July 4. For details call K. Gunasekaran, Guna Chess Academy, 9884424747.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian Open golf cancelled||Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the $1.75 million Hero Indian Open golf now stands cancelled. This flagship event on the Indian golf calendar was postponed in March to later part of the year. Now, the Indian Golf Union, in consultation with European Tour, has announced cancellation of the 2020 edition.
04 July 2020||Mumbai,||Saroj Khan, the choreographer who danced past the glass ceiling, takes last bow||In her more than four-decade-long career, Saroj Khan not only broke the glass ceiling in an area dominated by men in Hindi cinema, but also propelled generations of female actors into the spotlight through her catchy dance moves, with actors Madhuri Dixit and Sridevi being the two best examples. Through songs like ‘Ek Do Teen’ and ‘Hawa Hawaai’, Ms. Dixit and the late Sridevi found unprecedented fame, thanks to Khan’s evocative choreography, which was at once traditional and modern, folk and contemporary. Khan, 71, passed away on Friday morning following a cardiac arrest. She was admitted to Bandra’s Guru Nanak hospital on June 27 after she complained of trouble with breathing. The mandatory COVID-19 test done at the hospital showed a negative result. Her funeral was held at a cemetery in Malad on Friday. Worked her way up Born in 1948 to parents who migrated from Pakistan during the Partition, Khan started her career as a child artiste at the age of three, and later became a “background dancer”, shadowing the moves of lead actors. She worked her way up and became the first woman chief choreographer in Hindi cinema, delivering some of the biggest hits of the 1980s and 1990s such as ‘Mere Hathon Main’, ‘Choli Ke Peeche’ and ‘Dhak Dhak Karne Laga’. Khan and Ms. Dixit collaborated on several songs, including ‘Dola Re Dola’, for which Khan won her first National Award for Best Choreography. “I’m devastated,” Ms. Dixit wrote on Instagram. “Saroj ji was part of my journey since the beginning. She taught me a lot, not just about dance but so much more.” Khan choreographed some of the most well-known actors, including Amitabh Bachchan, Shah Rukh Khan, Hema Malini, Akshay Kumar and Aishwarya Rai, and was fondly known as “master ji ”. She won three National Awards for Best Choreography, including for songs like ‘Yeh Ishq Hai’ in Jab We Met . The song was shot in Manali, using local Himachali women as “background” dancers. “What I remember most is that when the entire shooting of ‘Yeh Ishq Hai’ got over, she danced solo for us, and that’s a memory I'm going to have of her: wearing Hawaii chappal and doing the dance better than anybody could have imagined doing,” said Imtiaz Ali, director of Jab We Met . “She brought a certain art to the style of dancing in cinema which was both contemporary and high-class.” A sense of kindness The veteran choreographer was widely known for elevating the meaning of the lyrics through her dance. She not only highlighted the emotions of the song but also contributed to the characterisation of the protagonists. “I was a newcomer director and she was a respected choreographer. She had a sense of kindness. I could tell her everything about the narrative and there was nothing she objected to, and she took the course of the narrative into the song. She knew she had to give something special in cinema,” recalled Mr. Ali. In the last leg of her career, Khan judged several dance reality shows, consolidating her title as “master ji ”. She last choreographed ‘Tabaah Hogaye’ for Kalank (2019), starring Ms. Dixit, an actor synonymous with Khan’s nimble moves and evocative expressions.
04 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka government approves online betting at Bangalore Turf Club||The Karnataka government, on Friday, gave in-principle approval to Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) to conduct online betting. The club will develop a mobile application where punters can place bets on races and receive dividends through a digital wallet. Decision welcomed Welcoming the government’s permission for online betting, senior steward at BTC Harimohan Naidu said the app will be ready in another two months. Once it is ready, BTC will resume races without spectators, but with online betting. “With online betting, a racing enthusiast sitting anywhere can place bets on the races we conduct. “This will naturally expand our customer base tremendously, increase our turnover and also revenue to the government,” Mr. Naidu said. The club had made the proposal to go online to shore up its revenue by increasing its customer base two years ago when its turnover dropped substantially as the bets came under 28% GST. According to BTC sources, its turnover dropped from over Rs. 1,900 crore in 2016-17 to nearly Rs. 750 crore in 2019-20. “Before introduction of GST, for each race, it had a turnover in the range of Rs. 1 crore, with over 5,000 punters participating in on-course betting at BTC and a few more at off-course betting centres in Bengaluru, Mangaluru and Tumakuru,” said a source, adding that this now fallen by over 40% Though it had been proposed two years ago, online betting was not pursued. However, it has become imperative after the pandemic as punters will not be able to gather at the club in the near future due to social distancing norms, BTC sources said. “Betting during races meant thousands gathering in one place, which we will not be able to get back to in the near future, till a vaccine is found. “Shift to online betting will help us to conduct racing without punters physically gathering together,” Mr. Naidu added.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Immeasurable kindness||Thirumoolar makes us see the impermanence of life, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. None of the relatives we hold dear will accompany us when we die. A man works all his life to keep his family comfortable. But when he dies, he goes alone. Only his penance and his jnana will go with him, says Thirumoolar. Avvaiyar expresses a similar idea. She lists all the things that are valuable in this world. One must be blessed to be born as a human being. One must be even more blessed to be born with all faculties. If in addition to this, one has education and jnana, then one is very fortunate. But of even greater merit is to be generous and to do penance, for without a charitable disposition and penance, one cannot attain moksha. In another verse, Thirumoolar says penance done without realising the greatness of Lord Siva will not give the desired results. Lord Siva’s kindness towards His devotees cannot be measured. That is why Thirumoolar says He is ‘thaayinum nallan’ — He is more affectionate and merciful than a mother. Manickavachagar in Tiruvachagam speaks of Lord Siva as the One who is kinder than a mother who gladly breastfeeds her child. Thirumoolar talks of sages who attained jnana directly through the grace of Lord Siva. They taught the world what they had learnt at the feet of Siva. Thirumoolar says only one whose heart is pure will benefit from the wise words of saints. Whatever is taught to them will be retained by them. It will be understood by them. They will have clarity of thought and will attain the feet of Lord Siva. Devotees may worship Him in different ways, and He confers his blessings on all. The swan separates water from milk. Likewise, Lord Nataraja removes our evil qualities.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 08:04 IST,||Sudoku - July 4, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Power up like MG||“We always assume our own powerlessness / but never our own power,” are some of the catchy lyrics in Madame Gandhi’s (MG) latest track ‘Waiting For Me’, an anthem of resistance and diversity. In the spirit of these words, the Los Angeles-based musician has added a visual layer: a protest music video, directed by Misha Ghose. On an Instagram Live session as part of our ongoing series, #LockdownWithWeekend, MG says her music and video have become more complementary while staying personal to her history (especially as a young schoolgirl). She recalls, “I had Bata shoes with two buckles instead of one [while at St Ann’s in Colaba, Mumbai], and I was sent home! When I went to school in New York, I was the kid who wore red or neon for self-expression. You see that in the video with the uniformed school girls.” Protecting energies  Withan MBA from Harvard Business School, MG has a unique knowledge of data, power and business, and feels there is hope for the inherently obstinate major label music industry. She feels the industry is also a contentious one for female artistes. “We [women] have to protect our energy! If there is a business issue, it is hard to deal with directly because we have heart and emotion. That’s why artistes have management and protection — the apparatus around you that protects you, but also balances it with accessibility.” Following streams After graduating, MG worked at Interscope Records in California for two years in 2011. Her time there “was about studying patterns in Spotify Streams and YouTube views so that we could understand our artistes’ marketing strategies better”. According to MG, it was not directly related to money management, “but as we all know, streams do convert to revenue. So understanding how consumers stream your music and how they find it, is critical. I do believe that every artiste should study their own audience, meet them where they’re at, and deliver the content they are seeking so that you continue to build in a consistent and authentic way”. The ‘Future is Female’ singer admits that seeing record deals come in, and making the move from independent to signed requires an inside track. “For the longest time, the music industry depended on ‘information asymmetry’, which means one party knows more than the other. The label knows what numbers are actually coming in and gives the artiste an advance, but the artiste, who is continually performing, is also in a state of owing the label and other entities money, and not seeing any of it come back. It’s a very uninspiring arrangement,” she says. She also points out that other sources of income — ventures labels cannot touch — are valuable. MG gives speeches at schools, does DJ sets, and has a merch line (which includes a collaboration with NorBlack NorWhite). Waiting on a message  Thedaughter of entrepreneur Vikram Gandhi, MG knows she comes from a unique position in terms of resources. “You can’t help where you’re born but you can help what you do with the privilege you’ve been given,” she says, adding, “I believe we must use it to make the changes we wish to see in the world.” Meanwhile, given her penchant for producing catchy global anthems, MG says music videos help market the artiste differently. For ‘Waiting For Me’, which was filmed in February, her goal was to move from what is oppressive to what is liberative. “The current climate of political tension, owing to Black Lives Matter and the upcoming US elections, offers good timing for such a music video, especially with all of us sitting at home with our thoughts,” she concludes. Watch on YouTube
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Southern comfort||I am sorry if I sound like a stuck record, but, to my mind, there is nothing as good as South Indian non-vegetarian fare. The vegetarian food of the South, of course, is fantastic, but the flavours of the fish and meat dishes are unforgettable, too. Within the South, the cuisine of Kerala never fails to give me pleasure. A friend, who was pondering order-in options, had told us last week that Mahabelly — a Kerala restaurant in south Delhi — was delivering across town. I had eaten at Mahabelly when it opened and loved their food. So I did some surfing, had a look at the delivery menu and placed my order. We asked for gunpowder idli (Rs. 220), pork fry (Rs. 440), vegetable stew with appams (Rs. 225), Alleppey fish curry with appams (Rs. 495), prawn mango curry (Rs. 565), parottas (Rs. 65 each) and extra appams (Rs. 65 each). We paid Rs. 3,300 or so (with taxes, packing charges) for the food, and it was enough for three meals: lunch, dinner and breakfast, for four of us. Needless to say, I loved the pork the most. The dish consisted of fatty chunks that had been roasted with grated coconut, spices, and chillies. The pork was juicy and soft, and the spices, including crispy curry leaves, added to the taste. The prawn-mango curry was much loved at home, and I enjoyed it, too — the sauce was mildly sweet and deliciously tart (with little pieces of mango in it), and the prawns in the gravy were crispy from the outside and tender within. I had the pork and the prawns with a flaky, layered Malabari parotta, and enjoyed the meal thoroughly. We had the idli for breakfast the next day. It came with a coconut and a tomato-onion chutney. The idlis were, as I expected, smeared with a spicy podi, but I didn’t think they’d be fried. I would have preferred them steamed, for the fried pieces were a little too toasty. Lunch, again, was a delight. The vegetable stew was a mix of vegetables (beans, carrots et al) cooked in a light coconut milk, and went well with the soft and fluffy appams. The Allepey fish was in a coconut-based gravy, too, but had a different taste altogether. The fish — Mahabelly usually uses seer fish — came in a superb sauce made colourful and tangy with kokum, and then lightened with coconut milk. The gravy was prepared with fried shallots, a ginger-garlic paste, curry leaves, rice powder, Kashmiri chillies, turmeric, ground coriander and fenugreek. We had this with home-cooked joha rice, a small and fragrant Assamese variety. The delivery menu includes Thalassery chicken biryani (Rs. 350), mackerel (aila) fish (Rs. 445), chicken 65 (Rs 385) and gobhi 65 (Rs 299). There are small meals, too, such as Amrit’s Dal Khichdi with pickle and pappadam (Rs. 199), three chapattis with potato curry (Rs. 199), two parottas with tomato fry (Rs. 199) and two appams with chicken stew (Rs. 250). I am glad Mahabelly is delivering (and all the way to East Delhi, too) for that’s the only way food businesses can survive in these difficult times. The restaurant is run by a group of young men who are passionate about food (they have an outlet in Saket and Gurugram) and I hope they do well. The writer is a seasoned food critic
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Get ahead of your pay cut||I’ve been paying a lot of attention to my bank accounts in the last few months. After all, the coronavirus pandemic has brought a great deal of uncertainty in our lives, especially in our finances. Pay cuts, furloughs and bulk layoffs are no longer news as entrepreneurs and professionals navigate the worst job market of our times. But though things are bleak, your bank balance doesn’t have to be. Now is the time to take a critical look at how you approach money and savings. Here’s a five-point guide to help you reassess and rethink your finances:     It is time to take a long, hard look at your credit card statements. “Identify your discretionary and fixed spends, and cut out as many of the former as possible,” says Akshay Golechha, CA, CFA and Columbia MBA graduate, who previously worked with Temasek, one of Asia’s biggest private equity firms. Discretionary spends include those Rs. 400 coffees, the six streaming service subscriptions you pay for despite watching only YouTube, the sales you’ve been shopping and the gourmet ingredients lying forgotten in your fridge. Adjusting with a pay cut necessitates a change in lifestyle, so start with what you know you don’t need. Most discretionary spends may seem insignificant, but you’ll be surprised by how they add up. 2. What does your balance sheet look like? Doyou have debt? How many credit cards do you own? Where are your savings parked? Do you have savings at all? Drawing up a picture of what you have (your assets) and what you owe (your liabilities) will give you direction on what you need to do next. “If you have expensive debt like a credit card loan, or any high interest loans, pay that off first,” says Vivek Kaul, author of Bad Money . “It is okay even if you have to pause your investments or savings for this, but it is important to be debt-free at this time.” If you’ve taken a pay cut, you will have to look at ways that you can save as much money (if not more) as you did before. You know how you’re constantly told to save for a rainy day? Well, we’re in the middle of a monsoon now. 3. Take a fresh look at your resumé   Ifyou are in the job market, it might be tempting to say yes to any offer that comes your way. But it can hurt your career in the long run. “Money in the bank helps you make better decisions,” says Kaul. “If you are in a company where the risk of layoffs are high, start saving money so you are in a position where you don’t have to take the first offer that comes your way.” Upskilling and adding relevant certifications might also help, given that there has been a surge in online learning resources. And there’s excellent free content available. “People need to ask themselves, why should someone hire me?” says Golechha. “And they should work at getting better at answering that question.”  4. Stay away from what you don’t understand  Now is not the time to make headway in the stock market, especially if you don’t understand its intricacies. Invest in what you know and can understand, even if that only means fixed deposits and recurring deposits. In addition to traditional savings methods, “health insurance and terms insurance are a must, especially if you have a family and commitments”, says Kaul. “Many people are still dependent on their employers’ insurance, but when your job could be on the line, how can you depend on it? Make sure you’ve got your own health insurance cover.”  5. Be honest and seek financial advice  Iknow people who would rather take a credit card loan with 25% interest per annum than ask their parents/friends for financial advice. But this is an especially stressful time for professionals in industries that aren’t “essential” and recent graduates who have to job hunt. “Don’t shy away from talking about money or asking others for help,” says Golechha. It doesn’t have to be a loan. It could even be a discussion on how things are faring for you financially, what you are doing to cope and maybe a trick or two about savings that you can pick up. If the last three months have taught us anything, it is that living a minimal lifestyle is not as difficult as we believed it was. Inculcating fiscal discipline has never been more important. And if you don’t take stock of your money now, then when?  Lavanya Mohan blogs about personal finance at pennmoney.com.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Inside Audemars Piguet’s hairspring||Sebastian Vivas, the Heritage and Museum Director at Audemars Piguet, speaks with unrestrained passion about the new Musée Atelier Audemars Piguet. The spiral-shaped museum atop a grassy knoll in the picturesque watchmaking village of Le Brassus (an hour from Geneva), Switzerland, opened a week ago and Vivas had a hand in selecting most of the 300-plus items on display. Though our phone conversation is peppered with PR-friendly statements like, “We’re respecting the past but building the future,” and how “visitors will appreciate the quality and beauty of the experience [discussing the radical choice of design]”, the occasional bon mots better sum up his thoughts. For example, he speaks with disdain about the advent of quartz watches in the 1980s, an existential crisis for the industry at the time, sharing, “Quartz watches are not made by watchmakers, but by my electricians.” An unsurprising statement for someone who has published a study on quartz in the Journal Suisse d'Horlogerie.   Follow the spiral  The museum isn’t the first of its kind in the area (Jaeger-LeCoultre’s Heritage Gallery is a neighbour), but it is the first to open post Covid-19. The Musée Atelier, featuring only handmade watches, has been designed by in-demand Copenhagen architect Bjarke Ingels’ firm BIG. So the contemporary 25,000 square metre spiral construction — inspired by a watch’s hairspring, and crafted from curved glass, brass mesh and steel — is dramatic and in stark contrast to the two 19th century buildings that it is nestled between. Vivas says the design is a “counterbalance” to its surroundings, reflecting the brand’s rootedness and forward-thinking spirit. Inside, curved glass walls and a sloping terrazzo floor(adapted to the land’s natural gradient) descend clockwise, guiding visitors through the various exhibits. Timepieces displayed in metal cases shaped like astronomical instruments, are often juxtaposed with materials that tie it to the land, like samples of iron (a hat tip to the village’s mining history). The collection, which also includes sculptures and moving models that demonstrate the inner workings of watches, serves as an introduction to Swiss horologists and the history of Audemars Piguet, which, till 1951, sold its complications to distributors. While the brand has had a private museum since 1992, according to Vivas, the new iteration — for which he has been putting together the exhibits since 2012 — “will be a living museum, animated by masterclasses and labs”. Such as the Grandes Complications workshop, which will explain how a single watch is painstakingly assembled from 648 pieces over the span of eight months, and the Métiers d’Art workshop, which will showcase jewellers and gem setters at work on the H aute Joaillerie collections.  In first person  How will the museum make use of the digital, especially now? Not through virtual tours. “Both the museum and its digital presence will be complimentary. But to offer a completely guided online tour is not our idea because nothing will replace the experience of being here. We will, however, organise talks for particular watches and around certain events.” Stressing that “we are not planning for the next five to six months, but for the next 50 to 60 years”, Vivas shares that it will be impractical to let people see the 300+ objects on a screen. “The story from this region is about exporting handmade timepieces to the world’s capitals. That is what has made people want to come and visit this small, isolated village,” he concludes.  The museum is currently offering guided visits by appointment for groups of up to 12 people. The 90-minute tours are available on weekdays through September 28. Details: maap.shop.secutix.com
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Indi-Chini bhow bhow||I feel a tremendous sense of relief knowing that we have given a befitting reply to those who eyed our territory in Ladakh. I have immediately discontinued my Ayurvedic antidepressants. If we have been assured that all is well again, it means sab changa si majama che bagundi sooper-O-sooper. Time to crack open that celebratory thandai chilling in the fridge, take a refreshing swig, bite into my favourite crunchy snack, khakra (whose GST is 12% as opposed to that evil, anti-national 18% GST-attracting Kerala parotta ), and prepare for the future. Since it has been mentioned that people from all over India are writing to our leader and reiterating their support for the atma nirbhar Bharat movement, I would like to humbly submit here that I was among the first of those letter-writers. My missive to him sits quivering with pride on his desk, sandwiched between Kangana ben ’s and Payal ben ’s own handwritten letters. So how do we go about being vocal about local? While removing Tik Tok and other Chinese apps, breaking telephones and TVs is all well, we need a systemic change if you ask me. Something that will teach our errant neighbours a proper lesson. For starters, India consumes large quantities of a dish mistakenly referred to as noodles, supposedly of Chinese origin. For those who have read the correct history books, they know this is not true. ‘When Hiuen Tsang, the 7th century Chinese traveller, came to our ancient, all-knowing land, he met a wise woman, a culinary sage called Tarlamala Dalalanandi. She made the hungry traveller a quick dish called nav dhal , which he gobbled with a pair of chadee chamchas (which later came to be known as chopsticks). Tsang then quickly noted the recipe on a pre-Vedic laptop refurbished and gifted to him, ran away to China, called them noodles, after which they claimed them as their own. We need to re-annex and reclaim that dish and give it a new name, a name that would make the hair on any NRI’s chest stand erect in pride. My suggestion is lamba lamba shuddh desi tatkal maida chaval . And have a nationwide movement popularising the dish in its original form. Patriotic Indians suddenly free from the Tik Tok devil can come up with various Indian recipes using this profoundly Indian staple. Let’s talk of Bruce Lee for a minute. No Chinese has had a bigger impact on Indians than this gentleman. And that includes Marlon Brando in The Teahouse of the August Moon (in which he may have played a Japanese man, but let’s not quibble). Bruce Lee once said, ‘Defeat is a state of mind. No one is ever defeated until defeat is accepted as a reality.’ To me, that makes him more Indian than Rangoli Chandel. Who better than us at not accepting reality? So how do we use this to our advantage? Issue an Aadhaar Card in Bruce Lee’s name with immediate effect. Ha! The Chinese won’t see that coming, will they? Bruce Lee automatically, incontrovertibly, becomes Indian. Imagine the looks on the faces of enemy soldiers if we line our border with large cut-outs of Bruce Lee spinning thecharkha. And announce a new film starring a digitally-reanimated Lee — directed by SS Rajamouli — called Tiger Dragon Ko Achcha Sabak Sikha (Part 1 and 2). That’s not all. We reclaim the Chinese collar, Chinese Checkers and Chinese Whispers by calling them Desi collar, Bharatiya Checkers and Swadeshi Gupshup. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning to bend a knee||Last year, 1,731 people died in police or judicial custody in India, which translates into some five deaths a day. Almost 75% of those who died in police custody had been tortured. The details of the methods used are not pretty to read: nails were hammered into them; chilli powder applied on their private parts; they were branded, stripped, urinated upon; violated with batons and more. Five custodial deaths a day. More than 1,500 deaths in a year. And it barely raised a ripple in our consciousness. So how did the case of Jayaraj and Benicks, who died in police custody in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district, penetrate the noise of border skirmishes and orchestrated television fury and manage to touch our carefully selective conscience? Over the years, activists have taken up many such cases, but popular response has always remained blissfully serene. Something was different this time. For one, the Delhi-centric media cabal was prodded into headlining the news on primetime rather than tucking it away in a mid-morning broadcast. This munificence, in turn, happened because their hand was forced by insistent social media posts. And why did the beautiful people of social media, the divas, actors and chic columnists, get bothered by the deaths of two people whose names they could not pronounce in a city whose existence they had not heard of? Because George Floyd. The interconnected space that is social media outrages about something in Finland or Faridabad with the same felicity of intimacy and rage. As the powerful visuals and videos from the Floyd case exploded on their device screens, Indians saw ordinary people in the US, the UK and Europe reacting forcefully against police excess. Our Netizens and Twitterati saw the people of these nations articulating expectations and demanding behavioural norms from their uniformed forces that pointed to what Indians ought to have demanded years ago and chose not to. The potent images of hardened American cops taking a knee in front of protesting crowds in a gesture of apology and solidarity seem to have made Indians see that when ordinary citizens raise a voice against institutional excess, institutions do respond. That wearing a uniform doesn’t grant immunity from questioning. That being a policeman isn’t a free pass for gratuitous violence. Impervious as we’ve been to every egregious use of power and intimidation over the years, today even we have been shamed into demanding that the police be subject to the same law that they are trained to uphold. It should not take two horrific deaths to make us see this, but we are so cosseted by class, caste and connections that police brutality is always a faraway thing that happens to other people. People we can slot into neat categories — rowdy, criminal, terrorist and even, these days, students, activists and journalists — people who we decide “deserve it”, where “it” ranges from imprisonment without bail to harassment and mild beatings to full-fledged torture. The National Campaign Against Torture report, whose findings I began this piece with, says that 60% of those who died in police custody last year belonged to poor and marginalised communities — they included Dalits, tribals, Muslims, labourers and rag-pickers, among others. None of us know their names or why they were picked up. None of us heard about their deaths leave alone get outraged about it. If today we are finally angry about the deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks, one hopes it will stand for something. In the wake of Floyd’s death, the US is contemplating a Bill that bans chokeholds, creates a national police misconduct registry, removes “qualified immunity” for police-persons, and requires all enforcement personnel to wear body cameras. Is it possible that we can create a similar reforms bill that will enforce more accountability from our police? US Congressional Black Caucus leader Karen Bass said last month, “A profession where you have the power to kill should be a profession that requires highly-trained officers who are accountable to the public.” For the longest time, our police forces have been accountable only to the politicians in office at the time. If now we want them to be accountable to the people, then it’s we the people who have to hold them to account. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||How artwork from Jayshree Poddar’s workshop with children at an NGO are being turned into quilts||Last August, Jayshree Poddar, the design director at textile firm Atmosphere, visited Aim for Seva Chatralayam for Girls in Bengaluru armed with square pieces of kora fabric and paints. Invited to conduct a painting workshop as part of the non-profit’s three-year-old Art For Development project, little did Poddar know that this would be the beginning of a larger initiative. Now, patterns of splattered paint and fingerprints from the session are being digitised to create infant (36x48) and toddler (46x60) quilts (Rs. 2,900 and Rs. 3,900 respectively) and sold by Aim for Seva via WhatsApp. “The idea was to let the children [between ages nine and 16 years] express themselves. In the first half, I let them paint as they pleased, not adhering to any form. Some dabbed and smeared paint while others created straight lines and smudged patterns,” says Poddar, adding that in the second half they painted with just the three primary colours. Describing it as an “unusual interaction”, the NID alumnus explains how the girls were watchful in the beginning. “I don’t speak Kannada, so it was all based on actions, and sitting on the ground with them helped. Before we started the workshop, we also had a small session on body movements to help them open up physically,” says the Bengaluru-based designer, whose 2018 solo exhibition, Many Moons , explored the phases of the moon on woven jacquard. Playing with colour By day’s end, Poddar had approximately 100 painted squares. Later, when Aruna Madnani, the lead at Aim for Seva, suggested crafting quilts with the artwork, Poddar began experimenting with leftover fabric from one of her mills that specialises in bed linen. “We selected nine designs to digitise. We printed the abstract renderings on fine cotton, added a border, made the colours brighter, added the artist’s signature, and quilted them with a 200 gsm poly filling,” says Poddar, who also helms textile company Himatsingka Seide. She also added a removable mulmul cover. “It not only softens dark hues, but makes cleaning easier. You just have to wash the cover and the quilt is protected.” Trials were also done with pastel shades of pink, blue and green, and each design now has two options: dark and light. The fabric is colour-fast, machine washable and comes with a tiny matching bag. Taking it online While the NGO wanted to have a physical sale for the quilts, to help the children learn about the retail aspect, they have taken to online sales given the present scenario. Madnani says that while trials were paused prior to lockdown as they ran out of ink (which comes from China), work restarted in June. “We have received enquiries for junior sizes and we are considering designing larger (54x72) quilts as well. Proceeds from the initiative will be used to buy things for the hostel,” she says. As for Poddar’s plans on continuing the project (a first for her), it is a resounding yes. “This initiative took me back to my childhood — of having someone getting you to feel colour and clay. It is like planting a seed in a young mind. These will remain as memories and the children will want to take the learnings forward and continue creating something new. This is the same emotion I’ve had for the last 30 years: to unlearn, to be free and uninhibited. We have managed to do that with this project.”  The quilts are made-to-order. For details, contact Namita Kejriwal at 9901300999
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Power up like MG||“We always assume our own powerlessness / but never our own power,” are some of the catchy lyrics in Madame Gandhi’s (MG) latest track ‘Waiting For Me’, an anthem of resistance and diversity. In the spirit of these words, the Los Angeles-based musician has added a visual layer: a protest music video, directed by Misha Ghose. On an Instagram Live session as part of our ongoing series, #LockdownWithWeekend, MG says her music and video have become more complementary while staying personal to her history (especially as a young schoolgirl). She recalls, “I had Bata shoes with two buckles instead of one [while at St Ann’s in Colaba, Mumbai], and I was sent home! When I went to school in New York, I was the kid who wore red or neon for self-expression. You see that in the video with the uniformed school girls.” Protecting energies  Withan MBA from Harvard Business School, MG has a unique knowledge of data, power and business, and feels there is hope for the inherently obstinate major label music industry. She feels the industry is also a contentious one for female artistes. “We [women] have to protect our energy! If there is a business issue, it is hard to deal with directly because we have heart and emotion. That’s why artistes have management and protection — the apparatus around you that protects you, but also balances it with accessibility.” Following streams After graduating, MG worked at Interscope Records in California for two years in 2011. Her time there “was about studying patterns in Spotify Streams and YouTube views so that we could understand our artistes’ marketing strategies better”. According to MG, it was not directly related to money management, “but as we all know, streams do convert to revenue. So understanding how consumers stream your music and how they find it, is critical. I do believe that every artiste should study their own audience, meet them where they’re at, and deliver the content they are seeking so that you continue to build in a consistent and authentic way”. The ‘Future is Female’ singer admits that seeing record deals come in, and making the move from independent to signed requires an inside track. “For the longest time, the music industry depended on ‘information asymmetry’, which means one party knows more than the other. The label knows what numbers are actually coming in and gives the artiste an advance, but the artiste, who is continually performing, is also in a state of owing the label and other entities money, and not seeing any of it come back. It’s a very uninspiring arrangement,” she says. She also points out that other sources of income — ventures labels cannot touch — are valuable. MG gives speeches at schools, does DJ sets, and has a merch line (which includes a collaboration with NorBlack NorWhite). Waiting on a message  Thedaughter of entrepreneur Vikram Gandhi, MG knows she comes from a unique position in terms of resources. “You can’t help where you’re born but you can help what you do with the privilege you’ve been given,” she says, adding, “I believe we must use it to make the changes we wish to see in the world.” Meanwhile, given her penchant for producing catchy global anthems, MG says music videos help market the artiste differently. For ‘Waiting For Me’, which was filmed in February, her goal was to move from what is oppressive to what is liberative. “The current climate of political tension, owing to Black Lives Matter and the upcoming US elections, offers good timing for such a music video, especially with all of us sitting at home with our thoughts,” she concludes. Watch on YouTube
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Aprons: fashion’s newest accessory||What, at one point, would have been a considerate gift for a dinner host is now something we must reserve for ourselves. A designer apron. For many of us doing our own cooking and dish-washing in the last few months, an apron designed by Anavila or Antar-Agni or eight other contemporary designers might be that tiny nod to luxury we sorely need. IndiLuxe, the handcrafted and sustainable segment of Tata CLiQ Luxury, has roped in 10 designers this season to create aprons that reflect their sensibilities. So Anavila, known for her handwoven linen saris, has a natural linen apron lined with soft mulmul , handmade lace detail, printed piping and a pocket. All 10 designers have factored pockets, even while exploring recycled fabrics or the zero-waste concept. Gaurav Khanijo’s denim apron has a belt, buttons and a phone pocket; Gautam Sinha of Nappa Dori puts canvas and leather to good use, with a multi-purpose clasp; ruffles and a vintage touch come from Payal Singhal; and Urvashi Kaur offers hers with upcycled Shibori panels andkanthadetails. “Each apron has its own unique personality, different from each other yet connected with a contemporary aesthetic,” explains Rina Shah, Business Head, IndiLuxe. The aprons, part of Apron Project 2020, are an extension of a gourmet food and kitchen category that includes cast iron cookware and edibles like lemon cookies and single origin coffee. Apron Project 2020 is reminiscent of the platform’s Shawl Project from two years ago, which kickstarted the IndiLuxe section and featured Manish Arora, Rahul Mishra and Rajesh Pratap Singh among the collaborators. Shah admits that ‘Kitchen’ is an important category and her “curation team is on the lookout for story-led collections”. For now, with the aprons limited to 10 pieces per designer, you might want to make quick work of bringing one home.  Rs. 5,000 each at   luxury.tatacliq.com/indiluxe
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Bibayo: the cashew nut you’ve never had||If there is one thing lockdown has helped us realise, it is the range of our local food. As pantries got lean early on, we turned to seasonal food, sometimes even growing our own. In Goa, foraging has always been part of the food culture — from wild vegetables like t aikilo (cassia tora) and bamboo shoots to snails from the paddy fields. At the moment, it is the season for a popular condiment that sprouts only during the early days of the monsoon. Neither a fruit nor a vegetable, the ghodka or bibayo are germinated cashew nut cotyledons (the embryonic first leaves of a seedling), and are usually added to curries to give them a nutty flavour and bite. I discovered this ingredient six years ago, when I visited my native village of Mashem in Canacona. I’d accompany my husband’s family when they went to cashew orchards after the rains subsided to collect them. “Fallen cashew nuts that are not picked up during summer provide free food during the monsoons,” says Miguel Braganza, an agriculture expert and former secretary of the Botanical Society of Goa. Interestingly, these seedlings were eaten even before people discovered how to extract the nut because “it didn’t require one to deal with the corrosive chemicals in the seed coat”.   Treat for a rainy day    Bibayo is never the main ingredient, but used as a supplement in dishes like tonak (curried beans with coconut and spices) or just sautéed with onions and grated coconut. Hansel Vaz of Cazulo Feni, and the man behind the state’s first Feni cellar, Beco das Garrafões, remembers eating them raw as a snack during his childhood. However, he says harvesting them is not an economical option. “The price of cashew nuts is good, so it becomes uneconomical to forage bibayo ,” he says, explaining how harvesting them kills saplings. And in a state where over 56,000 hectares of cashew is cultivated every year — to feed the feni and cashew nut industries — that can be a touchy topic. But others argue that it is a good way to use up extra saplings that will not grow under the shade of older trees. “These are always excess seeds in the orchards, gardens and backyard that are sprouting now. They are hyper-local, not many people know about them, and they aren’t sold in markets,” says Assavri Kulkarni, photographer and author of the photo book, Markets of Goa . She suggests eating them raw (like a cashew nut), to retain the nutrients (high in protein and zinc), or to add them to coconut and spice-based curry or pulao .  Seed to stove  For many like Marius Fernandes, who is involved in reviving Goa’s traditional way of life, it is also about re-connecting with the past. “Back in the 1970s, we used to go hunting in the hills and cashew groves. Now, most of them have been fenced, so it is getting rare,” he says. Instead, over the last five years, he’s taken things into his own hands. He collects seeds in May and plants them in his backyard and waits for the rains. “They start germinating by the third week of June. I use some for cooking, some for growing, and some I gift to my friends,” he says. Thanks to social media, and awareness about local ingredients, bibayo is getting noticed now and more urban dwellers are starting to experiment with it. But Kulkarni believes the limited quantity available is part of the fun. “It is not something that you can grow like a seasonal vegetable. So one should enjoy what one gets, to keep up nutritional levels and for some warmth during the rains.”
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital transformers in the pandemic||California-based Tom Fishburne’s marketing cartoon, Marketoonist , recently had a comic showing a man addressing the board, saying, “Digital transformation is years away. I don’t see our company having to change anytime soon,” just as a Covid-19 wrecking ball hits the building. This about sums up what has been happening with many companies across the world after the pandemic shut down, well, everything. The unprecedented crisis, however, is also helping vault us “five years forward in consumer and business digital adoption in a matter of around eight weeks”, states a McKinsey report. As social distancing norms are strictly enforced, companies are scrambling to put in place digitisation and automation protocols. The India story falls somewhere in the middle. In the Asia Pacific region, India is one of the top three digital adapters for hardware, along with Japan and China, but we are farther down the list in implementing software and automation, despite the over 560 million Internet users in the country (about 50% of our population). Fear of change is hobbling many, especially the legacy companies, while others are slowly exploring digital transformation (DX). And helping them are experts who strategise how cutting-edge technology can be used to bring in revenue, to automate internal processes and more.  DX and grow  Sri Manchala, founder and CEO of Trianz — which reimagines a company’s products and services, and reinvents the traditional business chain into a customer experience chain — says that it is a matter of concern that only 7% of companies globally (and across industries) understand what digitalisation entails. “It is not just creating a web presence and rolling out software; it is about reimagining value propositions and delivering exceptional experiences to all stakeholders,” he says. In simple terms, their clients must figure out how they can use tech to ensure that both customers and employees are satisfied. In the current scenario, customers and revenue channels are the priority. Eddie Chandhok, President, Global Delivery, Infogain — a Silicon Valley-headquartered company with a majority of clients under high-tech, retail, insurance and travel sectors — says the most successful brands/companies are those who “combine the sentiment of the day with software”. For instance, in retail, DX involves creating an online presence and an omni-channel experience, especially with more customers moving to online shopping. Brands like Future Retail are making a push for market share with their Future Pay super app, which offers products from their brands like Big Bazaar, eZone and fbb, despite previous failures in e-commerce. In India, consumer product companies have been the most proactive, as have telecommunications and financial services, says Kiran Menon, CEO and co-founder of Tydy, a Bengaluru-based platform that offers automated HR solutions. “The late ones, surprisingly, are IT companies. They just assumed they could build it internally, but now that they need something immediately, they are starting to realise [whatever they cobble together] will just be a quick-fix,” he says. Manchala adds automotive, logistics, travel and hospitality to the list, but he admits that most players “either react to pressure or digitise processes without adequate analysis. Construction and infrastructure, insurance and energy are languishing in a state of inertia, lagging on both analytics and digitalisation efforts”. At SignDesk, which helps companies with paperless workflow, founder Krupesh Bhat says financial services, education, healthcare and FMCG companies have been quick adopters. “Unilever is our client and Nivea and L’Oréal are currently in the process of deploying our service,” he shares. “With banks, typically, it was a hard sell before Covid. But now, especially with internal operations like HR and invoices, they are coming to us.”  Change for the better  Indian businesses are traditionally seen as slower to adopt and less experimentation-friendly. But with more Fortune 500 and Global 2000 companies setting up Innovation and Capability centres in the country, these attitudes are changing. “The biggest difference we’ve seen is that Indian businesses are becoming much more methodical in their ways of deployment. They also want to take advantage of every capability and feature of a product, and ensure every rupee spent is made full use of,” says Kiran. For example, CHROs (chief human resources officers) in companies like Unilever and AB InBev, the beer manufacturer, are exploring how Tydy can be used to virtualise training or approval workflows. Others are looking into creating single digital hubs [since people are working outside the corporate intranet] that employees can access. When Unlock 1.0 kicked in, India’s second largest private insurance company was faced with a huge number of break-in (lapses due to non-renewal) policies. Since the law mandates physical verification of a vehicle before it can be re-insured, they needed a viable solution. CamCom, a start-up that harnesses computer vision and deep learning to automate quality checks using smartphones, stepped in. Ajith Nayar, co-founder and CMO, says the company “integrated our automobile defect/damage assessment platform on their app to enable contactless self inspection, based on which a score was provided. The underwriting team then used this to calculate the premium”.  Sustain the momentum  Of course, almost all the apps, software as a solution (SaaS) models and platforms that are now being used were available before coronavirus changed the world as we know it. But now, instead of being mere “nice to have” options, they are “must-have” investments to future-proof businesses. Kiran notes that while earlier conversations around DX would stall at the budget stage, companies are now moving a lot of their finances to address automation requirements. “We are seeing a much faster sales cycle. We’ve had companies making decisions in a month’s time, where earlier it would take over four to five months,” he says, adding that in the past month, they have closed deals with two companies and three other prospects are set to close this month. Meanwhile at TCS, automation is in the top three in the allocation of their technology budget. They have teamed up with Automation Anywhere and are looking at RPA (Robotic Process Automation) enablement for everything from customer onboarding and to supply chain management and compliance. And over at ITC Infotech, the company is looking at providing each of its 9,000 employees a software bot to execute all mundane tasks by the end of the year. But Sanjay Menon, Managing Director, Publicis Sapient, shares that companies must understand that digital transformation is a journey and not a one-time exercise. “They have to stay in a constant state of being able to respond and act to sudden changes,” he states. In the Indian context, one of the things holding people back is a rigid mindset. “For companies that have been around for 50 or 100 years, their longevity is their identity. But it can also indicate a sense of self that has not changed.” It is not just about changing your way of working; it is about adapting to customer requirements. “Once people get used to a certain way of sourcing, their behaviour will harden. They’ll also prefer to stick to brands that adapt first and offer services they’re looking for,” he says, adding that in crunch situations, even the most established have to adapt to survive. Indian companies are surprising strategists too. “For a long time, it was convenient for many industries to just adopt what was happening in the world. The ‘Make in India’ sentiment is now driving people to create solutions here,” says Chandhok, adding that we have the people, the expertise and “the best payment and security systems comparable with anyone in the world”. To keep any company on top of the digital game, he recommends changing leadership every five to seven years. “Sometimes the way of thinking becomes old. You must see a significant change in your technology leader on a regular basis and if the person on top comes from somewhere completely different, you will have a fresh perspective. Otherwise, digital transformation will remain a mirage,” he concludes.  With inputs fromNidhi AdlakhaandSurya Praphulla Kumar
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Instagram Rich List: Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson (@therock) edged Kylie Jenner out of the top spot on this year's list of highest-paid celebrities. With over 188 million followers, he rakes in around $1 million per post. Currently, his timeline is filled with promos for Teremana, his tequila brand. Others on the list are Portugese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo and reality TV star Kim Kardashian West.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Add to the watchlist||Streaming giants are upping their game this month and Netflix leads with the Charlize Theron-starrer,The Old Guard. Directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, it follows a covert team of immortal mercenaries who fight to keep their identity a secret. On Amazon Prime, stay tuned forBreathe 2:  Into The Shadowswhich marks the streaming debut for Abhishek Bachchan. He plays a father whose child has been kidnapped, and the ransom is not money, but murder. Also starring Nithya Menen. Both premiere on July 10.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping it crafty||Artisans across the country are finding new ways to stay afloat. Pulicat’s palm leaf artistes are selling colourful pencil pouches (Rs. 100 each). Call for details on the initiative by USTTAD and NIFT, Chennai9840693387 New Delhi-based heritage community, The Random, is helping Khurja Weavers sell their wovenkhes(blankets), made of thick cotton that are perfect for the cooler months. Weighing 2.5 kg each, each pair is priced at Rs. 580 (Delhi-NCR) and Rs. 630 (other regions). WhatsApp for details.8826365320.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual pantry||Artisan pastry chef Karim Bourgi has a two-day, online live class via The Classroom by La Folie, today and tomorrow. He will demonstrate his latest collection of tarts and signatureentremetsfor a beginner to intermediate level. At Rs. 15,000 per head. Details on theclassroombylafolie.com Fancy some beet macaroons with salmon and mustard? Mumbai-based chef Sarita Pereira of The Lovefools will curate a special virtual two-course party menu for you. Email pantry.thelovefools.com.9820203360.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Oscars Voting Panel: The 2021 Academy Awards has been pushed to April 25 thanks to the ongoing pandemic, but there is plenty of change to look forward to. From India, Bollywood actors Alia Bhatt and Hrithik Roshan and costume designer Neeta Lulla, among others, have been invited to be part of a very diverse voting panel. Will this ensure that #OscarsSoWhite does not trend next year?
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Streaming couture||Fashion lovers across the world get a front row seat to Paris Fashion Week as they organise their very first digital couture fashion week starting Monday. British brand Ralph & Russo brings artificial intelligence to their autumn/winter 2020 show, with eight out of the season’s 52 looks being showcased by their avatar, Hauli. The backdrop will be a digital recreation of the seven contemporary wonders of the world, including the Taj Mahal in Agra and the Colosseum in Rome. At 8.30 pm IST on hautecouture.fhcm.paris
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Music and lyrics||Stream New Wave music group Noreum Machi’s concert,Same Same but Different. The Indo-Korean performance features choreographer Astad Deboo and the Trayam ensemble. Today at 6 pm on YouTube. Coming off the success of ‘NRI’, which garnered 2.5+ million views on YouTube, rapper, singer, songwriter and dancer Raja Kumari launched ‘Peace’, the new single from her forthcoming album debut. On her social media page, she has been sharing tips on meditation, holistic lifestyle, affirmations and mindfulness.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrity book club||Bollywood stars Lillete and Ira Dubey take to the (virtual) stage with author Shobhaa De for her latest series of e-books,Lockdown Liaisons. Today at 7 pm on Simon & Schuster India YouTube and Twitter channels. Celebrate languages withWords are Bridges, the latest from Jaipur Literature Festival and publisher HarperCollins India. The series, telecast every Thursday on JLF’s social media platforms, features book readings and conversations between Indian language authors and their English translators.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Tomorrow, on our ongoing Instagram Live series, beauty and wellness columnist Vasudha Rai will be in conversation with Dr Renita Rajan. The Chennai-based dermatologist and founder of Render Skin & Hair Clinic, will give viewers an insight into hormones and their effect on the skin. At 5 pm @thehinduweekend. Earlier sessions from this week, with singer Madame Gandhi, Bharatanatyam dancer Dr Srinidhi Chidambaram and author Amrita Tripati are now available on our IGTV.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Indi-Chini bhow bhow||I feel a tremendous sense of relief knowing that we have given a befitting reply to those who eyed our territory in Ladakh. I have immediately discontinued my Ayurvedic antidepressants. If we have been assured that all is well again, it means sab changa si majama che bagundi sooper-O-sooper. Time to crack open that celebratory thandai chilling in the fridge, take a refreshing swig, bite into my favourite crunchy snack, khakra (whose GST is 12% as opposed to that evil, anti-national 18% GST-attracting Kerala parotta ), and prepare for the future. Since it has been mentioned that people from all over India are writing to our leader and reiterating their support for the atma nirbhar Bharat movement, I would like to humbly submit here that I was among the first of those letter-writers. My missive to him sits quivering with pride on his desk, sandwiched between Kangana ben ’s and Payal ben ’s own handwritten letters. So how do we go about being vocal about local? While removing TikTok and other Chinese apps, breaking telephones and TVs is all well, we need a systemic change if you ask me. Something that will teach our errant neighbours a proper lesson. For starters, India consumes large quantities of a dish mistakenly referred to as noodles, supposedly of Chinese origin. For those who have read the correct history books, they know this is not true. ‘When Hiuen Tsang, the 7th century Chinese traveller, came to our ancient, all-knowing land, he met a wise woman, a culinary sage called Tarlamala Dalalanandi. She made the hungry traveller a quick dish called nav dhal , which he gobbled with a pair of chadee chamchas (which later came to be known as chopsticks). Tsang then quickly noted the recipe on a pre-Vedic laptop refurbished and gifted to him, ran away to China, called them noodles, after which they claimed them as their own. We need to re-annex and reclaim that dish and give it a new name, a name that would make the hair on any NRI’s chest stand erect in pride. My suggestion is lamba lamba shuddh desi tatkal maida chaval . And have a nationwide movement popularising the dish in its original form. Patriotic Indians suddenly free from the Tik Tok devil can come up with various Indian recipes using this profoundly Indian staple. Let’s talk of Bruce Lee for a minute. No Chinese has had a bigger impact on Indians than this gentleman. And that includes Marlon Brando in The Teahouse of the August Moon (in which he may have played a Japanese man, but let’s not quibble). Bruce Lee once said, ‘Defeat is a state of mind. No one is ever defeated until defeat is accepted as a reality.’ To me, that makes him more Indian than Rangoli Chandel. Who better than us at not accepting reality? So how do we use this to our advantage? Issue an Aadhaar Card in Bruce Lee’s name with immediate effect. Ha! The Chinese won’t see that coming, will they? Bruce Lee automatically, incontrovertibly, becomes Indian. Imagine the looks on the faces of enemy soldiers if we line our border with large cut-outs of Bruce Lee spinning thecharkha. And announce a new film starring a digitally-reanimated Lee — directed by SS Rajamouli — called Tiger Dragon Ko Achcha Sabak Sikha (Part 1 and 2). That’s not all. We reclaim the Chinese collar, Chinese Checkers and Chinese Whispers by calling them Desi collar, Bharatiya Checkers and Swadeshi Gupshup. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Inside Audemars Piguet’s hairspring||Sebastian Vivas, the Heritage and Museum Director at Audemars Piguet, speaks with unrestrained passion about the new Musée Atelier Audemars Piguet. The spiral-shaped museum atop a grassy knoll in the picturesque watchmaking village of Le Brassus (an hour from Geneva), Switzerland, opened a week ago and Vivas had a hand in selecting most of the 300-plus items on display. Though our phone conversation is peppered with PR-friendly statements like, “We’re respecting the past but building the future,” and how “visitors will appreciate the quality and beauty of the experience [discussing the radical choice of design]”, the occasional bon mots better sum up his thoughts. For example, he speaks with disdain about the advent of quartz watches in the 1980s, an existential crisis for the industry at the time, sharing, “Quartz watches are not made by watchmakers, but by my electricians.” An unsurprising statement for someone who has published a study on quartz in the Journal Suisse d'Horlogerie.   Follow the spiral  The museum isn’t the first of its kind in the area (Jaeger-LeCoultre’s Heritage Gallery is a neighbour), but it is the first to open post COVID-19. The Musée Atelier, featuring only handmade watches, has been designed by in-demand Copenhagen architect Bjarke Ingels’ firm BIG. So the contemporary 25,000 square metre spiral construction — inspired by a watch’s hairspring, and crafted from curved glass, brass mesh and steel — is dramatic and in stark contrast to the two 19th century buildings that it is nestled between. Vivas says the design is a “counterbalance” to its surroundings, reflecting the brand’s rootedness and forward-thinking spirit. Inside, curved glass walls and a sloping terrazzo floor(adapted to the land’s natural gradient) descend clockwise, guiding visitors through the various exhibits. Timepieces displayed in metal cases shaped like astronomical instruments, are often juxtaposed with materials that tie it to the land, like samples of iron (a hat tip to the village’s mining history). The collection, which also includes sculptures and moving models that demonstrate the inner workings of watches, serves as an introduction to Swiss horologists and the history of Audemars Piguet, which, till 1951, sold its complications to distributors. While the brand has had a private museum since 1992, according to Vivas, the new iteration — for which he has been putting together the exhibits since 2012 — “will be a living museum, animated by masterclasses and labs”. Such as the Grandes Complications workshop, which will explain how a single watch is painstakingly assembled from 648 pieces over the span of eight months, and the Métiers d’Art workshop, which will showcase jewellers and gem setters at work on the H aute Joaillerie collections.   In first person  How will the museum make use of the digital, especially now? Not through virtual tours. “Both the museum and its digital presence will be complimentary. But to offer a completely guided online tour is not our idea because nothing will replace the experience of being here. We will, however, organise talks for particular watches and around certain events.” Stressing that “we are not planning for the next five to six months, but for the next 50 to 60 years”, Vivas shares that it will be impractical to let people see the 300+ objects on a screen. “The story from this region is about exporting handmade timepieces to the world’s capitals. That is what has made people want to come and visit this small, isolated village,” he concludes.  The museum is currently offering guided visits by appointment for groups of up to 12 people. The 90-minute tours are available on weekdays through September 28.Visit: maap.shop.secutix.com
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||COVID care gets more hectic||“I was a little guarded when the first four suspected cases of COVID-19 were admitted to the hospital in the early hours of March 17. But there were two nurses to look after the four patients who had travel history to countries with COVID-19 cases at that time,” said Anna (name changed), a nurse in her fifties working at Lok Nayak Hospital. To her relief, all four patients tested negative for the virus and were discharged within 14 days. Three and a half months later, Anna is recuperating from fever and weakness at her home. She tested positive for COVID-19 in the second week of June. “Initially, there were a lot of administrative issues and everyone was scared about the spread of the virus. Things stabilised with time and facilities for workers improved. But the workload increased too,” Ms. Anna said. Workers and officials of Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest COVID-19 facility in the city, and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital told The Hindu that compared to the initial phase of COVID-19 outbreak many facilities have improved and the system to fight the disease has stabilised. But the number of severe cases being brought to the hospital has increased considerably, and wearing PPE and providing health care has become more difficult. “In the first batch, there were two nurses for four patients. But now, there are two nurses for 18-20 patients. The patients who came early on were not in a complicated condition and we just had to give them HCQ tablets or paracetamol. But now they need more care as they have breathing problems and we need to keep a closer watch and help the patients with every little problem as attendants are not allowed,” Ms. Anna said. She said the workers are getting exhausted with excessive workload, an issue highlighted by Medical Director, Lok Nayak Hospital, Suresh Kumar. “The number of patients has gone up and also more sick patients are coming in. Such patients need extra care, which is taking a toll on nurses and doctors,” Mr. Suresh said. Lok Nayak, which has 2,000 beds, has admitted 5,777 patients till June 23 and 4,169 of them have been discharged, said the official. Mr. Suresh said controlling the spread of the infection among the workers is another challenge. “About 80 hospital workers have contracted the infection so far,” he said. At least 13 healthcare workers, including doctors, have died after testing positive for the virus in city hospitals. A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to calls and messages inquiring the actual death toll of health workers due to COVID-19. When it began Mr. Suresh said initially the challenge was to go through the policies of World Health Organization and other agencies and prepare standard operating procedures for the staff on how to treat patients, put on and remove PPE suits and create a system to fight the disease. “Two weeks before the first COVID-19 patient was admitted, we conducted one-hour training sessions for the workers. There was a strong fear in the minds of doctors and nurses and we tried to address them,” the MD said. He said that in the first few weeks of the outbreak conducting the test was a problem. “Initially, our lab could test only 50 samples in a day and there was a delay in getting results from other labs. Now we have revamped our microbiology lab at Maulana Azad Medical College and we can test up to 400 samples per day.” He also said Lok Nayak has been treating people from outside Delhi. “About 20%-25% of COVID patients have their homes outside Delhi. For instance, they may be working as a driver or a security guard in Delhi but the addresses they give to us are of their home towns in Bihar or Uttar Pradesh,” he said. “Patients coming from other States for treatment maybe around 10%, but it is difficult to give an exact figure,” said Mr. Suresh. He said they have tried to do their best and have even conducted 1,140 dialysis sessions since March 17, which is the highest by any hospital in Delhi. Current condition Dr. Sunil Kumar, Director-Professor of GTB Hospital, who was the medical director of the hospital till June 27, said communication was one of the biggest challenges. “Everybody wants highly personalised care, but not every COVID case needs such personalised care and people need to understand that. When someone is in ICU, that person needs more care and we do give them personalised care,” he said. “Healthcare workers are feeling burned out and motivating them is also important. Right now we have enough personnel, but if the patient load increases, we would need more staff,” Mr. Sunil said. A member of the nurses’ association of GTB Hospital said the pressure is increasing and they need more workers as the number of patients is going up. The MD said the hospital has enough staff at this point. As of July 2, only 274 of 1,500 beds at the hospital were occupied. The MD of Lok Nayak Hospital said hiring more staff is not easy amid COVID-19 pandemic. “Earlier in June, there were 14 vacant posts of senior resident doctors in the medicine department and we advertised for a walk-in interview. Only two candidates came for it and we hired them. People are not applying as they are reluctant to work in a COVID hospital,” said Mr. Suresh. He said the hospital will need 25% more healthcare workers when the total number of patients crosses 1,000 and even more if it crosses 1,500. As of July 2, 709 beds were occupied in the 2,000-bed facility. Ms. Anna said there should be a rotation of workers to reduce their workload. “People working in non-COVID hospitals and COVID hospitals with lesser cases are getting the same salary as us, but their workload is less. This is not fair to us. There should be rotation of staff between different Delhi government hospitals, so that the staff of one hospital is not overburdened with COVID duty. Many are leaving behind their young children at home and coming to duty and staying at hotels,” she said. “We have fewer nurses than actually required and extra nurses have not been hired since the pandemic broke out. In fact, the number of nurses has gone down. If the number of patients increases, we won’t be able to manage with the current strength of healthcare workers. We had highlighted this issue when the Chief Minister [Arvind Kejriwal] visited the hospital last week,” said Shoukat Ali, vice-president of the nurses’ association at Lok Nayak Hospital.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||How artwork from Jayshree Poddar’s workshop with children at an NGO are being turned into quilts||Last August, Jayshree Poddar, the design director at textile firm Atmosphere, visited Aim for Seva Chatralayam for Girls in Bengaluru armed with square pieces of kora fabric and paints. Invited to conduct a painting workshop as part of the non-profit’s three-year-old Art For Development project, little did Poddar know that this would be the beginning of a larger initiative. Now, patterns of splattered paint and fingerprints from the session are being digitised to create infant (36x48) and toddler (46x60) quilts (Rs. 2,900 and Rs. 3,900 respectively) and sold by Aim for Seva via WhatsApp. “The idea was to let the children [between ages nine and 16 years] express themselves. In the first half, I let them paint as they pleased, not adhering to any form. Some dabbed and smeared paint while others created straight lines and smudged patterns,” says Poddar, adding that in the second half they painted with just the three primary colours. Describing it as an “unusual interaction”, the NID alumnus explains how the girls were watchful in the beginning. “I don’t speak Kannada, so it was all based on actions, and sitting on the ground with them helped. Before we started the workshop, we also had a small session on body movements to help them open up physically,” says the Bengaluru-based designer, whose 2018 solo exhibition, Many Moons , explored the phases of the moon on woven jacquard. Playing with colour By day’s end, Poddar had approximately 100 painted squares. Later, when Aruna Madnani, the lead at Aim for Seva, suggested crafting quilts with the artwork, Poddar began experimenting with leftover fabric from one of her mills that specialises in bed linen. “We selected nine designs to digitise. We printed the abstract renderings on fine cotton, added a border, made the colours brighter, added the artist’s signature, and quilted them with a 200 gsm poly filling,” says Poddar, who also helms textile company Himatsingka Seide. She also added a removable mulmul cover. “It not only softens dark hues, but makes cleaning easier. You just have to wash the cover and the quilt is protected.” Trials were also done with pastel shades of pink, blue and green, and each design now has two options: dark and light. The fabric is colour-fast, machine washable and comes with a tiny matching bag. Taking it online While the NGO wanted to have a physical sale for the quilts, to help the children learn about the retail aspect, they have taken to online sales given the present scenario. Madnani says that while trials were paused prior to lockdown as they ran out of ink (which comes from China), work restarted in June. “We have received enquiries for junior sizes and we are considering designing larger (54x72) quilts as well. Proceeds from the initiative will be used to buy things for the hostel,” she says. As for Poddar’s plans on continuing the project (a first for her), it is a resounding yes. “This initiative took me back to my childhood — of having someone getting you to feel colour and clay. It is like planting a seed in a young mind. These will remain as memories and the children will want to take the learnings forward and continue creating something new. This is the same emotion I’ve had for the last 30 years: to unlearn, to be free and uninhibited. We have managed to do that with this project.”  The quilts are made-to-order. For details, contact Namita Kejriwal at 9901300999
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Aprons: fashion’s newest accessory||What, at one point, would have been a considerate gift for a dinner host is now something we must reserve for ourselves. A designer apron. For many of us doing our own cooking and dish-washing in the last few months, an apron designed by Anavila or Antar-Agni or eight other contemporary designers might be that tiny nod to luxury we sorely need. IndiLuxe, the handcrafted and sustainable segment of Tata CLiQ Luxury, has roped in 10 designers this season to create aprons that reflect their sensibilities. So Anavila, known for her handwoven linen saris, has a natural linen apron lined with soft mulmul , handmade lace detail, printed piping and a pocket. All 10 designers have factored pockets, even while exploring recycled fabrics or the zero-waste concept. Gaurav Khanijo’s denim apron has a belt, buttons and a phone pocket; Gautam Sinha of Nappa Dori puts canvas and leather to good use, with a multi-purpose clasp; ruffles and a vintage touch come from Payal Singhal; and Urvashi Kaur offers hers with upcycled Shibori panels andkanthadetails. “Each apron has its own unique personality, different from each other yet connected with a contemporary aesthetic,” explains Rina Shah, Business Head, IndiLuxe. The aprons, part of Apron Project 2020, are an extension of a gourmet food and kitchen category that includes cast iron cookware and edibles like lemon cookies and single origin coffee. Apron Project 2020 is reminiscent of the platform’s Shawl Project from two years ago, which kickstarted the IndiLuxe section and featured Manish Arora, Rahul Mishra and Rajesh Pratap Singh among the collaborators. Shah admits that ‘Kitchen’ is an important category and her “curation team is on the lookout for story-led collections”. For now, with the aprons limited to 10 pieces per designer, you might want to make quick work of bringing one home.  Rs. 5,000 each at   luxury.tatacliq.com/indiluxe
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Khureji Khas planners tapped into Ayodhya, Article 370 anger’||Delhi police, in the chargesheet submitted into the February 26 stone-pelting in Khureji Khas, Jagatpuri, has linked “anger” over the blunting of Article 370 and 35A and the Babri Masjid verdict with the north-east Delhi riots. Police stated that they questioned Khalid Saifi, co-founder of a rights group United Against Hate, and former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan in Mandoli jail. During questioning, Khalid stated that the plan to foment clashes in Khureji Khas was hatched because of the conviction that the current government at the Centre is “anti-Muslim”. ‘Planned incident’ The chargesheet states that during investigation, it was revealed that Khalid and Ishrat, along with Jamia Coordination Committee member Amanullah and other students of Jamia Millia Islamia, planned and “committed the incident”. “Khalid said that he was helped by JCC member Amanullah, locals and students of Jamia because they believed that the present government is anti-Muslim. And after abrogation [sic] of articles 370 and 35A from Kashmir, their belief was strengthened. And their anger after Babri Masjid verdict increased and after that CAA was implemented following which there were talks of NRC and NPR... they thought that this is the opportune moment to incite people and aggravate the issue in order to bend the government before us,” the document reads. The document further claimed that in view of this ‘plan’, they got CAA, NPR, NRC-related pamphlets distributed on January 11. On January 12, a meeting was held in a madrasa in which local women and children were “incited” for a sit-in following which a demonstration was carried out by forming a human chain. On January 13, they began a sit-in near a petrol pump in Khureji where “inflammatory speeches were delivered to turn people against the government”. The chargesheet also states that they planned to turn protests into riots during U.S. President Donald Trump’s visit to tarnish the image of India. “ Jiske liye inko PFI se paisa bhi mil raha tha (For which they were getting money from Popular Front of India)”. Police said that while Khalid signed the confession statement in jail, Ishrat didn’t. ‘Thrashed in custody’ Khalid was arrested on February 26. His wife, who met him in jail in February-end, had alleged that he was thrashed in police custody. However, the chargesheet attributes the injuries to a melee: “As it was a stampede-like situation, he slipped on bricks and people trampled over him, which led to injuries in his hand and legs.” Khalid was then taken for medical examination. The chargesheet has been filed against seven persons including a minor on charges of rioting, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy among others and under the Arms Act. Those chargesheeted include Saleem alias Sameer Pradhan, Sameer Ansari, Vikram Pratap, Ishrat, Khalid and Sabu Ansari. Both Khalid and Ishrat have sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act slapped against them. Ishrat was also granted bail in the last week of May to get married but the court refused to extend her interim bail in the third week of June.
04 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder accuses Sukhbir, Harsimrat of misleading people||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday hit out at Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal and Union Minister Harsimrat Badal, accusing them of misleading the people of the State to promote their petty political agenda in the midst of the COVID-19 crisis. Flaying Mr. Badal over his allegations of ration embezzlement by Congressmen in Punjab, the Chief Minister asserted that the MLAs were supporting his government’s efforts to ensure that nobody goes hungry. The MLAs are close to the people and well placed to help out those in immediate or urgent need, which is what they have been doing, said Captain Amarinder. He dismissed Mr. Badal’s allegations that the foodgrains received by the State government had not been distributed among the people, pointing out that even the figures cited by the SAD president were totally incorrect, showing how pathetically removed he was from reality. Taking on Ms. Harsimrat Badal on the issue of fuel VAT, the Chief Minister said if she was so concerned about the impact of the escalating fuel prices on the common man, why did she not pressurise the Union government, in which she is a Cabinet Minister, to put a stop on the uncontrolled hike in prices of diesel and petrol. Fuel prices “Ms. Harsimrat seemed to have had no problem with the Central government earning more than Rs. 2 lakh crore from the fuel price hike but when it came to her own State, which was reeling under an unprecedented fiscal crisis and was struggling to cope with the COVID-19 pandemic, she found it anti-people,” said Captain Amaridner. “If the Badals are sincere in opposing the fuel price hike by the Centre, as they claim to be, why don’t they quit the NDA coalition at the Centre? Why is Ms. Harsimrat still in the Union Cabinet,” he asked.  If the Badals are sincere in opposing the fuel price hike by the Centre, as they claim to be, why don’t they quit the NDA coalition at the Centre?   Amarinder Singh Punjab CM
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Lost between truth and fiction||Loneliness is hyper-real in Werner Herzog’s Family Romance, LLC . The German auteur’s gaze on longing and solitude is raw and unfiltered. Through documentary aesthetics of using a single camera, often moving uncomfortably close to the actors’ faces, Herzog brings out a feeling of intrusion, as the film follows Yuichi Ishii, a father-on-hire, to an unsuspecting 12-year-old, Mahiro Tanimoto. There is a rudimentary, almost dispassionate perspective on what seems like a bizarre business, when taken out of cultural context, where one can rent a father, friend, or co-worker. The film has rough cuts almost to an amateurish degree. One would expect this realism to cut close, yet Herzog’s film has a detached quality to it, one that barely manages to make an emotional dent. The sentiment that overrides is that of oddity. Even as the narrative meanders and the subject at hand has profound relevance in the modern world, the film evokes a feeling of strangeness, rather than of introspection. The disconnect between the film’s aesthetics, staccato acting and intriguing subject, forms both the appeal and dissonance. Known for his documentaries as well as his fiction features, Herzog could have captured this subject in one of his non-fiction works. He showcases Tokyo intermittently through clean drone shots, which function as an antithesis to the film’s otherwise rough look, yet again blurring the lines between reality and fiction. The casting also lends this film some verisimilitude. Ishii, who runs a rent-a-family service off-screen, may not be a terribly good actor, but his sheer presence, playing a version of himself on-screen, feels like one big meta-joke. As he goes about his routine, and eventually forms a bond with Mahiro, while pretending to be her long-lost father. Dealing with her affection in a morally-conscious way, he provides for a fascinating character study. It makes me wonder if he’s the same in real life. It’s this play between truth and imagination that’s most intriguing in an otherwise is utterly banal film. With a conscious obfuscation of fact and fiction, Herzog perhaps wishes to comment on performative relationships in modern times. The intent is most evocative in a scene where Ishii explores a robot hotel, speculating on the possibilities of AI having emotions someday. While commenting on the capitalist world, where money can buy relationships, Family Romance, LLC illustrates a larger dystopian reality, where human connections are transactional. In one of his interviews at the Cannes Film Festival, where the film had its world premiere in 2019, Herzog talks about ‘quasi-friendship’ in the world of social media.  Family Romance, LLC in that light, has a lot to say about how these quasi friendships could one day become the biggest export of a soul-less capitalist world. But the film's biggest drawback is that intent and commentary seldom match what we see on-screen. What we are given is as blank and bland as AI humans, who perhaps have a lot going on inside their heads. Family Romance, LLC will premiere on Mubi World on July 4
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Bibayo: the cashew nut you’ve never had||If there is one thing lockdown has helped us realise, it is the range of our local food. As pantries got lean early on, we turned to seasonal food, sometimes even growing our own. In Goa, foraging has always been part of the food culture — from wild vegetables like t aikilo (cassia tora) and bamboo shoots to snails from the paddy fields. At the moment, it is the season for a popular condiment that sprouts only during the early days of the monsoon. Neither a fruit nor a vegetable, the ghodka or bibayo are germinated cashew nut cotyledons (the embryonic first leaves of a seedling), and are usually added to curries to give them a nutty flavour and bite. I discovered this ingredient six years ago, when I visited my native village of Mashem in Canacona. I’d accompany my husband’s family when they went to cashew orchards after the rains subsided to collect them. “Fallen cashew nuts that are not picked up during summer provide free food during the monsoons,” says Miguel Braganza, an agriculture expert and former secretary of the Botanical Society of Goa. Interestingly, these seedlings were eaten even before people discovered how to extract the nut because “it didn’t require one to deal with the corrosive chemicals in the seed coat”.   Treat for a rainy day    Bibayo is never the main ingredient, but used as a supplement in dishes like tonak (curried beans with coconut and spices) or just sautéed with onions and grated coconut. Hansel Vaz of Cazulo Feni, and the man behind the state’s first Feni cellar, Beco das Garrafões, remembers eating them raw as a snack during his childhood. However, he says harvesting them is not an economical option. “The price of cashew nuts is good, so it becomes uneconomical to forage bibayo ,” he says, explaining how harvesting them kills saplings. And in a state where over 56,000 hectares of cashew is cultivated every year — to feed the feni and cashew nut industries — that can be a touchy topic. But others argue that it is a good way to use up extra saplings that will not grow under the shade of older trees. “These are always excess seeds in the orchards, gardens and backyard that are sprouting now. They are hyper-local, not many people know about them, and they aren’t sold in markets,” says Assavri Kulkarni, photographer and author of the photo book, Markets of Goa . She suggests eating them raw (like a cashew nut), to retain the nutrients (high in protein and zinc), or to add them to coconut and spice-based curry or pulao .  Seed to stove  For many like Marius Fernandes, who is involved in reviving Goa’s traditional way of life, it is also about re-connecting with the past. “Back in the 1970s, we used to go hunting in the hills and cashew groves. Now, most of them have been fenced, so it is getting rare,” he says. Instead, over the last five years, he’s taken things into his own hands. He collects seeds in May and plants them in his backyard and waits for the rains. “They start germinating by the third week of June. I use some for cooking, some for growing, and some I gift to my friends,” he says. Thanks to social media, and awareness about local ingredients, bibayo is getting noticed now and more urban dwellers are starting to experiment with it. But Kulkarni believes the limited quantity available is part of the fun. “It is not something that you can grow like a seasonal vegetable. So one should enjoy what one gets, to keep up nutritional levels and for some warmth during the rains.”
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre’s intervention in pandemic management created chaos in city’||The ‘intrusion’ by the BJP-led Centre in administrative matters related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic over the last 15 days had “created chaos” in the city, Delhi government sources alleged. While the Centre’s stepping in did bring “some benefits” in terms of equipment such as oxygen cylinders and rapid testing kits, the “damage done” was “much greater” and the promises made to the Delhi government by the Centre were “never fulfilled,” the sources argued. However, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) sources countered the allegations. The Delhi government sources argued that the Centre promised 2,000 beds out of which 1,000 were to be made available by June 21. “Except 500-odd beds in Jhajjar, which isn’t convenient for Delhi citizens, the rest of the Central government hospitals have not provided beds,” they alleged, adding that they had specifically asked for ICU beds. Counter claim MHA sources countered this allegation stating that as on July 1, the total COVID-19 dedicated beds available in Delhi were 15,243, of only 5,747 were occupied. Moreover, the 1,000-bed COVID-19 hospital developed by DRDO would be operational soon and would have 250-odd ICU beds. Besides, MHA sources stated that 500 beds had been made available in AIIMS, Jhajjar; 350 in ESI hospital, Okhla; 50 in All India Institute of Ayurveda, Sarita Vihar; 150 additional beds in Base Hospital of the Army; 180 isolation beds in the NCC camp near Base hospital and 120 beds at Bawana, Chawla and Jharoda Kalan. “A total of 2,300 beds with sufficient ICU capacity has been made available. It has been conveyed to the Delhi government by the Health Ministry on June 17,” MHA sources said. All the same, Delhi government sources alleged that the Centre had promised 8,000 beds in train coaches. However, less than 200 beds, not coaches, has been provided so far. MHA sources retorted that the Railways had made arrangements for 503 coaches with a capacity of around 8,000 beds. “Since only 24 patients have been referred to these coaches, the remaining are waiting to be deployed. Besides, a 10,000-bed COVID care centre has been operationalised in Chhatarpur by the Central Armed Police Forces led by ITBP,” they said. Delhi government sources also alleged that only 10,000 testing kits were provided, which got over in two days. But MHA sources refuted, saying that RT-PCR testing was ramped up to a level of nearly 10,000 per day after June 14 from 4000-5,000 per day, which was a three-fold increase. “There is no shortage of testing kits and they will be supplied as per need and demand,” they said.  Except 500-odd beds in Jhajjar, which isn’t convenient for Delhi citizens, the rest of the Central government hospitals have not provided beds Delhi govt. sources
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Creator of WhatsApp group used in riots still absconding||The man who created a WhatsApp group — Kattar Hindut Ekta— to “take revenge on Muslims” during the riots that broke out in Delhi earlier this year is still absconding. The WhatsApp group allegedly led to the killing of nine men from the minority community on February 25 and 26. A senior police officer said 12 mobile phones have been seized from the persons who were arrested after being identified with the help of technical surveillance during the investigation. Some of the accused had deleted their chats but it was recovered with the help of a forensic laboratory. The chargesheet reads: “On the analysis of their WhatsApp messages, it is revealed that Mohit Sharma and Shivam Bhardwaj are the members of the WhatsApp group — Kattar Hindut Ekta —, which was created on February 25. All the prints of their WhatsApp chats were taken on record. The mobile phone of the accused, Lokesh Kumar, who messaged in the group that he has killed two Muslims with the help of his men and thrown the bodies into the canal, was recovered and seized. It was later found that Kumar had not only deleted all the message but also quit the group.” The WhatsApp group was created from a mobile number registered in the name of a woman who lives in north-east Delhi’s Bhajan Pura. It was found that the mobile was used by his son Ritik Gupta, who lives in Bhagirathi Vihar area. “We have formed several teams to nab the creator of the group. He is absconding. We had sent teams to Western Uttar Pradesh based on some leads. More culprits will be identified with the arrest of Ritik,” said an officer. This group was created on February 25 at 12.49 p.m. Initially, there were 125 members in this group, said an officer, adding that 47 people had exited the group by March 8. The chargesheet states that the WhatsApp chat in the Kattar Hindut Ekta group clearly falls in the category of extra-judicial confession. It says that these confessions have been done voluntarily by a few of the accused and further the attention of the court is also drawn towards the timings of these confessions, which are exactly at the time when the offenses were being committed. The extra-judicial confessions are further fortified by eyewitnesses’ accounts, which fully establish the culpability of the accused persons. The circumstantial evidence so collected during the investigation form a chain of events. It is to further emphasise that these extra-judicial confessions were not extracted by the police officer but are fully voluntary.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Chief Minister hands over Rs. 1 crore to late doctor’s family||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday personally offered condolences and handed over a cheque of Rs. 1 crore to the family of Aseem Gupta, the doctor who succumbed to COVID-19 over the weekend. Dr. Gupta was a senior anesthesiologist at Lok Nayak Hospital and had contracted the virus in the process of discharging his duties in the ICU on June 3. Mr. Kejriwal said that the amount was “very small” but was a symbol of Delhi’s respect and honour towards Dr. Gupta, whom he termed a “people’s doctor”, adding that supporting his family was the government’s duty. Mr. Kejriwal reached Dr. Gupta’s residence at Dilshad Garden around 12 noon and paid floral tributes before assuring his family of full support from the Delhi government. The cheque was handed over to Dr. Gupta’s wife, Nirupama, following his interaction with family members. “Dr. Aseem Gupta was martyred while treating and saving the lives of COVID-19 patients. This is a very big loss for us. The biggest support for Delhi is the way its doctors, nurses and all the paramedic staff are working and saving lives,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “I spoke to some colleagues of Dr. Gupta. Dr. Suresh, who is the head of Lok Nayak Hospital, told me that Dr. Gupta never cared about getting infected. He served the patients with all his strength. Even his neighbours told me that he was the first to come forward and help as soon as anybody needed help in the colony,” he also said. Dr. Gupta’s spouse, who is also a doctor in Noida, Mr. Kejriwal said, wanted a transfer in Delhi. “She works with the U.P. government right now. We will try our best to shift her to a Delhi government hospital,” he also said. Mr. Kejriwal also said that considering the situation of Delhi a month ago and the sudden surge in the number of COVID-19 cases after the lockdown was lifted, the projections were that Delhi would have 60,000 active cases. “However, there are only 25,000 active cases in Delhi today. This is the result of the sustainable efforts of all the people of Delhi, governments and the society. There is a downward trend in Delhi, but it does not mean that we will not do anything to address the situation,” he said.
04 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||90 infected in Odisha village||A small hamlet in Odisha’s Rayagada district may find a prominent place in COVID-19 map with close to 40% of its population infected by coronavirus. The Rayagada district administration sealed the border of Vijaypur village on the outskirts of Gurnupur town as 90 of the 230 people living in that village were found infected with the virus. The source of infection is said to be a family which had migrated from Coimbatore of Tamil Nadu on May 20. The family comprising a couple and a four-year-old child was kept in an institutional quarantine for a week and asked to undergo home quarantine on May 27. On June 6, the person developed symptom of COVID-19 that forced Rayagada district administration to review the situation. “We collected his sample and him infected on June 13. As the family was staying in a small hamlet, we collected swab samples randomly. We detected 16 infected villagers on two occasions. Subsequently, we decided to conduct tests in the entire village. Now, we have found 74 COVID-19 cases in the village,” said Artabandhu Nayak, Chief District Medical Officer of Rayagada. From contact-tracing, it was found that the family had not stepped outside their village during the past one and half month, said Dr. Nayak. Administration has declared Vijaypur as a containment zone. It is keeping a close watch on movement of villagers. When the family arrived from Coimbatore on May 20, Rayagada district did not have a single case. Meanwhile, the State government announced a 45-day door-to-door survey in villages and urban areas. ASHA workers will collect information about COVID-19 symptoms and other ailments. “We urge people not to hide their symptoms,” Subroto Bagchi, State chief COVID-19 spokesperson, said, adding that the government would emphasise on trace, test and treat. The State government has also decided to begin plasma therapy for treatment of COVID-19 patients. A technical committee will be constituted for its implementation. This will be started in four major health institutions of the State. Bhubaneswar-based Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital has been chosen by the Indian Council for Medical Research for undertaking human clinical trials of India’s first COVID-19 vaccine. IMS and SUM Hospital is also among four such institutions in the State which will undertake convalescent plasma therapy.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||2,520 new cases in 24 hours take Capital’s COVID-19 tally to 94,695||The Capital reported 2,520 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 94,695, stated a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Friday. The bulletin added that 59 deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 2,923. Of the total cases in Delhi, 65,624 people have recovered and there are 26,148 active cases. Also, 2,617 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, the bulletin said. The heath bulletin also said that 15,878 patients are currently under home isolation, while out of the 15,243 available hospital beds, 5,635 are occupied. It added that 10,577 RT PCR tests and 13,588 rapid antigen tests were conducted. The number of antigen tests has gone up since Thursday. A total of 5,96,695 tests have been done here so far taking the number to 31,405 tests per million. Over the past seven days, the city has seen the number of cases stay below 3,000 per day. The Delhi government added in the bulletin that an order has been issued for deploying psychiatrist working in institutions under Health and Family Welfare Department to dedicated COVID-19 facilities to aid patients. SI succumbs to virus Sub-Inspector Dharmvir Singh, posted in north-west district, passed away on Friday, the police said. He was admitted to a private hospital in Noida on June 13 for a bypass surgery and was operated on June 22. He was tested positive on Thursday and in the early hours of Friday, he passed away.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Pinjra Tod member can talk to lawyer through videoconferencing’||The Tihar Jail officials on Friday told the Delhi High Court that Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, arrested in a case related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi, can have access to her lawyer via videoconference as this facility was being provided in jail no.6 of Tihar jail where women are lodged. The submission by Tihar jail officials was made in response to a plea by Ms. Kalita seeking daily access to her lawyer through videoconferencing and to carry books and reading material in prison. With regard to her plea as well as her concern that jail officials would be able to overhear the videoconferencing sessions with her lawyer, the High Court said the same order as passed in the matter of co-accused and Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, who had raised similar issues, can be made applicable to Ms. Kalita. The court had allowed Ms. Narwal to have two videoconferences per week for 30 minutes each. She was permitted to source books from outside the prison and headphones were to be provided to her to ensure officials do not overhear conversations.
04 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||At 1,178, Gurugram witnesses a dip in active COVID-19 cases||While the number of people testing positive for COVID-19 per day has gone down in Gurugram over the past few days, the number of those being discharged has increased, bringing down the number of active patients. Of the total 5,699 patients having tested positive for the virus so far, 77% have recovered. Only 1,178 cases are now active, including 797 people in home isolation. This information was given by Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, Vinay Pratap Singh, in a joint press conference on Friday with Divisional Commissioner Ashok Sangwan, Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri and DCP (Headquarter) Nitika. Mr. Singh said only 9% of the total people infected so far were in hospitals. Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav said the timely discharge of the recovered patients and the low rate of infection had led to high recovery rate even as the number of tests per day had gone up. Ms. Nikita said that 6,000 people were issued challans by the police for not wearing mask. She added that 2,000 police personnel were deployed for COVID-19 management-related work and 80 out of them had been tested and found to have contracted the infection so far. However, only 14 of these were active cases. She informed that the police had received a list of 1,500 people from the MCG for contact tracing and around 1,200 were located. Ms. Nikita added that the names and addresses of 270 were found to be wrong. Mr. Sangwan made an appeal to the people to get their COVID-19 test done in case they had symptoms, adding that the Rapid Antigen Test was being conducted free of cost. He added that more than 2,000 tests were being conducted every day in the district. Out of the total 1,486 beds earmarked for the COVID-19 patients in Gurugram, 375 beds were occupied, said Mr. Khatri. Similarly 102 ICU beds and 38 ventilators are also filled. As many as 192 ICU beds and 92 ventilators are reserved for those infected. All hospitals put together, Gurugram has 4,708 beds, 679 ICU beds and 327 ventilators.
04 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab nod for rapid antigen testing project||The Punjab government on Friday gave the go-ahead for launching a pilot project for COVID-19 rapid antigen testing from the coming week, as well as e-registration for persons entering the State through Shambhu border in Patiala, to ensure strict monitoring of people coming from the high-risk National Capital Region. On successful completion of the pilot rapid antigen project, which will cover a minimum of 1,000 tests, it would be done on the migrants coming back to the State in the wake of reopening of industries and for work in the paddy fields. The State government will procure rapid antigen testing kits to scale up its COVID testing capacity, which is even now higher than the Union government’s mandate of 140 tests per million per day in regions with positivity factor of less than 10%, an official statement said. “With positivity rate of just 2%, Punjab is already conducting 242 tests per million per day as part of its comprehensive strategy to check further spread of the pandemic,” it added. Home quarantine Notwithstanding the Centre’s revised guidelines replacing home quarantine for domestic travellers with self-monitoring, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ruled out any such move in Punjab in view of the large number of people coming to the State every day from Delhi - NCR, where cases were currently spiralling.
04 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Teacher arrested for obscene video||The police in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district have arrested a university teacher for posting an obscene video that went viral on social media. The video features him in a “compromising position” with a woman, police said. The district’s Superintend of Police Sreejith T. told journalists that Dhrubajit Choudhury, an assistant professor in Dibrugarh University’s Department of Mathematics, was arrested after the varsity authorities lodged an FIR against him. He was produced in a local court on July 3 and sent to judicial custody. The accused was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. The assistant professor told the police that the video was shot three years ago in Guwahati. The camera used was recovered based on his confession.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Ex-ASI’s son shot dead by unidentified assailants||A man was shot dead allegedly by some unidentified assailants in Rohini, the police said on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Nitin Dalal, they said, adding that he was the son of a retired ASI of Delhi Police. “We are probing the case from all possible angles, including mistaken identity and personal disputes. Neeraj, the victim’s brother, has been denying his association with Tillu or his gang. The possibility of the murder could be the fallout of the ongoing gang rivalry,” said DCP (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra. He said at 9.30 p.m., Nitin was going to his family’s farmhouse when his car was intercepted by another. The assailants then suddenly opened fire at Nitin’s car, critically injuring him. Nitin died during treatment, the police said.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||VC urged to rethink on scrapping of ECA quota||Academic and Executive council members of Delhi University wrote to the Vice Chancellor on Friday calling for a rethink on the scrapping of extra curricular activities quota. The university’s decision to scrap the quota has disappointed a large number of students, who had been honing their skills in particular fields, the teachers wrote. Students admitted under this quota, contribute significantly towards the cultural life of colleges, they argued. The teachers quoted a letter written by ‘gurus and artists’ to President Ram Nath Kovind, where they wrote that it was regrettable that “in this year, when the constituency of the arts is already reeling under unprecedented stresses, its valence has been further eroded with the decision of not opening the ECA quota to the arts...” .
04 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Main accused in Meerut double murder case held||The main accused in the twin murder case of a Dalit girl and her father which shocked Meerut on June 27 was arrested on Thursday night after a brief encounter with the police. The incident happened two days before the 19-year-old Aanchal was scheduled to get married. A video of the incident that went viral on Wednesday showed the assailants entering the residence of Raj Kumar in Transport Nagar area when a pre-wedding music function was going on and Aanchal was dancing. The accused, who was not visible in the video, allegedly first shot at her father and then fired at Aanchal. Chakrapani Tripathi, Circle Officer, Brahmpuri, who investigated the case told The Hindu that the main accused Sagar Thakur was nabbed from the Kankar Khera area of Meerut. “He fired at the police party that stopped him during a routine check, as Section 144 is in place, on Thursday night. When we fired in self defence, a bullet hit his leg. Five co-accused, including the mother of Sagar, have already been arrested. One is on the run,” he said.  ‘Victim stalked’ Mr Tripathi described it as a case of one-sided love. “The girl had spurned the advances of Sagar, her neighbour, but he continued to stalk her.” The FIR filed by Aman, Aanchal’s brother said on the day of the function, Sagar and his friends allegedly abused the girl’s family and he and his mother tried to build pressure on the family to reconsider their decision and when they refused, he fired. Aanchal died on the spot while her father passed away during treatment.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC refuses to entertain plea on virus treatment price cap||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to entertain a petition seeking review of the city government’s decision to cap the price of COVID-19 treatment, saying that no hospital has “expressed any difficulty” on the issue till now. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, however, said the petition be treated as representation by the Delhi government to take a decision in accordance with the law, rules and regulations. SKM Foundation, in its plea, had contended that the June 20 order of the Delhi government to cap COVID-19 treatment costs has given rise to “operational errors” and therefore, “defeats the purpose of ensuring equitable quality treatment to all”. It had contended that patients admitted to a hospital for COVID-19 treatment are “not homogenous in terms of bodily capabilities” to deal with the disease and the amount and kind of medicine to be administered to each would vary widely from person to person. “A straight jacket formula cannot be applied for patients with vast arrays of bodily deficiencies,” the foundation had stated in its plea. The Delhi government said that the cost of treatment varies from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 18,000 per day based on the ward. In isolation ward, the cost is Rs. 10,000 per day, in ICU without ventilator it is Rs. 15,000 and in ICU with ventilator it is Rs. 18,000. In private hospitals without NABH certification, the rates for such categories are Rs. 8,000, Rs. 13,000 and Rs. 15,000 per day respectively.
04 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Patient ‘beaten to death’ for non-payment of bill||An Aligarh resident was allegedly beaten to death by the staff of a city’s private hospital over non-payment of bill on Thursday, police said. The deceased has been identified as Sultan Khan, 44, a resident of Iglas tehsil of Aligarh. “The police have recovered CCTV footage which shows a scuffle near the said hospital,” Abhishek, Superintendent of Police (City) said. The SHO of Quarsi police station has been asked to register an FIR and ascertain the facts. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to understand the nature of injuries,” he added. As doctors have found Sultan as a possible case of COVID 19, the police officer said they would wait for the report before the post-mortem was done. According to Mr. Abhishek, as per the family’s complaint, the deceased along with family members had gone to the hospital for treatment. “There was an issue over payment which led to the scuffle, resulting in the death of Sultan,” he said. The family members have alleged that the hospital billed them Rs. 4,000 without carrying out ultrasound. Chaman, the nephew of the deceased, said his uncle was brought to the hospital because he was unable to urinate properly for three-four days.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC refuses to entertain plea on quota||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition challenging the Karnataka government’s decision to impose 25% domicile reservation in the National Law School of India University (NLSUI) in Bengaluru. The HC Bench said the court of competent jurisdiction to take up the issue was in Karnataka.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Test of our times||
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dilli Haat to reopen today||Delhi Tourism on Friday announced that it would reopen all three Dilli Haat centres (INA, Janakpuri & Pitampura), Nature Bazaar, Garden of Five Senses, Azad Hind Gram and GTB Memorial on July 4 to help artisans and craftsmen earn a living again. For the first 15 days, entry will be free for all to encourage footfall, Delhi Tourism said. Visitors to these curated market spaces will have to adhere to measures like wearing mask and maintain social distancing, and all efforts will be made to keep the area sanitised to avoid the spread of the virus, Delhi Tourism said. Sanjay Goel, MD and CEO of Delhi Tourism, said that he hoped visitors would relish what the ecological spaces and markets offered and urged them to strictly adhere to the safety measures and protocols the government has set.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Telemedicine hub launched in Daryaganj||A district surveillance and telemedicine hub was launched at the office of the District Magistrate of the central district at Daryaganj on Friday. “The district has been one of the most highly affected in the country by COVID-19,” a statement from the DM’s office read. Among facilities available at the hub, counsellors will check on the real time status of patients, would be available for any kind of COVID-19 related assistance such as medical help, sanitisation, removal of biomedical waste, provision of essential commodities and others. Counsellors at the centre will also be engaged in contact-tracing, besides a team of doctors heading the hub, the statement read.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Strategies for managing waste drafted’||Following directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to develop standardised technologies to assist local bodies comply with the solid waste management rules, the Niti Aayog has informed the green panel that it has formulated the model concession agreements and request for proposal documents for integrated solid waste management. Niti Aayog had furnished a report on this on June 25.
04 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. launches e-portal for schoolchildren||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday launched an e-learning portal — LEAD (Learning through E-Resources Made Accessible for Delhi) — developed by the Delhi government that contains 10,000 instructional materials and course content for Classes I to XII. The portals, the government said, will give students access to textbooks, study material and course content as per the syllabus of the CBSE, NCERT and Delhi government’s curriculum online. It will include digital QR coded textbooks, explanatory videos, practice questions and evaluation. Inaugurating the e-resource, the Minister said that in addition to regularly upgrading textbooks, the teachers of government schools are also preparing fresh support material every year. Mr. Sisodia said that via LEAD the government will be sharing its teaching-learning material on the digital platform- DIKSHA. “It is a way for us to connect and share our programmes and experiences with the entire country. The online portal will also enable us to learn from the teaching-learning experiments and experiences of other States,” he said. He added that during the pandemic students and their parents have shown interest in online learning, which has raised the team’s confidence that children will utilise e-learning resources on LEAD portal.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- DSSEED brief||The Delhi University on Thursday launched the Delhi School of Skill Enhancement and Entrepreneurship Development (DSSEED) under the Institution of Eminence (IoE). The new body will have faculties from Science (Biological, Chemical, Physical, Mathematical Sciences and Informatics), Humanities, Social Science, Commerce and Economics, Finance and Management to address and meet “the immediate and ever-evolving future challenges in an integrated fashion and contribute to the national development”, the university said.
04 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- helpline||The Delhi BJP on Friday launched COVID-19 helpline numbers which will provide free consultation and counselling to those in need. The party’s State chief Adesh Gupta launched the helpline numbers: 7303221617, 7303414917, 9958837228 and 9717247796. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, wrote to CM Arvind Kejriwal requesting that the Delhi government reconsider its decision to discontinue free food and free ration coupons to the poor.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Instagram Rich List: Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson (@therock) edged Kylie Jenner out of the top spot on this year's list of highest-paid celebrities. With over 188 million followers, he rakes in around $1 million per post. Currently, his timeline is filled with promos for Teremana, his tequila brand. Others on the list are Portugese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo and reality TV star Kim Kardashian West.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Add to the watchlist||Streaming giants are upping their game this month and Netflix leads with the Charlize Theron-starrer,The Old Guard. Directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, it follows a covert team of immortal mercenaries who fight to keep their identity a secret. On Amazon Prime, stay tuned forBreathe 2:  Into The Shadowswhich marks the streaming debut for Abhishek Bachchan. He plays a father whose child has been kidnapped, and the ransom is not money, but murder. Also starring Nithya Menen. Both premiere on July 10.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping it crafty||Artisans across the country are finding new ways to stay afloat. Pulicat’s palm leaf artistes are selling colourful pencil pouches (Rs. 100 each). Call for details on the initiative by USTTAD and NIFT, Chennai9840693387 New Delhi-based heritage community, The Random, is helping Khurja Weavers sell their wovenkhes(blankets), made of thick cotton that are perfect for the cooler months. Weighing 2.5 kg each, each pair is priced at Rs. 580 (Delhi-NCR) and Rs. 630 (other regions). WhatsApp for details.8826365320.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual pantry||Artisan pastry chef Karim Bourgi has a two-day, online live class via The Classroom by La Folie, today and tomorrow. He will demonstrate his latest collection of tarts and signatureentremetsfor a beginner to intermediate level. At Rs. 15,000 per head. Details on theclassroombylafolie.com Fancy some beet macaroons with salmon and mustard? Mumbai-based chef Sarita Pereira of The Lovefools will curate a special virtual two-course party menu for you. Email pantry.thelovefools.com.9820203360.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Oscars Voting Panel: The 2021 Academy Awards has been pushed to April 25 thanks to the ongoing pandemic, but there is plenty of change to look forward to. From India, Bollywood actors Alia Bhatt and Hrithik Roshan and costume designer Neeta Lulla, among others, have been invited to be part of a very diverse voting panel. Will this ensure that #OscarsSoWhite does not trend next year?
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Streaming couture||Fashion lovers across the world get a front row seat to Paris Fashion Week as they organise their very first digital couture fashion week starting Monday. British brand Ralph & Russo brings artificial intelligence to their autumn/winter 2020 show, with eight out of the season’s 52 looks being showcased by their avatar, Hauli. The backdrop will be a digital recreation of the seven contemporary wonders of the world, including the Taj Mahal in Agra and the Colosseum in Rome. At 8.30 pm IST on hautecouture.fhcm.paris
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Music and lyrics||Stream New Wave music group Noreum Machi’s concert,Same Same but Different. The Indo-Korean performance features choreographer Astad Deboo and the Trayam ensemble. Today at 6 pm on YouTube. Coming off the success of ‘NRI’, which garnered 2.5+ million views on YouTube, rapper, singer, songwriter and dancer Raja Kumari launched ‘Peace’, the new single from her forthcoming album debut. On her social media page, she has been sharing tips on meditation, holistic lifestyle, affirmations and mindfulness.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrity book club||Bollywood stars Lillete and Ira Dubey take to the (virtual) stage with author Shobhaa De for her latest series of e-books,Lockdown Liaisons. Today at 7 pm on Simon & Schuster India YouTube and Twitter channels. Celebrate languages withWords are Bridges, the latest from Jaipur Literature Festival and publisher HarperCollins India. The series, telecast every Thursday on JLF’s social media platforms, features book readings and conversations between Indian language authors and their English translators.
04 July 2020||July 04 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Tomorrow, on our ongoing Instagram Live series, beauty and wellness columnist Vasudha Rai will be in conversation with Dr Renita Rajan. The Chennai-based dermatologist and founder of Render Skin & Hair Clinic, will give viewers an insight into hormones and their effect on the skin. At 5 pm @thehinduweekend. Earlier sessions from this week, with singer Madame Gandhi, Bharatanatyam dancer Dr Srinidhi Chidambaram and author Amrita Tripati are now available on our IGTV.
