04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central health teams to monitor 20 districts with heavy case load||The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in India crossed 40,000 on Sunday, making it one among 16 countries that have crossed that figure. With 83 more deaths since Saturday, a single-day high, the death toll nationwide has gone up to 1,306. India currently has 28,070 active cases and 10,886 patients have recovered, according to the latest numbers available on the Health Ministry website. Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi led with the maximum number of cases. The Centre has announced the formation of Central Public Health teams to investigate 20 districts in 10 States which have registered the maximum cases. These districts and cities include Mumbai, Pune and Thane in Maharashtra; Ahmedabad, Surat, and Vadodara in Gujarat; Indore and Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh; Chennai in Tamil Nadu; Hyderabad in Telangana; Kolkata in West Bengal; Kurnool, Guntur, and Krishna in Andhra Pradesh and South East and Central Delhi . These teams, comprising experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), AIIMS, JIPMER and the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health among others, will submit reports to the State health authorities with recommendations. In terms of total cases, three other countries are comparable to India — the Netherlands, Peru and Belgium, with confirmed infections from 40,000-49,900.
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No new COVID-19 cases in State||No fresh COVID-19 cases were reported on Sunday. An official release from the Health Department said that one patient, a Kasaragod native, who had been undergoing treatment in Kannur, had recovered from the disease. The State has a total of 499 cases, of which 401 have recovered, while 95 patients are still undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State. There are 21,720 persons under surveillance in different districts across the State. Of these, 21,332 are under observation in their homes, while 388 are admitted in isolation wards in hospitals. The number of fresh hospital admissions on Sunday was 63. Negative result Till now, samples from 32,217 persons have been sent for testing, out of which, 31,611 samples yielded a negative result. As part of sentinel surveillance, 2,391 samples were collected separately from people in the high-risk group — healthcare workers, migrant labourers and those with higher public contacts —and tested. Out of these, 1,683 samples have tested negative. Four new places in the State were declared hotspots on Sunday, Mananthavady in Wayanad, and Santhanpara in Idukki, and Edakkattuvayal and Manjalloor in Ernakulam district. At present, there are 84 hotspots in Kerala.
04 May 2020||Kochi,||Kochi corpn. in debt trap||Faced with mounting overdues to contractors, routine expenses, and funding community kitchens and food kits, the Kochi Corporation is heading towards a financial crisis. From August 2017 onwards, the corporation owes nearly Rs. 80 crore from its own fund to contractors taking up construction, road and other work like drain and canal cleaning. Earlier this month, the civic body had promised to pay Rs. 4.3 crore to contractors, but the amount has not been cleared yet. The Cochin Corporation Contractors’ Association had withdrawn a strike in December last year after they had been promised Rs. 10 crore worth of dues. The corporation had availed of a loan to pay off the amount. “That amount, due in January this year, was also not given,” said K.A. David, secretary of the association. “Since the lockdown is in force, we cannot take up work but have had to provide for workers. Out of the Rs. 45 crore owed to us from the State treasury, only Rs. 1.8 crore has been paid. The government has recently been clearing only bills of less than Rs. 5 lakh. This puts us in deep financial trouble,” Mr. David said. “Road repairs and canal desilting that will have to be taken up on priority before the monsoon can be started with five workers on each site once permission is granted. But if the issue of dues is not resolved, this work will also come to a standstill,” he said Corporation Secretary Anu R.S. said the files had not been signed yet, but the amount promised earlier this month would be released to contractors soon. COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown had dealt a severe blow to the civic body that was heavily dependent on income from taxes, said Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar. The revised tax rates that were implemented this year were expected to bring in an additional income of Rs. 45 crore. “Instead, nothing was collected after March 15, and even regular income from tax has not been met,” he said. Had the e-governance system been functioning and tax payments made online, there might have been some respite, he added. The civic body’s coffers are running dry with just Rs. 13.56 crore remaining. Once salaries and routine bills worth Rs. 11 crore are paid in the beginning of May, nearly nothing would be left. “Paying salaries and bills after that will become impossible without a loan. Going forward, the situation will worsen,” Mr. Premakumar said.  COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown have dealt a severe blow to the civic body that was heavily dependent on income from taxes K.R. Premakumar Deputy Mayor
04 May 2020||Vijayapura,||Vijayapura villagers’ mite||At a time when the nation is fighting a pandemic and people coming forward to offer donation to help tide over the crisis, a small village located in Vijayapura district has decided to do its bit by offering financial aid to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Tajpur, a hamlet located in Babaleshwar Assembly constituency, has a population of nearly 500, but the generosity of the villagers seems to be far bigger than their numbers. The villagers joined hands in collecting donation from each family based on their financial capacity. “Finally, we ended up collecting Rs. 1,73,100 from the villagers which will be given to the State government,” said Basappa Walikar, a resident of the village. He said that when the State needs funds to provide relief to the people who are suffering owing to lockdown, the villagers thought it was their duty to extend a helping hand in their limited capacity. Mr. Walikar said that a majority of the people are farmers. He said that the collection happened over a couple of days after the elders raised the matter. “The villagers readily accepted the proposal and decided to offer money as per their capacity. Some gave less and others gave more, but what is important is their humane gesture,” he added. The money was handed over to Babaleshwar Tahsildar Mallikarjun Arkeri on Sunday. Villagers Satyappa Goni, Hanumanth Ganiger, Sharanappa Bijjaragi and Srishail Uppar were present.
04 May 2020||SRINAGAR,||Colonel, Major among five personnel killed in J&K||Five security personnel, including a Colonel, a Major and a sub-inspector, and two militants were killed in an 18-hour operation in north Kashmir’s Handwara. “In a firefight at Changimul in Handwara of Kupwara district, two terrorists were eliminated and the team of five security personnel, comprising two Army officers, two soldiers and one police sub-inspector, also died,” an Army spokesman said in Srinagar. Initial investigation suggested that one militant was a local and the other was a resident of Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir, identified as Hyder alias Iqbal. Sources said Hyder was “a wanted militant commander”. Hostage situation The spokesman said the operation started after intelligence inputs suggested that terrorists were taking inmates of a house at Changimul hostage. “A joint operation was launched by the Army and the police on Saturday. A team of five Army and police personnel entered the area, occupied by the terrorists, to evacuate the civilians. They successfully extricated the civilians. However, during the process, the team was subjected to heavy fire by the terrorists,” said the Army. Police officials said the operation was called off on Sunday morning after the bodies of the security personnel and the militants were spotted in the house in the village, nestled in a forest zone. The deceased were identified as Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh and Dinesh and sub-inspector Mohammad Sagier Qazi of the Jammu and Kashmir police’s Special Operation Group. One soldier was injured, officials said.
04 May 2020||Hubballi/Bengaluru,||Davangere reports 21 fresh COVID-19 positive cases||After several days of reporting low case numbers, there were 34 new COVID-19 positive cases in Karnataka on Sunday. The cause of concern was that 21 of these were reported from one district: Davangere. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Beelagi told presspersons that the district administration had sent 330 samples of throat swabs in the last three days. Of these, 37 high-risk [A category] samples were tested and 21 of them were found to be positive. The active cases has now gone up to 28 in the district, he said. Besides these, 13 cases were reported from other parts of the State. According to a media bulletin by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, six cases were reported from Kalaburagi, four from Bengaluru Urban, and three from Bagalkot. Out of these 13 cases, four patients had Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), while the contact investigation for one case is on. All the remaining eight patients tested positive after coming in contact with a patient who was tested positive. Meanwhile, the total number of cases in Karnataka now stand at 614. A total of 293 patients have been discharged so far with 21 patients being discharged on Sunday. The highest number of patients, 11, were discharged in Mysuru on Sunday. There have been 25 COVID-19 deaths and one non COVID-19 death reported in the State so far.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,||MHA asks States to create a second line of defence||Amid reports of policemen getting infected with the novel coronavirus, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked the States and the Union Territories to prepare a second line of defence to sustain the control strategy. In a note to all Chief Secretaries and Director-Generals of Police, the MHA said police forces need to prepare an effective second line of defence to make up for the personnel rendered ineffective by infection. While a majority of policemen are deployed for COVID-19-related work and other policing duties, the Head of Police Forces (HoPFs) may consider the option of ‘work from home’ for personnel not deployed on front-line duties whereever it is feasible, the communication said. Home Guards, Civil Defence personnel, NCC cadets, Scouts & Guides and Student Police Cadets could be utilised in areas where there were no imminent law and order problem, the MHA said. “They can especially be of help in maintaining order at the relief centres and in facilitating the maintenance of supply chain and coordinating other essential services.” The MHA said that while performing COVID-19-related duties, police/security personnel should help the public and deal with them with empathy and compassion, especially the weaker sections. They should monitor religious and social congregations during festivals to ensure physical distancing. The police should also be watchful of migrant labourers and slum areas to contain any unexpected and undesirable mass movement. The Centre’s instructions come after States reported infection among police and security personnel deployed as frontline workers to implement the lockdown orders and the guidelines to check the spread of the virus. In Tamil Nadu, the DGP had recently issued instructions that at least 25% of the 1.25 lakh police force could stay at home so as to keep a healthy reserve to meet any exigency. “It is imperative to make police personnel aware of the precautions to be taken while performing their assigned tasks in order to ensure that the strategy adopted for containing COVID-19 spread remains sustainable. Police authorities may take necessary precautions to sanitise the physical environment at the place of duty of police... A lot of awareness has been generated of the infection through various campaigns by the Government,” it said. The MHA said Police Control Rooms might be expanded, resourced and designed to incorporate special cells to handle all issues arising out of the pandemic. The staff manning these cells should be trained in elementary modules of the epidemic and appropriate responses to handle issues and scenarios they are likely to face. Such cells should be adequately equipped with men and material, including drones that may be used for reconnaissance.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Petrol, diesel prices go up as State govt. revises tax||The prices of petrol and diesel in the State are set to go up by Rs. 3.25 and Rs. 2.50 per litre. The hike is a sequel to changes made by the State government in the tax structure for petroleum products that would come into effect from the midnight of Sunday, according to a notification issued by the State government. The structure of State-level Value Added Tax (VAT) for the petroleum products has been changed from a pure ad valorem tax rate to a combination of quantum and the absolute figure of the tax rates. In respect of petrol, the structure has been changed from 34% to a sum of 15% and Rs. 13.02 per litre. Likewise, in the case of diesel, it is the aggregate of 11% and Rs. 9.62 per litre from 25%. The changes have been made in anticipation of reduction in retail selling prices to be carried out by the Central authorities in the days to come. The continuance in the existing rate structure in the event of the reduction would lead to a “steep fall” in the revenue of the State government. Before the Centre announces the decrease, the State government has tweaked the rate structure so that it can protect its revenue, explained senior officials of the State government, which hopes to get an additional revenue of Rs. 250 crore a month. The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran, in a series of tweets, condemned the decision, which, he said, would hit the poor and the middle class at a time when the prices of essential commodities were on the rise. He has urged the government to roll back the increase.
04 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM/SURYAPET,||AP refuses entry to people, says no word from TS yet||The joy of securing passes to proceed to their native places from Telangana was short-lived for those travelling towards Andhra Pradesh (AP) as police on the inter-State borders claimed they were yet to receive an official communication from Telangana. Though a quite a few migrant workers managed to leave for their native places in other States in private vehicles in the past two days, many others continue to face obstacles in returning to their villages in Andhra Pradesh. Notwithstanding fresh guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) pertaining to inter-State movement of migrant workers stranded on account of coronavirus lockdown, many stranded migrant workers are still finding it difficult to go to their native villages in the adjoining State due to multiple factors. A large group of around 150 migrant workers, including their family members, got held up along the inter-State border with Andhra Pradesh after reaching the border checkpoint in Aswaraopeta mandal against all odds on Sunday afternoon. “We reached the Telangana-AP border in private vehicles after obtaining permission from the local authorities in Karepalli mandal to travel to our villages in AP. But officials on the other side of the border in AP’s Jeelugumilli mandal refused entry to us citing lack of orders from their higher-ups,” said a migrant worker. “Lack of bus facility and effective coordination between the authorities of both the States left us stranded on the roadside,” rued another migrant worker. The matter has been communicated to the officials of Jeelugumilli mandal of AP with a request to allow the stranded migrant workers to proceed to their native villages, said a police officer at the border checkpoint in Aswaraopet mandal. “We have provided food and water to the labourers and are trying to help them reach their native places in compliance with the MHA guidelines,” the officer told The Hindu . Some 220 migrant workers hailing from Andhra Pradesh and other States remained stranded at the inter-State border in Suryapet district till Sunday noon, as there were no clear guidelines from the government and with police sticking to the no-entry rules of the lockdown. There were 40 migrants workers belonging to AP and the remaining were from Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Bihar. Kodad Rural Inspector Shiva Ram Reddy said the workers holding police clearance and medical certificates started reaching Ramapuram crossroads by 10 p.m. on Saturday, but were denied entry by AP police.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||No let-up in positive cases||The State has reported 58 new COVID-19 positive cases after testing 6,534 samples in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,583. There are no deaths registered during the period. This apart, 47 persons have been discharged from hospital following their recovery from the disease. The break-up of those discharged is as follows: Guntur 18; Chittoor 13; Kurnool 11; East Godavari 3; and Krishna 2. So far, 488 patients, which is 31% of the total positive cases, have recovered and 33 patients (2% of the total cases) have died. Most of the new cases reported on Sunday were from the red zone districts of Kurnool (30 cases), Guntur (11) and Krishna (8). Anantapur reported seven cases and Chittoor and Nellore one each. The number of cases registered so far in various districts is as follows: Kurnool 466; Guntur 319; Krishna 266; Nellore 91; Kadapa 83; Chittoor 81; Anantapur 78; Prakasam 61; West and East Godavari 59 & 45; Visakhapatnam 29; and Srikakulam 5. Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna districts account for 66% of the total cases. Kurnool, which is inching towards the 500-mark, has reported nearly 30% of the total cases. The State has been testing not less than 5,000 samples per day for the last couple of days. It has so far tested 1,14,937 samples. With this, the tests per million ratio has gone up to more than 2,000. Portal launched Meanwhile, the government has launched an online portal for migrant workers who are stranded both within and outside the State. A registration form is made available in the website – spandana.ap.gov.in – where those wishing to move to their native places can register by providing details such as their location, Aadhaar number, and health condition.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Special trains to bring 2 lakh stranded people home||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Sunday said special trains were being pressed into service to bring home around 2 lakh people stranded in 14 States due to the lockdown. Nine trains were kept ready for the purpose, Mr. Srinivas told the media here. Stating that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had made it clear that migrant workers should be the first priority, the Minister said the people brought in these trains would be directly shifted to the quarantine centres. Apart from the existing quarantine centres, special centres were being established to accommodate the migrant workers. Each village secretariat would have quarantine centres with 1 lakh beds and other basic amenities amidst hygienic conditions to accommodate the workers, he said. The State had been receiving requests from other governments seeking safe passage of their 12,794 workers held up here, and the government was making arrangements for it, Mr. Srinivas said. Mobile bazaars In the red zones, 500 APSRTC buses, converted into mobile bazaars, would deliver milk, vegetables and other essential commodities to the residents. Besides, a doctor, an ASHA worker and an ANM would be deployed in each of the red zone to cater to the medical needs of the residents. Wherever the virus was rampant, only one member from a family would be given a pass, he clarified. The Minister further said that the government was keen on strengthening the telemedicine system, and as part of it, steps would be initiated to ensure adequate stocks of medicines in all the Primary Health Centres. Medicines would be delivered within 24 hours of giving the prescription, Mr. Srinivas said. The Minister said that the number of COVID-19 positive cases had shown a declining trend in the last four days, and attributed it to “improved testing.” “Andhra Pradesh is in the forefront in testing in the country,” he claimed. COVID-19 Task Force Chairman M.T. Krishna Babu said that the State had received nearly 24,000 mails, but many of them did not have proper details. “This is pandemic time and we need to make sure that people are sent in an organised way and also brought in the same way,” he said.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Economic recovery may take over a year’||The country’s high performing economic districts should be allowed to play by different rules in the third phase of the lockdown beginning on Monday, according to the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). In a strategy paper submitted to the Centre on Saturday, the CII called for changes in zone classification, saying that the 100-150 districts with the highest economic value — identified either through GDP contribution or density of industrial clusters — should be allowed to restart industrial activity, even in containment areas, if stringent rules are followed. It argued that the cost of 100% testing and aggressive health protocols is lower than continued shutdown in these areas.  In a CII poll of 300-odd CEOs released on Sunday, almost half said an economic recovery would take over a year. More than half foresee job losses. Three out of four participants identified the complete shutdown of operations as their biggest problem, followed by a lack of demand, supply and distribution chain woes, and a credit crunch. In such a situation, the industry body argued for a calibrated exit from the lockdown in the country’s most crucial economic regions. Within these districts, small restricted areas such as the actual street, mohalla , building or industrial complex where COVID-19 cases have been identified should be treated as containment zone. An area of about 500 m radius around these areas should be treated as orange zone. The remaining area of the district should be classified as green zones. The CII suggested that full industrial operations could be restarted in these priority districts, even within containment zones, if aggressive door-to-door testing, or group testing covering 100% of the population is carried out, and stringent sanitation and distancing protocols are followed.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi is ready to deal with COVID-19: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said Delhi was ready to face the COVID-19 threat. “We will have to learn to live with the virus,” said the Chief Minister, stressing that the nationwide lockdown had prepared the people, the government and the hospitals to deal with the crisis. Announcing extension of the lockdown by two more weeks, Mr. Kejriwal said the Union government had declared Delhi a “red zone” and his government would permit all the relaxations that the Centre has allowed. He had requested the Centre to declare the 97 containment zones in Delhi as red zones and all other parts as green zones. “The threat of COVID-19 is something that we will have to learn to live with. We cannot say that coronavirus will leave our nation or we will have no corona cases further,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Employment loss The Chief Minister said that all the guidelines had been followed until now, but people were losing their employment, traders were suffering losses and the whole economy was disturbed. “We will not be able to continue like this for long,” the Chief Minister said. He said that every year in April, the estimated revenue generation in the Capital was Rs. 3,500 crore, and this year, it was Rs. 300 crore, making it difficult for the government to pay salaries. Listing some of the restrictions that would be lifted, Mr. Kejriwal said all government offices would open on May 4, with 100% attendance in those providing essential services, and 33% in other offices. In the private sector, offices would open with 33% of staff on duty. The Chief Minister said self-employed people such as plumbers, technicians and domestic helps could start work and industrial estates would also open. He said the lockdown was necessary as it helped control the situation. “The country was not ready to deal with COVID-19, there were insufficient PPE kits, people did not realise the importance of social distancing protocol, but now Delhi is ready to open the lockdown as it used the time well to prepare,” the Chief Minister said.
04 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Over 3,200 migrants arrive home in U.P.||Special trains ferrying over 3,200 migrant labourers stranded in Maharashtra and Gujarat arrived in Lucknow, Agra and Kanpur on Sunday. While 847 passengers from Nashik reached Lucknow by the Shramik Express, 1,265 migrant workers from Ahmedabad arrived in Kanpur via a special Sabarmati Express and another 1,200 people from the same city arrived at the Cantonment station in Agra. Two more trains are expected to reach Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh later on Sunday or early Monday morning. The Shramik Express arrived at the Charbagh railway station at 6 a.m., said the Divisional Railway Manager, Lucknow. After their arrival, the migrants were sent in queues to the screening booths for inspection, following which they boarded roadways buses to their home districts. Only one migrant who was found symptomatic was sent to quarantine, said Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department. Screening at stations All passengers arriving in Agra were screened and dispatched to their home districts in 40 buses, said spokesperson for Agra Railway S.K. Srivastava. Those arriving in Kanpur were inspected and sent to their hometowns in 42 buses. Among those who arrived in Lucknow was Shivam Singh, a vendor working at the Mumbai Central railway station. He said he was stopped and quarantined in Nashik when he tried to walk back home from the Maharashtra capital. “We ran out of money, so I thought of walking back home. What would we do there (Mumbai) hungry and penniless,” he asked. “Somehow we reached Nashik after travelling at night, but were stopped and kept in quarantine.” A resident of Jalaun district in the drought-stricken Bundelkhand region, from where migration of young men has been rampant over the decades, Mr. Singh said he had to borrow money to pay Rs. 470 for his travel fare. However, he was relieved to be going home after being stranded for weeks. “I will at least reach my district now,” he said. Some migrants praised the arrangements made by the railways, but some said the food provided to them was not sufficient. A passenger said they were provided food only at two places during the journey. Lucknow District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash said the administration has already chalked out 17 routes on which buses would transport the migrants to their home districts. The bus ride would be free of cost. He said the station was mopped and sanitised before the arrival of the special train. Mr. Awasthi said trains from south India would also start ferrying migrants back to U.P. Around 8,000 migrants from Rajasthan and 1,600 from Uttarakhand arrived in the State over the past 48 hours, he added.
04 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Migrant workers’ clamour for returning home grows shriller||Hours after Director-General of Police M. Mahender Reddy announced an e-pass initiative to help stranded persons return to their home States, the Tolichowki area here on Sunday saw hordes of migrant workers coming onto the roads seeking travel permission. The workers were not able to get any such immediate permission for inter-State travel since they did not have private transport. They demanded that the government make arrangements to send them back to their native places. Police officials reached the areas swarmed by migrant workers and tried to pacify them, promising food and other help as long as they are here. “We assured to provide them groceries and other essential commodities. We gave them food and water, before sending them back to their dwellings,” said Hyderabad Joint Commissioner of Police (West) A.R. Srinivas.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Liquor to cost 25% more in State||The State government is going to allow reopening of liquor shops in all zones except containment areas from Monday, subject to social distancing and other guidelines laid down by the Central government, besides reducing their number significantly. This apart, the government has ordered that the prices of liquor be jacked up by 25% as a step towards implementing total prohibition. These decisions were taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday. ‘Social distancing must’ Officials told the Chief Minister that liquor shops were opened in various States as the Central government found it appropriate to allow them to resume business. They, however, stressed the need to maintain safe distance by the customers and avoid rush at the shops. “Since the government has committed itself to total prohibition, incremental steps need to be taken for curbing the social evil,” the Chief Minister said. As belt shops had been closed, focus should now be laid on weaning alcoholics away from the habit, he said. “One way to do that is to steadily increasing the prices,” the Chief Minister said. The number of liquor shops had already been reduced from 4,380 to 3,500, he added. Another step would be to regulate the sales timings, he added. Migrant workers Making it clear that only migrant workers were being allowed into the State as per the Centre’s guidelines, he advised others to stay where they were instead of reaching the borders and putting themselves to trouble. He said the government was supposed to send those coming from other States to quarantine, but providing them facilities proved to be difficult as thousands were heading home. “Those who are not migrant labourers have, therefore, been advised to stay at their current location,” he said.
04 May 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi registers six more positive cases taking district tally to 61||Six more COVID-19 positive cases were recorded in Kalaburagi on Sunday taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 61, including five deaths and 18 people discharged upon recovery. Two of the new cases, a 13-year-old female (P-602) and a 54-year-old male (P-603), were the fourth-level contacts of P-205, a 55-year-old male who was admitted for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and who died on April 14 after having tested positive for COVID-19 and who was among the “super spreaders” in the State who have given the infection to more than 25 persons thus far. The source of infection in the remaining four cases (P-604, P-609, P-610 and P-611) is not known yet. While P-604, a 41-year-old male was a case of SARI, P-609, a 35-year-old female, P-610, a 78-year-old male, and P-611, a 22-year-old male, were cases of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI). All the new cases were in the designated COVID-19 hospital in Kalaburagi. The district administration which has been struggling to contain the spread of the pandemic ever since the first case was reported on March 12 has so far created 21 containment zones around the residences of infected persons for focused monitoring and preventive measures. As on Sunday, there are 17 active containment zones in the district. Over 46,500 houses have been surveyed in the containment zones thus far. The administration has collected throat swab samples of 4,541 persons of which 4,056 tested negative for the deadly disease.  Two of the new cases are fourth-level contacts of P-205, who has since died and considered to be among the ‘super spreaders’ in the State
04 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR/ Adilabad,||Heat adds to lockdown woes in parts of north TS||Blistering heat roasted parts of north Telangana with the temperature recording 43 degrees Celsius in Karimnagar town on Saturday and Sunday. Some parts of old Adilabad district recorded a maximum day temperature of over 44 degrees C on Sunday. Since last one week, the temperature crossed 40 degree Celsius and it stayed at 43 degrees Celsius from Saturday. It is likely to cross 45 degree C in Karimnagar town in the coming few days, said the weatherman. Some parts in old Adilabad district recorded a maximum day temperature of over 44 degrees C, according to Telangana State Development Planning Society. The maximum highest temperature of 44.5 degrees C was recorded at Jannaram in Mancherial district. Naspur town in the same district also recorded a maximum temperature of over 44 degrees C. Kadem and Soan in Nirmal district recorded maximum temperature in excess of 44 degrees C. Meanwhile, Hyderabad recorded a maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees C. The forecast for maximum temperature Monday was likely to be around 41 degrees C, according to the Met office. Partly cloudy sky with rain or thundershowers was also likely in parts of the city.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 cases cross 3,000 in Tamil Nadu||With 266 testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the number of people who contracted the novel coronavirus infection in Tamil Nadu so far has crossed the 3,000-mark. As many as 203 of the new patients were from Chennai, taking the city’s tally to 1,458. Villupuram district accounted for 33 patients. At present, 1,611 persons in the State are under treatment at various facilities. This includes 1,190 in Chennai, where 250 patients have been discharged. A 44-year-old man died of the infection at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital around 2.15 p.m. on Sunday. According to hospital authorities, he was registered for treatment for leukaemia. He had been admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and on April 30, after his condition turned serious, he was sent to Chennai. RGGGH Dean R. Jayanthi said he was brought in an 108 ambulance on May 1. He had fever and was subjected to test for the COVID-19 infection. He tested positive and died within two days. With this, the number of deaths due to the infection has risen to 30 in the State. On the source of his infection, she said it was possible that the patient contracted it while in Coimbatore. The other districts to report positive cases were Cuddalore (9), Kallakurichi (6), and Coimbatore (4). Ariyalur, Madurai, Tenkasi and Tiruvallur each reported two cases, and Tiruvannamalai, Kanniyakumari and Chengalpattu reported one positive case each.    Five children, including one aged three, in Chennai, tested positive for the infection. The children acquired the infection through contact with an infected person. In the Villupuram cluster included two girls aged three and eight years who acquired the infection through contact with an infected person. On Sunday 38 patients were discharged, taking the total to 1,379 patients, who had recovered from the infection. As many as 2,362 persons are in isolation ward. The bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health stated that as of Sunday a total of 3,023* positive cases had been recorded. The Health Department has added two laboratories to conduct the tests, one in the Government district headquarters hospital in Ramanathapuram and the other at Dr. Rela Institute in Chennai. Already 35 government and 14 private laboratories are functioning. Of the 1,50,107 samples that were picked up as many as 1,45,520 tested negative and the testing of 1,564 samples is under process. A total of 9,391 are repeat samples. As on date 37,206 are under home quarantine and 40 are quarantined in government facilities. (* This is inclusive of two deaths that were cross notified to other states and one patient who died after turning negative for the infection. )
04 May 2020||CUDDALORE,||Cuddalore MP in self-quarantine||Member of Parliament from Cuddalore T.R.V.S. Ramesh of the DMK has gone into self-quarantine after the Heath Department added him to the list of people who came in contact with a person who tested positive for COVID-19. Official sources said the grandmother of a cancer patient met Mr. Ramesh in his house in Panruti on April 27 and sought a recommendation letter for the woman’s treatment at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer). The throat swab samples of the MP has been lifted and results are awaited.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||21 new cases in Telangana||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana increased to 1,082 as 21 more samples tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. While 20 cases are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, one is from Jagtial. Of those admitted in isolation wards, 46 were discharged after recovery. Of the total cases reported till date, 508 are active cases while 545 were discharged, apart from 29 deaths. This is the first time the number of people who were discharged are higher than the active cases. One of the patients who recovered includes a 68-year-old man who is diabetic. The patient was admitted with bilateral pneumonia and respiratory problem. The Health Minister’s office stated that the patient who was admitted to ICU was administered Hydroxychloroquine, Liponavir and Ritonavir. The number of districts with zero cases in the past 14 days increased to 17, which is addition of one more district from May 2.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Aerial salute||
04 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||27 Bangladeshi nationals held in Assam||The police in western Assam’s Dhubri district on Sunday detained 27 Bangladeshi nationals, who had entered the State on a tourist visa before the COVID-19 nationwide lockdown, but were found to have been working for a contractor in the eastern part. The 27 persons, travelling on two minibuses that were seized, were caught during a routine check at Bahalpur under the Chapar police station. The police said they were studying the travel documents of the 27 people and organising their health check-up. Dhubri Deputy Commissioner Anant Lal Gyani said the vehicles had come from Jorhat in eastern Assam, 470 km from Chapar, on curfew passes issued in the name of a local contractor for inter-district travel.
04 May 2020||BELAGAVI,||Belagavi in Orange zone||Most trade activities will resume across Belagavi on Monday as the State has put the district in Orange zone after Centre’s suggestion.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Pg 1. Numbers to be updated. After facing flak, Government announces free transportation to stranded migrant workers||After facing flak, the State government, from Sunday, started ferrying migrants to their respective districts without any fare. This service will be available till Tuesday from the BMTC and KSRTC bus stands in Majestic. On Sunday Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated around 500 buses from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. with around 15,000 people travelling to over 45 destinations across the state. From Tuesday, buses will ply from 7 a.m.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||427 new COVID-19 cases reported in the Capital||New Delhi The number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital saw the highest single-day jump for the second consecutive day on Sunday with 427 new cases, said government officials. However, no deaths were reported.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Petrol, diesel prices go up in State||Prices of petrol and diesel have been increased by Rs. 3.25 and Rs. 2.50 a litre. The hike is a sequel to changes made by the State government in the tax structure for petroleum products that came into effect since Sunday midnight.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||Centre reviews health situation||Days after it allowed movement of stranded migrants, pilgrims and tourists during the extended lockdown period, the Union Home Ministry on Sunday clarified that the order was for “stranded persons who had moved from their native places and workplaces just before the lockdown but could not return due to the restrictions”. In a letter to the States, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the “facilitation envisaged in the order is meant for such distressed persons” and does not extend to those category of persons who are “residing normally at places other than native places for purposes of work etc. and who wish to visit their native places in normal course”. Though public transport remains suspended, the Railways is running special trains to facilitate the movement of stranded persons. ‘Short on infrastructure’ On Sunday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a video-conference with the Chief Secretaries and Directors-General of Police of States and Union Territories to discuss the health scenario in the wake of the extended lockdown. Nine out of 20 districts, where most COVID-19 positive cases have been reported, are “short on infrastructure,” the States were informed at the meeting. In zones where high rate of deaths were reported and those facing shortage of healthcare workers, the Centre has asked States to “borrow staff from adjacent districts, hire private doctors on a contractual basis and explore the possibility of engaging retired professionals, final year medical students, NGOs etc.” A presentation, ‘Public Health Response COVID-19’, by the Health and Family Welfare Ministry, said “20 districts account for 68% active cases and 72% deaths.” It said that in eight districts — Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Central Delhi, North Delhi, Kolkata, Kanpur Nagar (Uttar Pradesh) and Krishna (Andhra Pradesh) — the doubling rate was faster than 10 days. The Ministry released guidelines to prevent spread of COVID-19 in prisons and correctional homes. It asked police to collect information from persons being arrested about their travel history, cough, fever symptoms or recent contacts.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air warriors salute bravehearts on the ground||Three formations of Su-30MKI, MiG-29 and Jaguar fighter jets and C-130 transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force performed a flypast on Rajpath here on Sunday which is otherwise only done during the Republic Day parade. The display was part of the efforts of the armed forces to show gratitude to all corona warriors. Fighter jets carried out flypasts over several cities across the country, while military helicopters showered petals on hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. “Two C-130J transport aircraft flew from Srinagar to Kanyakumari on the north-south leg. The east-west leg was done by three Su-30MKI jets from Dibrugarh to Ahmedabad,” the IAF said in a statement. The aircraft flew between a height of 500 metres and 1,000 metres keeping aerospace safety in mind especially with respect to bird activity. 35 aircraft In all, the IAF said 35 aircraft were utilised — 10 fighters, four transport aircraft and 20 helicopters. IAF helicopters dropped flower petals on 20 cities and 58 hospitals across India. The efforts of the armed forces began at 9.30 a.m. with the laying of wreaths at the national police memorial and showering of petals by an IAF Mi-17 helicopter to honour the sacrifices of the police across the country. Appreciating the efforts of the armed forces, the Defence Ministry quoted Defence Minister Rajnath Singh as saying: “The armed forces today organised several activities to express gratitude to the corona warriors who are battling against the pandemic. These frontline warriors are doing commendable work in strengthening the morale of all those involved in India’s fight against COVID-19.” Navy personnel on board India’s sole aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya expressed their appreciation by forming a human chain saying “Indian Navy salutes corona warriors”. “Personnel on board Indian Navy ships mission deployed from the west to east in the Indian Ocean region, expressed their appreciation and saluted the corona warriors including doctors, nurses, other health workers, sanitation staff and police personnel who have been relentlessly fighting against the COVID pandemic,” the Navy said in a statement. In all, 25 warships across nine port cities, including the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, were illuminated from 7.30 p.m. to midnight, the Navy stated. In addition, four mission-deployed ships took part to express their gratitude, while 15 helicopters and aircraft took part in showering flower petals and flypast in coastal cities. Coast Guard ships were illuminated at 25 locations covering the entire coastline of the country including Andaman and Nicobar and Lakshadweep and Minicoy islands, a statement said. A total of 46 ships and 10 helicopters took part, it said. Army and IAF bands visited COVID hospitals and played tunes in an expression of gratitude. In New Delhi, helicopters showered petals on 12 hospitals. In a letter to the Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, the Resident Doctors Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences appreciated the “morale boosting” gesture by the defence services in solidarity with them to fight the pandemic.
04 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||27 Bangladeshis held in Assam||The police in western Assam’s Dhubri district on Sunday detained 27 Bangladeshi nationals, who had entered the State on a tourist visa before the COVID-19 lockdown but were found to have been working for a contractor in the eastern part. The 27 persons, travelling on two minibuses that were seized, were caught during a routine check at Bahalpur under the Chapar police station. The police said they were studying the travel documents of the 27 people and organising their health check-up. Dhubri Deputy Commissioner Anant Lal Gyani said the vehicles had come from Jorhat in eastern Assam, 470 km from Chapar, on curfew passes issued in the name of a local contractor for inter-district travel. “They said they came to Assam on a tourist visa before the lockdown, but according to the rules you cannot work with such a visa. They could not answer the questions of the police properly, but said they were keen on returning to Bangladesh,” he told The Hindu from Dhubri town. “Right now, they are being detained. We are trying to find out whether their passports are fake or expired. Action will be taken according to the relevant law if their papers are not in order,” said District Superintendent of Police Yuvraj. Police officials investigating the case said some of the Bangladeshi nationals claimed to be involved in fishery. ‘Stuck in the State’ A Bangladeshi diplomat posted in eastern India said the Bangladeshi High Commission could arrange for their travel back home if the State government raised the issue formally. “We have already sent back more than 40 Bangladeshi nationals. In all probability, these people were stuck in Assam, but their overstay should not be a punishable offence given the relaxation of visa terms for the lockdown,” he said. He said the people should have informed the High Commission of their travel plan in Assam.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Saudi investments in India on track despite economic downturn’||Despite a massive 50% drop in oil revenues and a downturn in the economy, Saudi Arabia’s investments in India will not be affected, says Saud bin Mohammed Al Sati, the Kingdom’s Ambassador to India , in a written interview, adding that worries of retrenchments in the country are premature.  What measures has Saudi Arabia adopted to counter the virus? Has the kingdom, like Kuwait and the UAE, requested Indian medical teams to help manage the situation, and also treat Indians who may be affected? There are a large number of expatriates living in Saudi Arabia, which includes around three million Indians. As per King Salman’s royal decree, the kingdom is providing coronavirus-related medical care free of charge to all residents in the country, including those who are staying illegally in the kingdom. As for the Indian medical professionals, some of them were on leave when the COVID pandemic hit. We have been working closely with the Government of India to ensure that they are able to return to Saudi Arabia. There is also the continuation of medical exports from India to the Saudi market. Saudi Arabia’s General Directorate of Passports has also decided to extend the validity of exit and return visas that expire between February 25 and May 24, 2020, at no charge. The extension will continue for an additional three months for them. How many Indians are estimated to require to return from Saudi Arabia, and what can you tell us about the preparations and arrangements made in Saudi Arabia for food and shelter for stranded Indians? In Saudi Arabia, these numbers are relatively small. Most of the Indian nationals who will be coming back in the coming days are people whose contracts have ended or those who would like to go home for personal reasons or were Umrah pilgrims who weren’t able to return on time because of the suspension of flights. Considering the large Indian community in the kingdom, these numbers are within the range of several thousands. In addition to this, there will be those who may get short-term leave from their employers until business activities can revert to their usual state before lockdown. We are cooperating to make sure that those who would like to come back can be accommodated. There are worries in India that there will be massive retrenchments in Saudi Arabia, owing to falling revenues, and many Indian migrants will lose their jobs. How can India and Saudi Arabia cooperate to mitigate these losses? While efforts in the kingdom and regionally are being focused towards combating COVID-19, efforts are also made to ensure that people don’t lose their jobs. It should be noted though that even in this environment, the kingdom did not announce any intentions to delay any projects. Activities will resume to what they were before the pandemic hit. This will be across all economic sectors as the situation stabilises and the markets gradually continue to open. Last September, you had said that Saudi Arabia had planned investments in India worth $100 billion in various areas, including oil infrastructure. Would these investments be affected by the economic impact of the COVID-19 outbreak? These investments were announced during the historic visit of HRH Crown Prince to India in February 2019. Meetings of ministerial committees concerning investment, energy, trade, political and security cooperation, and senior officials meetings for the same will be convened soon. India is one of the fastest growing economies today and also one of the largest. We will continue to invest in India as our strategic partnership continues to deepen in all sectors. Our plans regarding investment in India are on track. In particular, what will be the impact due to a fall in Aramco’s profits (21%) on its projected investment in India? I think I answered this question. Our investment plans are on track. I ask because Saudi Finance Minister Muhammad Al Jadaan has just said that there will be major cuts in government expenses, and a number of tough and painful measures may be necessary given the economic “crisis”… As I said, our plans to invest in India remain on track as of now. The OIC, which is headquartered in Saudi Arabia, issued a strong statement this month calling on India to protect its minorities, and spoke of a “growing tide of Islamophobia”. Has this been discussed bilaterally, and what is Saudi Arabia’s position on the OIC statement? I would rather not comment about this. This is not a bilateral issue for us.  We are cooperating with India to make sure that all those who would like to come back can be accommodated
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,||126 lakh tonnes of food grains given to States: FCI||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has supplied around 126 lakh tonnes of food grains, almost equivalent to two-and-a half months’ supply in normal situations, to States and Union Territories during COVID-19 lockdown. Between March 25 and April 30, States and union territories obtained 37.13 lakh tonnnes of wheat and 89 tonnes of rice, totalling 126.13 lakh tonnes. On an average, every month, the FCI issues around 50 lakh tonnes of food grains to States and union territories under the norms of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other schemes, according to D.V. Prasad, FCI Chairman and Managing Director. Of the five zones in the country, the northern zone was given the maximum of 39.95 lakh tonnnes; southern zone – 29.18 lakh tonnes, followed by the east – 28.33 lakh tonnes; west – 23.03 lakh tonnes and the northeast – 5.63 lakh tonnes. What has contributed to the steep hike in the disbursal is the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY), under which beneficiaries of the NFSA are given 5 kg of food grains each per month free of cost for three months (April – June) over and above their monthly entitlement of 5 kg per person. Enough stock Nearly 62 lakh tonnes of food grains have been lifted by the States under the PMGKAY and this is about 50% of the total allotment of around 120 lakh tonnes. Enough food grains stocks have been positioned across the country to meet demands of the State governments for feeding the people affected due to COVID-19, Mr. Prasad points out. During April, the FCI moved 60 lakh tonnes of food grains to its godowns across the country, a record quantity, surpassing the previous high of 38 lakh tonnes in March 2014. This included transportation of about one lakh tonnes by road to the Kashmir Valley and Leh/Ladakh as well as about 81,000 tonnes to Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya in the northeast.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Scramble for funds as Centre tightens purse strings||The health and economic crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic has compounded the fiscal woes of the Kerala government, which is battling a grave resource crunch and a hostile political dispensation at the Centre. An alarming dip in the State’s own tax revenue, coupled with a delay and cut in Central transfers, have pushed the State to the edge of a financial precipice. A comparison of receipts in April 2019 and April 2020 reveals the intensity of the crisis. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection was Rs. 1,950.71 crore in April 2019. It dipped to Rs. 153.26 crore in April 2020. Land revenue has come down from Rs. 19.65 crore to Rs. 2.7 crore, State excise duty from Rs. 193.08 crore to Rs. 22.83 crore and motor vehicle tax from Rs. 298.42 crore to a mere Rs. 3.52 crore. The Centre has not yet heeded the State’s demand for the release of GST compensation arrears of Rs. 5,000 crore. The demand for raising the annual borrowing limit from 3% to 5% also remains a cry in the wilderness. The same applies to the demand for enhancing the allocation for the National Health Mission to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. The State has pointed out that supply chain breaks due to the lockdown would result in a shortage of medicines and other essentials that reach Kerala from the neighbouring States. The government has only Rs. 2,000 crore in its coffers at present. Other than debt servicing and similar commitments, the recurring expenditure for disbursing salary and servicing pensions amounts to Rs. 3,850 crore. A tranche of Rs. 1,276 crore provided by the Centre as revenue deficit grant was perhaps the only major revenue inflow into the treasury this month. The government’s decision to effect a six-day cut in the salary of employees and teachers for five months to cushion the impact of the pandemic’s impact ended in a legal tangle, with the High Court staying the decision for two months. The State government was forced to promulgate an ordinance to get legal sanction for the decision. However, the deduction would earn the exchequer only Rs. 500 crore a month and Rs. 2,500 crore in six months. Moreover, the government will have to return the amount once the crisis blows over. Healthcare costs Despite its exemplary efforts so far to contain the CODIV-19 pandemic with minimum loss of life, the threat is far from over. The government will have to bolster quarantine and testing facilities once the lakhs of Non-Resident Keralites and those residing in other States return after lockdown curbs are eased. The Kerala State Electricity Board, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, the micro, small and medium enterprises, traditional industries and a host of other sectors are desperate for financial assistance to limp back to normalcy. Turning to the market The only option left before the government is open market borrowing. Out of the sanctioned limit of Rs. 24,500 crore for the current financial year, the State has already availed itself of Rs. 6,000 crore and is now gearing to up to borrow Rs. 1,000 crore to meet the committed expenditure for the month. The Reserve Bank of India has, however, cautioned the State against drawing huge sums from the market at exorbitant rates. Which also means that the government would have to tread cautiously while approaching the market. The State is now looking forward for a substantial assistance from the Centre and also a relaxation in borrowing curbs as a way forward. It was in this context that Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac took the lead in initiating consultations with Finance Ministers of non-BJP ruled States to form a pressure group to force the Centre accept the demand for more funds. Dr. Isaac is hopeful of bringing in Telangana and other Congress-ruled States to the fold and pressing the Centre to accept demands. Whether the Centre will yield to such demands remains to be seen. Or else, the administrative machinery may grind to a halt for want of financial fuel.
04 May 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra reports 678 fresh cases||The spike in the COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra continued relentlessly, with the State reporting 678 positive cases on Sunday as its cumulative tally climbed to 12,974, while a further 27 deaths took the State’s death toll to 548. As per figures from the Health Department, Mumbai reported 21 fatalities, while four were reported from Pune city and one each from Bhivandi and Navi Mumbai. Mumbai city reported 441 of the 678 new cases as the city’s cumulative tally rose to 8,800 cases with 343 fatalities thus far.  115 discharged “A total 115 persons were discharged today, taking the cumulative number of discharged till date to 2,115,” said State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate. Only 48% of the deaths reported today had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease, according to authorities. Till date, 1,70,139 samples have been tested in Maharashtra, of which 1,56,078 (nearly 90%) have returned negative, while 12,974 have tested positive. While the Health Department put Pune district figures at 1,396 active cases, the district administration put the number at 1,464, with a surge of at least 68 fresh cases today. According to the Health Department, Pune district’s death toll stands at 106. While the Health Department has not recorded any rise in the cases in the Pimpri-Chinchwad area, district officials reported six new cases on Sunday, including those of four women, among them a 71-year-old lady, and two youths in their early 20s. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation Commissioner Shravan Hardikar has divided the township into 21 containment zones, sealing off the Pimple-Saudagar and Sangvi areas from where the fresh cases were reported. Thane reports 28 cases Other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) saw a sharp spike in fresh cases as well, with Thane district reporting a rise of 28 new cases as its tally rose to 548, while Navi Mumbai reported 12 new cases as its cumulative tally touched 216, and Kalyan-Dombivli reported 17 new cases as its total tally rose to 212. Malegaon in Nashik district — a virus hotspot in north Maharashtra — reported a rise of 10 new cases (as per the State figures) as Nashik’s tally surged to 284 active cases, of which 229 are from Malegaon city. “There are 997 active containment zones in the State currently. A total 11,078 surveillance squads have screened more than 51 lakh people till date. Presently, 1,81,832 people across the State were in home quarantine and 13,158 persons were in institutional quarantine facilities,” said Dr. Awate.
04 May 2020||Bhopal,||Six more deaths in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh on Sunday reported six deaths owing to COVID-19, taking the total to 156, the Directorate of Health Services said. Three persons died in Ujjain, two in Indore and one in Khandwa. The fatality rate in Ujjain, which has registered 156 cases and 30 deaths so far, climbed to 19.2%. The State-wide rate touched 5.5%, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate. Forty-nine fresh cases were reported. The tally now stands at 2,837. One hundred and seventy-four patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. As many as 798 persons, or 28% of those testing positive, had recovered. Till Sunday, around 17 samples were tested before a positive case was discovered. The test positivity rate came down to 5.8%. The State has conducted 590 tests per million so far. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, in an address to the people, said that even he couldn’t reach the worst-hit cities owing to the lockdown. “I am bound by the lockdown, and even the party has instructed me not to go there now. But my soul is with the people,” he said. Mr. Chouhan said the situation in the State was more or less under control. “The fatality rate is declining as is the positivity rate, but the crisis is not over yet. It is important to be attentive. If we are to win over it completely, we have to be disciplined and stick to the law,” he said. At a review meeting, I.C.P. Keshari, Additional Chief Secretary, Commercial Tax Department, and in-charge of the State Control Room, said around 4,000 workers were brought back from Gujarat on Sunday. Around 42,000 workers trapped in different districts of the State were transported to their native places in the past 8 days. So far, 59,000 workers have been brought back to the State.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||UAE books 3 more Indians on charges of spreading hate||The authorities in the UAE over the weekend booked three more Indians for spreading hate online. Diplomatic sources said this was part of the Gulf country’s campaign to monitor community activities by Indian expats as intense social media exchanges between Indian and Gulf commentators continue. The latest to be booked are Rohit Rawat, a chef employed with a high-end Italian restaurant, Sachin Kinnigoli, a storekeeper, and an employee with the Transguard group who posted offensive messages in a Facebook page under a fictitious name, Vishal Thakur. All three have been terminated from their positions, and the administration of Dubai is acting against them under the law. Sources from the UAE said the country was unlikely to tolerate online hate and was monitoring both online and offline activities by expats, especially comments that inflamed religious sentiments. An offender will get jail term and be fined heavily depending on the scale of the crime. Since early March, there have been at least 11 cases of Indian expats getting sacked and punished for such crimes. Continued online hate speech and crackdown by the authorities have drawn the attention of Indian Ambassador Pavan Kapoor, who had intervened earlier reminding Indians that discrimination is against the rule of law and the “moral fabric” of India. Nevertheless, heated exchanges continued, prompting Princess Hend Al Qassemi of Sharjah to criticise dominant political trends in India. It is learnt that the UAE has begun to watch out for signs of extremism among Hindus, including social and cultural figures, in a focused way after a prominent Indian priest was arrested in March 2019. After a brief detention, Mahant Sudhir Das Pujari was released and allowed to return home. The Mahant said the controversy was related to a dispute with his Arab business partner, and it had nothing to do with his religious activities.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||Centre drafts new rules for satellite TV channels||To overhaul its nine-year-old uplink and downlink policy for private satellite TV channels, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry has issued draft guidelines with stringent provisions for any violations, with an additional clause that the Ministry of Home Affairs can step in to revoke the security clearance in case of repeated violations. The Ministry said a review was prompted by the “fast evolving broadcasting technology” and “changes in the market scenarios”. It has called for suggestions from the stakeholders in the next 15 days. ‘Half-measure’ An industry source said the policy is a “half-measure” and there are concerns about “too much reference to the Ministry of Home Affairs” which earlier too had a key role to play. “Given its political nature, the amount of reference to MHA will discourage investors,” he said. What has changed in this policy is that the Ministry in black and white has listed out 11 violations. These violations include: “Delay or non-intimation to the Ministry about change in the shareholding pattern of the company”, “appointment of a Director without prior permission of the Ministry”, “non-removal of a Director who has been denied security clearance” or “showing dual logo/logo or name not permitted by the Ministry” . For any of the 11 violations, the penalty ranges from warning, prohibition to broadcast up to 10 days and even cancellation of permission. Security clearance All channels have to take security clearance from the Ministry of Home Affairs, which was the case earlier too. Once granted, the clearance is valid for 10 years. However, the guidelines also mention that the MHA can withdraw the clearance which would mean that the permission to uplink would stand terminated automatically. A welcome change is the relaxation offered for non-news category channels to broadcast live events. A broadcaster, who didn’t want to be named, said all sports channels had to take separate permission 15-days before telecasting a live event. This process has been streamlined. Instead of seeking permission, now the channel merely has to register online at Broadcast Seva with the necessary document five days prior to the telecast.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||Javadekar slams report on press freedom||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, in a tweet on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, said the government “will expose” surveys that portray a “bad picture about ‘freedom of Press’ in India”. The Minister’s comments came against the backdrop of the latest survey of Reporters Without Borders that shows India dropping two places on the global press freedom index ranking to 142nd on the list of 180 countries. Bhutan, Nepal and Sri Lanka are ranked higher. ‘Will expose surveys’ “Media has the power to inform and enlighten people. Media in India enjoy absolute freedom. We will expose, sooner than later, those surveys that tend to portray bad picture about ‘Freedom of Press’ in India,” Mr. Javadekar tweeted. The report on “'The World Press Freedom Index 2020”, released on April 22, said that with no murders of journalists in India in 2019, as against six in 2018, the security situation for the country's media might seem, on the face of it, to have improved. “However, there have been constant press freedom violations, including police violence against journalists, ambushes by political activists, and reprisals instigated by criminal groups or corrupt local officials,” it said. In 2010, India was ranked 122. In 2013 and 2014 it slipped to 140th place. But in 2015, it improved four positions to be placed at 136. In 2016, it further improved to be at 133. In 2017, it was back at 136. In 2018 and 2019, it slipped two ranks, to be at 138 and 140, respectively.
04 May 2020||BHOPAL,||M.P. govt. denies 9,271 test results were unaccounted for||The Madhya Pradesh government has denied that at least 9,271 COVID-19 test results were unaccounted for up to April 31, as reported by The Hindu . The report was based on the data released by the State Directorate of Health Services through its media bulletin. P. Narahari, Secretary, Public Relations Department, said the data were being recompiled by the government. In a rejoinder, he stated as of April 2, the number of cumulative samples received was 50,749, samples tested was 46,578 and samples rejected was 1,542 and those under process were 2,629. However, the report had instead stated there was a wide variance between the cumulative COVID-19 test reports received and the sum of samples that tested positive and negative until April 30 in Madhya Pradesh, which raised questions about accuracy of data maintained by the State government. The difference between the two metrics was at least 9,271 tests whose results were unaccounted for. In the rejoinder, the number of positive and negative samples was not provided, neither was the variance between cumulative test reports received and the sum of samples that tested positive and negative disputed. Besides, the government also did not dispute the inexplicable slashing of the cumulative tally of samples which had tested negative on two previous occasions, as mentioned in the report.  As of April 2, the number of cumulative samples received was 50,749, samples tested 46,578, samples rejected 1,542 and those under process were 2,629 P. Narahari, Secretary, Public Relations Department
04 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat records 374 fresh cases, 28 deaths||Gujarat recorded 374 fresh COVID-19 cases and 28 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number to 5,428 cases and 290 deaths. As many as 146 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the total number to 1,042. The State has ramped testing with the infection surging. So far, 80,060 samples have been tested, including 5,944 from 5 p.m. Saturday to 5 p.m. Sunday. The State’s fatality rate, 5.4%, remains above the national average. Its recovery rate stands at 19.2%, which is substantially below the national average. Gujarat is the second State after Maharashtra in the number of cases and deaths. The infection has spread to 31 of the 33 districts, but nearly 85% of the cases and deaths have occurred in the main cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. As the single biggest cluster in the State and the second largest cluster after Mumbai, Ahmedabad has reported 3,817 cases and 208 deaths so far. On Sunday, the city reported 274 cases and 23 deaths. The situation is alarming in the city as the fatality rate stands at 5.5% and the recovery rate a mere 14%. A total of 533 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. The number of cases has only gone up despite the strict lockdown measures taken in the city, including two weeks of curfew in the containment zones and in the areas from where the high incidence has been reported. After Ahmedabad comes Surat, where 30 deaths have occurred and 686 cases have been reported and 156 patients have been discharged. Vadodara has reported 350 cases, 25 deaths and 146 cases of recovery. The government has decided to continue the lockdown measures in Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara, despite some relaxations allowed by the Ministry of Home Affairs from Monday. “There will not be any relaxation in the main cities, and except for shops selling essentials, everything else will remain shut,” said an official statement.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||20 central teams to monitor hotspots||Data from State Health Departments put the nationwide death toll at 1,389. The number of positive cases overall stood at 42,037, with 29, 965 active ones. Mumbai reported 441 new cases and 21 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 8,613 and fatalities to 343, an BMC official said.’ Fewer tests India is one of 11 countries that have tested over one million samples, with the latest Health Ministry update reporting 74,000 tests a day. However, at just 758 tests per million of population, India ranks among countries that have tested the lowest fraction of their population. In an interview to the Press Trust of India, NITI Aayog Member, V.K. Paul said extending India’s lockdown was part of a plan to curb infection transmission. “...Real goal of lockdown was to suppress the chain of transmission of the virus. So, we will lose that if we abruptly end it,” Mr. Paul said. On April 25, Mr. Paul, who also heads a key government empowered committee on medical management, presented a study to suggest that the lockdown had slowed the rate of transmission and increased the doubling time to about 10 days. He also presented an analysis showing that new cases would cease by May 16, though — as The Hindu had reported — this was a guesstimate and questioned by experts. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday that the rate of growth in new cases in India was steadying. “As per data today, for the past three days, the doubling rate is 12; for seven days 11.7 and for 14 days its 10.4. We need to adhere to strict physical distancing and hand hygiene to take lockdown 3.0 to a logical end,” a release quoted the Minister as saying.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Economic recovery may take over a year’||The CII suggested that full industrial operations could be restarted in these priority districts, even within containment zones, if aggressive door-to-door testing, or group testing covering 100% of the population is carried out, and stringent sanitation and distancing protocols are followed. Personal protective equipment would be provided free of cost for all within the industrial unit. Workers would have to be housed on the premises or within walking distance, and both raw materials and finished goods would be disinfected and kept in isolation for 72 hours before use. At the end of the day, the CII argued that a cost benefit analysis favours such an approach. “The cost of undertaking precautionary measures by way of repeated sanitation, wearing of PPE, masks, monitoring, group testing etc. will be much less than the economic loss if businesses in such high performing districts have to remain shut for a longer duration,” said CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee. The poll of CEOs, the majority of whom belong to the crucial MSME sector, showed that almost two-thirds of respondents expect their revenues to fall more than 40% in the current April to June 2020 quarter. For the full financial year 2020-21, a third of respondents still expect a more than 40% revenue fall, while another third expect their topline to drop between 20% and 40%. Most of the firms polled expect domestic demand to recover faster than exports. Only 18% do not expect job losses in their sector. Only 35% have faced salary reductions in their own firms so far.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||Owaisi calls for discharge of 38 Telangana residents||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking the discharge of 38 people from Telangana who have been kept in quarantine centres in Delhi since March 30. They had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz (centre) in Delhi in March. The Delhi police have registered a case against the organisers for allowing thousands to congregate at the centre at the time of the COVID-19 pandemic in early March, when the lockdown was not imposed. Mr. Owaisi said in his letter that all their tests had returned negative, but they were unable to return home because of the “sudden, successive extensions of the lockdown period and the consequent absence of any inter-State...transport”. “In light of your Ministry’s recent notification permitting migrants to return to their home States, I request that the concerned persons be discharged from the quarantine facilities and issued a pass to travel to Telengana,” the letter said. The inmates have been quarantined at various facilities in the Narela Industrial Area, Sultanpuri, Lok Nayak Hospital, Badarpur Secondary School and Mandoli. On April 2, the Union Home Ministry issued a standard operating procedure for movement of people completing quarantine in government facilities. It said, “Persons testing negative for COVID-19 would be released ... however, this will not apply to a group wherein even one person tests positive, and these persons are to return to their homes by making their own transport arrangements.” It also asked such persons to quarantine themselves at home for another 14 days and their details would be shared with the State and Union Territory concerned for follow-up. A Delhi government spokesperson said on Sunday that the criterion for allowing from institutional quarantine to return home was based mainly on two consecutive negative tests. So far, the spokesperson pointed out, the inter-State borders had been sealed, and they were now “opened” in accordance with the Ministry’s guidelines for the movement of some categories of individuals.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Colonel, Major among 5 personnel killed in J&K||Colonel Sharma, Commanding Officer of the Army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles, was stationed in Handwara. Army sources said the militants, who were in a cowshed, were presumed dead on Saturday evening after the exchange of fire stopped for over one hour. The operation against the militants, who escaped from the Rajwara forests on Friday afternoon, was launched around 3.30 p.m. on Saturday. The Army officers and their team went into the house near the cowshed to “rescue the civilians”, but their communication with the search-and-operation personnel outside got disconnected, forcing them to hold fire for the whole night. The operation was also “slowed down” by heavy rain and thunder, police sources said. They said the officers found themselves in front of the militants, who had sneaked in from the rear of the house. “Two weapons and a war-like store were also found at the site,” officials said. Six injured in blast In a separate incident, six civilians were injured when four boys fiddled with an unattended explosive at Ahgam in Handwara, the police said. The area is 3 km-4 km from the site of the encounter. The police did not reveal the details of the blast. Colonel Ashutosh Sharma and sub-inspector Qazi were known for their successful anti-militancy operations and their meticulous planning, which earned them gallantry awards in the past. “I salute the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in Kashmir. Proud of leaders like Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the CO [Commanding Officer], who led from the front. He had been decorated with Sena Medal twice earlier too,” said Lt. Gen. Satish Dua, who served as General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Srinagar-based 15 Corps during 2015-16. Brigadier Chandrakant Sood (retired), father of Major Anuj Sood, said his son had made “a supreme sacrifice”. “It was part of his duty and what he was trained for. I feel sad for his wife as they got married three or four months back,” he was quoted as saying by a Delhi-based wire service. In a recent social media post, Major Sood wrote: “When you’re older, you will realise the only thing that matters, the only thing, is that you had courage and honour. Lose those things and you won’t die any quicker, but you’ll be less than the dirt on your boots. You’ll still be dust, but you’ll have wasted your short time in the light.” A police spokesman in Srinagar said sub-inspector Qazi, “led various successful anti-terror operations”.
04 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Comply with quarantine norms, returnees told||The Odisha government has warned people returning from other States of legal action if they don’t comply with mandatory quarantine regulations. Issuing a stern warning here on Sunday, Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy said, “Odisha is faring better than other States in containing the spread of COVID-19. It has been possible due to sacrifice by all people, and relentless administrative actions. We will not allow anyone to sabotage the success achieved over two months of uncompromising actions.” Five fresh positive cases — two from Ganjam and one each from Balasore, Keonjhar and Jharsuguda districts — were detected on Sunday. The total number of positive cases in the State has now climbed to 162. Officials annoyed Senior officials were annoyed over reports of several violations by people under quarantine upon their return. “The government will not allow indiscriminate entry of people returning from other States. They should have valid registration and an approved vehicle route chart with them. Anyone found coming without informing the authorities will be turned away from 12 border checkpoints,” Mr. Tripathy said. Overloading of buses would also be viewed as a violation of guidelines, and such buses would not be allowed to enter Odisha, the Chief Secretary said.
04 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Tripura groups oppose settlement of Brus||Amid the COVID-19 lockdown, two community-specific groups have renewed their opposition to the permanent settlement of Bru refugees from Mizoram in Tripura. A joint team of the Nagarik Suraksha Mancha, mostly representing Bengali people displaced from erstwhile East Pakistan post-partition in 1947, and the Mizo Convention on May 2 submitted a memorandum to Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb protesting the proposed settlement of the displaced Brus in the Kanchanpur Sub-Division of North Tripura district. Northern Tripura has a sizeable Mizo population concentrated in the sub-division’s Jampui Hill area. “Leaders of the two organisations gave the memorandum yesterday [on Saturday],” Kanchanpur’s Sub-Divisional Magistrate Chandni Chandran said.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Grief too deep||Having ensured that Rama, Lakshmana and Sita were proceeding to Chitrakuta, Sumantra returns with a heavy heart to a desolate Ayodhya. Parting with near and dear ones can cause untold grief and Valmiki captures the pathos of the situation with accuracy and realism, pointed out Swami Paramasukananda in a discourse. Grief does not spare anyone and takes its toll on all from the greatest to the simplest in an impartial manner. Could there have been anyone more fortunate and blessed than Dasaratha who was specially selected by the Supreme Lord to be His father during Rama avatar? This scion of the Ikshvaku clan was also reputed for his righteous reign and extraordinary valour. But now Dasaratha bewails the lot that has befallen on Rama, Sita and Lakshmana who did not in any way deserve the hardships of forest life. He is immersed deep in the ocean of grief and as he struggles to cope with this, he is eager to hear their parting message from Sumantra. Rama offers His respects and obeisance to all. He asks His father to abide by dharma and show concern for Kausalya. Rama asks Kausalya to be patient and forgiving towards the sorrowing king. Kaikeyi is asked to give up ahamkara. Bharata should not disrespect Dasaratha. Then Sumantra conveys the message of enraged Lakshmana which is a frank and open accusation of his father. In great anger, he disowns his father. He reiterates that Rama alone is his father, mother, kinsman, brother. Dasaratha heartily welcomes Lakshmana’s words. They give solace to him who is caught in a helpless position. He is glad that Lakshmana has the greatest regard for the very Supreme Being. What better privilege could anyone expect than to be able to constantly remain in devoted service to the Lord?
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘India tried to persuade Pak. to free Jadhav’||India had hoped to persuade Pakistan through ‘back channel’ to release retired Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was sentenced to death by a Pakistan military court on charges of ‘espionage and terrorism’ in 2017, said senior advocate Harish Salve, who was the lead counsel for India in the Jadhav case at the International Court of Justice. “We have written four-five letters. They just keep on denying,” he said during an online lecture series.
04 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||No relaxation in Assam for the aged||The Assam government has announced the relaxation of COVID-19 lockdown for a slew of activities from Monday but people above 65 years and children below 12 years have been barred from venturing out of their homes except for medical reasons. The relaxation is applicable in all districts marked green zones. Assam has no red zone and only four of the 33 districts are marked orange. “All offices and businesses allowed to function will operate during the day hours with sufficient time for employees and proprietors to return home before a total curfew starts from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. until further notice,” Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday. Shops and offices will have to be closed by 5 p.m. All public and private sector offices will, however, be allowed to operate with 50% employees, while women employees who have children below 5 years have been allowed to stay home. Construction activities have been permitted with 50% workers.
04 May 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi reports 94 fresh cases||Dharavi recorded 94 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest single-day rise so far, pushing the total number to 590. It recorded two deaths, bringing the tally to 20.  A 54-year-old man and a 85-year-old man died. Mahim, which falls under the same G North Ward as Dharavi, reported 16 fresh cases, including one death, on Sunday.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPFO staff donate Rs. 2.5 cr. to PM CARES||The staff of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) have contributed Rs. 2.5 crore — one day’s salary — to the PM CARES Fund to counter the COVID-19 pandemic, the EPFO said in a statement on Sunday. “... Officers and staff of EPFO are also contributing by putting in extra efforts for providing relief by expeditiously processing EPF withdrawal claims, including COVID claims under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana package, etc,” the EPFO said. Since the scheme was rolled out on March 28, over 7.4 lakh claims under the special pandemic withdrawal scheme had been processed as on April 28, it said
04 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||1,150 migrants reach Ganjam from Kerala||After covering 1,836 km, the first special train with 24 coaches from Kerala carrying around 1,150 Odia migrant workers reached Jaganathpur station in Odisha’s Ganjam district on Sunday morning. The migrants mostly worked at Perumbavoor and Aluva in Ernakulam district of Kerala and boarded the train in Aluva on Saturday evening. This is the second special train to transport stranded workers across the country. The first train had travelled from Telangana to Jharkhand. Jaganathpur on the outskirts of Berhampur was the first stoppage of this special train in Odisha, where over 511 migrant labourers got down.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19: CRPF headquarters shut for sanitisation after driver tests positive||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) headquarters in the CGO complex in south Delhi was shut for sanitisation after a driver attached to one of the offices tested COVID-19 positive. A CRPF spokesperson said the headquarters would be closed till sanitisation was completed. The driver used to ferry CRPF employees working at the headquarters to their homes. He was in quarantine since he showed symptoms two to three days ago. The results came on Saturday evening. He was staying at a CRPF accommodation and the personnel living with him have also been quarantined.
04 May 2020||SRINAGAR,||J&K records 35 positive cases of COVID-19 taking count to 701||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 35 positive cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, pushing the tally to 701. The Srinagar Municipal Corporation has put 50 corporators and employees under quarantine after a corporator’s brother tested positive. A government spokesman said 34 of 35 fresh cases were from the Kashmir division and one from the Jammu division. “The number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir rose to 701. At least 406 remain active positive cases. Bandipora tops the list with 128 positive cases, followed by Anantnag district with 109,” the spokesman said.
04 May 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Two more Koyambedu returnees test positive||Two men, both workers at the Koyambedu market in Chennai tested positive for COVID-19 on their return to their hometown. Both men had travelled together to the district on April 30 and were traced by district officials. The men aged 24 and 26-years are asymptomatic and have been admitted to the Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital for treatment. All asymptomatic patients are being admitted in Ariyalur, while those with comorbidity and other risk factors such as being over the age of 50 are being sent to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, a designated COVID-19 hospital. Ariyalur district has witnessed return of a large number of workers to their hometown after the Koyambedu market was closed for retail vendors. On Sunday alone, a total of 206 people arrived in the district and have been quarantined at the seven special institutional quarantine facilities. Samples have been lifted for all and have been sent to the Tiruchi K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College for testing and results are awaited. The Collector D. Rathna has requested the residents to immediately inform the administration of the arrival of people from other districts. This also includes those who are returning to their hometowns, she said. The people can also visit their nearest Primary Healthcare Centres. “The number of people infected with COVID-19 is increasing among those arriving from outside the district. In order to prevent the spread of the infection, individuals will be subjected to testing,” she said. People can call 04329228709 for queries. In Thanjavur district, three people who were undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital were discharged on Sunday. Two patients hailing from Adirampattinam and one person hailing from Ayyampettai have recovered and were sent home by hospital officials. The district as on Sunday has 57 positive cases of which 38 have recovered. The patients have all been asked to be home quarantined for an additional 14 days before venturing out. A total of 5130 people with cold, fever and other symptoms have been quarantined and test samples have been taken from them. Of them, 4418 have tested negative while results are awaited for 655 people. They have been isolated at the TMC, Government Raja Mirasudar Government or Government Engineering College in Sengipatti.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With industries set to open, government issues guidelines||The State government on Sunday issued several sets of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to enable certain industries, including the construction sector, to resume partial operations in rural and specified urban areas outside the COVID-19 containment zones from Monday. As per the SOP, notified a day after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced a relaxation of the lockdown, no employee from a containment zone should be allowed to work. “One should understand [that] the intention of the government is to carefully restart operations of industries and not undo all the precautionary measures taken so far,” a senior official told The Hindu.  He made it clear that private firms other than those that fall under the sectors specifically mentioned in the G.O. issued by the Chief Secretary cannot resume operations. “If any more relaxation is necessary, the State government would take a call,” he added. Industrial units engaging over 1,000 workers must tie-up with a nearby hospital for a daily visit by a doctor. In units with 201-1,000 workers, a part-time doctor must visit once in two days, and units with less than 200 employees must have a doctor “on call”. Those aged above 55, persons with co-morbidities and parents of children below five years of age “shall be encouraged from home [sic]”. Such permission shall not be entertained in the construction industry. Disinfecting industrial premises twice a day, thermal screening of employees before they enter the premises, wearing of masks and physical distancing at the workplace are among the mandatory provisions. “Ensure that only medically fit persons, without any co-morbid conditions and below 55 years of age, are called for work in the first phase,” said the G.O, which also officially extended the lockdown till May 17. Companies should arrange for the transportation of their workers. The vehicles should only carry passengers at 50% capacity, and a provision should be made for disinfectants/sanitisers at the entry and exit points of buses. No pillion riding will be allowed on two-wheelers. Not more than 2/4 (depending on the size of the facility) persons should be allowed to travel in lifts or hoists. Wearing face coverings is compulsory in all areas of the premises. The G.O. also specified punishments to be imposed under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in case of were violations. If any employee of a firm tested positive for COVID-19, it must be brought to the notice of the office of the Deputy Director of Medical Services of the district concerned or the 24-hour helpline immediately, the State government said on Sunday. The person should be admitted to a designated COVID-19 hospital and close contacts must be tested and kept under home or facility quarantine, as per the standard protocols, a G.O said. “Close proximity of the area in which the employee was working should be thoroughly disinfected for three days and can be put back into use. The whole of the campus should also be disinfected,” the G.O. stated. Identification and isolation of potentially infectious individuals was a critical step in protecting people at a work site, it added.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers to undergo test once in 10 days: Radhakrishnan||All volunteers who have been assisting residents during the pandemic should get themselves tested for COVID-19 every 10 days, said J. Radhakrishnan, Greater Chennai Corporation Special Nodal Officer for COVID-19. Speaking to mediapersons after an inspection in Chennai on Sunday, Mr. Radhakrishnan said a volunteer on V.R. Pillai Street, within a containment zone, had become a source of infection for 52 persons. “Volunteers play a key role in helping residents in containment zones. We invite all of them for testing. We will make arrangements for testing delivery boys and other workers who help residents during the pandemic,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. Stressing on the need for self-discipline among residents in containment zones and other areas of the city during the lockdown, Mr. Radhakrishnan said more than 25% of the people were found without masks. “We have analysed all aspects of COVID-19 containment zones in areas such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar, Teynampet, and Kodambakkam where a majority of cases have been reported. We need residents’ support in containing COVID-19,” he said. “We find most of the residents are casual in their approach to the lockdown. They think they will not get infected. We request residents to clean their homes. We have supplied chemicals to residents for disinfecting their homes. A person who was infected in the slaughterhouse has caused infection of seven family members. So we request people to disinfect their residence to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at home,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched motorcycle ambulance to help residents in narrow streets. They will create awareness among people on the need for social distancing, hand washing and disinfection. They will provide first aid. “Residents should wash hands after every visit to a grocery store. They should maintain physical distancing at marketplaces,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. “At least 68 of the 200 wards have not reported positive cases in Chennai. But some wards have reported a large number of cases. For example, ward 77 in Pulianthope has 160 cases. We request residents with symptoms to come forward to test. We are carrying out aggressive testing,” he said .  Issue of passes Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the civic body would continue to issue passes for movement within city limits. “Residents can get passes from the Corporation if they have a valid reason. Passes will be issued for the activities permitted by the government. The process has been simplified,” said Mr. Prakash. The Corporation will send stranded persons to their native places soon. “Besides, we have issued notices to all marriage halls. Over 747 halls will be taken over for creating quarantine spaces. In one month, the city will get 50,000 quarantine spaces,” said Mr. Prakash.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna Salai to be free of police barricades from today||The arterial Anna Salai will be opened for vehicular traffic as part of the State's relaxation of lockdown restrictions in the city. A major stretch of Anna Salai was closed for traffic since April 23. The decision to seal key junctions on Anna Salai by placing barricades, including at Little Mount Junction, Nandanam signal, Anna Flyover and Spencer Plaza was taken after the number of vehicles entering the road increased manifold despite the lockdown in place. Vehicles to be checked A senior police officer said, “We will open Anna Salai for traffic. All barricades on the road will be removed. However, policemen will continue to intercept vehicles and check whether the movement of vehicle is for genuine reason. If there is any violation, we will book case against the violator.” Those commuting by cars should note that only two persons, other than the driver, are permitted to travel in the vehicle. Only one person is allowed to ride a two-wheeler. Police officers clarified that all other restrictions in the containment zone would continue and there would be no relaxation.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||22 police personnel in city test positive||Twenty-two police personnel in the city have been admitted to hospitals so far after testing positive for the novel coronavirus disease. Sources in the police said that the results of eight personnel were confirmed by hospital authorities on Sunday. They were admitted to special wards in city hospitals for treatment. Their family members and other contacts were being screened. It all began with a 52-year-old sub-inspector of police getting admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital following initial test which showed him positive for the dreaded infection on April 18. Subsequently three personnel from the North Beach Station, the Government Railway Police station in Egmore and the Central Railway Police Station were admitted for treatment. Sub-inspectors, traffic police personnel, constables and intelligence constables were among the 22 police personnel infected, said police sources.
04 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin alleges irregularities in Highways Dept. tenders||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday charged that a petition filed in the Madras High Court alleging irregularities in tenders for works in the Highways Department was proof that the department, held by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, was involved in a scam even during the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the petition, filed by Durai Jayakumar, a registered contractor, brought to light the irregularities in the tender issued for maintenance of 462.11 km of roads in Thanjvur, Orathanadu and Pattukottai divisions for five years. Mr. Stalin said the contention of Mr. Jayakumar was that the last date for filing the tender was April 15 and the work was awarded to a single contractor even though normally it should be executed by 32 contractors. “The cost of the work is Rs. 500 crore. But the tender was awarded for Rs. 1,165 crore. There are also provisions in the tender to award the work to particular contractors,” Mr. Stalin quoted from the petition filed in the High Court. Mr. Stalin wanted to know why the Chief Minister did not wait till the lockdown was lifted. He also accused Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who held the Housing portfolio, of conflict of interest in allowing registration of housing projects by a firm in which his family members had stakes.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1.26 lakh Tamils residing outside State register with govt. to return home||As of Sunday morning, over 1.26 lakh Tamils currently residing or stranded in other States and countries have registered themselves with the Tamil Nadu government, requesting the authorities to facilitate their return in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Separately, over 1.18 lakh people currently residing in T.N. have expressed their intention to leave for their native States. As of 9 a.m. on Sunday, 45,505 requests were made for the return of 52,100 persons from various countries to Tamil Nadu, a senior official told The Hindu . Another 13,839 registrations were made for the return of 74,890 persons living or stranded in other States, an official source said. As for natives of other States intending to leave Tamil Nadu, 25,302 registrations were made for 1,18,504 persons. However, a senior official said the State government was hopeful that the number of people intending to leave Tamil Nadu would come down once industries resume operations. “We are not for the exchange of workers, since many of them want to leave only because they don’t have work here and are not earning. From Monday, many industries are set to commence operations and, hopefully, there will be a drop [in the number of people looking to return home],” the official said. Another official pointed out that workers were crucial to kick-starting the economy. “What is the point of allowing industries [to operate] if there are no workers? Many migrant workers will naturally stay put if the industries resume operations,” he argued. Officials also explained that the process of returning home from a State or a foreign country would be long. “It is not as if one can reach home after getting here by an aircraft or a train. A medical check-up and quarantine will follow soon after,” an official said. But the return of students, tourists and pilgrims was inevitable, he added. The government has requested those abroad to register themselves on the portal nonresidenttamil.org if they intend to return to Tamil Nadu, so that estimates regarding medical check-ups and quarantine facilities could be made. For persons hailing from other States who wish to leave Tamil Nadu, registrations can be made on the portal rtos.nonresidenttamil.org, the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority said on Sunday. Natives of Tamil Nadu who are currently in other States and wish to return have also been asked to register themselves on the same portal. Those who intend to return or leave in their own vehicles can request passes while registering themselves.  What is the point of allowing industries [to operate] if there are no workers? Many migrant workers will naturally stay put if the industries resume operationsAn official
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vandalur to hold virtual zoo ambassador camp from today||With lessons, activities and learning all going online during the lockdown, Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur will be hosting a virtual zoo ambassadors camp this year from May 4. For the last few years, the zoo has played host to children and college students as part of their popular zoo ambassadors camp during summer holidays. “We were planning to have the ambassadors camp this year as well but the zoo has been shut from March 17 owing to the lockdown. We have now decided to host online sessions by field experts as part of a virtual camp for students from the age of 10 to 20,” said Sudha Ramen, Deputy Director, Anna Arignar Zoological Park. From May 4 to 10, interactive sessions in English and Tamil with field experts, which include veterinarians and biologists who work with the zoo, will be organised for an hour every day. There will be live as well as recorded videos of animals and birds in the zoo and participants will be encouraged to ask questions to experts about the work they do at the zoo as well as how the animals are looked after. “There will be two sessions focusing on butterflies and the butterfly park which the zoo houses,” Ms. Ramen said. The zoo has been a pioneer in hosting livestreams of the animals over the years on its website and the virtual ambassadors programme too has evoked good response so far. To register for the virtual zoo ambassadors camp, persons interested can log on tohttp://aazp.in/vzap/
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Data logic dictates keen focus on vulnerable population||While the health authorities in Tamil Nadu have been talking about the relative ease of treating the bulk of patients in the State, here are figures to demonstrate that for a fact. An analysis of COVID-19 positive cases in the State until April 29 shows that over 85% of the cases remained asymptomatic. A mere 14.7% patients report symptoms, very rarely at testing and even at the point of hospitalisation, doctors say. “This has been the trend right through,” says Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education. Over the months, as the number of cases increased, asymptomatic cases as a percentage of the total number of cases also went up. For instance, out of a total of 780 patients who were treated, an earlier analysis revealed that 74.1% of the cases remained asymptomatic; 16.4% reported ‘mild’ symptoms; 5.64% reported moderate symptoms; and 3.84% of the cases had severe symptoms, requiring ICU care. These figures have since been amended favouring asymptomatic cases over symptomatic ones, as a percentage of the whole, with more people being tested, another health official added. Serious symptoms “When we say mild and moderate symptoms, we usually mean fever and cough — meaning that the patient might require some medication, paracetamol, antibiotics perhaps,” Dr. Narayana Babu explains. The asymptomatic people can actually stay out of hospital, and we have started sending these people from hospitals to COVID Care Centres, which we have set up in colleges and schools. It is also ideal to follow the ICMR recommendation on making sure that asymptomatic people who test positive for COVID-19 remain at home, with some supervision by medical personnel. It is the 16 % of the people who test positive that do need careful attention. “They show serious symptoms like breathlessness, and more often than not, have multiple co-morbidities — diabetes, hypertension, cardiac diseases or pre-existing lung diseases. In addition, senior citizens would be on this list, even if they do not have symptoms. They need to be in hospital and under constant monitoring,” Dr. Narayana Babu says. In effect, this means over 85% of the population can actually be easily managed in step down institutions, or at home, if they are able to practise isolation in their home itself, a senior health official says. In them, the chest x-ray is normal, they are under 55 years of age, healthy and have no symptoms or complaints whatsoever. What happens if someone in this category develops symptoms suddenly? “We have a 108 ambulance on call at these CCCs. If necessary, it can rush the patient to a government hospital nearby for admission,” Dr. Narayana Babu clarifies. It seems from this that Tamil Nadu has perhaps a milder presentation of COVID-19, after all, reflected in its remarkable recovery rate of 57%. The World Health Organisation in its report of its joint mission with China on COVID-19 in February 2020 recorded that “most people infected with COVID-19 virus [in China] have mild disease and recover.” But “approximately 80% of laboratory confirmed patients have had mild to moderate disease, which includes non-pneumonia and pneumonia cases, 13.8% have severe disease and 6.1% are critical. Asymptomatic infection has been reported, but the majority of the relatively rare cases who are asymptomatic on the date of identification/report went on to develop disease.” The road ahead includes ensuring that the vulnerable populations are protected from exposure to the virus, and this would also keep the fatality rate low.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Care givers need to get e-passes||Plumbers, electricians, AC mechanics, carpenters, domestic help and home care providers can apply for work passes from the Greater Chennai Corporation online. These workers will have to apply through the website http:/tnepass.tnega.org, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash in a release on Sunday. Standalone and neighbourhood shops selling articles such as hardware, electrical items, mobile phones and computer peripherals, except salons and beauty parlours, will be permitted to stay open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. However, residents are apprehensive about the process of getting the passes. Santosh, a resident of Kilpauk who runs a shop in Broadway, said he had applied for an e-pass on the website and the application was pending. He is not sure if the police would allow him to travel to this shop. Shops selling essential commodities will operate from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hotels are permitted to supply food parcels from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. But all restrictions pertaining to the lockdown will be in force in all containment zones until May 17, Mr. Prakash said. The restrictions would be relaxed in areas other than containment zones. As many as 68 of the 200 wards in the city have not yet delineated any containment zones so far. Public works Work on relaying roads, construction of public buildings and bridges will begin on Monday in areas which have not been classified as containment zones. The Corporation Commissioner will inspect units in SEZ, and export units before issuance of permits for operations. Units will be permitted with 25% workforce with a minimum of 20 workers. IT and ITeS units will operate with 10% workforce with a minimum of 20 workers. Micro, small and medium enterprises will be permitted with 33% workforce. Amma canteens, banks and ATMs will remain open.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPCL ramps up LPG output||With the demand for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) on the rise from domestic users because of the lockdown, Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL) refinery has increased its production. CPCL’s Manali refinery complex, which has three refineries, produces around 28,000 tonnes of LPG every month. “We usually produce 3 to 4% of LPG from crude oil. That has now been increased to 7 to 8%. LPG is the lightest product and it is one of the first to get in the process of refining. The secondary cracking unit too is producing LPG,” said an official source in CPCL, which is a subsidiary of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. The Centre recently decided to import more LPG to meet the higher demand. Oil marketing companies had to put in place a few restrictions to stop panic bookings by consumers. Distributors have been witnessing a spike in demand for refill cylinders with people staying home. Demand goes up “We don't see this demand coming down any time soon. It will continue even if the lockdown is lifted since many people don't seem to be comfortable eating out. And with salary cuts that option will be put on the back burner as much as possible,” said a distributor. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., which is the market leader in supply of cooking gas in the State, requires around 1 lakh tonnes of LPG a month. Around 80,000 to 90,000 tonnes are imported every month through its Ennore terminal. The State consumes around 2 lakh tonnes of LPG every month. However, this number varies slightly according to the demand, said oil industry sources.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Retention of workers, availability of building materials will pose a challenge’||Notwithstanding the easing of curbs, the retention of migrant workers and the availability of construction materials will pose a challenge to the resumption of activities in the realty sector, industry representatives have said. “The migrant labourers want to go back to their home States. They were being taken care of at the respective construction sites. However, following the announcement that arrangements will be made for them to go back [home], they have become restless and anxious over the last four days. Family pressure is also a factor,” Padam Dugar, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) - Chennai Chapter, said. According to industry estimates, there are around one lakh migrant workers in the construction sector in the State. Mr. Dugar, also the vice-chairman and managing director of Dugar Housing Limited, said another challenge was the availability of construction materials like cement and steel, among others. “Unless these materials are freely available, it won’t be possible to kick-start activities in a full-fledged manner. The government has been trying its best, and it has been a learning curve for everyone,” he added. Ajit Kumar Chordia, managing director, Olympia Group, said migrant workers wanted to go back home, and there was uncertainty over whether they would return. This would delay projects by at least three months, he added. “If we can get the [travel] passes quickly and start work, and if they (the workers) are paid wages and offered incentives, there is a chance of retaining 50%-60% of the workers,” he said. Another industry executive, who did not wish to be named, pointed out that the daily wage of a migrant construction worker was around Rs. 600-Rs. 700, while a local worker would be paid Rs. 300-Rs. 400 more. “Building contractors have a fixed-rate deal with real-estate clients for construction work, and cost escalations are not entertained. The non-availability of workers will delay projects, and the cost will go up as there is going to be a shortage of materials,” he added. Nallathambi Kalyanaraman, chief operating officer at Navin’s, said most migrant workers had indicated that they wished to go back home. Moving engineers and materials to the construction sites would pose a challenge in Chennai, since a lot of restrictions were in place, he said. “The key to retaining migrant workers will be quickly restarting activities and ensuring that they start earning again,” W.S. Habib, managing director of RWD, said.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man, son held for making rice beer, wine at home||The Kodungaiyur police have arrested a father-son duo for making wine and rice beer at their house. Following instructions from Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan, the police are monitoring reports of hoarding of quor bottles and making prohibited liquor in the city. House raided Following information, a special team of police personnel, led by Kodungaiyur inspector Abraham Cruz, raided a house at Narasimman Nagar and found the inmates preparing wine. The police arrested Luwalin Thomas, 56, Bradly Thomas, and another suspect G. Pandian, 23, and recovered 30 litres of wine and five litres of rice beer from the house. Further investigation is on.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hyundai to restart plant||Hyundai Motor India Ltd. (HMIL) plans preparatory operations at its Irungattukkottai plant on May 6 while adhering to guidelines laid out by the government. A statement from the company said: “As a responsible corporate citizen, HMIL has made comprehensive detail-oriented plans for the complete safety and sanitisation of all its facilities inside the plant, to ensure the wellness of its employees. The HMIL confirms complete adherence to all safety guidelines set out by the authorities.” Sources at other automobile firms said that they were working on re-opening strategy and would make an announcement in a day or two.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vendor gets infected||A vendor, who was among the crowd that thronged Thiruvanmiyur vegetable market on April 25, the day before complete lockdown in city, tested positive for COVID -19. The Greater Chennai Corporation closed down the market on Sunday to conduct a special outreach camp for vendors and workers. Their samples are being tested. A senior official with the Corporation said that they had already asked the vendors to shift to three places — the parking area there, North Mada Street and East Mada Street. A few more spots would be identified to decentralise the market and it is expected that the vendors can restart operations at these places from May 6, the official added.
04 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Supply chain, labour remain challenges for manufacturers||For the manufacturing industries in Coimbatore, which expect to start operations this week, availability of labour and raw materials are expected to be challenges. Some industries in Coimbatore district, especially those in rural areas, are expected to start operations from Monday as they have orders to complete. Some others want to wait and watch the situation and then plan operations. The problem to start working immediately is the supply chain, says a foundry owner here. Customers for industrial goods should be willing to take the products and the raw material supply should be smooth. Otherwise, industries may start operations and stop in a few days, he points out. Jayakumar Ramdass, president of the Coimbatore Industrial Infrastructure Association, says industries will know whether it is worth functioning only when it start. In the case of foundries, pig iron, stampings and copper come from the northern States. Most of these are transported by trucks. The drivers should report to work and should be willing to travel to the south. If companies here do not have raw material stock, they may not be able to operate continually, he says. Even industries in rural areas need spares and components from the urban pockets. So MSMEs and shops in the city should start operations. “It will take one week or 10 days for things to settle down,” he says. According to G. Ezhil, chairman of the Coimbatore chapter of Institute of Indian Foundrymen, migrant workers are ready to go back to their home States and there is no clarity yet on inter-district and inter-State movement of workers and employees. These will be challenges to the industries when they re-start operations. Industries will send private vehicles and bring back workers from southern States, if it is permitted. Most of the CNC operators in Coimbatore are from the southern districts of the State, says Mr. Ramdass. For the powerloom weavers, the main market for fabric is northern States. Without markets opening up in Maharashtra and Gujarat, there is no point in operating, say the weavers. Some of the textile mills, especially the smaller ones, want to start operations a little later. “Mills can run with the raw material and workers they have. It is not feasible to move cotton from the north and send yarn to other States now. Hence, mills want to get clarity, wait and watch,” says an industry representative.
04 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IAF flypast: Corona warriors not disappointed||Around 150 medical professionals of the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, assembled in front of the hospital on Sunday evening expecting a flypast by aircraft of Indian Air Force as part of IAF’s exercise to honour COVID-19 warriors. Though the flypast did not take place, the hospital administration informed media persons that they were not disappointed and they will continue the combat against COVID-19. They assembled in front of the hospital around 5.30 p.m. after receiving alerts from various fronts that IAF was to carry out a flypast around Coimbatore city between 5.45 p.m. and 6 p.m. Though a defence spokesperson from Chennai confirmed The Hindu before Sunday noon that the flypast of IAF aircraft was to happen in the evening, it did not take place. However, Coimbatore district administration was not aware that such a flypast was planned. Though The Hindu contacted a senior official of Air Force Station, Sulur, to check whether the flypast was planned, the official was not available for comment. With the flypast did not take place, the medical professionals, who waited for more than 30 minutes in front of the hospital dispersed for various duties.
04 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Elgi Equipments will continue to focus on becoming world number two’||Compressor manufacturer Elgi Equipments will continue to focus on becoming the world number two, its Managing Director Jairam Varadaraj told The Hindu . According to Mr. Varadaraj, the whole size of the compressor industry globally has shrunk with the COVID-19 spread. Elgi continues to supply machines in the United States, Australia, and South East Asia, though not to the earlier levels. “We are taking short-term measures to ensure well-being of the company. It is a calibrated move,” he said. “Our aspiration to emerge as the number two player is still our primary focus and in some ways, we are at an advantage for we are not dependent only on one economy,” he said. Industries in the essential sector are expected to return to normalcy faster compared to other sectors when the lockdown is lifted.
04 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Wet grinder manufacturers seek support||Wet grinder and accessory manufacturers in Coimbatore sought support from the government to revive operations. The Coimbatore Wetgrinder and Accessories Manufacturers’ Association office bearers told presspersons here recently that about 750 wet grinder manufacturers and nearly 4,000 accessories manufacturers had paid wages to workers for two months and had accumulated interest to be paid to the banks. The product and industry was unique to Coimbatore as wet grinders were not manufactured any where else in the country. All of them had outstanding payments from their buyers and were unable to ask for it because of the lockdown for more than a month now and lack of business. Hence, the State Government should waive off the electricity bill for all the manufacturers who had less than 10 HP power connection. It should also extend financial support to the wet grinder and accessories manufacturers so that they could revive operations, the office bearers said.
04 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Apparel industries told to get permission from Collector||Apparel industries that want to take up design and sample preparation in Tiruppur town, can do so after getting permission from the District Collector and operating with 30 % workers, an official press release said. In the release, Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that industries in rural and town panchayats could operate with 50 % workforce.  Town panchayats Those in SEZs, export oriented units, industrial townships, and industrial estates in rural and town panchayats could operate with 50 % workers. For the exporting units in the town, the Collector would inspect and permit them to function with 50 % workers. Spinning mills Spinning mills and hardware manufacturers in rural areas could operate in shifts with 50 % workers and after following all the mandatory precautionary measures. MSMEs in rural areas could re-start operations if they followed the precautionary measures. These permissions would not apply to industries in containment areas. Industries that need permission and passes could apply online throughhttps://tnepass.tnega.org, the release added. In Coimbatore, industry sources said Municipal Administration Minister SP Velumani would hold discussions on Monday with representatives of 15 industrial associations.
04 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Seva Bharathi continues food and grocery distribution||‘Seva Bharathi – Then Tamilnadu’ has distributed over one lakh food packets throughout the State and in Coimbatore it is distributing more than 15,000 packets a day, R. Ramanathan, state president, told reporters here on Sunday. The organisation had joined hands with Swami Vivekananda Seva Kendra and RSS to prepare food and distribute food and grocery. Far flung areas In addition to distributing food, Seva Bharathi also distributed grocery to people in far flung areas, including those in tribal hamlets. The distribution took place on a weekly basis, he said. “A group of migrant labourers from Tripura near Pappanaickenpalayam asked if Seva Bharathi could substitute wheat with noodles. Deferring to their wishes, it distributed noodles, vegetables and oil,” Mr. Ramanathan said. Likewise, Seva Bharathi had also taken up delivery of medicines to people and in one instance delivered within two hours a medicine from Coimbatore to Tiruppur. In the coming days, it would distribute K abasura kudineer and homoeopathic medicine to help people boost immunity.
04 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Foreign researchers share experiences with nature enthusiasts||Following the lockdown, the 37th nature trail at Singanallur tank, Nature and bi-diversity education initiative by Centre for Urban Biodiversity Conservation and Education (CUBE) in collaboration with Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation, was replaced by a webinar on Sunday. With the nature trail on the bunds of the tank along with experts was not possible, CUBE organised a webinar in which researchers from seven countries shared their experiences on how nature and various species responded to COVID-19 lockdown in different parts of the world. Susan McKinlay from Norway, Anne Runde and Natchiyar from Germany, Louisa Mamalis from the United Kingdom, Itxaso Quintana from South Africa, Driti from China and Alexander from Australia shared their experiences with nature enthusiasts who took part in the webinar from Coimbatore. Air quality “Researchers mainly highlighted how air quality improved and emission levels reduced in their countries. They also noted that people were getting more connected to nature during lockdown. Itxaso Quintana said that penguins were frequenting Simon’s Town in South Africa in large numbers as human activity reduced there during lockdown. Driti from China observed that light pollution reduced during lockdown,” said Ramya Sengottuvel, a volunteer of CUBE who took part in the webinar.
04 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||India Post offers cargo service to MSMEs||India Post has started MSME logistics solutions to cater to the transport needs of Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs). The Department has appointed a nodal officer, who can be contacted on 9566577197, for Coimbatore division and also launched a helpline (9865313037) to help MSMEs transport essential goods during lockdown. Arrangements will be made by the Department to transport the cargo through road, rail, or air to any destination in the country and the movement of goods will be tracked. There will be inter district and inter State co-ordination between the manufacturers and India Post, said Sudhir Gopal Kahgere, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore. The goods can be masks, PPEs, coveralls, medical equipment, or any essential product. The number of articles booked during lockdown in the division through Speed Post is 3,672 and 173 through Registered Post.
04 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Law college starts classes online||Government Law College, Coimbatore, had started classes online for students, said a release from Principal K.S. Gopalakrishnan. Attendance Mr. Gopalakrishnan said though the college had not made attendance compulsory for students, the number of students who participated in classes on online classroom platforms were more than 80%. The college did so based on suggestions from the Director of Legal Studies, N.S. Santhosh Kumar, who wanted law colleges to make use of the lockdown period to continue teaching students.
04 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||All the bank branches in the district will have business hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and will operate with 50% staff from Monday (May 4), according to lead district manager S. Venkataramanan.    Members of Indian Wind Power Association have donated Rs. 82 lakh to the Prime Minister’s COVID relief fund and another Rs. 27.5 lakh to the State Chief Minister’s funds in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, and Rajasthan. Madaan Foundation, founded by Bhupinder Madaan, has set up a centre in Tiruppur and provided sheets, blankets and food to the workers in Tiruppur for 20 days. It is also conducting awareness campaigns on COVID-19 precautions.
04 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Assistance sought for people without ration cards in hilly areas||People living in Bargur Hills urge the district administration to provide relief assistance of Rs. 1,000 and essential commodities to them as they do not have ration cards. There are 33 hamlets located in the hills where getting essential commodities is a challenging task due to absence of transportation and shops. People living in western hill hamlets Thalakarai, Tholli, Onnakarai, Osur, Kovilnathan and Kongadai and those in eastern hill hamlets Onthanai, Devarmalai and Madam, and people in Sholaganai, Kuttaiyur, and Kathirimalai, all located around Bargur, depend on agriculture for their earnings. Due to lockdown, they were unable to commute in the hill area to reach shops in Anthiyur to purchase essentials. The State Government is providing Rs. 1,000 as relief assistance for rice cardholders while free essential commodities are provided to all the people in the State. “But over 300 families in these hamlets do not have ration cards and hence, they were refused relief assistance”, said S.C. Natraj, Director of Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), a Sathyamangalam-based NGO that runs Special Training Centres for rescued child labourers. He said that earnings of the people were crippled and they were finding it hard to manage during the lockdown. Mr. Natraj said that since these families possess Aadhaar card, assistance should be given to them at the earliest.
04 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||It’s an uphill task to get e-pass||The State government’s move to relax norms regarding the functioning of industries from May 4 has brought a sigh of relief to entrepreneurs. However, tiny and small-scale entrepreneurs in Madurai say that the process of obtaining passes for their employees is among their biggest problems yet. From 11 a.m. onwards, the portal-http://www.tnepass.tngea/-displayed an error message stating ‘the site cannot be reached.’ Convenor of Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association K. R. Gnanansambandham said the servers were slow. “Without proper systems in place, how can we even attempt getting passes?” he asked. Many labourers from his company who attempted to obtain passes were unsuccessful. “When some members of my organisation tried to apply for a pass, they failed to get it. There was also no clear reason for the rejection,” he said. Most importantly, he said that only five or six industries had been listed in the drop-down menu on the portal disallowing people who sell spare parts, oil, grease, paint and other commodities, which had been classified as ‘non-essential,’ to continue with their work. Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association president S. Anburajan said that since the district administration had strictly prevented entry of people into the Collector’s office seeking passes, many people were clueless about how to begin working on May 4. He added that when labourers went to e-sevai centres to apply, the slow servers caused very lengthy wait time. The relaxation permits the Collector to decide on whether e-passes will be given to plumbers, electricians, AC mechanics, homecare providers and maids. T. Dhirivayam, a plumber-cum-electrician, who resides in Anna Nagar, said that without any income for the last one-and-a-half months, he has had to survive on meagre savings. “I've spent the money saved for my daughter’s wedding,” he said. With the relaxation being his only shot at earning a living after a 40-day interval, the e-pass issue proved to be a stumbling block, he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said that there had been a huge flow of requests since the time the e-portal opened on Sunday morning. “The District Industries Centre head said that they are yet to reject applications and they still have 250 pending requests,” he said. He added that they had been flooded with requests from people who already had government’s permission to function without a pass, including employees of medical shops and staff working at restaurants that permit take aways. “We are working on clearing applications,” he said.
04 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Five new cases in southern districts||Five new COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in three districts, including Madurai, in the southern region on Sunday. Madurai and Tenkasi districts reported two cases each and Kanniyakumari registered one, keeping the health teams on their toes. They were engaged in cordoning off the areas around the residences of the positive patients since Sunday noon. Police were deployed in those locations as they were identified as containment zones. Madurai Collector T G Vinay convened a meeting with the crisis management team members on the modalities to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus ahead of the relaxation of the curfew for some sections in the trade and industry. In a relief to the officials and police, Thoothukudi and Sivaganga districts had discharged all the patients on Saturday and the respective Collectors are focussing more on containing the pandemic. Tirunelveli district continues to keep its vigil on seven patients undergoing treatment at its medical college hospital. Officials in Dindigul district, where 81 patients had tested positive, had successfully discharged 72 so far. There was no fresh case on Sunday, Collector M Vijayalakshmi said. After tightening its checkposts, the Virudhunagar district administration had no new case, but the Collector and health officials are concentrating on increasing the random sampling activities. Though the medical bulletin released by the State Health department in Chennai indicated that Kanniyakumari district had one positive case, the doctors at Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital maintained that the patient, a resident of Kulasekaram, had actually been to Chennai last week. She was selected as lab assistant and hence gone there to join duty, but tested positive to COVID-19 virus. According to the doctors, the patient's family lived in Kulasekaram and that they all tested negative. Hence, she was admitted in Omandurar Government Hospital in Chennai. A health official said that the patient had given her native place address and hence it was added to Kanniyakumari district following which the confusion ended. In Tenkasi, out of the 40 patients, 37 were from Puliyankudi. In the fresh case, a 42-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man tested positive and they too hailed from Puliyankudi. Collector Arun Sundar Dayalan said that the district borders had been cordoned off and only after strict screening and quarantine, outsiders were permitted.
04 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Licence of shops flouting norms will be cancelled’||If shops flouted personal distancing norms, their licences would be cancelled, said Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, who inspected the wholesale vegetable and fish shops set up at M.G.R. Bus Stand in Mattuthavani here on Saturday night. He also issued a warning that vegetables and fish from such shops will be seized. Currently, the M.G.R. Bus Stand has been bifurcated where 30 wholesale fish shops and 90 wholesale vegetables shops are functioning. A total of 60 vegetable shops are also operational at the lorry shed behind the bus stand. A senior official from the revenue wing of the Corporation said that from Sunday night around 100 more wholesale vegetable shops were set to function from the helipad of Amma Thidal on Ring Road. Despite repeated appeal from officials, hundreds of people thronged the market every night, with a total disregard for physical distancing rules. The Commissioner instructed the shopkeepers to wear face masks and ensure that their customers followed personal distancing norms. To prevent crowding of customers, makeshift vegetable markets had been set up at 35 spots for retail sales of vegetables.
04 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Relaxation for industries from Wednesday||With the State government lifting restrictions for industries across the State, Madurai district, which comes under red zone, will face additional restrictions, particularly in Corporation limits. All activities can only begin from May 6. Collector T. G. Vinay held a meeting with trade bodies on Sunday evening where confusion regarding the functioning of various industries were cleared. The Collector said the relaxations would take effect in a phased manner. According to a State government order dated May 3, industries functioning outside corporation and municipality limits could function with 50% of the workforce. However, in case of town panchayats with population above 15,000, the industries must obtain permission from the Collector. Factories, except textile units, in industrial estates in Kappalur, Uranganpatti, Nagari and K. Pudur could function with 50% of the workforce. Construction works in urban areas would be allowed if the workers stayed on site. Shops selling construction material would be permitted only outside the containment zone, he said. Self-employed people such as electricians, plumbers, mechanics, caregivers and household workers could work by obtaining e-passes. “They can also get them from their local Tahsildar but the applications must be made online," he said. Restaurants serving takeaway food can function between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. E-commerce service providers also can function during this time. Jewellery shops, automobile showrooms, mobile showrooms, garment stores and furniture shops will not be allowed to do business. Mobile phone and computer repair shops wouldbe allowed. Shops selling household articles and spectacles will be permitted too, he said.
04 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 50 extra for migrant workers’ train journey home draws flak||The decision of the Centre to charge an additional fare of Rs. 50 for migrant workers to return home in Shramik special trains, to be operated at the request of State governments, has drawn flak. “At a time when the Centre should have shown some empathy for workers by offering them free train travel, charging the additional fare has come as a shock,” said CPI(M) MP Su. Venkatesan. The workers have already lost their jobs and exhausted all their money and were virtually at the mercy of the State government and voluntary organisations for food during the lockdown. Mr. Venkatesan wondered what role the Union government was playing in the well-being of Indian workers. “Should not the Centre take any responsibility in this regard?” he asked. He added that the Centre should not put the responsibility of meeting the travel expenses of the migrant workers on the State governments or the Indian Railways as they already faced a huge loss due to lockdown. “What is the Centre going to do with the huge funds received in PM Cares, if even the travel of Indian workers is not taken care of?” the MP asked. The State governments had taken care of the workers with food and medical help all these 40 days. Besides, they need to take care of those workers returning home and their food in the coming days, he said. These workers wanted to go back home only to be in their soil, to be with their people who speak the same language, said S.Selva Gomathi, executive director of Soco Trust, a voluntary organisation. “Not many will have even a proper shelter for themselves back at their native places. The suffering will continue for them as they would not find jobs during lockdown,” Ms. Gomathi said. “India being a welfare State, should not the Centre show some semblance of being so?,” she asked. “The Centre should not have given us an opportunity to seek a free travel for such workers. It is but the moral responsibility of the government,” she added. Human rights activist Henri Tiphange of People’s Watch said that had the Centre allowed the guest workers to return home at the beginning of lockdown, the collection of fare could have been justified. “These workers had always laboured for this State. But they had never been paid the minimum wages under the Inter-State Migrant Labour Act or Contract Act,” he said. Charging them would be disgraceful, Mr. Tiphange said, adding that courts should intervene now and ensure that the workers are sent back with dignity.
04 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown deepens crisis for cane farmers||Sugarcane farmers are among those badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. In the wake of the imposition of lockdown, the delay in settlement of dues from the cooperative sugar mills, the shortage in labour to harvest the crop and the difficulty in procurement of crop loans from banks - all these factors have deeply impacted the farmers. Despite having a good demand for sugarcane, the current crisis has discouraged farmers from raising the crop for the next season, say farmers. N. Palanichamy, president of Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association, said that the National Cooperative Sugar Mills had not paid State Advisory Price on sugarcane for a period of two years, totalling Rs. 9 crore. “It was promised that the arrears would be settled in April, but, unfortunately it did not happen due to the lockdown,” he said. Also, the cooperative mills at Thanjavur and Perambalur have not paid for 20,000 tonnes of sugarcane supplied by the farmers since January. “Around 1,500 farmers from the district have not been paid for their produce, which amounts to around Rs. 5.5 crore,” he said. Against this backdrop, the shortage in labour to harvest the crop has deepened the crisis for farmers. An agriculture official said that sugarcane was harvested on 340 hectares in the district. This mainly includes farmers who had cultivated the crop at the later period of the season. “I raised crops on two acres and it is becoming difficult to find sugarcane- cutters to harvest the crop. Due to increased demand for labourers, their wages have nearly doubled and stands at Rs. 1,200 for harvesting each tonne of cane. It is becoming difficult to handle the crisis and at one point I even thought that I will destroy the crop,” said Karuppiah, a farmer from Valandur in Usilampatti block in Madurai. “It is a common sight to see standing crop left unharvested on many farmlands,” said A.M.M. Ambikapathy, a farmer from Pudupatti village near Alanaganallur block. Besides, it is not easy for farmers to procure crop loans from banks, added Mr. Palanichamy. “Banks often are short-staffed and hence are unable to process crop loans for farmers. Due to this, farmers do not have the capital to start cultivation for this season, which usually starts by May,” he said. T. Vivekanandan, Joint Director of Agriculture, said that the officials are issuing passes to labourers, farmers and are taking several measures to facilitate the transport of agricultural produce amidst the lockdown. “Compared to the initial days of the lockdown period, the issue of labour shortage has been addressed to an extent. With the relaxation of lockdown norms, crop loans will be easily available to ryots.”
04 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Celestial wedding goes digital||The celestial wedding of Goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswarar will take place between 8.30 a.m. and 10.15 a.m. at the Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. A press release said that for the first time, the event would go completely digital. Following the COVID-19 lockdown, a minimum number of priests would perform the pujas and devotees can watch the event live on the websites -www.tnhrce.gov.in,www.maduraimeenakshi. org/live-webcast/and Meenakshi temple's YouTube channel. Women who want to change ‘thaali’ as per custom can do so between 9.05 a.m. and 9.29 a.m.
04 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two from Madurai||Two more residents of Madurai tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 90. Madurai district continues to be in the fifth position in the State with respect to COVID-19 positive cases. A 38-year-old woman from Sellur Sathiyamoorthy Nagar tested positive. The woman was a contact of a 35-year-old man who tested positive on Saturday. Sellur has registered 10 cases till date. The second patient was a 59-year-old man from S. S. Colony. He had visited Puttaparthi where he is suspected to have contracted the infection. The standard procedures of barricading and disinfection of the two areas began on Sunday morning.
04 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Industries to reopen today in U.T.||Industrial units and shops have been allowed to resume functioning from Monday in the Union Territory with strict adherence to precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said. Puducherry and Mahe have been classified as orange zones while Karaikal and Yanam have been categorised as green zones. The Chief Minister, who chaired a Cabinet meeting to decide on the extent of lockdown relaxations, said the stipulation that industries in rural or urban areas, and shops requiring prior permission to reopen had been done away with. Industries and shops will function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. They will ensure use of sanitisers, social distancing and hygiene on premises. The Cabinet has deferred a decision on whether to reopen liquor outlets. "We will wait and watch the situation and observe how other States go about it before taking a decision," Mr. Narayanasamy said. Two-wheelers, including the pillion rider, are allowed while autorickshaws will ply with one passenger in orange zones. Hotels will be allowed to reopen but will not be permitted to serve food. Only takeaways are permitted from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. The government has appointed a nodal officer to coordinate with authorities in other States for the return of workers, students and tourists stranded. Since the government opened a portal for Puducherrians stranded outside and people from elsewhere stuck in the city, 9,024 persons had registered.
04 May 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Drones sought for surveillance||The Health Department is seeking sanction for the purchase of camera-fitted drones for effectively monitoring Puducherry's borders with neighbouring States to check the spread of COVID-19. Addressing a press conference, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said he would raise with Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and the Cabinet, the necessity for at least 100 of these drones for the Police Department.
04 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Mortality rate of COVID-19 cases low in Tamil Nadu’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said that mortality rate in Tamil Nadu in respect of COVID-19 cases was low because of effective clinical management, treatment protocols and patient care. The mortality rate was being maintained in the range of 1.1 to 1.2 percent in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Vijayabaskar told reporters. The Health Minister accompanied the central team, which had, after inspecting hospitals to take stock of the initiatives taken to manage the pandemic, expressed its appreciation of the clinical management being followed in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Vijayabaskar said same type of nutritious diet was being given to all COVID-19 positive patients undergoing treatment at exclusive COVID hospitals across the State. The State government was taking all steps in a focused way with complete dedication and by constituting committees in dealing with the current situation. To a query, he said the Health Department had made comprehensive medical arrangements to deal with COVID-19 pandemic across the State with 29,000 beds in the first phase. The facilities were being scaled up continuously, he said adding that admission of COVID-19 positive patients were being done in the four Government Medical College Hospitals at Chennai and the occupancy was 55 per cent. The State government was well-prepared and well-equipped to deal with any kind of situation including bed facility, equipment and drugs to deal with COVID-19, the Minister said. Frontline warriors battling to contain the spread of the disease were being provided with zinc and multi-vitamin tablets besides kabasura kudineer and nilavembu kudineer to improve their immunity, the Minister said
04 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Health camp conducted for ration shop employees||A health screening camp was conducted for 55 employees of ration shops run by the Cooperative Department in Pudukottai town area on Sunday in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar joined Collector P.Uma Maheswari in inspecting the camp conducted in the first phase. The Minister said steps had been taken to organise similar health screening camps for over 650 ration shop employees working across the district in 995 shops under the Cooperative Department. These camps would be held at the respective primary health centre and government hospital in the district, a press release said. The Minister said zinc and multi-vitamin tablets had been given to 400 sanitary workers serving in the Pudukottai municipal limits. He appealed to the public to fully follow the precautionary measures announced by the State government to prevent the spread of the viral disease and protect themselves.
04 May 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||DSP attack case: youth held in Ramnad||In a major breakthrough, Vigneshwaran alias Ajit alias Ajit Kumar, 25, who was ‘wanted’ in more than 25 criminal cases in three districts, was arrested here on Saturday night. Police had intensified its vigil at all check posts to contain unauthorised movement of vehicles following curfew. Following an alert to police helpline number 9489919722 that Ajit was moving in a bike, Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar instructed personnel to be alert at Kamudi-Mudukalathur intersection. As they were engaged in frisking and checking vehicles with e-pass, a youth who attempted to divert their attention and cross the barrier was stopped. Interrogation revealed that he was the suspect and reportedly possessed 500 gm of ganja and a country-made gun. He was involved in many criminal cases in Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Madurai and Coimbatore districts, police said. The youth, who was 10th fail, indulged in chain-snatching, house-breaking and threatened womenfolk in households. He also figured in a few sexual assaults, an officer said. Another officer added that the suspect was a native of Ammanpatti village in Virudhunagar district, but sneaked into Kamudi bordering Ramanathapuram district. He committed offences in one place and fled to other towns overnight on two-wheeler with fake identity. He always carried weapons with him to protect himself from rivals. About four months ago, he figured in an attempt to murder case. When indirect elections were under way at Narikudi, Ajit assaulted Deputy Superintendent of Police Venkatesan with a knife, injuring the police officer’s hand. There were cases pending against him in Keerathurai police station in Madurai and in Virudhunagar and Coimbatore. The SP said Ajit also threatened young women and sexually assaulted them. The victims could lodge complaint with the police helpline and stern action would be taken against the accused.
04 May 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies in child birth||A woman delivered a stillborn baby and died at the government hospital here . Police said Ranjini and Deivendran married five years ago and lived at Natarajapuram, a fisherfolk colony in Rameswaram. The couple had two daughters. She was to deliver her third baby around May 1. On Saturday, she developed labour pain. Within a few minutes, she became unconscious due to excessive bleeding. She was taken to Rameswaram Government Hospital, where she delivered a stillborn child. She was then rushed to Ramanathapuram GH, where she died on Sunday. As the couple had been married for less than seven years, sub-collector Sugaputra conducted an inquiry.
04 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Artisans look for govt. support to take business forward||The wood artisans in Thammampatti are going through a rough pace during lockdown and they are pinning their hopes on government support to tide over the situation. Known for their craftmanship internationally, most of the craftsmen are now struggling to make their ends meet. P.Sengotavel, president, Thammampatti Wood Carvers Association, said that the business had been dull and with the lockdown, most of the workshops had halted work. They were not getting orders from foreign countries as well in the current situation. N.Durairaj, a National Award winner from here, said that unlike previous years, they had not received much orders from the beginning of the year due to COVID-19. A few cases had been reported from their locality as well and this area had been marked as containment zone. Some of the craftsmen were hopeful of temple chariot works and those too had been affected. Some craftsmen were fulfilling previous orders. Most of them had taken loans to meet the needs, he said. Currently, they did not have sufficient wood to carry out the work. While some craftsmen worked on their own, others had assistants and work had to be stopped as they could not follow physical distancing norms. C.Srinivasan, an artisan, said the cash and ration relief announced by the government would not help them. There were over 150 craftsmen here and their families were struggling. With tourism being affected, they did not receive many orders and there were payment dues as well. “We usually bring wood from Thanjavur and Cuddalore districts and currently we do not have means for that as well,” he said. He said the Central Cottage Industries Corporation and Poompuhar should procure their works directly from them. It would help them manage for the moment and procure raw materials for the next set of orders.
04 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers express displeasure over allotment||Farmers under Sooramangalam Uzhavar Sandhai expressed displeasure over the alternative place allotted for their market in Chenneys Ground and requested authorities to shift them to another place. They said that the market has been shifted to an open ground where things would become difficult if it rains. K.R. Matheshwaran, a farmer here said, “the place lacks shade and it would become difficult for us to do sales during rains. As it is summer season, the produce may dry up in the hot sun. Officials should take necessary measures.” A. Perumal, another farmer who voiced similar concern, said that they are ready to operate on rotation basis from the uzhavar sandhai itself ensuring personal distancing norms. He added that very few people turned up on Sunday at the alternative market and if the situation continues, they would have to dump their produce.
04 May 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Faculty of government college in Sivakasi go beyond teaching curriculum||The COVID-19 lockdown has brought the life of J. Vigneshwari to a standstill. The motherless girl has been taking care of her aged father who underwent a leg surgery a few months back. The curfew has totally shut down her option of a part-time job, the only means of livelihood. The surgery of her father T. Jayashankar, 52, a loadman, and the consequent money crunch threatened Vigneshwari’s college education too. The girl, who secured 897 marks in Plus Two, despite discouragement by her father, joined Commerce stream in Government Arts and Science College in Sivakasi. “I told my father that I always wanted to work in a bank after graduation and promised to juggle between education and the part-time job,” she said. However, it was not easy as she hoped- she had to skip college for a couple of months to take care of her father. She managed to pay her college fees with the government scholarship and money given by her grandmother from her savings. “I used to cook at home, take care of my father, go to college and take up the part-time job on the next street,” she said. The work was time-consuming and yet fetched her only Rs. 10 an hour. She could make a maximum of Rs. 50 in a day. As she could not go for work regularly, her father borrowed money in the neighbourhood to make both ends meet. The only relief during the lockdown is the State government’s cash assistance of Rs. 1,000, rice and groceries from ration shop. The family pays a house rent of Rs. 1,000. It was at this time that the teaching faculty members of her college planned to help the needy students. S. Suresh, Head of Commerce Department, said, “Vigneshwari is one among many students coming from poor families. We made a list of such students. All permanent faculty members, led by Principal N. Gandhimathi, pooled in funds and bought rice and grocery items for them.” In the first phase, 59 students were selected. Some of them collected the assistance from the college. For those who could not come out because of the lockdown, the teachers made door delivery. “Many of the students’ parents work in fireworks or printing units and are jobless now,” Mr. Suresh said. The teachers are ready to help more such students, he added.  I used to cook, take care of my father, go to college and work part-time J. Vigneshwari Student
04 May 2020||Thrissur,TAMIL NADU||Navodaya students from Rajasthan sent back||Navodaya students from Rajasthan, who had been stranded here following the lockdown for the last one-and-a-half months, were sent home by a special bus on Sunday. A group of 23 students, including 15 boys and eight girls, from Tonk district in Rajasthan had reached Navodaya School, Mayannur, as part of a student exchange programme. The students were sent by a special bus arranged by the Rajasthan government. Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen and District Collector S. Shanavas flagged off the bus. Stopovers will be arranged at various Navodaya schools on the way. Personnel of the Rajasthan Police, Health workers, and teachers are accompanying the team.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Home quarantine advised for people entering Tiruchi district||The district administration has launched an effort to trace people entering Tiruchi from other parts of the State, and advised them to visit the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital or the nearest Primary Healthcare Centre for a check-up. As on Sunday night, officials had placed under home quarantine 314 individuals who had travelled to Tiruchi and requested them not to venture out. Their family members too had been asked to follow the norms, S. Sivarasu, Collector said. A total of 153 people have returned from Chennai after working at the Koyambedu market. Since several cases had been reported from workers at the market, samples of throat swabs were immediately lifted from them and they too, had been asked to quarantine themselves for a period of 14 days, he said. The Collector has also requested others, especially those returning from Chennai to contact health officials immediately. “The individuals can go to the nearest PHC and take a blood test. The test is a preventive measure to ensure that the travellers are not carriers of the infection,” Mr. Sivarasu said. The Collector said that these individuals can also contact the toll-free helpline 1077 for further queries. They can also dial the 24-hour special COVID-19 helpline 0432418995, 9952387108, 9952611108 or 9940923108. Their queries will be answered by doctors and health officials. Neighbours and relatives can also call and inform the district administration about the arrival of such individuals.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Respirator retainer developed for safe wearing of face masks||Kauvery Hospital, in association with SASTRA Deemed-to-be University, has developed a respirator retainer to facilitate the doctors and nurses to wear masks in a protective manner while attending to COVID-19 patients. There has been a noticeable improvement in wearing of N-95 type masks by doctors and nurses after the outbreak of COVID-19 virus. Wearing of masks has been made mandatory for the general public as well while they venture out. However, frontline workers had found the mask uncomfortable as it had to be frequently adjusted with hands. They were at the risk of contracting the virus. The continuous usage of masks causes blisters behind the ears due to the rubber strings. To address the issue, the Kauvery Hospital, Tiruchi, identified some ear guards models and involved SASTRA Deemed-to-be University for suitable modification and 3D printing. They then designed respirator retainer that reduce pain and improves the comfort of those wearing high performance masks in isolation wards, COVID-19 ICU, catheterization laboratories and operating theatres. S. Manivannan, Managing Director, Kauvery Hospital, said that the respirator retainer would comfortably anchor the mask strings around the head, thereby paving way for a comfortable wear and complete airseal around the nose and mouth of the health care personnel. The respirator retainers ensured the tight-fitment of masks. Considering the safety of health personnel, it had been decided to supply respirator retainer to all needy hospital at free of cost, Dr. Manivannan said.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||G. Corner vegetable market made exclusive for clientele of retailers and grocers||The G. Corner temporary vegetable market would henceforth be made exclusive for the clientele of retail sellers and grocers. A decision to this effect was taken at a tripartite talk between the Revenue, Divisional Officer, Police and whole sale traders of Gandhi market held on Sunday. Collector S. Sivarasu said that under no circumstances would the wholesale traders at G. Corner, which had been made at temporary wholesale market, be permitted to transact with consumers directly. The traders should sell them only to retail traders and grocery stores. The measure was aimed at preventing the spread of COVID 19 virus. Pointing out the spread of the virus from a group of traders of Koyembedu market in Chennai, Mr. Sivarasu said that the wholesale traders in Tiruchi should learn a lesson. They should not entertain consumers. They would not be allowed to shop at G. Corner market. Instead, they could buy vegetables at eight temporary markets operating in different parts of the city. If the wholesale traders are found selling vegetables to the end users, tough action would be taken, the Collector added.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tribal people await nod for new HSS||Tribal people living in and around Vannadu and Kombai on Pachamalai Hills in the district are hopeful that the government will sanction a higher secondary school under the purview of Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department for the convenience of the Malayalee community spread over several hamlets in the area. A proposal for a higher secondary school at a location in Chinnailuppur for the convenience of students passing out of two high schools within a distance of five to six km was forwarded to the government a couple of years ago. According to official sources, the Government has sanctioned four new higher secondary schools for the department for the next academic year. There is a likelihood of consideration of a proposal for new higher secondary for Pachamalai hills. As there are two high schools in the surroundings, there will be a minimum student strength of 100 for Plus One if the new higher secondary school is sanctioned, Rangaraj, Project Officer of Integrated Tribal Development Project, Thuraiyur, said. The only other government higher secondary school on Pachamalai Hills is at Top Sengattupatti located at a farthest end of the hills, about 20 km away. After SSLC, students in Vannadu-Kombai area have been seeking admission to government higher secondary schools in the plains. There are hostels providing free accommodation for girls in Pachaperumalpatti and for boys at Murungapatti in the plains. The sanction of a new higher secondary school will obviate the need for students to go to the plains to complete higher secondary level, Mr. Rangaraj said. The department's efforts to rope in non-government organisations to start an Industrial Training Institute or a polytechnic for the convenience of the students of Malayalee community has not fructified. The department provides grants NGOs coming forward to run institutions and hostels to meet the expenses incurred towards salaries of teachers, food, and other miscellaneous expenses. One such school with hostels for boys and girls run by The Society for Rural Development at Jawudhu hills in Tiruvannamalai district is being funded by the Government. “Advertisements were released inviting NGOs to run institutions for the student community in Pachamalai hills. But, none has responded,” Mr. Rangaraj said.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MP conveys plight of stranded Indians to Minister||Su. Thirunavukkarasar, Member of Parliament, Tiruchi Constituency, on Sunday called up External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and requested the latter to arrange for safe return of citizens, particularly Tamils employed in United Arab Emirates, Dubai, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Singapore, Malaysia and the Maldives who have been stuck up due to COVID 19 pandemic. The Minister had reportedly told the MP that the initiative will be carried out for their return within 10 days coinciding with the last phase of the nationwide lockdown. To a request by the MP that Indians living abroad must be facilitated by the Indian Embassy and the organisations they work for to have access to food and medicines, the Minister had replied that more help will be extended. In a statement, Mr. Thirunavukkarasar thanked the Minister for attending to his request in a polite manner.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Forest guard injured as gun goes off||A Forest Guard on patrol duty sustained injury after a country gun went off at Boothakkal village in Top Sengattupatti in the early hours on Sunday. The injured Forest Guard Veerapandian was shifted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here for treatment. A four-member Forest Department team was carrying out patrol duty at Boothakkal village when they found a suspected poacher armed with a country-made single barrel muzzle load gun. Upon noticing the team, the escaped from the spot after flinging the gun to the ground. A pellet hit Veerapandian on his neck. On receipt of information, police personnel from Uppiliapuram and Thuraiyur police stations conducted detailed inquiries with the team members. S. Muthukrishnan (26) of Boothakal was arrested.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Officials felicitated||Officials of the Tiruchi Army Cantonment on Sunday felicitated the Commissioner of Police, City Corporation Commissioner and Tiruchi Collector for their efforts to control the spread of COVID-19 in the district. The efforts were in line with a nation-wide celebration of Covid-19 warriors as called by the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. Army personnel visited the officials at their offices on Sunday and handed over a fruit basket and a hand-written letter thanking them and their teams for their work. Speaking to The Hindu , an army officer who delivered the token of appreciation said that the initiative was to show solidarity with the corona warriors and that their gratitude was being expressed on behalf of the armed forces and the entire nation. S. Sivarubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner, said that the officials asked him to convey their message to all staff, including sanitary workers. Similar efforts were undertaken across the country with the Army and Air Force for felicitating health officials. “We just want the frontline workers to know that they are real warriors, that them leaving their personal lives, families, and even their own safety to fight against the virus will be remembered for generations to come,” another army personnel said.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fatal fall for AC mechanic||An air-conditioner mechanic died after falling down from a slab while carrying out service work at Sundar Nagar area in K.K. Nagar here on Sunday. The deceased was identified as A. Mohamed Iqbal (56) of LIC Colony. Police sources said Mohamed Iqbal was examining the AC outdoor unit kept on a sun shade when he slipped to the ground and sustained a severe head injury. He was immediately rushed to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, but succumbed to the injury. The K.K. Nagar police registered a case.
04 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 100.03 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 836 cusecs and the discharge 500 cusecs.
04 May 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers’ team to identify new arrivals in Tirunelveli city||Tirunelveli Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan on Sunday said the civic body proposed to form a 110-member volunteers’ team to identify people entering the city from other districts and States. Speaking to reporters here, he said the Corporation had 55 wards under its jurisdiction. There were reports that people who had left Tirunelveli for jobs in other cities were returning to their native district. Hence, elaborate arrangements to identify and isolate them had been planned. Expressing the hope that local residents would extend their cooperation, he said: “The objective behind the exercise is to ensure that they were not carriers of COVID-19. After being admitted in isolation wards, they may have to follow the guidelines given by doctors.” The civic authorities had installed a special toll free number, 1800-425-4656, in which local residents could give information about strangers coming into their wards or streets, he added. “We have information that people who had gone to other States in search of jobs had left the cities for Tirunelveli. People who arrive here from outside shall be subjected to screening and testing as per the guidelines,” an civic health official said.  Meanwhile, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish chaired a meeting in which officials from various departments participated. The meeting discussed modalities to permit certain trade and industries to operate from Monday (May 3) as per a government order. After examining the feasibility of movement of workers and obtaining undertaking from employers, officials at the panchayat/municipal jurisdiction could give the nod. Skilled labourers such as plumbers and electricians, small shops and establishments might also be allowed to resume their activities provided they fulfilled the guidelines. For instance, only those in orange zone might be given relaxation. For those inside red or hot spots or containment zones, the curfew norms would be in force. In Kanniyakumari district, authorities had compiled a list of persons who had arrived in the district from other States. For the last three days, a police station-wise list was being prepared, sources said. According to a police officer, workers employed in private brick kilns, travel agencies, restaurants and other places were from New Delhi, Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Bihar. So far, 900 persons had expressed their willingness to go back to their native places. In the next couple of days, they would be informed about the travel plans. After a meeting with the Collector, the migrant workers would be transported suitably. Collector Prakash Wadnare, who chaired a meeting with officials, discussed modalities to reopen shops and establishments. Restaurants that offered take-aways would be allowed to function. Similarly, private engineering industries relating to agriculture and fisheries might be given the go ahead soon after ascertaining that they were not in the containment zone, according to an official at the District Collectorat.
04 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Chennai returnees asked to self-report||With Chennai's Koyambedu wholesale vegetable and fruit market emerging as a new COVID-19 hotspot, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Sunday requested traders and truck drivers in the district who have visited the Koyambedu market and other Chennai returnees to self-report. Contact numbers In a release, he requested all the Chennai returnees to contact the District COVID-19 Emergency Control Centre using numbers 0421-1077 or 0421-2971199/2971133 and voluntarily register their names, addresses and other relevant particulars. Along with this, they must compulsorily isolate themselves for a period of 14 days, he said. Those who have returned from other districts after April 19 must also follow the above procedure. Persons with COVID-19 symptoms such as cough and fever must visit the nearest government hospital or a primary health centre at the earliest, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. On Saturday, two truck drivers who returned to Tiruppur from Koyambedu market carrying watermelons tested positive for COVID-19. No new cases were reported on Sunday and 109 out of the total 114 cases have recovered in the district.  SALEM  Salem Collector S.A. Raman advised persons, who had visited Koyambedu market and returned to the district to voluntarily report themselves with the district administration. According to a press release, the district administration has advised persons to voluntarily report at government hospitals, primary health centres or at check-posts in district borders. Persons have also been advised to contact control room at the Deputy Director of Health Services office: 0427-2450498, 2450022, 2450023, 7305868942. Vehicle pass A press release from the administration said public can apply for vehicle passes through the website tnepass.tnega.org.
04 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar Collector to take a call on reopening industries||After nil report in positive cases for the ninth consecutive day on Sunday, Virudhunagar district administration will now shift its focus to the issue of relaxation of curfew norms for industries. Collector R. Kannan said the State Government had authorised Collectors to take the final call on opening industries based on the local situation. Meeting planned A series of meetings with officials and representatives of fireworks, printing and textile industries, among others, would be held to discuss the possibility of putting in place standard operating procedures to ensure social distancing and safety for employees. Match industry and a section of printing units involved in printing textbooks for government schools were already operating with curtailed staff strength. Meanwhile, 36 more persons, who attempted to enter Virudhunagar from other districts with or without e-passes, were detained and quarantined in hospital, he said. The district had so far recorded 32 positive cases, with 13 active ones. The last positive case was reported on April 24.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four more cases in Coimbatore city||Four persons, including three of a family tested positive for COVID-19 in the city, taking the total active positive cases in Coimbatore to nine. According to sources, a 31-year-old pregnant woman from Karumbukkadai tested positive. The Coimbatore Corporation health wing officials with support from the district administration, took her to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, the designated hospital in the district to treat COVID-19 patients. The woman had no travel history in the last 14 days and was not quarantined, the sources added. The three of a family who tested positive were from Velandipalayam and those who tested positive included the head of the family, a 62-year-old man, his wife, 43-year-old, and 10-year-old son. The man’s nine-year-old daughter had, however, tested negative. The sources said the man, who was unwilling to share his travel history, had sneaked out of the district sometime in the last 15 days to Ponnani in Malappuram district, Kerala, to bring home his wife and children. Though he claimed to the Corporation health officials that he had brought them home in the end of March, they had serious reservations about his statement. He had travelled only in the last 15 days. On Friday last, he attempted to travel to Kerala again to drop his wife and children but was stopped at the Walayar check-post as he did not have e-pass. When he approached the district administration for e-pass he was asked to undergo medical test for COVID-19 status and that was when he came under the official radar, the sources said. As soon as the result of his status was out, the Corporation officials took him to the hospital but not before he showed reluctance to go the hospital. On Sunday, the Corporation health team visited the man’s neighbourhood to collect over 100 samples. Another Corporation team lifted 100 samples from the neighbourhood of a man from Kavundampalayam, who was tested and reported positive in Chennai. A sanitary team sprayed disinfectant in the area. On Monday, the health team would continue door-to-door fever surveillance and keep a tight vigil in the area. The Corporation sources also said that there was no need to declare Karumbukkadai and Velandipalayam as containment zones as they were already under the containment plan. The other current positive cases are in Kuniamuthur (two), Ukkadam (one), Kavundampalayam (one) and Vellakinar (one).  Staff Reporter adds: Meanwhile, Coimbatore district, which is now an orange zone with regard to COVID-19, has adopted measures to further combat the spread of the disease. As a precautionary measure, district administration and the Health Department will impose restrictions on people coming from other districts and other States to Coimbatore. Such persons will have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. If such persons have fever or symptoms of COVID-19, they will be shifted to isolation facilities. Swab samples will be collected from them for COVID-19 test. Those tested negative will be advised to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Apart from these measures, all the containment strategies that were being followed during the lockdown will be continued, said an official from the Health Department.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Construction of two-tier flyover resumes||The construction of ambitious two-tier flyover project in Salem has resumed following relaxations from Centre amid lockdown. Following extension of lockdown to prevent COVID-19, the Central government offered relaxations in conducting essential construction works following which final works of the major project here is being carried out. According to officials, the 7.8-km two-tier flyover, perhaps the longest in State connecting important junctions is expected to ease traffic movement within the city. Administrative sanction for the project was granted in 2015 and the project is being implemented at a corrected outlay cost of Rs. 441 crore. The foundation stone for the project was laid in 2016 and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated the first stretch of 2.5 km of the flyover in June last year. Mr. Palaniswami had inaugurated the first level of the flyover connecting AVR Roundabout and Hasthampatti Junction. The construction of 5.3-km second stretch connecting Kuranguchavadi in Omalur Main Road and Anna Park is progressing at a steady pace. The second stretch would connect New Bus Stand and Four Roads Junction. The second level has alternative modes of traffic. In the second level, the stretch from Kuranguchavadi to New Bus Stand would have two-way traffic, one-way traffic from New bus stand to Four Roads Junction and two-way traffic between Four Roads Junction and Anna Park. According to officials, the flyover construction works are being carried out using segmental deck technology and works would be completed in two months. Currently, major bridge works have been completed and officials are concentrating on works, which may require traffic diversion once things normalise.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Does the virus affect the liver?||There have been few predecessor viruses for this one, which share similarities in structure and in the way it inflicts damage to human body. Viruses self-mutate periodically, change its structure and form and take new avatars. The current avatar inducing COVID-19 spreads rapidly and has more death rate than previous generations. All previous coronaviruses were respiratory pathogens. Liver impairment has been reported in up to 60% of patients with the preceding coronavirus — SARS-CoV. Given the fact that this novel corona (SARS-CoV-2) has 80% genetic similarity to the preceding strain of the virus (SARS-CoV), does it act similarly with reference to the liver? Let us look at information from China. Liver damage in mild cases of COVID-19 is often temporary and the organ can return to normal without any special treatment. This could be due to the state of direct infection of liver cells or could as well be due to liver cells getting caught up in the immune war between body’s immune system and the virus with chemicals produced by our body, namely cytokines. More patients with severe disease had abnormal liver function tests than did non-severe patients with COVID. Those who tested positive for the virus (sub-clinical phase, identified by contact tracing), but did not develop symptoms had much less involvement of the liver. In short, liver injury depends on severity of COVID-19. Cases of acute liver failure have not been reported yet from China or from other countries. What about people who already have liver disease? People with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) or its more severe form, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), often have cardiovascular risk factors, including metabolic syndrome, obesity and diabetes, raising the risk for severe COVID-19 complications. Although hepatitis B virus (HBV) is common in China and other Asian countries, studies so far have not reported whether HBV-related liver disease influences COVID-19 outcomes. All these liver diseases without advanced scarring or cirrhosis would not have more chance to get the virus infection though. That is not the case with cirrhosis of liver — cirrhosis per se may be considered an immune dysfunctional state; those under medical management and those in whom a liver transplant is planned and waiting for organ allocation should also be considered at more risk. Pre-existing disease Those who have pre-existing liver disease, should they undergo check-up and LFTs to see if coronavirus has entered the liver? The answer is an emphatic NO. What has been mentioned here is abnormality of LFT in those patients who already developed COVID-19. COVID is a respiratory illness and will have symptoms pertaining to lung. Severe cases who are hospitalised alone may develop jaundice. Liver injury will not occur in the absence of respiratory illness and hence no screening tests/ LFT are indicated in patients with liver disease. Are liver transplant recipients at higher risk for COVID-19? Certainly. Those who have undergone liver transplant and are on immunosuppression medicines (anti-rejection medicines) are certainly at higher risk of getting this infection and logically, can end up with severe disease. People with a weakened immune system may be unable to fight off the virus. So transplant patients have more chance of getting the virus, but paradoxically transplant recipients may not exhibit symptoms — fever, breathlessness — to begin with. Apart from the routine measures of frequent hand washing, hand sanitising, cough etiquette and avoiding putting hands to mouth, they should try to avoid crowds and non-essential travel.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore man dies of COVID-19 in Chennai||Coimbatore recorded its first death due to COVID-19 when a 44-year-old man from Kavundampalayam who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), Chennai, for cancer treatment and later tested positive for the disease died on Sunday. The Health Department was inconclusive about the source of the infection of the deceased. The man was undergoing treatment for blood cancer at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). After his condition deteriorated, he was taken to Chennai on April 30 and got admitted to RGGGH on May 1. His swab sample was collected before performing a procedure and the result returned positive on Saturday. According to sources with Health Department, his condition had worsened due to cancer. Health Department has isolated his family members and the medical team, who attended to him at CMCH. Their swab samples were also collected for test. The department was also tracing his contact history to find the source of infection.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of major drains completed in Erode||After many years, Corporation has completed desilting major drains located in the busy market areas in the city. Manikoondu, R.K.V. Road, Eswaran Kovil Street and Kottai are the hub for textile shops, grocery items, vegetable markets, utensil shops, and other commercial establishments in the city. Since these areas are busy doing business on all the days, except for cleaning the roads, drainage channels were not desilted for many years now. The channels were filled with mud, waste, garbage and other waste materials as water flow is very poor. Also, most of the shops had extended their shops on the channels and had constructed slabs on it as desilting activities could not be undertaken in all these years. Due to the nationwide lockdown, all the shops in the busy areas were closed and the busy stretch wore a deserted look. Hence, the corporation decided to carry out desilting works in the drains and began works at Kongalamman Kovil Street, and Gani Market area on April 26. Earthmover Desilting works with the help of earthmover was carried out in Manikoondu areas and on the entire R.K.V. Road stretch. At many places, the width of the channel is narrow and hence the deposited waste has to be removed manually by conservancy workers. Officials said that after the works, water can flow easily in the drains which will prevent overflowing of drains during rainy season. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that all the major drains in the area were desilted and the works were completed.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,760 persons under surveillance in Krishnagiri||Collector S. Prabhakar in a press release issued here said that industries and other business establishments in the district could operate in accordance with the guidelines issued by the State government. Mr. Prabhakar said that businessmen who wish to operate can request for permission through email - mhskgi@gmail.com. Industries can apply for vehicle passes for their employees through the website tnepass.tnega.org According to the officials, 1,760 persons are under home surveillance in the district following travel to foreign countries and to other districts.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. resumes work on D.B. Road||After stopping work to comply with the lockdown norms, ordered to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Coimbatore Corporation has resumed work to lay underground sewer lines on D.B. Road. According to sources, as part of the Rs. 24.36 crore work to turn D.B. Road into a model road, the Corporation had taken up work to replace the main sewer line on D.B. Road. As an old sewer line was in use for 1.20 km, the entire length of the road, the Corporation decided to lay to two new pipelines on both sides of the existing line to deactivate the old line. The Corporation did so to ensure that it did not have to dig the D.B. Road again for problems in underground drainage once it had completed the model road project, for that would have meant the very defeat of the model road concept. As it began laying the new pipelines on both sides of the D.B. Road, the Corporation had to stop work due to the lockdown order. At the time of stopping work, the Corporation had completed laying pipeline for 600m on each side – 1.20 km. It had resumed work to complete the work – to lay 1.20 km pipeline, the sources said and added that the Corporation had asked the contractor concerned to use the locally available labour force for the purpose. And, the work did not involve more manpower because it was more to do with digging road using earth movers and laying the pipelines. Notwithstanding that, the Corporation had also asked the contractor to ensure that the works had masks and personal protection gear, wherever necessary. The sources also said that the civic body was keen on resuming the work now because the lockdown had ensured that there was no necessity to close the road for traffic, which was an advantage.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases cross 3,000 in T.N.||Five children, including one aged three, in Chennai, tested positive for the infection. The children acquired the infection through contact with an infected person. The Villupuram cluster included two girls aged three and eight years, who acquired the infection through contact with an infected person. On Sunday 38 patients were discharged, taking the total to 1,379 patients, who had recovered from the infection. As many as 2,362 persons are in isolation wards. The bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health stated that as of Sunday a total of 3,023* positive cases had been recorded. The Health Department has added two laboratories to conduct the tests, one in the Government district headquarters hospital in Ramanathapuram and the other at Dr. Rela Institute in Chennai. Already 35 government and 14 private laboratories are functioning. Of the 1,50,107 samples that were picked up as many as 1,45,520 tested negative and the testing of 1,564 samples is under process. A total of 9,391 are repeat samples. As on date 37,206 are under home quarantine and 40 are quarantined in government facilities. (* This is inclusive of two deaths that were cross notified to other states and one patient who died after turning negative for the infection. )   Of 1,50,107 samples, as many as 1,45,520 tested negative, and 1,564 are being processed
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||600 arrested for violation in Coimbatore||The police registered 493 cases and arrested 600 persons, who violated prohibitory order in Coimbatore on Saturday. The police seized 494 vehicles from lockdown violators. Coimbatore city police registered 79 cases and seized 73 vehicles. Coimbatore rural police arrested 521 persons in 414 cases and seized 421 vehicles from them. Those arrested were released on bail. Coimbatore rural police imposed fine to the tune of Rs. 2,05,900 on the violators. The Salem City police on Saturday registered 141 cases for violating prohibitory orders and seized 115 vehicles from violators. Salem district police registered 160 cases and seized 98 vehicles. Namakkal police on Saturday registered 194 cases against 234 persons and seized 109 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For survival||
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Duty-bound||
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Setting sail soon||
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||An essential item||
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A timely tribute||
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meat shops sealed||The Salem Corporation on Sunday sealed four meat shops and took action against a chicken outlet operating from a house here for functioning violating prohibitory orders. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh had issued prohibitory orders to operate meat shops during weekends as public crowded at these places violating physical distancing norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19 disease. Officials also seized 70 kg of meat and imposed a fine of Rs. 27,000 on violators. Officials said that legal action would be taken against violators.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Local body workers seek minimum wages||The Erode District Local Body Workers’ Association, associated to All India Trade Union Congress, has urged the district administration to provide minimum wages for Thuimai Paniyalargal and also initiate action against the local bodies for failing to provide the wages as fixed. In an email sent to the Collector C. Kathiravan, association president S. Chinnasamy said that there are about 6,000 conservancy workers in the corporation and local bodies in the district who commence their work at 6 a.m. every day. “Only 1,500 are permanent workers while the rest 75% are temporary workers employed on contract basis and paid daily wages. The letter said that most of the workers are working for 10 to 15 years and their job is yet to be regularised. The State Government had fixed the minimum daily wage as Rs. 300 and the maximum as Rs. 490 and the district administration has issued government order fixing the daily wage as Rs. 490. “However, most of the local bodies are paying meagre wages to the workers,” the letter said.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - May 4, 2020||It is heartening to see that the Tamil Nadu government has increased the number of COVID-19 testing facilities from 36 to 45. However, it has not been set up in Karaikudi, a major commercial and educational centre. The town has a Government Hospital and a host of private hospitals. I request the Tamil Nadu government to include Karaikudi as there is only one other facility in Sivaganga district. C. A. C. Murugappan,  Karaikudi    During the lockdown, when the shops are open in the morning, a large number of people crowd at Aavin milk outlets, throwing all physical distancing norms to the wind. In the absence of tea stalls, there is also an increase in demand for milk. To reduce the chances of spreading the pandemic, the dealers should be asked to deliver milk packets to the card holders’ homes directly just as the private milk vendors do. It will be a great help for senior citizens and people living alone. G. Stanley Jeyasingh,  Nagercoil     ‘Kabasura kudineer,’ a herbal concoction used in Siddha form of medicine to treat respiratory ailments, must be given to frontline workers and people in home quarantine to improve their immunity. It must be given until a cure is found for COVID-19. All medical shops must stock ‘kabasura kudineer.’  Sainithii. M, Madurai
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||An electric post jutting out from the centre of the road at Karattampatti near Thuraiyur is obstructing movement of vehicles. Buses, lorries and goods carriers use the road that is the route to the cemetery. Residents expect the district administration to raise trees on either sides of the road and the Electricity department to relocate the electric post. M. Periyamalaiyan, Karattampatti.    Devotees preferring footpath over road from the base to Perumal Malai in Thuraiyur town, also referred to as ‘Then Tirupathi’ Temple, face inconvenience as 12 of the 18 lamps meant to illuminate the path are disfunctional. Overgrowth of shrubs and vegetation obstructs the electric cables at three spots along the route to the temple administered by the HR and CE Department. The electricity department has a responsibility to set right the shortcomings. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.    It is for protection of human lives from attack of COVID 19 that group prayers in Mosques and performing of other fasting related gatherings during the glorious month of Ramadan have been forbidden. People should cooperate by offering prayers at their homes. The lockdown rules need to be followed, and the importance of social distancing in all fasting, charity and prayer related activities must be understood. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi.    Conservancy workers in the frontline, police personnel, medical professionals, and employees of revenue, municipal administration, food and co-operative societies whose hard work to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 pandemic is bearing fruits need to be provided with ‘kabasura kudineer’. The herbal concoction believed to boost immunity has been in use for long in Siddha system of medicine to treat respiratory complications. The concoction must also be provided to those under home quarantine for improving immunity till the outbreak is controlled. Since there is no medicine yet for controlling COVID 19, the herbal remedy must be extended by the government to the general public as well, through hospitals, and temporary vegetable markets, besides medical outlets. M. Sainithii, Cantonment.     The COVID 19 lockdown has rendered senior citizens helpless as they need help for purchase of medicines and vegetables, and for withdrawing cash from ATMs. Contact numbers of social organisations must be made available to senior citizens for seeking help. Kanagaraj Arthur, Ramalinganagar South Extension.    Supply of vegetable packs by the City Corporation to all localities would be of immense help to senior citizens suffering from health complications. The senior citizens face difficulties in purchasing vegetables and fruits, particularly during weekends, when the temporary vegetable markets are closed. The van supplying the vegetable packs at reasonable rates has not seemingly covered Cantonment area so far. M. Raja, Tiruchi.    While making wearing of face mask compulsory, it is the bounden duty of the government to ensure its availability at reasonable costs. On the one hand the police register cases against people who do not wear the face masks, and the pharmacies do not have stocks on the other. Face masks readied by the prisoners are not adequate. Wearing of face mask has become common in Japanese cities since the seventies. COVID-19 has triggered the need to continue with the healthy practice. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.    In an overpopulated country like India, extending the lockdown is essential to prevent transmission of COVID 19 virus. India needs to learn a lesson from the countries where a let-up in the prevention measure has led to deaths on a drastic scale. S. Krishnan, Thippirajapuram.    The ordinance promulgated by the Central Government to hand over severe punishment to those indulging in unruly behaviour against healthcare workers is a step in right direction. The violence perpetrated against the Corona warriors is inhuman, uncivilized and unpardonable. R. Pichumani, Thippirajapuram.    Despite its status as taluk headquarters, Budalur and surroundings in the radius of a few kilometres are served by only nationalised bank. The public face difficulties in withdrawing and transferring money, and pledging ornaments in situations of urgency. In particular, senior citizens struggle to draw their pension during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Though there are a few ATMs, stocked cash gets depleted within short durations. Arrangements for operating mobile ATMs at select places on pre-announced dates at specific timings would be of help.  M. Sheik Abdullah, Budalur.
04 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Most traders, industries to re-start work as Belagavi is put under Orange zone||Most trade and industry activities will be allowed to resume across Belagavi district, except for the 10 containment zones, on Monday. This follows the State accepting the Centre’s suggestion that Belagavi district falls in Orange zone. This was decided after a series of meetings that the district administration held in Belagavi on Sunday, to decide on the transition to relaxation phase before the third lockdown begins on Monday. As per the decisions arrived at, all industries across various sectors will be allowed to re-start work. Each industry owner has to self-certify his activity and submit details of material used, produce, workers, suppliers, market and transport and other details to the Joint Director of Industries. Industries will also be mandated to provide protective gear to workers and others on their premises. The factories can utilise a third of their workforce everyday and use them alternately once every three days. All government offices will function. Schools, colleges, coaching or training centres, cinemas, gyms, malls and places of worship will remain closed. Hospitals and clinics can operate, except in containment zones. “These, we believe will not be allowed to be opened till May 17, if the lockdown is not extended further,” said an officer. However, one third of the administrative staff in colleges and universities will be allowed to work in their offices. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli has issued prohibitory orders banning all non-essential activities from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. till May 17. This means that only offices of essential services and goods will be opened from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. Both essential and non-essential services offices will remain open during the day. However, no trade or business activities will be allowed in the containment zones. Movement of people or goods will be restricted inside these zones. Liquor stores will be allowed to do business between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. e-commerce goods delivery will be allowed for essential and non-essential items. Barber shops will be open in all zones except in the containment zones. In shops and offices, physical distancing is to be followed strictly. Sanitisers are compulsory for customers and employees, while infra-red thermometers are optional. Workers and customers can ride their motorcycles to offices and shops. Only one person will be allowed per two-wheeler. Four-wheelers, including taxis, with one driver and two passengers, will be allowed to operate, but there will be no bus services. The Deputy Commissioner’s office will issue passes for vehicles and individuals for inter-district movement for permitted activities. Manufacturing, in-situ construction using locally available workers, IT/BT and hardware, renewable energy projects will be allowed in all areas except in the containment zones. All industrial and construction activities in rural areas in red zones such as MGNREGA works, food-processing units and brick kilns and other agriculture and related activity are allowed.
04 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Railways to collect fare from govts.||The Railways will collect fare of migrant workers it transports from the respective State governments, Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said in Belagavi on Sunday. He was reacting to complaints that the Railways was charging Rs. 50 more than the usual fare per ticket. “We have started transportation of migrants on requests from State governments,” he said.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chaos at Majestic as others throng to use service meant for migrant workers||Thousands of people, including migrant workers, students and others thronged the BMTC bus stand in Majestic on Sunday, immediately after the State government announced that it would ferry stranded migrants to their respective districts without any fare. People were seen desperate to catch buses to reach their native places. Due to the absence of public transport within the city, many walked to Majestic while others managed to hitch hike or share autorickshaws. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) officials said that though the service was only for labourers, there were quite a few others as well. “We cannot scrutinise it and cannot ask them not to use the service. Hence, everyone is being ferried for free, irrespective of the economic background,” an official admitted. Veerendra Patil (name changed), a student hailing from Belagavi, who was stuck in the city since the lockdown was declared, said that he was staying in his brother’s room in Malleswaram and walked to Majestic after getting to know about the bus services. “I’m aware that this is mainly for migrant labourers who cannot afford to stay. I’m ready to pay but I need to reach my place,” the student said. Another person, who was heading to Bidar, said that he reached Majestic around 11 a.m. and boarded a bus to Bidar at 3 p.m. “Though it is only for migrant workers and I can afford to pay, I have no other way to reach Bidar. The government should have planned better and not made any last minute changes, which is leading to chaos here,” he said. On Saturday, hundreds of people stayed put in Majestic for the night hoping that they could board a bus on Sunday as KSRTC stopped plying buses after 5 p.m. Volunteers from ‘Naavu Bharatiyaru’ said that they got a “distress call” around 8.30 p.m. and they somehow arranged food for over 200 people who were forced to stay due to unavailability of buses to their districts and local transport. “By the time we reached there, it was around 10.30 p.m. and we found over 200 people near the bus stop near Shantala Silks. We distributed food for around 100 people, most of them migrants,” a volunteer said. Sources in the KSRTC told The Hindu that the corporation provided food to over 300 people who were at the bus stations. “As there are many bus stops within Majestic and as it is huge, we could not easily spot people staying overnight. We provided people with food and restroom facilities,” a KSRTC official said. Even on Sunday, around 200 people were forced to spend their night in Majestic as they could not board any bus to their respective districts. KSRTC provided them with food and have made sure they have access to restrooms. “We will send them as soon as possible on Monday morning,” a KSRTC official said. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi and senior KSRTC officials visited Majestic in the night and took stock of the situation.  No decision on refund  On Saturday, KSRTC operated 120 buses from Majestic in Bengaluru to various districts in which 3,600 people had travelled paying single fare. There has not been any decision on whether there would be any refund for those who travelled on Saturday, sources in the KSRTC said. Earlier on Saturday morning, KSRTC came under severe attack for charging two-way fares for those travelling after which the Chief Minister intervened and directed KSRTC to only charge single fare and told the Labour Department to bear the cost of the other side fare.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four agencies handle waste from quarantine facilities||The collection and disposal of waste from primary contacts in quarantine centres as well as secondary contacts who are isolating themselves at home is one of the key tasks that the civic body is focusing on. As of May 3, as many as 839 people are being quarantined in 15 different centres across the city. Waste from quarantine facilities is deemed as biomedical waste. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep said that the civic body had tied up with four biomedical waste management agencies, which have been given the work order for one month. “Since all the four are authorised biomedical waste management agencies, as per Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) guidelines, the rates can be decided mutually by the urban local bodies (BBMP in this instance) and the agencies,” he said and added that the payment for each agency will be within Rs. 1 lakh. According to data, around 155 kg of waste is collected from the 15 quarantine facilities every day. Most of the incineration facilities are on the city’s outskirts. Since the quarantine facilities were set up, a total of 1,409.95 kg of waste (as on May 3) had been incinerated, the data shows. The Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016, state that waste should be put in yellow coloured, non-chlorinated plastic bags. Once collected, these bags and their contents must either be incinerated or buried deep in a pit at a common biomedical treatment facility.  Waste from households under home quarantine Most of the 4,369 secondary contacts are following home quarantine protocol, but the waste generated from these households does not fall in the biomedical category. It is treated as any other sanitary waste. Given the situation, the BBMP is not insisting on a strict implementation of the plastic ban, either in the quarantine facilities or by those under home quarantine. “We have requested those under home quarantine to keep wet waste separately. The rest of the waste is treated as sanitary waste,” said Mr. Randeep.  Since all the four are authorised biomedical waste management agencies, as per KSPCB guidelines, the rates can be decided mutually by the urban local bodies and agencies. D. Randeep BBMP Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management)
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labour force stands divided between home and work||As at least 20 to 30% of industries, including real estate and construction, resumes operations on Monday, a chunk of their workforce has left Bengaluru. The State has over 6,00,000 small and micro industries that employ over one crore people, of which migrant workers account for over 30%. Among construction labourers, some 40% are migrants. While they suffered during lockdown, ironically, as the industries are partially set to open up, many are now headed back to their home towns. Kishore Jain, president, Credai, Bengaluru, told The Hindu: “Under lockdown, some construction workers got frustrated and homesick and now want to go back to their towns, even as a portion of the industry is reopening. All are not going back, but their mind is divided. This will pose serious labour shortage in the construction/real estate sector with far reaching impact.” These workers include unskilled labourers to skilled masons, carpenters, interior workers, electricians, and plumbers. Echoing similar sentiments, KASSIA president R. Raju said the government’s permission to restart industrial operations and decision to organise transport for migrant labourers came together and it has caused confusion in the minds of workers. “They may take another six months to return and that will put a lot of pressure on industries. As of now, we hope to open at least 30% of our units with less than 50% people,” he said. As per KASSIA, most of these workers are employees in small and micro industrial units that operate in areas of machine tools, engineering, fabrication, powder coating, heat treatment etc. According to FKCCI president C.R. Janardhana, migrants labourers could not go home when they really wanted and it does not make any sense for them to leave now when work is slowly opening up. He pointed out that these workers, such as carpenters, earn up to Rs. 50,000 a month. “It is sad that some of them suffered and did not even get food during lockdown,” he said.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Floral tribute to hospitals||At 10.30 a.m. on Sunday, an Mi17 helicopter of the Indian Air Force flew over and showered flower petals over two top Bengaluru hospitals. The century-old State-run Victoria Hospital and defence healthcare hub, the Command Hospital, have been in the frontline of COVID-19 testing and treatment in Karnataka over the past two-odd months, the Ministry of Defence said. Doctors and healthcare personnel of the two hospitals came out to cheer back at the IAF, which has created support infrastructure and critical logistics during the battle against the pandemic. A moving IAF band performed at Victoria Hospital. The Command Hospital is a nodal centre to test for COVID-19 and has tested 852 of 856 samples to date. Around 3.15 p.m., IAF’s C-130 J transport plane flew past Vidhana Soudha. It was flying from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram. Across the country, the Armed Forces saluted COVID-19 warriors in different ways. In Karwar, where the Navy has a base, INS Vikramaditya was illuminated around 7.30 p.m. as a tribute. Brig. Shahnawaz, Deputy General Officer Commanding, HQ Karnataka & Ketala Sub Area, called on Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. Senior Army personnel visited State officials, hospitals and police stations to express gratitude to the staff. They distributed hampers.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three Shramik trains set off with 6,000 workers||Over 6,000 migrant workers left the city for their home towns in Bhubaneswar, Danapur, and Hatia in three Shramik Specials operated by the South Western Railway (SWR). According to a press release from SWR here on Sunday, the Shramik Specials were operated from Chikbanavara and Malur stations. These special trains are being run from point to point with no halts en route. MHA permission The trains were operated following permission granted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for movement of the stranded people, including migrant labourers, workers, students, tourists to their home towns. The government had arranged transport for the migrant workers to the stations in BMTC buses. The release added that social distancing norms were enforced during boarding and inside the trains before departure. The passengers were all medically examined and issued medical certificate by the State government. While Azim Premji Foundation provided lunch packets, fruits, water bottles and biscuits to passengers at Malur station, all meals en route will be provided by Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation. RPF escorts The press release also stated that the Railway Protection Force team is escorting the trains. The details of passengers, coach-wise with address and mobile numbers have been obtained. These details have been digitalised and stored for contact tracing in future, if required. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said the police had escorted 50 buses with 1,200 passengers to each train after screening.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS urges government to run free bus service for six days||As thousands of migrants thronged the Kempegowda Bus Station in Majestic here to return to their villages on Sunday, Congress leaders slammed the government for extending “poor facilities” to the workers. A Congress delegation led by KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah went around the bus station interacting with migrants — some who had taken seats in the bus and many who were waiting for the buses to arrive. Congress workers distributed food to the waiting passengers as the buses would not stop in between till they reached the destination. The leaders expressed unhappiness over the arrangements at the bus station that has been teeming with migrants since Saturday. They said that food arrangements had not been made while toilet facilities were inadequate for the crowd that had camped overnight at the bus station. “The government should extend free ride to different destinations in the State for six days instead of the three days announced. This is necessary to clear the rush,” Mr. Shivakumar told reporters. Stating that more buses might be required to transport migrant workers to their homes, he said that if need be, the government should book private buses too. He expressed disappointment over the facilities given to passengers.  Cheque not accepted  Earlier, Mr. Shivakumar’s efforts to meet KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi Kalsad did not bear fruit, and after waiting at the KSRTC head office in Shanthi Nagar, he left for Majestic. Sources close to him said that an attempt had been made to hand over the cheque for Rs. 1 crore to the MD on Saturday night too. Mr. Siddaramaiah also called Mr. Kalsad and urged him to take the cheque. However, by then, the Chief Minister announced free travel for three days. Sources said the party would hand over the cheque to the government.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State revises list of districts in zones to be in sync with Centre||The State government on Sunday revised the list of districts in each zone to be in sync with what the Centre had classified on Friday with respect to COVID-19. This drastically brings down the number of districts in red zone from 14 to 3 in the State, while it increases marginally the number of districts in green zone from 12 to 14. With the new classification, only Bengaluru city, Bengaluru rural, and Mysuru remain in red zone. The new categorisation is expected to help a large number of businesses with the third phase of lockdown coming into effect from Monday. Districts such as Bagalkot, Belagavi, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Gadag, Vijayapura, Chickballapur, Mandya, Dakshina Kannada, and Tumakuru, which were in red zone, now fall under orange zone. When the Centre on Friday released the list, it differed in numbers as Karnataka had an existing criteria to classify districts. The new categorisation for the State came with an order from Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. Though districts such as Davangere and Belagavi have reported positive cases in the last fortnight, they have been classified under orange zone. “The change is owing to new categorisation by the Union government. The Karnataka government has adopted it,” said Munish Moudgil , officer in charge of State COVID-19 war room. He said: “The categorisation continues to be further evaluated by the State government.” On categorisation of districts that still have active cases in orange zone, Mr. Moudgil said these points have been reported to the Union government. “The new list (categorisation) comes once in a week. The State government is examining the issue.”
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Around 4,500 liquor outlets to reopen today||Nearly 4,500 liquor vending outlets are set to reopen on Monday, even as the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Associations, Karnataka, fears that the opening of outlets could be tense. While there are about 3,946 CL-2 licence holders (wine stores), the State-owned Mysore Sales International Ltd. (MSIL), which has CL-11 licence, has 786 stores across the State. Shops with these two licences have been allowed to open from Monday with some restrictions. “Only standalone shops are allowed to open. Our estimation is that about 5% of these licence-holders may not be able to reopen because they may be located in malls or market buildings,” a federation source said. Starting from March 14, the State government closed down liquor vending outlets in phases, and finally the lockdown from March 25 saw all the outlets shut. During the lockdown period, the State reported a loss of over Rs. 2,500 crore in excise revenue. On Saturday, the government permitted wine stores, MSIL outlets, distilleries, breweries, and wineries outside containment zones to reopen from Monday. While there were reports of people already standing in queue in front of liquor outlets atseveral places on Sunday, federation sources said that it was wary of less than half of the total liquor licensees being allowed to open shop. “Of the nearly 11,000 liquor licences in the State, holders of about 4,500 will open shop on Monday. Our fear is that this will create a huge rush and result in a law and order problem,” a source said. Checking stock Meanwhile, Karnataka State Breweries Corporation Ltd. (KSBCL) opened on Sunday for stock checking and closing of accounts for the 2019-20 financial year; this will continue on Monday as well. Distribution of liquor is expected to start from Tuesday. Sources said that about 27 lakh boxes of IML and 16 lakh boxes of beer were in various depots. “The current stocks at KSBCL depots in the State could last for about 10 days under normal demand,” a source said.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five districts now one unit||Cluster of five districts around Bengaluru has been declared as one unit, which does not require inter-State dis-trict passes to undertake permitted activities. An order by Chief Secretary on Sunday to this effect identified Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagaram, Chick-ballapur and Kolar as one unit for movement of people to take up permitted activities. The order said that there is no need for inter district passes, and said that a letter from the organisation and official ID was sufficient. This would be applicable for movement between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. The order assumes importance in the light of several industrial areas and estates in these districts and a large number of workforce travelling from Bengaluru daily. The order, however, clarifies that the inter district passes are essential in other places. For the night curfew time between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m., already issued passes to take up essential activities will work, the order said.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plaint against companies for refusing pay||An Odisha worker has filed a cheating complaint against Simplex Infrastructure and Salarpuria Sathva after they allegedly refused to pay his dues. Nayak, 53, is among 700 workers stranded at the Nayandahalli construction site since the lockdown, awaiting his dues. “We have no money even to go home. The company representatives threaten us when we demand our dues,” Mr. Nayak told the Byatarayanapura police. He said that the labourers are from Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal and are working at the site for a year. Since October 2019, the company started avoiding payment and gave part of it whenever it was demanded. “Since the lockdown, we have been left in the lurch, he said, adding that the company offered Rs. 400 to Rs. 600 wages per day depending upon the nature of work, but never paid the full amount till date.”“We had staged a protest earlier and got a written assurance from the company, but now representatives threaten us with dire consequences when we call,” he added. NGO Swaraj Abhiyan said though the police were reluctant to take up the complaint, they have registered an FIR against the company.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bus schedules today||On Monday, buses going towards Bidar, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Koppal, Ballari, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Belagavi, Gadag, Dharwad, Haveri, and Yadgir will operate from BMTC Bus Stand in Majestic. Buses to Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Madikeri, Udupi, Mangaluru, Chamarajanagar, Davangere, and Chitradurga will operate from KSRTC Bus Terminal-1. “We had shifted all our operations to BMTC Bus Stand. Since thousands are coming and it was difficult manage the process and maintain social distance, we have divided it now. There wont be any chaos from Monday,” a KSRTC official said.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labourers complain against police||Labourers who travelled to Jharkhand claimed that the local police collected Rs. 900 from many promising tickets. Volunteers who were helping migrant labourers to reach the railway station said that those who paid the amount were given preference and were transported first.
04 May 2020||Chitradurga/Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||JNV students return to their native places||The students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) of Uduvalli in Chitradurga and Gollahalli in Tumakuru, who were stranded in Dewas district and Ashoknagar district of Madhya Pradesh, respectively, soon after the lockdown was announced have returned to their respective schools in Karnataka.  The Hindu had reported the plight of the JNV students who were stranded in Madhya Pradesh. Principal of JNV, Uduvalli, Stefan Raj told The Hindu: “Christina Sharmila, a teacher, and I took 21 students of JNV, Dewas, who were stranded in JNV, Uduvalli, in a KSRTC bus and reached JNV, Beed in Maharashtra.” Twenty-three students of JNV, Uduvalli, were brought in a bus from Dewas district to JNV, Beed, on Friday night. They reached JNV, Uduvalli, on Saturday and are all quarantined for 21 days. Principal of JNV, Gollahalli, Been G., said all 20 students who were stranded in Ashoknagar in Madhya Pradesh have returned to their school. They have all been screened for COVID-19 and quarantined.
04 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Dakshayini Basavaraj dead||Congress leader and former chairperson of Karnataka Balavikas Academy Dakshayini Basavaraj (55) died of a heart attack at her residence here on Sunday. She was a social activist and served the party for long. KPCC working president Ishwar B. Khandre and Dharwad District Congress Committee president Anil Kumar Patil have condoled her death.
04 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Restrictions to continue in Hassan district||Hassan district administration has decided to continue with lockdown with some relaxations, though the place falls under the green zone with no case of COVID-19. All shops, including liquor shops (CL2 and MSIL shops), will be open only three days a week. The administration has decided to continue with closure of business activities in the remaining days of the week. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said that the State government has suggested opening of business establishments on all seven days, in consultation with the Minister in-charge of the district. The district administration decided to continue with the prevailing restrictions.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||Tight vigil in areas bordering neighbouring States||The State Government has decided to intensify vigil on the movement of agricultural produce, particularly in the areas bordering with the neighbouring States of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh with the possibility of grains produced there making into Telangana for sale at procurement centres as the lockdown measures are being relaxed. In addition to the increased vigil, not only on the main inter-State roads but also on the other connecting roads, the government has decided to conduct random surprise checks at the procurement centres to ascertain the details of produce. The Agriculture Department has requested the Vigilance Department to conduct surprise checks to find whether those bringing the produce are genuine local farmers or traders, their agents and others. “The scale on which the procurement of crops going on in Telangana is not happening in any of the neighbouring States. Such a large-scale procurement makes farmers of neighbouring States, particularly of the bordering villages, to take chances in moving their produce here. Sporadic instances of neighbouring farmers getting their stocks in the guise of local farmers take place every year but the chances are higher this season due to closure of agricultural markets every where,” a senior officer unwilling to be quoted said. During his visit to Medak district, Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao was on record to state that farmers from the neighbouring Bidar district are trying to sell bengalgram by moving it through non-motorable routes and sell it in the procurement centres in Zaheerabad and Narayanakhed constituencies.
04 May 2020||K.V. Aditya BharadwajBengaluru,KARNATAKA||The poet of ‘Nityotsava’ and beyond||K.S. Nisar Ahmed, who passed away on Sunday, is a household name in Karnataka because of poems such as ‘Nityotsava’ , which featured in the first-ever cassette of Kannada ‘Bhava Geete’ in 1978. It registered record sales and set off a movement of sorts. But his literary oeuvre went far beyond these songs. Among other things, he was one of the early poets whobrought a distinct urban sensibility to Kannada poetry, with Bengaluru taking centre stage in many poems. Though one rarely sees his religious identity in the foreground in his writings, he was also one of the early modernMuslim writers. Born in 1936 in Devanahalli, on the outskirts of Bengaluru city, he was brought up in Bengaluru. “He was probably one of the first poets in Kannada with no experience of rural life. His poetry was devoid of rural imagery,” said poet B.R. Lakshman Rao. ‘Manasu Gandhibazaru’ and ‘Sanje Aidara Male’ are some of his poetry collections with several poems that capture the urban experience. Gandhi Bazaar, Lalbagh (his favourite haunts), or even an empty site became topics for his poetry. “He saw the poetic in the mundane, and in that sense can be compared to Pablo Neruda,” said literary critic Rehamat Tarikere. Incidentally, Nisar Ahmed also translated poems of Neruda and plays of Shakespeare. Mr. Ahmed’s poetry was infused with the common man’s language. “We never saw Nisar dressed in anything other than a three-piece suit, but he spoke the language of Bengaluru’s streets and that came into his poetry as well,” said Prof. Tarikere. His poetry was infused with wit, humour and irony, which come out strongly in the likes of ‘ Kurigalu saar kurigalu ’. Though he was a contemporary of the influential Navya movement, his poetic form did not fall into that genre. “I think he started with the Navodaya (romantic) movement, took some inspiration from the Navya sensibility, but never turned a follower. Some of us who later turned to Bhaava Geete were called neo-romantics. Probably Nisar could also be called so,” said Mr. Rao. He often said a poem had to be understood by the common reader and used rhyme to good effect, said Prof. Tarikere. Popular songs This was one of the reasons why his poems became popular as songs. “The cassette Nityotsava enjoys a cult following even today. There was an untapped market for ‘kavya gayana’ ,” said Velu of Lahari Music. This soon earned Mr. Ahmed the moniker “cassette kavi”, used pejoratively by writers in the ‘Navya’ tradition. However, noted singer Shivamogga Subbanna said Nisar Ahmed was a poet who could write with equal ease poems with ‘ geyate ’ (musicality) and those which were distinctly modernist. Despite being a household name, Mr. Ahmed often felt a sense of alienation, and it probably had its roots in his religion and how the majoritarian society reacted to it, said writer Chandrashekhar Patil. His 1968 poem ‘ Nimmodaniddoo nimmantagade ’ (‘To be with you, yet not be like you’) is about how the needle of suspicion is directed at him and how he needs to prove his nationalism. “He was probably the first modern Kannada poet with Muslim sensibility, but he did not write of the Muslim community life, which others who came later did, ” observed Prof. Tarikere. Right-wing forces in the State were not comfortable when Mr. Ahmed chaired the annual literary meet in 2007 in Shivamogga and inaugurated Dasara in 2017. However, he stayed aloof and never explicitly commented on political issues. Interestingly, Mr. Ahmed embraced the iconography of the Kannada goddess. “There is a misconception among the middle class of south Karnataka that Muslims are not well versed with Kannada. Nisar surprised many and broke that stereotype with aplomb,” said Prof. Tarikere.  Popularly known as Nityotsava Kavi, he was a household name. His contribution to Kannada literature is immense and with his death, a link to the Kannada cultural world has fallen B.S. YedIyurappa,Chief Minister   He was undoubtedly one of the major poets of modern Kannada poetry... He was an independent thinker and had a sense of wit and sarcasm, which gave him a new way to look at even the mundane Chandrashekhar Kambar,president, Sahitya Akademi
04 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ballari district administration lifts restrictions partially||In tune with the State government order related to lockdown relaxation, Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, on Sunday, issued an order announcing permission for a host of activities in the district. As per the order that would come into force on Monday, all industries and standalone shops (jewellery shops, salons, cloth stores, footwear shops, etc.,) would be permitted to transact business every day between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. The permitted shops and industries shall have to ensure maintenance of proper social distancing and wearing of masks by their workers and consumers. The order said that persons aged over 65, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children aged less than 10 shall stay at home except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes as per national directives. Intra-district and inter-district operation of buses, both private and public, continue to be restricted. Taxi aggregators and autorickshaws with one driver and two passengers would be allowed to operate within the district. Four-wheelers will have a maximum of two passengers, excluding the driver, each. Weekly markets continue to be restricted and street vendors will have to sell only at designated vending zones. All restrictions placed on APMC yards will continue.
04 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR/ Adilabad,KARNATAKA||Heat adds to lockdown woes in Telangana||Blistering heat roasted parts of north Telangana with the temperature recording 43 degrees Celsius in Karimnagar town on Saturday and Sunday and some parts of old Adilabad district recorded a maximum day temperature of over 44 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Since last one week, the temperature crossed 40 degree Celsius and it stayed at 43 degrees Celsius from Saturday.
04 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two vehicles to collect throat swabs launched||Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivas Poojary launched two mobile swab collection vehicles here on Sunday. While one vehicle has been given by the Dakshina Kannada Zilla Nirmiti Kendra, the other has been given by Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty. Keys of both the vehicles were handed over to District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bayari. The Nirmiti Kendra has altered its vehicle to enable collection of swabs from two persons at a time without coming in contact with them. Five persons can travel in this air-conditioned vehicle which has an intercom facility to speak to persons whose swabs are collected. A public address system has also been fitted. The Nirmiti Kendra has used Rs. 4.5 lakh of its savings for procuring the vehicle and making these modifications. Similarly, Dr. Shetty has converted a mini-luggage vehicle into a swab collection centre. “I have used the model of a vehicle used by the Delhi Government,” he said and added that he spent Rs. 2.5 lakh on it. Dr. Bayari said that they will chalk out a plan to make use of the two mobile swab collection vehicles which will quicken the process of collection of swabs. The district administration was using a KSRTC bus that has been modified into mobile fever clinic, he said. Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh and Project Director of Nirmiti Kendra Rajendra Kalbavi were present.
04 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||OPDs, autorickshaw, taxi services to resume in Dakshina Kannada today||After 40 days of lockdown, Dakshina Kannada will see autorickshaw and taxi services, outpatient departments in hospitals, clinics, industrial and other activities resume on Monday, as permitted by the State government for 12 hours from 7 a.m. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said in a release here on Sunday that relaxation for some activities are allowed only outside the containment zones. Movement of people for non-essential activities is banned between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. “The movement of vehicles and individuals from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. will be allowed only for the permitted activities,” the release said. She said that two-wheelers can operate without pillion riders. Two persons with a driver can travel in four-wheelers. Autorickshaws and taxis can carry two persons with a driver each. The Deputy Commissioner said that all standalone (single), neighourhood (colony) shops and shops in residential complexes can open. e-commerce activities in respect of essential goods can resume. Private offices with up to 33 % staff strength as per requirement, with the remaining persons working from home, will be allowed to function. Industrial and construction activities are allowed. The release said that no passes are required for permissible activities within the district. Sale of liquor will also resume. She said that barber shops, salons, spas, textile shops will not be allowed to resume business now. All educational institutions will remain closed. There will be no bus and train services. Social gathering and gathering in places of worship and any other sort of public gathering have been banned till May 17. Wearing of mask or covering the mouth and nose with a handkerchief or other such loose cloth have been made compulsory while people venture out into public places. Those who require passes for inter-district movement can apply online by logging on tohttps://bit.ly/dkdicepass, the release said. A police release said that travellers will be issued with one-way pass while drivers of vehicles hired will be issued with passes for return travel. The passes are e-delivered to the mobile phone numbers registered. Stranded persons can use this facility to reach to their places. People can contact the nearest police station for details.
04 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nanjangud ‘patient zero’ remains a mystery||A probe into the outbreak of COVID-19 at a pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud has come to the conclusion that the source of infection, or ‘patient zero’, cannot be pinpointed at this juncture. Senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta, who is also the designated nodal officer for the containment of COVID-19 in Mysuru, said that an exercise to identify ‘patient zero’ at this stage would be of no help in containing the disease, which has already afflicted more than 70 persons connected to the company. Mr. Gupta, tasked by the State government to conduct a probe into the outbreak of COVID-19 at Jubilant Life Sciences, the pharmaceutical company, had even sought the assistance of technical experts to identify the source of the infection. However, all of these efforts drew a blank. The technical experts assisting Mr. Gupta said identifying the source of infection was not possible right now. The other experts with whom Mr. Gupta consulted were also of the opinion that identifying ‘patient zero’ at this point would not be of any help either. The probe report, which has been submitted to the government, has instead outlined the measures to prevent further spread of COVID-19. A 35-year-old employee in the quality assurance department of the pharma firm, identified as P-52, was the first person to test positive. Subsequently, 74 persons from the company, including employees and their primary and secondary contacts, tested positive. While police investigation showed that P-52 had no travel or contact history, a sample of raw material imported by the company from China tested negative for the novel coronavirus during tests conducted by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The State government ordered a probe by the senior IAS officer after the police and health officials were unable to unravel the source of infection. Officials were unsure about whether P-52 was the first person to be afflicted or he had contracted COVID-19 from others. Mr. Gupta sought to clarify that there was no pressure on him of any kind during the investigation. Before Mr. Gupta began his investigation, the Mysuru district police too had tried to identify ‘patient zero’. A senior police officer said they studied the travel history of all the positive employees, traced those whom they had met through various means, and obtained their statements, but had not been able to identify the source of infection.
04 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Estimates of crop loss remain conjectural, say farmers||Farmers have sought an assessment of crop loss and wastage across Karnataka due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In the absence of such a move, they fear that the real distress of the agrarian community will not be recognised. This mainly pertains to perishable commodities suchas vegetables and fruits, as the chaos and lack of coordination during the initial days of the lockdown, announced on March 25, saw large-scalewastage of produce. A. Nagaraj of Raitha Mitra, a farmer-producer company, said they were just dealing with 50% of the total production while the remaining crop lay waste in the fields. The company procures vegetables directly from farmers and trades with customers, thus avoiding middlemen. “But things are far from normal and vegetables and fruits are wasting away in the fields,” he said. Despite the crisis, Raitha Mitra has so far transported 134 tonnes of fruits and vegetables after directly procuring them from farmers, ensuring a turnover of Rs. 34.5 lakh, said Kurubur Shanthakumar, founder of Raitha Mitra. The loss and wastage was due to two factors. In the first stage,and during the initial few days of the lockdown, harvested fruits and vegetables which reached the APMC marts for sale did not have wholesale buyers as there were no trucks to transport them to different parts of the Stateand the rest of India. As a result, there were scenes across Karnataka of cultivators dumping their produce on the streets. Tomato farmers were among the worst affected when the buying rate plummeted to less than Rs. 5 a kg. More than 200 tonnes of tomato was dumped and lay waste at the APMC yard in Mysuru alone in the first week of the lockdown. Once the farmers realised that the delay in transportation had forced commission agents to suspend trading and that they were not getting remunerative prices, harvesting activity also was stopped. Later on, the fate of tomato cultivators came to haunt those engaged in the cultivation of fruits. Bountiful rains resulted in a bumper production of fruits, including muskmelon, watermelon, grapes, and mango, for which there are no takers owing to the pandemic.
04 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Nisar Ahmed had a special bond with Shivamogga||K.S. Nisar Ahmed, renowned Kannada poet who passed away on Sunday, had a special bond with Shivamogga, the district known for vibrant cultural activities and verdant forests. Mr. Ahmed served as a professor of geology at Sahyadri College in the city. He also presided over the 73rd Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, held in Shivamogga in December 2006. Na. D’Souza, novelist who was a close acquaintance of Mr. Ahmed, told The Hindu that Shivamogga district, considered as a treasure trove of nature, played a key role in the formation of the poetic sensibilities in Mr. Ahmed. “His celebrated poem ‘Jogada siri belakinalli’ is an ode to the verdant nature of Shivamogga district in which there is a mention of the resplendent charm of Jog Falls, the slender turns and twists of the Tunga river, the mountain ranges, and the lush green forests here known for their rich flora and fauna. Along with that poem, ‘Manavanagi huttida mele enen kandi’ , a poem on Jog Falls by Mugur Mallappa, will live on in the hearts of Kannadigas forever,” he said. “While serving at Sahyadri College, Nisar Ahmed mentored many budding littérateurs. He used to read simple poems written by students for the college wall magazine seriously and offer suggestions,” he said. In 2006, the Kannada Sahitya Parishat had extended an invitation to the late journalist Gauri Lankesh and environmentalist Kalkuli Vittal Hegde to address a seminar on the problems faced by the Malnad region. The seminar was held as part of the 73rd Kannada Sahitya Sammelana. Alleging that the duo had links with Maoist organisations, functionaries of a few right-wing organisations staged a protest demanding that KSP cancel the invitation extended to them. A few miscreants also tried to assault Mr. Hegde when he was addressing the event. Shashi Sampalli, writer and environmental activist, told The Hindu that Mr. Ahmed supported the Parishat on the issue and was of the opinion that events such as the Kannada Sahitya Sammelana should become a platform for cordial debate among people from different ideological backgrounds. In his presidential address, Mr. Ahmed also bemoaned the unabated destruction of the forests in Malnad region in the name of development, Mr. Sampalli added. Kuvempu University had awarded an honorary doctorate to Mr. Ahmed in its 20th convocation ceremony, held in 2010.
04 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Liquor outlets told to take proper steps||The Excise and Police departments have asked owners of liquor outlets in Shivamogga district to put in place proper measures on their premises to ensure social distancing during business hours. In the wake of permission given to resumption of liquor sales, officials of the two departments held a meeting with owners of liquor outlets in the city on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner of Excise Ajith Kumar directed the owners to put up barricades in front of their shops to manage the crowd. He also told them to hire two private security personnel for crowd management and install surveillance cameras.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Relaxation from today||The police have announced some relaxations allowing vehicle movement, and shops and commercial establishments to operate from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao said on Sunday that the relaxation is applicable in the city, except in the 22 containment zones, from Monday. Vehicles can ply as part of the relaxation till 7 p.m. However, the speed limit is restricted to 30 kmph and the driver should carry an ID card. Any violations will be dealt with strictly, he said. Liquor stores, jewellery stores and construction activities can start from Monday. Liquor shops will have to follow health department guidelines. However, the relaxation is not applicable to cinema halls, shopping malls, swimming pools, stadium, places of worship, and public and private functions. Police have been directed to take strict action against those who are found moving on the roads unnecessarily, Mr. Rao said.
04 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Discontent brewing in Kayamkulam DYFI unit||Discontent is brewing in the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) in Kayamkulam with several members of the DYFI Kayamkulam block committee deciding to abstain from organisational activities. Nineteen out of 21 committee members, including president Aneesh Kumar and secretary Rafeek, jointly submitted a letter to CPI(M) Kayamkulam area committee informing it of their decision. The letter noted that the Kayamkulam police were attacking DYFI members. It said the party had failed to act against the Kayamkulam circle inspector (CI) who entered the house of DYFI block committee vice president Sajid, an accused in a few cases, in the night with a revolver. The letter also mentioned office secretary of Member of Legislative Assembly U. Prathibha who allegedly colluded with the police to arrest Sajid. The DYFI members alleged that a section in the CPI(M) was trying to protect the CI. The spark for the tussle between the DYFI and CI Gopakumar happened in March 2020, when a police team led by the CI fined CPI(M) leader and Kayamkulam municipal chairman N. Sivadasan for riding a motorcycle without wearing a helmet. Following this, the municipal authorities tried to shut the police canteen. Ms. Prathibha, however, criticised the decision of the municipality. . Meanwhile, DYFI district secretary R. Rahul said he had not received any “resignation letter” from DYFI members in Kayamkulam.
04 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Train for migrant workers to leave today||The first train from the district carrying stranded migrant workers to Katihar in Bihar will leave from Alappuzha at 3 p.m. on Monday. The train will accommodate 1,140 commuters. Officials said that the workers themselves will bear the travel expenses.  Buses to transport “Migrant workers from Mavelikara will be transported to Alappuzha railway station in 21 KSRTC buses. Those from Ambalappuzha will be brought in 23 buses. Each bus will carry 27 people in accordance with the COVID-19 guidelines,” said an official. Earlier the district administration had started collecting details of migrant labourers in the district who wish to return to their native places. A team of officials from Revenue, Police and Labour Departments visited camps and completed the registration process of commuters. The list was then submitted to the district administration on Sunday. Officials said that the District Medical Office would issue medical certificates to the travellers. They will also be given food and water. There are around 19,000 migrant workers in the district. The second train to Odisha will commence on May 6.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,KERALA||Police and metro workers clash||The URC metro workers’ colony situated in Bommanahalli turned into a virtual battleground for some time on Sunday as hundreds of workers, irked by what they alleged was “unwarranted caning” by the police, resorted to stone pelting and damaged vehicles parked on the premises. The colony houses around 800 employees who are anxious to return home and miffed by the contractors’ attitude for allegedly not helping them. According to witnesses, it began when the employees raised a complaint with the media and were awaiting their arrival. It was around 3 p.m. when a few workers were standing outside the gate to receive the media when the police reached the spot and allegedly caned them for violating social distancing. The news of police caning spread in the colony and agitated workers ransacked the premises, damaging vehicles and pelting stones at the police. A few workers and police personnel sustained injuries and several vehicles belonging to Namma Metro parked in the colony were damaged. Workers who spoke to The Hindu alleged that the supervisor and the contractors did not want the workers to go home and were preventing them from talking to the media. “There is no food and water and the company had not taken care of the employees’ needs during the lockdown. Many workers have not been paid their wages and are finding it hard to get food,” an agitated employee said. Another worker wishing anonymity said, “The contractors are not proving us proper food and drinking water is not enough. When we ask for food, they threaten us with the police. How long we can live here like this? We want to go home and the contractors don’t want that.” Others also alleged that the contractors were not paying their dues because they knew they would leave and never return. The police said that “frustration” among the workers led to incident. “We came to the spot to enforce social distancing as hundreds of anxious workers had gathered leading to a tense situation. We we were trying to disperse them when stones were pelted at us and the crowd went violent and ransacked the premises,” an police officer said. Soon after the incident, additional platoons were deployed to monitor the situation. Senior police officers camped in the area to monitor law and order. Meanwhile, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) officials said a team had gone to the colony to assess the situation. S. Murugan, Additional Commissioner of Police, Et said that it was misunderstanding that led to the incident. “The police went to the site to pacify agitated workers who are frustrated because they were not allowed to go to their native places. The police tried to convince them that they will take them to the railway station in batches and they need to wait for their turn. They tried to enforce social distancing in the group, but a few workers started pelting stones at them. The situation is under control and additional police have been deployed,” he said.
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,KERALA||Petrol, diesel prices to go up in T.N.||Prices of petrol and diesel are set to go up by Rs. 3.25 and Rs. 2.50 per litre. The hike is a sequel to changes made by the Tamil Nadu State government in the tax structure for petroleum products that comes into effect from Sunday midnight.
04 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Sailors caught between the sea and the land||Chief officer P.J. Melvin and 15 crew are in a ship at the Mumbai port but do not know when they will be sailing. Their ship was supposed to leave for an Oman port on March 19 but has been anchored at Mumbai since then with COVID-19 taking a toll across nations. Caught between the sea and land, they are unable to go ashore as they will be put in quarantine. Their Indian-flag vessel owned by a Denmark company supports offshore oil drilling platforms. Like them, there are many merchant vessels with thousands of seamen on ports awaiting sailing clearance since the lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Melvin, a seafarer since 1998, said over the phone that the pandemic had taken an emotional toll on them. “I have spent 11 months on the sea now. I have been to a number of countries after long journeys on different vessels. But I feel as if I am in no man’s land now,” he says. “While sailing there is also clarity when one will reach the shore, which is sadly lacking now. The only activity now is minor repairs,” Mr. Melvin says adding that the same is the case of sailors on other ships at present. He says there is no cargo movement by sea and oil drilling operations are almost at a standstill now. “Mobile phones and the Internet are the only solace now. We keep ourselves active playing volleyball or doing exercises after official work. There are hundreds of vessels in Mumbai and other ports that work in tandem with oil shipping and exploration works awaiting sailing clearance,” Mr Melvin, who hails from Kochi, says.
04 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||One person arrested, spirit seized in Munnar||The police have arrested one person and seized 135 litres of spirit from him in Munnar. The arrested was Nayamakkad estate west division resident Prabhakaran, 46. The spirit was kept in his house and nearby tea plantation, said the police.
04 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Five trains leave for Bihar with migrant workers||Railways operated five Shramik Special trains from Kerala to various railway stations in Bihar on Sunday to facilitate the return of migrant workers stranded here due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. One train each was operated from Kozhikode, Thrissur, and Kannur, and two from Ernakulam. The two trains from Ernakulam had a total of 2,201 workers from Bihar as passengers. The train bound for Barauni left at 3 p.m., carrying 1,140 passengers, while the Muzaffarpur-bound train left at 6.30 p.m, with 1,061 people, said Ernakulam DCP G. Poonguzhali, who along with Fort Kochi Subcollector Snehil Kumar Singh, led the mobilising of workers for the train journey. The trains left ahead of their scheduled departure at 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. respectively. Checking at camps “Ten teams, comprising officials of health, labour, police and revenue departments, visited workers’ camps, registered them online and conducted health check-up there itself. The shortlisted people were brought to the Ernakulam Junction railway station on KSRTC buses, accompanied by police personnel,” Ms Poonguzhali said. The special train left Kozhikode to Katihar in Bihar, carrying 1,140 passengers. It was the second batch of labourers to leave the district, the first being on Saturday. Details of more migrant labourers were collected on Sunday as part of efforts to schedule forthcoming trips. Railway officials said passengers’ entry to the station was being regulated in a methodical manner to avoid crowding and confusion. The workers are also cooperating well with the arrangements, they added. In Thrissur From Thrissur, the first batch of 1,143 persons left for Darbhanga in Bihar by 5.15 p.m. There were women and children in the team. Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen, Chief Whip K. Rajan, T.N. Prathapan, MP, and District Collector S. Shanavas, were at the railway station to see them off. The workers were taken to railway station from various parts of the district on 30 KSRTC buses. Tickets were handed over to them at the railway station. As per Labour Department figures, there are 3,398 workers from Bihar in the district. Keen to come back The 24-coach train from Kannur, which had 1,140 migrant labourers as passengers, left at 7 p.m. All the passengers were given food kits and medicines. “We had no job or income and had been waiting for this day. Without income, it is difficult to continue here,” said Akhilesh Yadav, a native of Samstipur, who had been working in Kannur for the past two years. However, he said he wanted to come back once the pandemic subsides. Bishnu, another worker from Bihar, who is returning after three years, said they were treated with respect in Kerala. “I certainly want to come back here,” he said.
04 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New hotspots in Ernakulam||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has categorised Edakkattuvayal and Manjalloor panchayats in the district as hotspots. The areas were demarcated as hotspots due to the presence of residents identified as contacts of those who have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 elsewhere, said District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan. While Edakkattuvayal has residents who had been in contact with a COVID-19 patient in Palakkad, Manjalloor has people who had contact with a patient in Kottayam. At present, there are 880 persons in home quarantine in the district. The district has not recorded a positive case after the last patient was discharged from hospital on Friday. The district sent 42 samples for COVID-19 tests on Sunday, and had received results of 42 samples, all of which were negative. ‘Remove from list’ Meanwhile, the District Collector has recommended the removal of Manjalloor from the list of hotspots as all primary and secondary contacts had tested negative for the virus. He also recommended that Kaloor South ward be removed from the list of hotspots as the patient from the area was discharged from hospital and all the contacts were released from quarantine.
04 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Delayed vaccinations could imperil children, say experts||The vaccination schedule of children in the State appears to have been disturbed following the lockdown to contain COVID-19. Vaccinations have dipped by 50% in the past one month as these could not be administered on children in the first two weeks of the lockdown, thereby creating a huge backlog. The situation is alarming, especially in pockets where the immunisation rates are already suboptimal, says M. Narayanan, State president, Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), Kerala. If immediate intervention is not made, there are chances of outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases such as measles and diphtheria in vulnerable areas. To cover lost ground, the IAP, Kerala, has joined hands with the government in a drive to deny emergence of vaccine-preventable diseases in the State when the government and front-line health workers are fighting the pandemic. The government has issued an advisory for restarting the immunisation activities both in public and private sector institutions. At the public health centre (PHC) level, parents of unimmunised and partially immunised children will be informed about the date, time, and place of immunisation in advance by the junior public health nurse. No mass vaccination campaigns would be conducted till the pandemic subsides. ‘Filling the Blanks’ The IAP has come out with a plan called Filling the Blanks to encourage parents to bring their children for the missed vaccines. Paediatricians will enter in an app the vaccination status of children at the outpatient department. The app will send text messages to the parent’s mobile three days prior to the vaccination date. Unprotected children get exposed to diseases easily as against the herd immunity that protects them when there is 85% or more vaccination, says Dr. Narayanan. Measles is one of the most transmissible infections, with an attack rate of 12 against the 1.4 to 5.7 for COVID-19. Attack rate denotes the number of persons who will be infected from a single patient. Vaccinations for pneumococcal disease, chickenpox, hepatitis A, and typhoid also have dropped. The sales figures of these vaccines show a drop of 5% to 30% compared to previous months, says Dr. Narayanan.  If immediate intervention is not made, there could be an outbreak of vaccine-preventable diseases like measles and diphtheria in vulnerable areas. M. Narayanan State president, IAP
04 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MSMEs for changes in labour laws||The Kerala State Small Industries Association (KSSIA), representing over a lakh micro, small and medium-sized (MSME) industrial units in the State, has called for big changes in the labour environment and laws governing employment. This is to enable, among other things, students to work part time, to create an environment of competition among labourers, and launch of a labour supply portal along with the conventional employment exchange. Hourly wages In an interactive session with the State Industries Department, KSSIA leaders raised the idea that labour laws could be changed to allow students to work on a part-time basis. Besides, the association said there was a situation in which labourers had to be paid for eight hours of work when they actually worked only for two hours. The wages should be fixed on an hourly basis to enable payment according to the quantum of work being carried out. The association felt that job-oriented courses at higher levels would help solve the problem of shortage of hands in the State. Launch of a labour supply portal along with the current employment exchange would help find a solution to the problem of labour shortage, the industry leaders said. The association also felt that a guest work portal would help. All those who arrived in Kerala seeking work should be registered using their Aadhaar or voter’s identity cards. Welfare measures The association also felt that the present labour welfare set-up was not of much help to either to the labourers or to the owners. The government should rethink on the welfare fund and also the recent hike in contributions suggested by the government. The industry owners also said the lockdown period had resulted in untold hardship for the industries and payment of wages, which had been insisted on even for the lockdown period, was difficult. They said they had suggested that the minimum bonus payment might be done away with this season in view of the pandemic and subsequent loss of business.
04 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy, Coast Guard honour medical staff||The Indian Navy honoured doctors and other Health staff engaged in combating COVID-19 at the Ernakulam General Hospital on Sunday morning. Members of the armed forces thanked them for their selfless service. Three naval officers, including Surgeon Commodore Arti Sarin, Command Medical Officer, Southern Naval Command, presented bouquets and flowers to Health personnel, thanking them for their efforts to maintain Ernakulam as a green zone. A Chetak helicopter showered flowers on the hospital premises, while aircraft and other choppers flew past. At 7.30 p.m., illuminated naval ships fired flares in solidarity with Health personnel on the Marine Drive waterfront. The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) too joined in, anchoring its illuminated ships off the Fort Kochi beach front at the same time. Coast Guard personnel visited hospitals to affirm their solidarity with medical professionals. ICG personnel also undertook community interaction programmes on precautions to be taken, to educate mariners, especially the fishermen community and officials of the port and other agencies. ICG units have been assisting local bodies in distributing food to the poor as well as migrant labourers across the State, especially at Veli in Thiruvananthapuram, official sources said.
04 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MRP violations under legal metrology scanner||The Legal Metrology Department is keeping a close watch on manufacturers and traders selling products at rates higher than the maximum retail price (MRP) or making false declarations on packages during the lockdown. Missing declarations of MRP and packaging date figure among the 45 cases registered by the central zone of the department as of April 30. “The cases have come down drastically after we started a drive since the lockdown was announced. Prosecution measures under the Packaged Commodities Rules will be initiated against offenders,” said R. Ram Mohan, Joint Controller. Several manufacturers and traders were found exploiting the surge in demand for certain products by not providing the mandatory declarations on packages. Some were booked for obscuration of MRP and its replacement with another price tag. Mr. Ram Mohan said customers could alert the department when they came across such violations. “We have active patrol teams on the ground that will take immediate action against violators. We have conducted over 2,300 inspections after the lockdown came into force,” he said. As many as 267 cases had been registered for various violations, including 43 cases against those found selling masks and sanitisers at rates higher than those prescribed by the Union government, he said. The department registered cases against vendors who failed to maintain documents of testing and certification of electronic balances. Fifty-eight cases were registered against ration shop dealers for irregularities in the distribution of free food grains announced by the government following the outbreak of COVID-19. About 100 cases were lodged for overpricing of bottled drinking water. The public may contact the department at the following numbers of the district-level deputy controllers: Ernakulam - 9447264040, 9447206463, 8281698067; Thrissur - 9447739878, 8281698084; Palakkad - 9400578032, 8281698092; and Idukki - 9447599782, 8281698057.
04 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Reopen Palarivattom flyover: contractors||The State government must take steps to reopen the Palarivattom flyover in tandem with the commissioning of the Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers, failing which there will be unprecedented traffic snarl at the Palarivattom Bypass Junction, Kerala Government Contractors’ Association (KGCA) has demanded. The flyover on the NH Bypass was closed in May 2019, after cracks were detected over it. “To enable the reopening of the flyover, the government must permit the contracting firm to complete pending reinforcement works of the flyover at its expense, and do a load test as directed by the court. “A decision on the appeal filed by the government before the Supreme Court against doing load test is getting delayed. All this has delayed the reopening of the structure,” said Varghese Kannampally, State president of the association.
04 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kochayyappan is finally neat and trim||After days of suffering, Kochayyappan can now heave a sigh a relief, thanks to the intervention of Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KELSA). The captive elephant had been finding it difficult to take food with his overgrown tusks that were badly in need of trimming. Though his owners had the permission for trimming from the Forest Department, they could not execute the order owing to the lockdown. “His plight was noted by Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan, Chief Justice, Calcutta High Court, who watched it on a news channel and he immediately contacted KELSA chairman C.T. Ravikumar. As per his directions, we arranged an expert from Kochi and took him to Kollam. With the help of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), we also found a veterinary doctor to supervise the process,” said KELSA secretary K.T. Nizar Ahamad. The team arrived in Kollam on Sunday and they completed the trimming process by the evening. For three months According to his mahouts, the long tusks have been causing great inconvenience to the tusker, often affecting his comfort and food intake. “They were locked together and the elephant has been suffering for three months as it was not able to move its trunk properly. During the lockdown, it was difficult to coordinate the process and we had to take Vinayan, an expert from Kochi, as no one was locally available. The process requires a lot of expertise since there is chance for infection,” he added.
04 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Quarantined lawyer missing||A Thiruvananthapuram-based lawyer, who was placed under home quarantine at Chathannur, has managed to elude surveillance and disappear. Chathannur police had already filed a case against him for violating lockdown norms when he visited a house in Kattachal, which is part of the Red zone in the district. Reportedly, it was neighbours who alerted the authorities as inter-district travels were strictly regulated. “He was missing when officials went to the house as part of routine visits on Sunday,” sources said. The lawyer had reportedly said he was visiting relatives in the hotspot.
04 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Relaxation likely outside hotspots||As the fears of a massive outbreak of COVID-19 in Kottayam – a Red zone, beginning to taper off, the authorities may relax further the restrictions outside the areas marked as containment zones and hotspots in the district. According to a senior official with the district administration, the district has not witnessed any fresh cases over the past one week since April 27. They are now awaiting a direction from the State government with regard to lifting at least a part of the restrictions imposed view of a sudden spurt in cases. Strategy Officials with the District Health Department said the imposition of restrictions coupled with augmented sample testing over the past six days helped them halt the trend after a sudden spurt of cases between April 23 and 27. As per estimates, the Health authorities collected a whopping 874 swab samples on a random basis over the six days till Sunday and of these, as many as 819 have been tested negative. Of the 16 positive cases reported during the period, at least 12 patients developed symptoms after the mandatory quarantine period of 28 days, said officials. “However, the most worrying among these was the case of the headload worker in the Kottayam Town Market. He is believed to have been detected with the virus within a couple of days of infection but his place of work was indeed a vulnerable area. But the random sampling method that had been adopted afterwards ruled out the possibility of cluster formation and community transmission,” said an official. Survey Meanwhile, the authorities here on Sunday continued with the survey among the inter-State migrant workers for identifying those interested in returning home. Official estimates put the total number of inter-State migrant workers in the district at 27,000 and of these over 8,000 persons have shown interest in returning home so far. According to District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu, workers residing in areas where the survey is yet to be carried out should contact their respective local body authority through the ward member or the labour contractors. “Upon being informed, the survey team will reach out to them and collect the details. The workers enrolled for the return journey should remain in their place of stay until receiving the official intimation to this effect,” the Collector said. The workers can raise their concerns directly with the district administration by dialling the numbers: 0481-2564365, 9497713705.
04 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. to frame by-law to hire migrants||The Kozhikode Corporation has accurate data on migrant labourers working in the city, thanks to the lockdown. A majority of workers are now under the civic body’s protection in various camps. Before the lockdown, the corporation had only details of around 5,000 labourers collected through its ‘Garima’ project. But there are now 12,098 labourers in the 1,225 camps. “We know around 5,000 labourers had left before the lockdown, and another 5,000 are accommodated by their employers. That takes the number of migrant labourers to over 20,000,” said corporation Secretary Binu Francis. The corporation collected data on labourers to provide them supplies during the lockdown. Health inspectors had visited camps under sponsors and contractors to get an accurate picture of the beneficiaries. Later, the corporation provided them food grain and vegetables worth Rs. 56.53 lakh. Mr. Francis said a large number of them had not registered with the Labour Department. “Initially, we had only 6,000 labourers under our protection. However, sponsors and contractors who had been supporting the rest of them soon realised that they could not afford it in the long run and passed over the responsibility to the civic body,” Mr. Francis said. The corporation had been losing a huge amount of tax from contractors as it had no data on the exact number of labourers. Now, with data in hand, the corporation plans to come up with a by-law on accommodation of migrant labourers in the city soon, which will cover regulations for employing them, basic facilities required in labour camps and a proper tax structure for employers.
04 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Quarantine facilities for NoRKs getting ready||Preparations are in the final phase in Kozhikode for the safe quarantine of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who are waiting to return to the State. A district-level committee chaired by Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao is supervising preparations for arranging proper screening at the airport and ensuring secure trips to quarantine facilities. Within a week, facilities to accommodate over 15,000 people have been identified by the district administration. They include spaces provided by hotel and hospital managements, educational institutions and hostels. Meanwhile, efforts are on to arrange facilities for 15,000 more persons within a week. Health officials said after screening at the airport, those with suspected COVID-19 symptoms would be taken to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Only those found fit at the district-level screening will be allowed to opt for home quarantine and their transportation will be arranged by the committee. The condition of those in home quarantine will be monitored frequently by ward-level squads.
04 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Black man’ arrested||The Kasaba police on Saturday arrested a Thalassery native who appeared as ‘black man’ in various parts of Kozhikode city. The suspect, identified as Ajmal, was also suspected to be a flasher during his night time journeys in residential areas. The police said the man was a convict in theft cases. They also seized more than 20 mobile phones and a few gold ornaments from the accused. It was the fourth ‘black man’ arrested during the lockdown period. The miscreants had created a huge scare in residential areas.
04 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||HPCL donates rice||The Kozhikode retail region of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited donated 100 tonnes of rice under its Corporate Social Responsibility initiative to Kozhikode district administration, to be used at the community kitchens in the district. Nadeen K.R., regional manager of HPCL; M.K. Raghavan, MP; and District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao were present.
04 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No fresh cases in Kozhikode||There were no SARS-CoV-2 positive cases in Kozhikode district for the 10th consecutive day on Sunday. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said on Sunday that 1,047 people were under observation in the district, including 32 at the hospital. As many as 340 persons completed their observation cycle. Fifteen persons were discharged on the day. Four are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital.
04 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Second train from Tirur today||The second batch of migrant workers from Bihar will return home in a special train from Tirur on Monday. Nearly 1,200 workers will board the train to Darbhanga that will leave Tirur at 2 p.m. The first batch of workers left Tirur on Saturday. The police have prepared a list of those wishing to return home. There are 250 workers from Tirurangadi, 250 from Kondotty, 500 from Ponnani, and 200 from Perinthalmanna.
04 May 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Vigil tightened at Attappady||The entry of people into the Attappady tribal areas has been restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in one of the largest tribal belts in the State. Posters in Tamil, Malayalam, and some ethnic tribal languages were circulated in all tribal hamlets, telling them what to do to prevent the spread of the virus. Resorts, homestays, and traditional treatment centres in Attappady have remained closed since March 20. The services of ST promoters, Kudumbashree animators, Anganvadi workers, and ASHA workers are being used to create awareness. Vigil at the checkpoints of Mukkali, Anakkatti, and Mulli has been intensified. The police erected 85 outposts in Attappady to prevent people from crossing the border. Police and Forest officers are conducting joint inspections on trek paths. Attappady Tribal Health Nodal Officer Prabhu Das said 133 people were in quarantine. While 82 of them had come from other States, 51 had reached Attappady from neighbouring districts. As many as 39 of those under observation are tribespeople. Apart from the Tribal Specialty Hospital at Kottathara, the Community Health Centre at Agali, three primary health centres, five mobile medical units and 28 sub centres are functional in Attappady. As many as 45 doctors were in service, said Dr. Prabhu Das. The Health Department has opened a sub-centre at Anavai hamlet as it is quite remote. It will function round the clock and will have a staff nurse, a junior public health nurse, and a junior health inspector. A doctor will be available at the sub-centre on Monday, Thursday, and Saturday. Alert in Malappuram Ban orders in the district have been extended till the midnight of May 17. Officials said there would be no relaxation in hotspots. District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem said 108 cases were registered on Sunday for violation of lockdown norms. As many as 112 persons were arrested.
04 May 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Man kills wife, ends life||A man allegedly ended his life after reportedly killing his wife at Attappady on Sunday. Chandran alias Chathan, 42, from Mukkali hanged himself after strangulating wife Santha. The police said family quarrels led to the crime. An investigation is on. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies may seek help and counselling by contacting suicide prevention helpline — Maithri: 0484-2540530.
04 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new COVID-19 case in Pathanamthitta||No new COVID-19 case has been reported from the district for the 21st consecutive day on Sunday. The district presently houses only one COVID-19 patient. A total of five persons have been quarantined at various hospitals as on Sunday evening, according to the Resident Medical Officer at Pathanamthitta General Hospital, Ashish Mohankumar. Two persons each have been admitted to the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, and another one at the Adoor General Hospital. So far, a total of 17 throat swab samples were tested positive while 3,761 samples tested negative.  The health surveillance teams have screened 9,472 persons at border points of the district as on Sunday.
04 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta sets another health-care model||Either find a way or make one seems to be the motto of the district administration when it came to addressing the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) for health-care personnel in corona isolation wards in hospitals in the district. Ranni taluk in Pathanamthitta hit the headlines when five persons from Aythala village tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on March 8. Officials immediately set up an isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital for the patients and those in observation. However, availability of PPE kits proved to be an issue for the district administration, which managed the situation with the help of Health Minister K.K.Shylaja. The district administration has now drawn up a plan to address the shortage of PPE by exploiting the potential of small-scale industries in the district. “We have decided to launch a project to make our own PPE kits at an industrial unit, K.K. Enterprises, in Ranni with the assistance of the District Industries Centre,” Ranni MLA Raju Abraham said. District Collector P.B. Noohu said materials required for the PPE were procured from Ernakulam. “The unit started making samples last week and 400 kits were made in the past four days,” he said.  Cost-effective option Mr. Abraham said the administration was awaiting clearance from the Health Department for using the kit, which comprises a gown, face mask, and shoe protection covers, in hospitals. Mr. Noohu said the district could become self-reliant in terms of PPE kits once the government approved the kits made here. “A kit made in Ranni costs only Rs. 200 against the prevailing market price of Rs. 800,” he said. The Industries Department was supervising the PPE production process, Mr. Abraham said adding that full-scale production would commence once the product got the government’s clearance.
04 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||People’s participation sought in vector-control drive||District Collector P.B. Noohu has called upon people to unfailingly comply with the directions issued by the health authorities to prevent further outbreaks of dengue fever and leptospirosis. He said a majority of the dengue fever cases in the district had been reported from the panchayats of Vechoochira, Naranammoozhy, and Kuttoor. Studies showed considerable increase in the Aedis mosquito density in the district
04 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Countrymade guns, hooch seized||An Excise Department team led by inspector G. Prasanth has seized two countrymade guns, arrack, wash, and brewing instruments in a raid conducted on a house at Muttakkuzhi, near Aruvappulam in Konni taluk on Saturday. A case has been registered and the accused houseowner, Soman, was arrested.
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Why not share data of sampling studies, ask experts||The number of cases of COVID-19 without any clear epidemiological links – the source of infection is unknown – has been on the rise from different parts of the State in the past few days. Public health experts and doctors have now raised questions as to why, despite claims of transparency, the Health Department has not been sharing the data of the two community-level sampling studies it did, to check whether there is unknown transmission of COVID-19 in the State. Surveillance samples Since April 23, 900 sentinel surveillance samples are being collected by the Health Department every week from across the State from health workers, pregnant women, and police personnel, who are at higher risk of contracting the disease, and sent for RT-PCR testing for COVID-19. On April 26, the State did a one-day mass ‘augmented’ sample surveillance amongst similar groups in the community, when 3,000 plus samples were collected for testing. However, while the Health Department has given specific directions that the surveillance study samples are not to be mixed up with routine samples (which are from a quarantined pool of people with history of travel to COVID-19-affected places), the test results have not been kept separate. The number of new positive cases — mostly active, asymptomatic cases — from the surveillance samples are important as these are cases wherein the source of infection is unknown and indicate pockets of silent disease transmission here. ‘Indeterminate’ But instead of announcing the details of these surveillance studies separately, all positive cases from both studies are announced with routine sample results as cases that contracted the infection through “contacts.” These cases should be considered separately and spatio-temporal analysis of the aggregate data will indicate the geographic area from where these positive cases are consistently reported. The daily bulletin mentions the number of surveillance samples from sentinel survey which became negative, but not the number of positives. The bulletin on Friday said of the 3,128 samples tested as part of augmented survey, four were positive and that 35 samples were being re-tested or still remain “indeterminate”. The total samples tested as on Friday was 27,150, which suddenly became 31,183 on Saturday. Does that mean the 3,128 samples of augmented survey were added to the total figure? But the numbers just do not add up. Questions are being raised now on why the actual data on the community surveillance studies has not been placed in the public domain. How many samples in each population groups were tested and what was the positivity rate in each group? Which is the population sub-group at high risk? In a disease where asymptomatic cases is a major driver of transmission and with PCR tests picking up only 70% of the cases, one would expect more than four positives from 3,128 samples. ‘Contacts’ go up “Given the huge number of unknowns regarding COVID-19 and the fact that asymptomatic transmission is something which no government can control, it is foolish to assume that the virus will behave differently in Kerala. Even going by the official figures, the number of ‘contacts’ seems to be climbing, indicating that community transmission may have already begun,” a senior public health professional in Health Service said.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Restrictions to be eased for shops||Commercial establishments in the capital district are expected to function with relaxed restrictions as the third phase of the lockdown kicks in on Monday. Much focus will be on streamlining buyers and vendors in the Chala bazaar that witnessed uncontrollable rush last week, prompting the police to close down several shops, particularly those that sold non-essential items. A meeting of traders’ representatives called by District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay on Sunday decided to impose strict guidelines to coordinate the functioning of shops in the market. While the outlets will be permitted to function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., only goods vehicles will be permitted to enter Chala via. the Killipalam-Aryasala route. While the use of facemask has been made mandatory, the police have directed traders to ensure social distancing by functioning with half of their work force and regulating crowds. Surveillance The district administration placed 262 people under surveillance as part of efforts to contain the COVID-19 spread. A total of 2,696 people are presently under surveillance in the district. Among them, 2,550 people are quarantined in their homes. Ninety-three were removed from the quarantine list after completing the 28-day mandated period. Eighty two people remained under observation in the Corona Care Centre that functioned in the Mar Ivanios College hostel. The capital district currently has two COVID-19 patients who were being treated in the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. Eight persons were admitted to various hospitals in the district on Sunday after developing symptoms of the infection. Of the 64 symptomatic people who are currently under treatment, there were 32 persons in the Government Medical College Hospital and eight in the General Hospital. Private hospitals have been treating 17 people in the district. As many as 83 samples were collected by health workers in the district to be sent for detailed examination, while ninety-seven results returned negative on the day. Vehicles seized The Thiruvananthapuram City police booked 98 people and seized 74 vehicles for various lockdown violations that were detected. Sixty-nine people were penalised for failing to wear masks outdoors. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 447 people, arrested 461 people and seized 290 vehicles.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Details of registered NoRKS provided to Embassies||Kerala has provided details of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) stranded in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and have registered online to return to the State to Indian Embassies in that countries. The details NoRKS who had registered on the website of the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA) have been provided to Embassies in Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates. Official sources said that a letter in this regard had been sent to the Embassies so as to expedite the return of the NoRKs who had been held up in those countries following the COVID-19-induced ban on flights into the country. The Ministry of External Affairs had been informed that the Embassies could make use of the web service to access the details.  Registration continues The NoRKA is yet to close online registration on www.registernorkaroots.org that commenced on April 26 for making quarantine arrangements on their return to Kerala. Till Sunday, 4.13 lakh NoRKs have registered to return to Kerala. Of those registered, 61,009 have lost their jobs. There are 9,827 pregnant women, 10,628 children and 11,256 senior citizens among those who have registered. According to official estimates, there are 33 lakh NoRKs in various countries, including 22 lakh in the Gulf region. The government is expecting around three to 5.5 lakh of them to return to Kerala. About 1.4 lakh beds have been identified in government and private health-care facilities in the State. Travel passes Meanwhile, the registration for Keralites stranded in various Indian States to secure travel passes to the State commenced on Sunday evening. The registration onwws.covid19jagratha.kerala. nic.in is in addition to the registration for the stranded Keralites onwww. registernorkaroots.org. Those registering and providing the details of the private vehicle being used for travel will be issued travel pass by the District Collector of the district to which they are travelling. Based on the travel pass, they can secure permission from the city where they are held up. Till Sunday, 1,50,054 people have registered with NoRKA to return to the State. The government has made it clear that the stranded NoRKs will be allowed only through the six inter-State check-posts.  Certificate needed Only those carrying COVID-19 negative certificates will be allowed entry to the State, and that too after a health screening at the check-posts. The government has also nominated IAS officers as nodal officers for monitoring and coordinating inter-State travel and making arrangements.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Armed forces thank frontline COVID warriors||The Armed forces, with their flypast, musical tribute — by the Army band — and lit-up ships in the State capital, expressed gratitude to and stood in solidarity with all front line warriors who have been waging a war against the COVID-19 pandemic. The soldiers of the Pangode military station honoured officials of the Kerala Police at a ceremony held at the police headquarters. Wreaths were also laid at the police memorial, to the accompaniment of a military band. Station commander Brigadier Kartik Seshadri, who emphasised the role played by the police in enforcing the lockdown and sensitising the public, felicitated the State Police chief Loknath Behera and presented him with a cake and a souvenir on behalf of the Indian Army. Personal Protective Equipment, including gloves and masks, and greeting cards drawn by children were also handed over on the occasion. Flowers showered As if on cue, the Southern Air Command showered flower petals over the Government Medical College Hospital and the General Hospital here from the Sarang helicopter to honour doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other healthcare workers engaged in treating COVID-19 patients and containing its spread with selfless dedication. Large number of health workers gathered outside the hospitals, clapping and waving at the helicopter as it flew past them. In the evening, two C-130J Hercules aircraft flew past the Secretariat in formation during the last leg of the aerial salute accorded to COVID warriors by the Indian Air Force that commenced from Dal Lake in Srinagar earlier on the day and flew over Rajpath in New Delhi and monuments in Chandigarh, Jaipur, Bhopal, Mumbai Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kanyakumari. In a show of gratitude by the Indian Coast Guard, its ships were decked-up and stationed at the Shangumughom beach since Saturday evening. Display of the illuminated ships for two days on the trot brought much cheer to the coastal belt.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stranded Keralites seek help for return||It was after a considerably long search for a job that Mufeed landed a marketing job with a private company in Osmanabad district in Maharashtra. But, hardly a month into his training, with the COVID-19 outbreak happening, the company fired him and his fellow trainees, without any warning. Left without anywhere to go, the district administration rehabilitated 39 of them hailing from Kerala, in a school in Shingoli, where they have been staying for more than a month now. With migrant guest workers from various places being taken back to their home States in trains over the past two days, the group is hoping to return to Kerala, where they feel they will be relatively safer. Among the group are engineering graduates, diploma holders and those who have completed skills training courses by the government. The 39 of them hail from eight districts across Kerala. “Most of us had heard about this company – Delhi-based Glaze Trading India Private Limited – from our friends or seniors. Our batch was supposed to complete training and start the company’s marketing operations in Kerala. But, as soon as COVID-19 was reported, they left us in the lurch. On March 28, we had released a video describing our plight, when the district administration shifted us here and has been providing us food till then. We understand their limitations, but we don’t feel completely safe here. When two of us had fever, they were given paracetamol and no tests were carried out. A total of hundred people are staying in this school, with few others from other States too,” says Mufeed. Registered They have been trying to get in touch with people’s representatives back home, but with the lockdown in place, even they have been unable to help. Two days back, they registered with NoRKA Roots, expressing their wish to travel back home.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre told to emulate State’s moral economy package||The Centre and other States should emulate the ‘moral economy package’ implemented by Kerala to mitigate the woes of migrant workers and other deprived sections battling the rigours of lockdown, says Planning Board member Ravi Raman. Mr. Raman told The Hindu that when the world was facing a moral economy crisis, Kerala stood tall by expeditiously providing cash, food, cereals and also emotional support to migrant workers, labourers and other vulnerable sections. “The moral economy package is a wholesome component that would address the problems of marginalised sections during a crisis. Be it a flood, drought or the wanton spread of a virus like SARS-CoV-2, the package is a panacea to the liquidity shortage, starvation and also the emotional trauma on being isolated. The Kerala government while disbursing the welfare pensions in advance, provided food through community kitchens and kits of foodgrain and essentials free of cost. Counselling centres were operationalised to mitigate the emotional turbulence of the quarantined and isolated. This is the right definition for moral economy package,” says Dr. Raman. Skewed priorities The Centre and other States that could not proffer a solution to ease the woes of the legions of migrant workers who were constrained to traverse long distances jeopardising their health and even existence in the face of the COVID-19 threat should take a cue from Kerala and implement it in full. “While the Centre waived the loans of corporate giants that turned NPAs smothering the banking system and the entire economy, enhancing the wages of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme never figured on the priorities of the government. The Centre should implement a moral package that would equip such sections to tide over the crisis and the post COVID-19 situation,” he says. Fiscal leeway The Centre should also recognise that the need of the hour is to strengthen States and their institutional capacities. It should allow more flexibility in Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act and permit States to issue fresh bonds so that they would get more fiscal leeway. The pioneering efforts of the State in COVID-19 containment have earned Kerala a place of pride in the international domain and hence this package too would win accolades, he says.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thunderstorms likely till Thursday||Parts of the State are likely to experience thunderstorms till at least May 7, according to IMD forecasts. Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and gusty winds are very likely at one or two places in Kerala and Mahe till May 5, IMD said in a weather bulletin. Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning are likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala and Mahe on May 6 and 7. The State has received its normal quota of summer rainfall between March 1 and May 3. Pathanamthitta has received 60% rainfall in excess from the normal which is deemed ‘large excess’ in IMD parlance. Kasaragod, on the other hand, is in the ‘large deficient’ category, receiving 86% less rainfall than is normal for the period.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VSSC comes up with three ventilator models||With space missions taking a back seat during the pandemic, the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) at Thumba here has turned its attention to ventilators. A multidisciplinary team at the VSSC, the lead unit of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for launch vehicles, has come up with three ventilator models, of which two are undergoing tests. The first two types consist of an automated, bag valve mask model and another one based on an in-house design fully developed by the VSSC. Tests under way Tests are under way on both. “The second model, based on our own design, does not use battery back-up and works on compressed air. We have built a prototype that is undergoing tests,” an official said. This model employs electricity only on a small-scale and that too for the displays. The third model, on which work is in progress, is part of a long-term initiative to develop a sophisticated, India-make ventilator for replacing high-end, imported models used in hospitals. For this project to develop a more advanced, blower-based model, the VSSC is collaborating with the Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre, its sister ISRO agency in Thiruvananthapuram, an official said. The multidisciplinary team working on the ventilator project comprises staff drawn from multiple divisions of ISRO units. In launching work on the life-saving devices that help patients breathe, the ISRO has responded to a Central government call to ensure adequate numbers for treating severe COVID-19 cases. Globally too, the demand for ventilators has shot up. Recently, a ventilator developed by NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chief Minister’s loan scheme launched||The Chief Minister’s Sahaya Hastam (helping hand) loan scheme is under way in the district. Minister for Local Self-government A.C. Moideen gave away the first loan through the Kadakampally Service Cooperative Bank. The government has earmarked Rs. 2,000 crore for the helping hands scheme. Of this, the district has been sanctioned Rs. 220 crore. Neighbourhood group members who follow the stipulations fixed by Kudumbashree are given Rs. 5,000, Rs. 10,000, Rs. 15,000, and Rs. 20,000 as the helping hands loan. While the interest rate for the scheme is 9%, the repayment period is 36 months. As many as 2.61 lakh members from 20,334 neighbourhood groups in the district have applied for the loan. The Kudumbashree district mission had given the money to each community development society (CDS) by dividing it on the basis of eligible neighbourhood groups. The loan will be given to the members after their applications are scrutinised by the CDSs and certified by the CDS chairperson and member secretary. The applications are being handed over to the banks concerned.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,164 arrested||The Kerala Police registered cases against 3,120 people and arrested 3,164 people for violating lockdown norms on Sunday. As many as 1,930 vehicles were seized.
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SCTIMST develops swabs for testing||Sree Chitra Triunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) has developed two types of nasal and oral swabs and viral transport medium (VTM) for COVID-19 testing, an official release issued by SCTIMST said here. Chitra EmBed flocked nylon swabs and Chitra EnMesh, polymeric foam-tipped, lint-free swabs with flexible plastic handles are designed for efficiency. Their convenient breakpoint ensures minimal contact of the health worker with the sample during packing. The second innovation, Chitra Viral Transport Medium, is designed to retain the virus in its active form during its transportation from the collection point to the laboratory. Technologies for both swabs and viral transport medium have been transferred to industries for immediate manufacture and sales—Mallelil Industries, Origin diagnostics, and Levram Life sciences. The swabs and VTM developed by SCTIMST could reduce import dependency and mass produce these at much lower costs.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre urged to reopen HNL||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has sought the intervention of the Centre to restart operations at Hindustan Newsprint Ltd (HNL). He has placed the demand before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister for Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Prakash Javadekar. Non-availability of newsprint had affected newspapers, he said. HNL had been lying shut for the past 20 months, Mr. Chennithala said.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No power to cut salary of SIC members, State told||The State Information Commission (SIC) in a letter to the State government said that the latter was not empowered to reduce the salary or allowances of either the State Chief Information Commissioner or the Information Commissioners. The Commission has drawn attention to Section 16 (5) of the Right to Information Act, 2005, which states that “the salaries, allowances and other conditions of service of the State Chief Information Commissioner and the State Information Commissioners shall not be varied to their disadvantage after their appointment.” Salary handed over The State Chief Information Commissioner and the four Information Commissioners, however, handed over their salaries for one month to the Chief Minister.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bank staff donate to CMDRF||The staff of the Ernakulam zone of Bank of Baroda handed over Rs. 21.27 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran accepted the sum from Siyad Rahman, Deputy General Manager of the bank, a pressnote said.
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Coordinators for bringing back Keralites||The State government on Sunday said Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham, Bishwanath Sinha, and Sanjay M. Kaul, both IAS officers, would coordinate efforts to bring back Keralites stranded in other States due to the COVID-19 lockdown.
04 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU - revaluation||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University will accept applications for revaluation and copies of answer scripts of seventh-semester B.Tech regular and supplementary examinations, which were conducted in December last, from May 4 to 8. The candidates can either apply and pay the fee directly through the students’ login or apply through the students’ login and pay the fee at the college office. While the fee for answer script copy is Rs. 500, that for revaluation is Rs. 600. Further details can be obtained fromwww.ktu.edu.in.
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Abuse: school bus employee held||The Poonthura police have arrested a 34-year-old school bus employee on the charge of sexually abusing a minor.He was identified as Abdul Rauf of Beemapally. The incident occurred in December last year. He had lured her to a friend’s house and abused her. Abdul was arrested on Sunday, produced in court and remanded.
04 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Relief camp inmate dead||A 67-year-old inmate of a relief camp at Government Upper Primary School, Guruvayur, died of heart attack on Saturday. Baby of Ayyantholewas admitted at Guruvayur Devaswom Hospital on May 1. Though he was shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, his life could not be saved.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Salute to COVID warriors||
04 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frontline warriors test positive in Hindupur||Seven new COVID19 positive cases emerged from Hindupur town on Sunday, including a 63-year-old male who tested positive for the infection posthumously. Some among those who tested positive on Sunday were frontline COVID warriors. While one of them, a 35-year-old male, used to make public announcements in red zones, a 48-year-old woman was working as an ANM in Thyagaraja Nagar in Hindupur. With the seven new cases, the tally has gone up to 78. Out of the six patients undergoing treatment, there are three women aged between 45 and 55, and three men aged 35, 65 and 23. While the cases reported so far were of primary or secondary contacts, samples tested on Saturday showed two cases coming from new areas - Basavannahalli (Hindupur rural mandal) and Model Colony (Hindupur town). District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Sunday held a meeting with officers at Hindupur Municipal Office and said that the administration would be supportive of the private medical practitioners treating COVID patients by extending Rs. 50 lakh insurance for all doctors engaged in the service. He also promised to distribute PPE kits and N95 masks to them by Monday evening and arrange accommodation in the Lepakshi Guest House.
04 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pregnant woman walks for 3 days to reach Podili||A pregnant woman walked for three days to reach her village of Podili in Prakasam district from her workplace at Challakere in Karnataka, where she had gone to work as a daily wager along with her husband, child and two relatives. The family said they made the arduous trek back home as they had no more money left to manage even two square meals a day. Krupanand and his wife, who is eight months pregnant, said the contractor who had employed them had allegedly refused to pay them their dues ever since the lockdown was clamped, forcing them to walk back to their village in the absence of any transportation. The family had walked for around 135 km before reaching Anantapur, when a woman named Padmavathi saw the family sitting by the roadside and asked if they needed help. After listening to their plight, she immediately bought them food and sent them to Podili in her car by obtaining a vehicle permit from the Superintendent of Police on Sunday.
04 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nisar Ahmed passes away||Well-known Kannada poet K.S. Nisar Ahmed, best known for his iconic work Nityotsava , passed away at his residence here on Sunday. He was 84. Prof. Nisar Ahmed was suffering from age-related ailments. His last rites will be held in Bengaluru on Monday, family sources said. Just over two weeks ago he lost his younger son to cancer and wasn’t able to take part in the last rites as his son lived in the United States which, like India, is under lockdown owing to COVID-19 pandemic. “It was a double blow for him. His wife, Shahnawaz Begum, passed away last year. His son’s death was a big shock to him and he probably never recovered from it,” said M.S. Raghunath, one of his close associates. A geology professor, he was a prolific poet. His poems were set to music and the audio cassettes became popular, triggering a movement of “kavya gayana”. He was a recipient of the Pampa Award (2017), Rajyotsava Award (1981), and Padma Shri (2008). He chaired the annual Kannada sahitya sammelana in Shivamogga in 2006 and inaugurated Dasara festivities in 2017.
04 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant labourers continue to face obstacles||Though quite a number of stranded migrant workers managed to leave for their native places in other States in private vehicles in the last two days, scores of others continue to face obstacles in returning to their villages in Andhra Pradesh. A large group of around 150 migrant labourers including their family members got holed up along the inter-State border with Andhra Pradesh after reaching the border checkpoint in Aswaraopeta mandal on Sunday afternoon. The officials on the other side of the inter-State border in AP’s Jeelugumilli mandal refused entry citing lack of orders from their higher-ups, alleged a migrant worker. We are trying to help them reach their native places in compliance with the MHA guidelines, the officer told The Hindu when contacted.
04 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild elephants create flutter||Fear gripped the people of Gangavaram and Palamaner mandals abutting the Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary after a herd of wild elephants killed two cattle in a field at Bandameedha Jaravaripalle village under the Palamaner forest range. According to information, the herd of eight elephants entered the fields close to the village around Saturday midnight and devoured the standing crops of tomato and other vegetables, besides trampling a stretch of paddy. Seeing the commotion, two cattle, which were tied outside a watch-hut, started bellowing. The herd moved towards the cattle and trampled them. Huge number Though the villagers heard the agonised cries of the cattle, they remained indoors due to the big number of the herd. At sunrise, the villagers found the carcasses of the cattle. Staff from the veterinary hospital in the area reached the spot and conducted autopsy. Forest officials arrive  Forest officials from Palamaner visited the spot and assured the cattle owner that the matter would be brought to the notice of higher officials. In view of the COVID-19 lockdown and the scorching heat outside, several farmers have abandoned night vigil, preferring to retreat to their homes after dusk. Second incident In the past week, two herds from the wildlife sanctuary have entered the fields and damaged crops, the farmers complained. Following the incident, farmers have started taking cattle back with them to the villages after grazing, instead of allowing them to be tied in the fields.
04 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rate of positive cases slows down in Guntur||Even as the nationwide lockdown enters the third phase, the Guntur district administration’s month-long efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Guntur city seemed to have paid off with just 23 samples out of 800 samples testing positive during the past week. The total number of positive cases stands at 319 on Sunday, and out of the 11 new cases since Saturday night, seven are from Narsaraopet. The district administration has drawn up plans to continue aggressive testing, identification of persons and shifting primary and secondary contacts of persons testing positive. Thanks to aggressive cluster containment strategies, the COVID-19 spread has been confined to the 12 clusters. District Collector I. Samuel Anand Kumar said that the situation continued to be concerning and the entire district was in the red zone and the focus would be more on patient management. “Let us not drop the guard and ensure better patient management by scaling up facilities in ICUs. We will also ensure that all those above 60 years showing symptoms and co-morbid conditions would be tested and, if necessary, shifted to hospitals for better care,’’ he said. Containment clusters The district administration has identified Guntur, Narasaraopet, Piduguralla, Ponnur, Macherla, Tadepalli, Mangalagiri, Atchempet, Krosuru, Karempudi and Dachepalli towns as containment clusters and lockdown would be implemented stringently there. The rate of recoveries also improved drastically, with 115 persons discharged out of 319 positive cases. The Collector said that facilities at quarantine centres were better with quality food, milk and snacks supplied to the inmates. All the 1,200 persons quarantined had been provided with Rs. 2,000 each.
04 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reserve SI tests positive||A Reserve Sub Inspector belonging to the APSP 6th batalion was tested positive for COVID-19. The RSI was working at a containment zone in Srinivasarao Thota for the last few weeks. The inspector emerged positive during random tests. He was immediately shifted to a COVID facility at NRI General Hospital. However, the police personnel who had worked with him tested negative.
04 May 2020||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Distraught farmer burns his sugarcane crop in Karnataka||Unable to harvest sugarcane during the lockdown, a farmer at Mukunduru Hosahalli in Hassan taluk has burnt standing crop worth over Rs. 2 lakh. With this, the work his family put in over a year, besides their investment of Rs. 80,000, has been reduced to ashes. Gangadhar Murthy, 63, burnt his standing crop on Thursday and informed the Chamundeshwari Sugar Factory nearChannarayapatna, with which he had an agreement to sell sugarcane. He had grown sugarcane on four acres of land, but set fire to crop on an acre and half. According to the schedule fixed by the sugar factory, the crop should have been lifted from his farm by the first week of April. The factory sent around 15 workers for harvesting in March. But even before they could start work, the COVID-19 lockdown was declared. “A majority of the workers hired by the factory to harvest sugarcane were from Ballari. Soon after the lockdown was imposed, the workers stopped work and left for their native place,” said Mr. Murthy. He could not get locals to do the work. He approached the sugar factory officials repeatedly seeking advice. They advised him to wait for a few more days as they were experiencing difficulty in providing workers during the lockdown. “I could not maintain the crop with a constant supply of water. The standing crop started to dry up. When I lost all options to protect it, I set fire to crop grown on one and a half acres,” Mr. Murthy told The Hindu on Sunday. What remains He said he had spent money on fertilizers, medicine and labour, taking the total investment to be around Rs. 1 lakh. The factory had agreed to purchase his crop at a rate of Rs. 2,550 a tonne. He was expecting around 90 tonnes of sugarcane from his farm. He now remains hopeful the remaining crop will bring him some money. When this issue was brought to the notice of Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, he told The Hindu that the district administration had tried to resolve the problems faced by sugarcane growers. “Right now, the sugar factory is not functioning. Similarly, factories in the neighbouring Mandya district have been closed. We will see what best can be done,” he said.
04 May 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||New positive cases leave Telangana, Karnataka in the red||Andhra Pradesh reported 58 new COVID-19 positive cases, and Telangana 21 new cases on Sunday. No fresh cases were recorded in Kerala but after several days of low case numbers, Karnataka had 34 cases. The tally in Andhra Pradesh rose to 1,583, but no deaths were reported. Most of the new cases reported on Sunday were from the red zone districts of Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna. Kurnool alone had 30 fresh cases while Guntur and Krishna reported 11 and eight cases respectively. Anantapur had seven and Chittoor and Nellore two fresh cases each. Also on the same day, 47 persons were discharged from hospital following recovery. The data on those discharged were: Guntur 18; Chittoor 13; Kurnool 11; East Godavari 3; and Krishna 2. So far, 488 patients, or 31% of total positive cases recovered and 33 patients (2% of the total cases) died. Cumulative data for the State were: Kurnool 466 cases, Guntur and Krishna 319 and 266 cases, Nellore (91), Kadapa (83), Chittoor (81), Anantapur (78), Prakasam (61), West Godavari (59), East Godavari (45), Visakhapatnam (29) and Srikakulam (5). Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna districts account for 66% of the total cases while the rest of the districts share the 34% cases. Kurnool, inching closer to the 500 mark reported nearly 30% of the State’s positive cases. The State had so far tested 1,14,937 samples. The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana rose to 1,082. While 20 cases were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, one was from Jagtial. Of the people in isolation wards, 46 were discharged after recovery. Of the total, 508 were active cases, 545 were discharged, and 29 people died. 95 under treatment No fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Sunday. The Health department said in a statement that one patient - a Kasaragod native, undergoing treatment in Kannur, was reported as having recovered from the disease.  Kerala had a total of 499 cases, of which 401 had recovered, while 95 were undergoing treatment in various hospitals. The government said 21,720 persons were under surveillance in different districts. Of these, 21,332 were under observation in their own homes, while 388 were admitted in isolation wards in hospitals. The number of fresh hospital admissions on Sunday was 63. Four new places in the State were declared as hotspots today - one each in Wayanad and Idukki district, and two in Ernakulam district. There were 84 hotspots in Kerala. After several days of reporting low case numbers, Karnataka recorded 34 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday. Davangere district was in focus, as 21 of the cases were from there. Davangere Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Beelagi told the media that the district administration had sent 330 throat swabs in the last three days. Of these 37 high risk (A category) samples were tested and 21 were found to be positive. With this, the number of active cases had gone up to 28 in the district, he said. Among the other cases, six were from Kalaburagi, four from Bengaluru Urban and three from Bagalkote, the media bulletin by the Department of Health and Family Welfare said. Out of these thirteen cases, four patients had Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), while the contact investigation for one case was on. All the remaining eight tested positive after coming in contact with a patient who was tested positive. Meanwhile, the case tally in Karnataka stood at 635. A total of 293 patients were discharged, 21 being discharged on Sunday. With 266 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the number of people who contracted the novel coronavirus infection in Tamil Nadu has crossed the 3,000-mark. As many as 203 of the new patients were from Chennai, taking the city’s tally to 1,458. Villupuram district accounted for 33 patients. A 44-year-old man admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, who tested positive for the infection, died around 2.15 p.m. Hospital authorities said he was registered with the hospital for treatment of leukaemia.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram and Bengaluru and Chennai Bureaus)
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stuck in Delhi for 39 days, TS students plead for early evacuation||Over a month of lockdown following COVID-19 pandemic across the country, 200 and odd students from Telangana pursuing various courses in Delhi and civil services aspirants are spending sleepless night waiting for their early evacuation. “We are on the verge of psychological breakdown and those staying in hotspots of 11 districts in National Capital Region are literally scared,” said Mohd Ashaq, a undergraduate student of Delhi University summing up the mood among the distressed students. According to him, about 80 civil services aspirants stay in Karolbagh and Old Rajendra Nagar, where a number of coaching institutes are situated. “They are staying in hostels and paying guest accommodation and ever since the lockdown was announced, they are suffering a lot,” Mr. Ashfaq said, adding that they have approached the Nodal Officer for NCR designated by the Delhi Government to handle request from students, migrant workers and others for Telangana State. Somarapu Nikhil Kumar, a civil services aspirant from Ramagundam, said their coaching in a Delhi institute was almost complete when the lockdown was announced. “We are trying to get in touch with students from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka also, who want to go back,” he said. Primary concern The desperate students told The Hindu on Sunday night that health was their primary concern as almost half of Delhi was declared as Red Zone. They said none of them have local guardians, relatives to take care in normal times. “We are helpless in emergencies and there is psychological backdrop of staying away from families,” they bemoaned. B. Shravya, a resident of Bowenpally presently attending civil services coaching in New Delhi explained the hardships. “Most of us are staying in hostels and PG accommodation. After the lockdown, we have been confined to our rooms without any support. Those staying in Karolbagh and Old Rajendranagar are not getting the essential commodities also. The cost of living has gone up drastically. It is difficult for many of us to continue like this without concentrating on our preparation. We want Telangana government to bring us back to Hyderabad,” she pleaded. A student, who is coordinating with the NCR administration said they received a call on Sunday morning that their request for evacuation has been accepted. “But, the Telangana government has to work out modalities on how all of us will be transported. Unless the TS government responds, we will be stuck in Delhi,” another civil service aspirant, who wished anonymity pleaded. Pinning their hopes of the TS government, the students on Sunday drafted a letter to the Nodal Officer of TS, Sandeep Kumar Sultania hoping that their plea would be heard immediately.
04 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. all set to sell paddy, groundnut seeds soon||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Sunday said the State government was all set to begin the sale of paddy and groundnut seeds through the Grama Sachivalayam this month. Addressing reporters here, Mr. Kannababu claimed, “The State government has procured the required quantity of paddy and groundnut seeds directly from the farmers and the same will be supplied to the farmers in need this month. At least 5.5 lakh quintals of groundnut seed are available at present.” “The historic attempt of supplying the seeds by procuring them directly from farmers is aimed at ensuring supply of quality seed in the coming cropping season,” said Mr. Kannababu. Home delivery “The State government has roped in Swiggy and Zomato to provide door delivery of fruits and vegetables across the State. This service has already begun and will continue till the lockdown is lifted completely,” he said, adding, the initiative would help the horticulture farmers find a market. Mr. Kannababu said that procurement of finger millet (ragi) would commence in Guntur, Prakasam and Srikakulam districts on Monday. Five coconut procurement centres had been opened by the AP Cooperative Oil Seeds Growers’ Federation Limited (Oil Fed) in the Konaseema region. Mango export On the export of mangoes, the Agriculture Minister said that horticulture crops, particularly mango, were likely to witness huge export orders as the markets in other States were expected to start importing in a few days.
04 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held with ID liquor||The Kakinada rural police on Sunday arrested a delivery man working for Zomato service for reportedly transporting 30 litres of ID liquor in Kakinada. Kakinada Rural Circle Inspector R. Govinda Rajulu said, “K. Ramachandra Rao (33), has been caught transporting the ID liquor in his food delivery bag on a two-wheeler. He has procured the liquor from the nearby town of Pithapuram.” The accused is a native of Kakinada. Ramachandra Rao was caught by the police during the regular check-up on the outskirts of Kakinada. A case was registered under the Excise Acts and investigation is on.
04 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari district can breathe easy from today||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Sunday announced that the life in the district would return to normal from Monday, except in the 12 containment zones, where existing restrictions would remain in force. A majority of the containment zones are falling in the urban bodies of Rajamahendravaram, Pithapuram, and Tuni. The district administrative headquarters of Kakinada is in the green zone. Speaking to the media, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy has said that the district has been declared as orange zone and may become green zone if there is no case till May 21. The last COVID-19 case was registered on May 1 in the district. “The normalcy will prevail across the district on Monday, except in the 12 containment zones. All the industries, commercial trade operations in the standalone establishments, 507 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are permitted to resume their operations with certain restrictions from Monday.” Ban on public transportation remains in force while private transportation service will be available in the district. The industrial activity will be permitted 24x7 while commercial activities and movements of people will be allowed only between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Medical tests “As many as 2,768 migrants belong to different States have been found stranded in the district during the lockdown. A total of 885 migrants from various districts have also been stranded. Medical tests are being conducted for all the migrants as part of steps to send them back to their destinations.” The district has 28 active cases among the 45 cases. A maximum of one thousand tests are being done every day. “As many as 2,768 persons in the quarantine centres will be sent back to their home,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. District COVID Containment Officer Kanthilal Dande has directed the authorities to set up special wings in all the hospitals from Monday.
04 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Even Cobra hatchlings are lethal, caution experts||It doesn’t require an adult cobra to snuff the life out of you; even its hatchlings are capable of it, warn herpetologists. Snake specialists sounded caution on handling snakes after a video of a Malayalam actor holding the hatchling of a cobra on her palm going viral on the social media. The hatchling, which has grown to a few centimetres in length, could be seen holding its hood up in the video and launching itself forward as if to make a strike. Oblivious of the risk, the actor speaks on video about the compassion to be shown towards such small guests that come calling. The actor was also seen introducing the snake to some children. Enough venom “The young cobra has enough venom, fully developed fangs and a poison delivery system sufficient enough to kill an adult person or cause serious health risks. The cobra venom is neurotoxic. It was suicidal on the actor’s part to hold the snake on her palm and go for a video recording, ignoring the possibility of being bitten by it,” said Jose Louies, an IUCN specialist on snakes. Cobra is one of the four venomous snakes that account for most of the snakebite deaths in the country. Russell’s viper, Saw-scaled viper and Common krait are the other members of the lethal league. The venom in the cobra hatchling would be of high concentration. The striking distance between the snake and the human body was a few centimetres in this case. With its agility, the young snake could strike at any angle with lightning speed, said Mr. Louies, also the founder of Indiansnakes, a website that tracks snakes and snakebites. Most during monsoon Snakes hatched towards the end of summer months and the chance of encountering them were higher during the monsoon period. Most cases of snakebites occurred during the monsoon period and caution should be exercised during the period, he said. Ideally, one should stay away from snakes. If confronted in an unavoidable situation, the movement of the snake could be restrained by covering with a bucket and then wait for the snake rescuers to arrive. In case of a hatchling, they should be removed from the area safely, he suggested.
04 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite for Kurnool, the worst-hit district||Kurnool district is grappling with an unrelenting rise in COVID-19 cases, with 30 new cases being reported on Sunday alone. The total number of coronavirus cases in the district has now gone up to 466, with 379 persons still undergoing treatment at hospitals. Ten people have died so far while 77 have been discharged. While outgoing Municipal Commissioner Raveendra Babu is being treated at hospital, his COVID-19 status has not been confirmed officially. As a precautionary measure, Collector G. Veerapandian has quarantined himself and is holding all meetings either over video-conference or teleconference. New Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji, who assumed office, began his task of strengthening the processes in combating the COVID-19 and served notices on three employees on Sunday. Making an assessment of the sanitation in different areas in the city, the Commissioner along with the Health Officer and other officials reviewed the situation. Unhappy with the way sanitation in public places was being done, he served memos on three officials of 2A, 2B and 7B Divisions of the corporation and sought their reply within three days. He said the public health and sanitation was a key part of the fight against COVID-19 and that municipal workers had to do their best to support the efforts of the district administration and State Government. Out of the 30 new positive cases, 28 came from Kurnool city and two from Kodumuru mandal. The number of positive cases has jumped to 403 in Urban Local Bodies in the district and 63 in the rural areas. While there are four red zones in ULBs, there are five out of 23 mandals in rural areas.
04 May 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases drop to 11 in Ongole as 5 more get cured||In a welcome sign, five more COVID-19 patients were discharged in Ongole on recovery in the last 24 hours. One more person tested positive in Nellore. The number of active cases drastically came down to 11 in Prakasam district which has reported so far 61 confirmed cases. Fifty patients were cured of the disease so far in the district. The patients were given a warm send off by doctors, nurses and paramedics led by COVID-19 Isolation Ward nodal officer John Richardson. The recovered patients profusely thanked the medical team for helping them recover fast. Thirty persons with suspected symptoms of the disease were also discharged as the test reports turned negative, said Government General Hospital Superintendent D. Sriramulu, who expressed happiness over patients responding well to the treatment. Meanwhile, the number of confirmed cases rose to 91 with a person contracting the disease in the city where 34 divisions were declared as red zone. Fifty-one persons had recovered so far in Nellore district, while 37 patients are undergoing treatment.
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 special trains to Bihar from Kerala||While there was chaos in Telangana on Sunday over e-passes for migrant workers, the Karnataka government operated free buses to districts. In Telangana, hours after Director-General of Police M. Mahender Reddy announced an e-pass initiative to help the stranded return to their home States, the Tolichowki area near Hyderabad saw a large number of migrant workers coming onto the roads seeking travel permission. The workers were not able to get any such immediate permission for inter-State travel since they did not have private transport. They demanded that the government make arrangements to send them back to their native places. Police officials reached the area and pacified them, promising food and other help as long as they were in Telangana. “We assured to provide them groceries and other essential commodities. We gave them food and water, before sending them back to their dwellings,” said Hyderabad Joint Commissioner of Police (West) A.R. Srinivas. He said 1,000-odd construction workers, daily wage labour and petty vendors, who used to sell food stuff on the roadside before the lockdown, came out of their dwellings around 9.30 a.m., and gathered on Tolichowki streets. They were dispersed within a few hours. Most of the migrant workers were from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. Meanwhile, many others stranded in Telangana made a beeline at police stations across the three urban Commissionerates — Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda — as the e-pass dashboard failed. These inter-State travel permission seekers included students, IT employees from other States, and youngsters whose families reside outside of Telangana or Hyderabad limits. Police officials issued passes to all applicants who had their documents in order, including those who sought intra-State travel.  500 buses After facing flak for charging exorbitant fares to transport stranded migrants in Bengaluru, the Karnataka government started ferrying migrants to their respective districts without any fare from Sunday morning. This service will be available till Tuesday from the BMTC and KSRTC bus stands in Majestic. On Sunday, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated around 500 buses from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. with around 15,000 people travelling to over 45 destinations across the State, sources said. From Tuesday, buses will ply from 7 a.m. in the morning. Thousands of people, including migrant workers, students and others thronged the BMTC bus stand in Majestic on Sunday, immediately after the State government announced that it would ferry stranded migrants to their respective districts without any fare.  (With inputs from Bengaluru Bureau)
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pinarayi defends staff salary deferment||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday attacked Congress-led service organisations for disparaging the government’s decision to defer the remittance of 30 days’ salary over five months to steady the State’s tottering finances. In his weekly television programme, Nam Munnottu , Mr. Vijayan said the teachers who had burnt the government order had become objects of public ridicule. The students of their schools had set an example for them by contributing their mite to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). The teachers who torched the order were beyond redemption. “Their perverse mindset will never change,” he said. Revenue sources dry up Mr. Vijayan said the COVID-19 lockdown had choked the government’s conventional revenue streams. Kerala had protected its employees from arbitrary wage and dearness allowance cuts resorted to by the Central government. The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party had done the same in States ruled by them. Mr. Vijayan defended his action to hire highly paid lawyers to argue for the government and said his special advisers bore minimal cost to the public exchequer. He also justified the government’s decision to hire a helicopter for a “high monthly rental” by stating that the State would deploy it during natural disasters. (The Indian Air Force (IAF) had slapped a Rs. 113-crore ‘air bill’ on the government for relief and rescue operations during the 2019 floods.) KPCC chief charge Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said the Chief Minister’s inherent sense of insecurity had caused him to splurge on helicopters, bulletproof vehicles and expensive escort cars. His motorcade had not less than 20 vans and commandos. Mr. Vijayan had ensconced himself inside a ring of pliant special advisers who drew huge emoluments and perks from the treasury. He said the Chief Minister’s image-building programme, Nam Munnottu , cost the exchequer Rs. 6.37 crore annually. Mr. Vijayan had contracted the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s official news channel to sing paean to him. Moreover, he used the pulpit to disparage the Opposition without giving them the democratic right of reply.
04 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TTD Chairman did not violate norms by visiting temple’||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management has brushed aside the allegations that doing the rounds in a section of the media that trust board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy got the Venkateswara temple opened on Friday and had darshan on his birthday. In a release, the TTD has maintained that the temple opens everyday during the lockdown period and the mandatory rituals are being performed in ‘ekantam’ (private). “Vested with the powers to supervise the rituals in the TTD temples, Mr. Subba Reddy, along with his mother and spouse, visited Tirumala on May 1 as part of the task entrusted to him,” the release said. As a practice that has been followed since years, the TTD Trust Board Chairman participates in the ‘Abhishekams’ on two Fridays a month. Coincidentally, May 1 (Friday) was his birthday, the release explained. The TTD management has also refuted the alleged removal of 1,300 sanitary workers. The release clarified that the term of the sanitary facilitation contractor ended on April 30 and no tender proceedings were pursued during the lockdown period as per the court directions. However, the TTD has extended the contract period for one more month on humanitarian grounds, the release added.
04 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health worker tests positive in Tirupati||SVIMS Super Speciality Hospital got 700 of its medical staff tested for COVID-19 after one of its healthcare workers confirmed positive. About 350 of the 700 doctors, PG students, internees, staff nurses, technicians, sanitary workers and security personnel underwent test on Sunday. As all of them tested negative, the officials will test the rest on Monday. The tests were called for after a female healthcare worker in the emergency wing tested positive on Saturday. Though she is undergoing treatment in the isolation ward, the process of tracing her primary and secondary contacts is on. Meanwhile, eight positive patients were discharged from SVR Ruia Government General Hospital on Sunday. Superintendent M. Bharathi said seven of them belong to Srikalahasti, a hot spot, while the eighth belongs to Nagari constituency.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power sector in State in dire straits||Drastic fall in demand for power from bulk consumers during the lockdown has pushed the power sector in the State to the brink of collapse. The situation is so precarious that AP-Genco has been forced to put 4,000 Megawatts (MW) of thermal power generation on hold of the total installed capacity of 5,010 MW, according to its Managing Director B. Sreedhar. He told The Hindu that only one 210 MW unit of the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTPP) in Kadapa and one 800 MW unit of the Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station in Nellore were operational as on Saturday. Cascading effect Almost all the units of the Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station near Vijayawada and four out of five 210 MW units of the RTPP were kept on stand-by as the demand from industrial and commercial establishments plummeted to an abysmal level. “The A.P. power sector has never been in such dire straits in the last 50 years. AP-Genco had to suspend a massive chunk of generation due to fall in demand during April-June (estimated to be 3,200 million units). It goes without saying that the effect is cascading,” a senior official observed. But for domestic consumption, which is poised to grow a bit due to rising temperatures, the very survival of the power utilities would have been at stake. This is because the bulk consumers who buy a major chunk of power have shut down their businesses. Fixed charges a burden According to official sources, the power sector is already in a critical position with payables amounting to nearly Rs. 33,210 crore as on March 31, 2020. Even after deduction of subsidies and dues receivable from various government departments, losses incurred by the distribution companies (DISCOMs) stand at a whopping Rs. 19,965 crore. Moreover, payment of the fixed charges to power generators in spite of the unprecedented decline in consumption by the industries and other commercial establishments is also a big problem.  Accumulated loss The DISCOMs have accumulated losses of Rs. 29,000 crore by December 31, 2019, due to the high-cost power purchase agreements and unavoidable payment of the fixed charges to the thermal power generators for accommodating renewable energy.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP supporters help Telugus stranded abroad||As instructed by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Telugu students in the U.S. and Canada have received groceries at their homes and some of them $100 in their accounts amid the lockdown from the YSRCP supporters, said State government’s Special Representative for North America Pandugayala Rathnakar. “Inspired by the village volunteer system in the State, the YSRCP supporters delivered groceries to the Telugu students in two cities in Canada and about 45 cities in the U.S. Individual calls were made to list the requirements which were delivered, besides transferring $100 to the accounts of a few students,” Mr. Rathnakar told the media on Sunday. He said rescue measures were under process as part of a programme called ‘Farmers’ Challenge’. The students expressed gratitude to the Chief Minister for his gesture in this difficult time, he added. Many Telugu people are stranded in the U.S. due to the lockdown. Responding to a letter written by the Andhra Pradesh Non-Resident Telugu Society (APNRTS), the Chief Minister made an appeal to the Union Minister for Foreign Affairs for the safe return of the Telugu people with a suggestion that the senior citizens be given a priority. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has also written letters to the Kuwait government and the Cente for the safe return of Telugu people who migrated to that country for livelihood and are facing issues with visas and registrations. Mr. Rathnakar said the State was doing its best to ensure safe return of its people from different parts of the country and outside. Dig at Naidu He accused the TDP of trying to mislead people by resorting to a “false propaganda”. “N. Chandrababu Naidu should realise that this would trigger a panic among people,” he added.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simplified guidelines issued for industrial activity||The State government has issued simplified guidelines permitting industries to operate in the State by duly imposing certain restrictions and distancing norms to prevent community transmission of coronavirus. The State is categorised into red, orange and green districts depending on the case load and other factors. Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna, Nellore and Chittoor have been classified as red districts while Vizianagaram is categorised as green district. The remaining districts are classified as orange districts. The categorisation previously done on the basis of mandals ceases to exist with the new classification, according to an official release. The simplified guidelines are: no industrial activities will be permitted in containment clusters, including their buffer areas (villages/wards) either in the urban or rural areas. These areas will be notified by the district administration or State government from time to time. Inter-mixing of labourers and staff coming from different places is to be avoided within the factories as far as possible. In rural areas, the following guidelines are applicable: all industrial activities are permitted completely subject to safeguards for prevention of the spread of COVID-19 without any reference to essential or non-essential products in all red, orange or green districts. The following guidelines are applicable in urban areas: in case of red zone districts, industrial establishments are to be permitted in a limited manner. Special Economic Zones, Export Oriented Units, industrial parks, industrial estates and industrial townships with access control are permitted. Other activities The other industrial activities permitted are manufacturing of essential goods including drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw material and intermediates; production units which require continuous process and their supply chain, manufacturing of IT hardware, jute industry with staggered shifts and social distancing and manufacturing units of packaging material. The Standard Operating Protocols issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs will continue to operate. The industrial units can automatically resume operations in all permitted areas and activities without any specific permission or NOC but with self-certification (through https://www.apindustries.gov.in/Covid19) to be furnished by the heads of the industrial units.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Son of slain woman SI donates salary to Police Dept., CMRF||Dinesh Patnaik, a junior assistant in Kakinada Collectorate, has donated his one month’s salary to the Police Department and to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF). He was given the job on compassionate grounds as his mother, Karanam Vijaya Kumari, a Sub-Inspector died in service. Mr. Dinesh met East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi and handed over cheque for Rs. 12,500 as a token gesture to the police personnel who were serving during the lockdown. ‘Morale boost’ DGP D. Gautam Sawang praised Mr. Dinesh for his gesture. “The affection being showed by the people will give a morale boost to the police personnel who are serving during the pandemic,” he said. “My salutations to the true heart, who want to give back to the police. I will speak to Mr. Dinesh personally,” Mr. Sawang said. A few days ago, the DGP gave a pat to Lokamani, a Class-IV employee of a private school, who offered soft drinks to the policemen at a picket in Tuni in East Godavari district. The Tuni police responded equally and honoured the woman by offering her a saree, medicines and groceries. “Vijaya Kumari had served the department for about 33 years in different capacities. From the rank of a constable, she elevated to the rank of SI. The government offered job to Mr. Dinesh on compassionate grounds,” the SP said. East Godavari Additional SP (Operations) Arif Hafeez, Additional SP (Administration) K. Kumar, Special Branch DSPs M. Ambika Prasad and S. Murali Mohan and others lauded the gesture.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam committed to freedom of press: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has stated that the State government has forgotten the art of accepting constructive criticism in a positive way. Extending his greetings to the journalists on the occasion of the World Press Freedom Day on Sunday, Mr. Naidu said, “I request all the media friends to take care of your health and families during these tough times.” “False cases are being foisted against journalists and social media activists in a bid to intimidate them. With the orders coming from the top, a few officials are getting carried away and resorting to illegal detention and harassment of innocent people,” he alleged. “We are fighting along with them, shoulder to shoulder,” he added. “The TDP is always committed to ensuring freedom of the press. Media is the fourth pillar of democracy. The TDP had fought against the draconian GO 938 issued during the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s term. We will continue to fight against the GO 2430 issued by the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government. Democracy lives where people have the right to speak openly without fear,” Mr. Naidu observed.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reopen Anna Canteens, not liquor shops, Kala tells govt.||TDP leader K. Kala Venkata Rao has taken objection to the government’s decision to open distilleries amidst the lockdown. “When the entire world has focussed its attention on developing a vaccine for coronavirus, the State government is concerned about liquor manufacturing and commissions,” Mr. Venkata Rao said on Sunday. He urged the government not to open liquor shops or distilleries, regardless of the green or orange zones. The government should, instead, reopen Anna Canteens as it would also help the workers and their families who lost their livelihood, he observed.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Efforts on to bring those stranded abroad home’||Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a video-conference with the Chief Secretaries of States and administrators of Union Territories on Sunday. He ordered that the lockdown should be strictly implemented in red and orange zones . Mr. Gauba said efforts were on to bring back those stranded in foreign countries and stressed the need for proper coordination from the States. Seafarers could be allowed to return, subject to the guidelines that have already been laid down, he said. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney apprised Mr. Gauba about the the containment measures and steps taken to send the stranded migrant workers to their native States and bringing back those from the State. DGP D. Gautam Sawang, COVID-19 task force panel Chairman M.T. Krishna Babu, Principal Secretary (home) Kumar Vishwajeet and others were present.
04 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP denies violating guidelines||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani), in a series of tweets on Sunday, asserted that he was not afraid of the ‘false cases’ foisted against him. His reaction comes in the wake of police filing a case against him, after it was alleged that the MP violated the COVID-19 guidelines. Denying the allegations, the MP said that the vegetables and essential commodities were distributed in Division 47 by duly following the social distancing norm. “The photos were morphed to show that the people gathered in huge numbers to receive the commodities. I cannot desist from helping the poor and needy. Instead, I will work with renewed spirit,” he said.
04 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||It will be business as usual for grocery shops, says Collector||A day after the State Government announced Visakhapatnam district as an orange zone, Collector V. Vinay Chand said that all the standalone small-scale shops in the residential/neighbourhood colonies (except in containment zones) can be opened in the district. He also said that revised timings for the sale of essential commodities is 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, Mr Vinay Chand said that it is the responsibility of all the shopkeepers to ensure that customers follow social distancing at their stores without fail. However shops in commercial areas, market areas and malls are not allowed to open until further instructions, he clarified. He also mentioned that street vendors will not be allowed to open their stalls. “It is also the responsibility of the shopkeepers that there should not be any crowds outside their shops. Most importantly, the shopkeeper should wear a mask,” he said. The Collector also made it clear that there will be no inter-district and intra-district movement of APSRTC buses. He also said that cabs, taxis, auto-rickshaws can ply only in case of an emergency, and there should not be more than two persons apart from the driver. Mr. Vinay Chand also put an end to the rumours that people can move from one place in the orange zone. He said that people are not allowed to move from one place to the other except in cases of emergency. He also said that as per the Central Government guidelines, there will be a complete ban on domestic and international air travel, train movement, educational institutions, coaching centres, hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, multiplexes and cinema theatres, apart from social, political, cultural and religious gatherings. “In case of funerals, not more than 20 people should gather. We also request the public to attend weddings only if it is unavoidable and make sure that there are not more than 50 persons in attendance. However, inform the police about the wedding beforehand,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. He also said that in the case of containment zones in the district, there will be no relaxations at all. The district administration will ensure that mobile rythu bazaars are available to the people in the restricted zones. Liquor stores When asked whether liquor shops will be allowed to open in the district, Mr. Vinay Chand said that they have not received any proper guidelines till afternoon. He said that they would follow whatever the State Government conveys to them. Meanwhile, staff of wine shops in the city were seen marking circles outside the stores.
04 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five new cases reported in Vizag district, total 34||Five new COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district mount to 34, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. According to health officials, among the five new cases, four belong to Dandu bazaar, while one from Marripalem. “The four cases from Dandu Bazaar, include close contacts of the 60-year-old woman who tested positive two days ago and their neighbours. Another case from Marripalem is a close contact of the woman from Madhavadhara area who tested positive a couple of days ago,” said an official from the Health Department. ‘Red zone area reduced’ Allaying fears of community transmission, Mr Vinay Chand said that till date, all the cases were reported only from three sources — foreign returnees, Delhi returnees and contacts of both foreign returnees and Delhi returnees. According to the District Collector V .Vinay Chand, following guidelines from the Centre, a containment zone will be now be reduced to 500 metres and another 2.5 km will be buffer zone. “However we will make sure that there is complete enforcement in the zone and there will be only one entry and exit point. The surveillance by the survey teams will be enhanced,” he said. Mr. Vinay Chand said that there are 15 containment zones in the district till date — Allipuram, Revidi, ITI Junction, MTC Palem, Shakti Nagar, Railway New Colony, Rangireeju Veedi, Gajuwaka, Komati Veedhi in Narsipatnam, Kasimkota, Madhavadhara, Dandu bazaar, Chengalraopeta, Gopalapatnam and Marripalem. “Containment zone can be lifted after 28 days post discharge of a COVID-19 patient from hospital,” he said. He also said that every containment zone will be monitored carefully.
04 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Armed forces honour ‘corona warriors’||A Chetak helicopter from Eastern Naval Command hovered over GITAM Institute of Medical Science and Research (GIMSR) and Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) on Sunday morning and showered flower petals on the doctors, staff nurses, paramedics and sanitation staff, who gathered at the premises. This was done as part of the armed forces gesture across the country to show solidarity with the ‘corona warriors’ in the frontline such as doctors, nurses, other health workers, hygiene and sanitation staff, police personnel and media personnel, who have been risking their lives and relentlessly fighting the COVID and containing the spread of the pandemic. Earlier, Cmde Sanjeev Issar Naval Officer-in-Charge (Andhra Pradesh) felicitated the ‘corona warriors’ at Visakhapatnam on behalf of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) . He presented a bouquet to P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, K.V.V. Vijaya Kumar, Superintendent, Govt. Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, and Surya Kumari, Covid Nodal Officer at GHCCD, and N. Dwarakanath, Medical Superintendent, GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. While GIMSR is the COVID hospital designated by the State government, GHCCD is an isolation centre. Later in the evening two ships from the ENC, INS Rana, a Rajput-class destroyer, and INS Kamorta, an anti-submarine stealth corvette, at the anchorage off RK Beach was illuminated from 7.30 p.m. to midnight. The ships also fired flares signifying good wishes for the health of the citizens. Speaking to The Hindu, C.V. Rao Pro-Vice Chancellor of GIMSR, and Dr. Sudhakar said that it was a honour and appreciated the gesture of the armed forces.
04 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure to intensify around May 7: IMD||The low-pressure area over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal persists. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to mid-tropospheric levels. However, its intensification is likely to get further delayed owing to pronounced diurnal variation in convection and slight increase in vertical wind shear over the region, according to the IMD. It is likely to become well-marked over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around May 7 and concentrate into a depression during the subsequent 24 hours over the same region. It is likely to move gradually northwestwards up to May 7. The trough/wind discontinuity, extending up to 0.9 km above mean sea level from northeast Marathwada to south Tamil Nadu, now runs from south Vidardha to south Tamil Nadu across Telangana and Rayalaseema. Thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal A.P. and in Prakasam and Nellore districts of south coastal A.P. till Monday morning. Thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur at isolated places over north coastal AP and Yanam from May 4 to 8. Mainly dry weather is likely to prevail over south coastal AP during the same time. Light to moderate rain or thundershowers is likely at isolated places in Rayalaseema during the same time.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uncertainty over public transport in Vizianagaram, Srikakulam||The Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district administrations have made it clear that COVID-19 protocol would be followed strictly with a few relaxations from Monday (May 4). Social distancing, wearing masks and other rules would continue to be in force in both the districts. Vizinagaram has been categorised as ‘green zone’ with no COVID-19 cases while Srikakulam has been put in the ‘orange zone’ list with five positive cases. The officials fear that the COVID-19 cases would rise if public transport is allowed. The senior officials have indicated that the inter-district movement of people and public transport system within the districts may not be allowed as part of the measures to check the spread of the virus. As per the Centre’s guidelines with regard to the third phase of the lockdown, many relaxations such as opening of shops and public transport have been indicated. However, the Centre has allowed the State governments to frame its own set of guidelines. And the State government has allowed the Collectors to take decision independently after assessing the local conditions. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas has hinted that public transport may not be allowed even as the APSRTC is gearing up to ply the services with limited number of passengers following the social distancing norms. Migrant labourers “People including migrant labourers stranded in other districts and States will be allowed to enter Srikakulam district. However, it is being done only with the prior correspondence between the joint collectors of the respective districts,” says Mr. Nivas. His Vizianagaram counterpart M. Hari Jawaharlal says that unnecessary movement of people would not allowed from Monday when guidelines pertaining to the third phase of th lockdown would come into force. Aarogya Setu app “We will undertake awareness programmes through digital media platforms to highlight the importance of personal hygiene and immunity. People have to download the Aarogya Setu app to their phones and follow the rules. They should not move from home without valid reason,” he adds.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Saluting the warriors||
04 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||NRIs contribute for COVID-19 fighters and migrants||Moved by the plight of migrant workers, and in honour of COVID-19 fighters, a group of Non-Resident Indians belonging to Adilabad district working in various places in the USA have contributed over Rs. 2 lakh towards their relief. Bharatiya Janata Party State executive member Ch. Suhasini Reddy started extending relief on Sunday by distributing fruits among the migrant workers who are heading towards their distant homes on the NH 44 on Seetagondi ghat road. Narotham Reddy Chilkuri, who is based out of California in America is the bran behind the initiative. Talking to The Hindu , he said the NRIs from the district wanted to contribute towards well-being of the COVID-19 fighters and also the migrant workers. “We are 15 of us who pooled $ 2,684,” he added.
04 May 2020||BHUPALPALLY DIST.,TELANGANA||Containment tag lifted from Bhupalpally||The district administration lifted the containment tag from Bhupalpally town on Sunday, as there was no COVID-19 positive cases reported in the last 21 days. The last known positive case was reported on April 13. Only three positive cases have been reported from the district till date, all of them from the same family. The family got the virus after the man attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin. His wife and daughter tested positive later. Bhupalpally district is currently under orange zone with only one active case. The man who attended the TJ event is a Singareni employee, who got back on duty after coming back and before being diagnosed with COVID. As a result, apart from halting underground mining at Singareni, residential areas with a majority of Singareni families were declared no movement zones. On Sunday, tahsildar Ashok and RDO Ganesh removed the barricades from areas including Millenium Colony, Subhash Nagar Colony and Shanthi Nagar Colony. However, the officials asked the residents to be wary. People must continue to wear masks and maintain physical distance, they said. No decision has yet been taken on resuming underground mining by Singareni Collieries.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hats off to COVID warriors||It was a moment of glory for the healthcare professionals at Gandhi Hospital when flower petals were showered on them by an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter on Sunday morning. Doctors, nurses, para medical staff, class IV employees, sanitation and security employees, assembled in the hospital premises to receive this unique felicitation. A spectacle People residing in the vicinity of the hospital stood on roofs to catch a glimpse of this spectacle. Meanwhile, a few COVID warriors of Gandhi Hospital were surprised by the warm gesture of their neighbours. Superintendent of hospital M. Raja Rao, who also attends to COVID-19 patients, was felicitated by residents of his apartment at Trimulgherry on Sunday. As he walked into the apartment, they showered flower petals on him followed by clapping of hands. A professor of General Medicine, he has been in the forefront right from the first COVID case in the State. Also, nurse B. Sheetal Suhasini, who has been attending to patients since March, received a grand felicitation by residents of Priyanka Towers at Boiguda, on Sunday evening. Mrs. Suhasini used this occasion to talk about her experience of being in the front line and explained about precautionary measures. Tiring hours of duty PG students attending to patients continue to stay away from their families. It has been more than one-and-a-half month that they are staying at hostels in the campus. But, what is bothering them the most is wearing PPE kits for long hours. President of Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (T-JUDA), Gandhi unit, Lohith Reddy said that their shifts go on for 8-12 hours. “If we report at 9 a.m., we can take it off only at around 1 p.m. or later, to have lunch. We cannot go to the bathroom or drink water before that,” he said. Another junior doctor M. Naresh said that due to these kits, they suffer from dehydration and skin irritation in the heat. “The goggles and head shield we wear become foggy and the PPE and N95 mask do not allow us to exhale properly. It decreases our vision, causes hypoxia and stress, leading to headache. We are drained and exhausted by the end of the day. There were times when all I wanted to do was breath in some fresh air, and have water. But this responsibility does not allow this,” Dr. Naresh said. Thanksgiving gesture As a token of gratitude to healthcare professionals for fighting coronavirus with an unwavering commitment, a group of former servicemen, police and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel felicitated doctors and other frontline staff at the District Headquarters Hospital in Khammam on Sunday. Doctors, nurses and staff, including sanitation workers of the government hospital, were honoured in front of the isolation ward at the entrance of the hospital in a short but lively programme held in conformity to social distancing guidelines. A host of ex-servicemen led by Arun Kumar, Railway Protection Force Inspector K. Madhusudhan, several police officials and NCC cadets showered flower petals on the coronavirus warriors amid thunderous applause, on Sunday.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All set for fourth entry/exit for Raidurg metro station||Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) authorities have stated that the long pending issue of shifting of high voltage electrical cables on the Lemon Tree Hotel side of Raidurg metro station has been resolved paving the way for construction of the fourth entry/exit on Sunday. This was following a joint inspection of HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy along with senior officers of TSTransco, TSSPDCL and other organisations concerned. Due to presence of 38 11 Kv & 33 Kv electrical cables haphazardly laid in shallow depths, sewer lines, storm water pipes etc., below the narrow footpath strip on the hotel side, the fourth entry/exit of Raidurg metro station, the terminal station for Blue Line or Corridor Three between Nagole and Raidurg, could not be constructed and even the footpath could not be laid earlier. Mr. Reddy after discussions with the power sector officials advised the L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) engineers to change the foundation design of the escalator, elevator and also staircase of the proposed metro entry/exit near the hotel. The TSTransco was urged to share some of the space it had recently dug to lay it’s 132 Kv cables for accommodating the Discom electrical cables. Metro rail engineers of both HMR and L&TMRH have been asked to quickly construct a special trough to safely enclose the remaining cables of TSSPDCL. He also directed them to complete the cable shifting work with proper coordination among all the organisations by May 10, so as to take up the footpath & entry/exit work thereafter. TSSPDCL directors J. Srinivas Reddy and T. Srinivas HMR chief electrical engneer DVS Raju, chief project manager Anand Mohan, TSTRANSCO CE Lata Vinod, L&T Metro project director M.P Naidu and other senior officers participated.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virus frontline workers unwanted in their village||Appreciation has been pouring in for healthcare workers and supporting staff on the front lines of COVID-19 battle, but sanitation workers working in the isolation ward of Gandhi Hospital are greeted with the hostility of neighbours upon returning home after duty. It was earlier reported here that 10 women who work in the hospital’s sanitation wing were chased away from their homes in Chengicherla, Medchal, over fears of spreading the virus in the village. They were asked to make a choice between staying away from home and quitting work. On April 1, residents of the village, wielding brooms and sticks, had threatened to destroy their homes. The women chose to continue reporting the duty as they are the sole earning members as others in their families are not able to find work due to the lockdown. For a salary of Rs. 9,400 per month, their job involves cleaning bathrooms, mopping and sweeping floors as well as clearing liquid waste of patients. Since that incident, the women have been staying at a shelter home on the hospital premises. One of the sanitation employees, D. Yellamma, said that they continue to stay away from their families. Meanwhile, Medchal district officials, who were informed of the issue, have assured to resolve it. Ms. Yellamma said that they got the job on contract basis in 2007. “Our starting salary was Rs. 3,400. After 13 years, it stands at Rs. 9,400. We request to be paid Rs. 18,000 per month, on par with municipal sanitation workers,” she said. Salary hike plea Some of the sanitation workers at the hopsital took to Tik Tok app to request Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for a salary hike. In their 18-second video, the women workers announce their willingness to be part of the fight against coronavirus by saying “Prapachaniki corona yudham, dhaniki gandhi hospital sanitation workers andharu sidham. Jai Hind,” which roughly translates to ‘The world is waging war against coronavirus. Sanitation workers at Gandhi Hospital are ready to fight. Jai Hind’.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT to launch COVID testing kits soon||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) has taken up the challenge of making an affordable RT-PCR kit indigenously using recombinant technology. The research institute has partnered with a city-based company, Genomix Biotech, to optimise the kit for COVID-19 diagnosis, by adding ‘Taqman’ probes. CSIR-IICT and Genomix Biotech plan to approach the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) or its recognised laboratory for validation to launch the product in a couple of weeks, informed director S. Chandrashekar on Saturday. A research team led by A. Anthony had worked for the last two-and-a-half months to come out with an indigenous version of the testing kit, which was being imported mostly from United States and Europe. “With COVID-19 pandemic, the demand was pretty high and there were limitations on how much could be imported so we took up the challenge of devising our own kit and succeeded in making the key three enzymes required for the test or 80% of it,” Dr. Anthony said. “We have prepared sufficient material to make upto two lakh testing kits a week and once we get the necessary approvals, we can scale up based on the demand from the government. Our collaborator needs to add the COVID-19 probes to complete the kit,” he said. This tie up is expected to produce a much cheaper quality RT-PCR kit or at least 50% less than the prevailing cost of about Rs. 4,500 and help meet the huge demand during this pandemic. This RT-PCR kit can also be used in other disease diagnostics of humans like cancer, and even diseases of animals and plants. “This technology will last long as it is not restricted to COVID alone and bring down the overall cost of RT-PCR based diagnosis,” he added.
04 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Army tribute to policemen on duty||As part of the nationwide programme to felicitate corona warriors on Sunday, Indian Army officers of different units in Telangana and Andhra Sub-Area visited check posts, pickets, junctions and zonal offices and interacted with the officers. They also presented ‘thank you’ cards prepared by children and soldiers, protective equipments, gifts and refreshments, for the field officers to acknowledge their tireless efforts in containing the spread of the deadly virus. The officers also praised the role of police as frontline warriors. Army personnel felicitated the policemen, while the military band was played at Bollarum, Trimulgherry, Karkhana and Bowenpally police stations, said Hyderabad Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Kalmeshwar Shingenavar.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unaware of symptoms, trader met family members regularly||Since a week before testing positive for Coronavirus, the Mahbubgunj trader living in Padmavathinagar of Saroornagar, was feeling feverish. Apparently unaware that it was a symptom of COVID-19, he continued to visit houses of his brother and sister in nearby localities of Vansthalipuram. That is how 10 members of his family, including his parents living with his brother, contracted the virus, police officers surmise. This instance of 11 members of a single family getting affected by coronavirus assumed importance as two of them died, prompting officials to analyse every angle to ensure such cases do not recur. Three days after the trader tested positive, his father aged around 60 years died while undergoing treatment at Gandhi hospital. A day later, the trader’s brother too died of the virus. “Analysis of the trader’s case suggests that by the time he tested positive for COVID-19, his family members already could have been infected with it from him,” the officials said. Since April 20, the trader complained of fever. He initially went to a local doctor and started taking medicines. But there was no relief. “Our inquiries revealed he had been going to his brother’s house in SKD Nagar, near Vansthalilpuram, since April 20. Apparently, they too contracted the virus around that time,” the authorities monitoring the case said. As the fever continued, the trader went to a corporate hospital on April 25. The next day, he was diagnosed with coronavirus. On learning this, the officials collected the samples of his brother and parents and sent them for examination. “We suspect the week before the trader tested positive was the crucial time during which his father and brother could have contracted the virus,” the officials say. They surmise condition of the trader’s father deteriorated in this period because of his age and other conditions like blood pressure. The senior citizen suffered an injury having slipped on the floor during this time and this could have further aggravated his condition, the officials say. Within four days of the trader testing positive, his father died. His brother, who was obese and had complaints relating to blood pressure, died a day later. The houses of the trader, his brother and sister were located within a radius of three kilometres and he frequently visited their houses since April 20. Meanwhile, officials are trying to ascertain as to how the trader got infected with the virus. “All fingers point to Mahbubgunj from where he operated his business since two more persons from that area got the virus,” police officials said. Another trader from Mahbubgunj and seven of his family members tested positive for COVID-19. They all live in Malakpet. Efforts are on to verify how these traders contracted the virus.
04 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Survey for migrant workers’ movement underway||A massive survey is being carried out by the State government to assess how many migrants wish to leave the State. Additional DGP (Law and Order) Jitender, who is also the nodal officer for movement of persons stranded due to lockdown, said that there are over 3.5 lakh migrant workers across the State. “We will get to know how many people want to live or stay back in Telangana,” the officer said. However, officials presume that not more than 30% of these migrants are desperate to go back home, as work is resuming in phases and food and other relief measures are being provided by the State. The massive exercise is aimed at making the whole arrangement hassle-free, the official said. “We want to do everything in a systematic way, so that they won’t face any problems even after reaching their destinations in trains or buses,” Mr. Jitender said. Authorities are looking to arrange trains more than buses, as many will need to travel far and bus journeys can deprive them of food and lavatories. However, after reaching their respective States, the travellers will be under government-provided quarantine for 14 days. “We have to contact the respective State governments and inform them about the journeys, and they will in turn make arrangements further,” the top police brass said. “For instance, if 50,000 people from Telangana wish to travel back to their native place, they cannot be sent at one time. They have to be sent in phases, after making adequate travel and food arrangements,” he said. He also expressed concern for those who are taking to the streets, as it defeats the purpose of the lockdown and leaves the people exposed to coronavirus infection. “Workers should have patience for their own safety,” he added. The officer also said that workers are being asked not to gather at police stations so as to avoid the risk of virus transmission. “The government officers will go to the worksites, camps and other places to collect their details, including their contact numbers and destination. They should not come out on streets,” he said.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four Excise personnel attacked in Jadcherla||Four Telangana Prohibition and Excise personnel came under attack in Jadcherla mandal, Mahbubnagar, where Illegally Distilled (ID) liquor was being brewed on Saturday midnight. A Excise inspector, two constables and a head constable received injuries. Constable Sidhartha received eight stitches on head while inspector R. Balaji received six stitches. Meanwhile, Excise Minister V Srinivas Goud went to Jadcherla to call upon the injured. He warned of stringent action, including booking cases under Preventive Detention Act, against the accused. He regretted that some people took advantage of lockdown to brew arrack and make big money. Prior to the raid, the Excise personnel caught two vehicles near Vantigudisepalle thanda, and found gudumba in it. On questioning, they got to know about the place where the ID liquor was being manufactured. The Excise personnel divided themselves into two teams. The Excise CI and three constables who were in mufti went on two 2-wheelers to avoid alerting the people who were brewing the ID liquor. Five more from the department in uniform followed them in jeep -- maintaining some distance. “We initially spoke to parents of the people who were brewing the ID liquor. When we got to know about the spot where it is being brewed, we proceeded there. After reaching the spot, they attacked me first. I fell unconscious,” said Excise Inspector Mr Balaji. Meanwhile, SY Qureshi, Excise Deputy Commissioner, Mahbubnagar Zone, said that a police complaint would be lodged soon.
04 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||e-Pass initiative get overwhelming response||The e-pass dashboard of Telangana police website crashed as soon as it went live, thanks to an ‘overwhelming’ response from people applying to leave the State. The extreme web traffic on the said website caused a server error and users were unable to access the dashboard for hours on Sunday. Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy on Sunday evening announced the e-Pass initiative for those stranded in Telangana. Officials had anticipated big numbers but were still surprised by the rush of web users that led to the crash. For now, police have clarified that e-passes will be issued only to those who have already arranged vehicles for their own travel, as opposed to those who are looking for support from the government for movement. While hordes of people with private vehicles applied for the e-pass, police officials said that many who have booked cabs or hired private vehicles for their commute have also applied. Details of the vehicle and passengers are required to be uploaded on the e-pass dashboard for securing the permit online. Access issues Even though police issued e-passes to thousands of applicants within hours of them having submitted their documents, the sheer load of scanned copies of documents going online at the same time resulted in access issues for many users, officials clarified. The dashboard crash has also resulted in delaying e-pass clearance for many, and in this manner, web traffic kept spiking up every time the dashboard was restored. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior police officer said that on Sunday alone police units across the State issued 7,749 e-Pass for inter-State travel, while the number of applications was over 14,000. “Concerned units will clear the application. Hundreds of passes were rejected due to lack of details,” the officer said. Once the application is approved, the applicant will get a link of e-pass through SMS, which will be honoured by all the State across the country. The officer said that many applied for post date travel permission, which resulted in delay of ‘urgent’ passes.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Band display for solidarity||The Indian Army conveyed its gratitude to COVID-19 frontliners by organising ‘Solidarity Day’ in the twin cities on Sunday. A colourful band display was carried out at Golconda Fort and Hussainsagar, to pay tributes to the medical staff, police and sanitation workers. Major General R.K. Singh, General Officer Commanding, Telangana and Andhra Sub-Area, spearheaded the efforts by visiting Hyderabad Police Commissionerate and applauding the efforts of the policemen. Meanwhile, Brigadier Abhijit Chandra, Station Commander and other Army officials visited Gandhi Hospital, NIMS, Military Hospital, Golconda, Secunderabad Cantonment Board and various police stations to express gratitude to the staff besides distributing hampers. There was also a grand display of the IAF transport aircraft flying over the Hussainsagar. Around the same time, Southern State Army Warriors felicitated the healthcare workers at Fever Hospital on Sunday.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A microwave steriliser to kill coronavirus||Defence Institute of Advanced Technology in Pune, a deemed university supported by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), has developed a microwave steriliser named ATULYA to disintegrate COVID-19. The virus gets disintegrated by differential heating in the range of 56-60 degree Celsius. It is cost-effective that can be operated in portable or fixed installations, and was tested for human/operator safety and has been found safe. Depending on size and shape of various objects, time of sterilisation is from 30 seconds to one minute. The approximate weight is three kg and it can be used for non-metallic objects only.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks urge customers not to crowd at branches||The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), Telangana on Saturday said the Centre’s Rs. 500 ex gratia payment to women Jan Dhan account holders for this month will be released from May 4 onwards. It also announced a schedule of withdrawal for the women Jan Dhan account holders, drawn up as a measure to maintain social distancing, ensure orderly withdrawal and avoid crowding at bank branches. As per the schedule, beneficiaries whose account numbers end with 0 or 1 are required to visit the branch on May 4, account numbers with last digits 2 or 3 on May 5, last digits 4 or 5 on May 6, last digits 6 or 7 on May 8, and last digits 8 or 9 on May 11. The credit into their account would be advised through SMS by respective banks. After May 12, the beneficiaries may go to the CSP(BC)/ATM/branch on any day as per the normal banking hours. SLBC convenor and State Bank of India General Manager U.N.N. Maiya said customers can withdraw as per their requirement and convenient time. Withdrawal facility is also available at India Post Payment Banks if Aadhaar numbers are mapped to accounts.  Govt. support As regards Telangana government’s support of providing Rs. 1,500 each to Food Security Card (white ration card) holders, for this month, the SLBC said the amount will be credited into the accounts of beneficiaries from May 2 onwards.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Onus on States to move the workers: SCR||South Central Railway (SCR) has announced that the migrant labour special trains or ‘Shramik Special Trains’ will run on the request of the State governments as per the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Such trains for workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others stranded at various places will be run only after being duly identified and registered by the respective governments. Therefore, anyone desirous of travel should contact the government only as no ticket will be issued individually or to a group. Passengers were told not to come directly to any railway station as normal trains won’t run till May 17.
04 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Good response to NIMS tele consultation||Around 85 people are opting for non-emergency tele-consultation by Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) every day. The initiative, launched two days ago on a pilot basis, is offered free of charge. Patients can book an appointment via NIMS HMIS app available on Google Play store on Android phones, or through NIMS web portal (https://www.nims.edu.in). They can also seek a slot on enquiry number 040-23489244 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. NIMS medical superintendent N. Satyanarayana said they are receiving feedback on improving the service. Resident administrator at the institute, Hemanth Kumar said that besides people in far-flung villages of the State, patients from a few districts in Andhra Pradesh have opted for the tele-consultation service since its launch. Currently, specialists from General Medicine, Orthopaedics, Cardiology, Medical Oncology, Neurology, Nephrology and Rheumatology can be consulted. Dr Satyanarayana said a few more departments are likely to be added to the service soon.
04 May 2020||M. Rajeev,TELANGANA||Guidelines issued for smooth travel of migrant workers||After announcing its decision to allow migrant workers to leave for their native States, the government has taken steps to ensure that the health condition of these workers is checked by competent people before allowing them to leave the State. The government has accordingly directed the district Collectors to constitute joint teams. These teams comprising revenue, police and medical officer, should be positioned at a convenient place about two to three kilometres from the inter-State border checkposts for conducting medical checkup. The joint teams should screen all the people in the vehicles and issue medical certificates after ascertaining their health condition and a prescribed proforma in this regard has been circulated to them. In addition to screening the passengers, the joint teams should also issue permits in the prescribed format showing vehicle details and the number of people travelling. The permit should duly mention the destination State to which the workers are moving. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued instructions on Saturday for making arrangements at checkposts. Accordingly, the joint teams should function round the clock. Sufficient teams should be kept in position to ensure that waiting time at these check points is not more than five minutes. He instructed the Collectors, commissioners and superintendents of police of the respective districts to personally supervise the process to ensure smooth passage of stranded persons.
04 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Apply online for passes||Police Commissioner Kartikeya said that the police commissionerate introduced URL link to receive applications for travel passes and issue them after approval, and that no one needs to approach police stations. Passes would be issued for essential services, travel within and outside State. For those who apply, a message will be sent on their mobile phones within 48 hours. The following are the links to be used: https://tsp.koopid.ai/epass, https://tspolice.gov.in, and nizamabadpolice.com. Facebook - Nizamabad Police Commissionerate - and twitter - Nizamabad Police.
04 May 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Migrants turn restive in Godavarikhani||Migrant labourers took to the streets in Godavarikhani coal belt by staging road blockade on Rajiv Rahadari on Sunday. Several hundreds of migrant labourers from Chattisgarh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and other States are working in the NTPC Telangana project. The NTPC management provided them with essential commodities and financial assistance during the lockdown period. Following the news about the Union government deciding to allow migrant labourers to return back to their native villages, the labourers turned restive and submitted a petition at NTPC police station to make arrangements for their transportation to their native States on Saturday. When there was no response, they staged a rasta roko. Following an assurance from Ramagundam legislator Korukanti Chander, the migrant labourers called off their agitation. The shifting of the migrant labourers from NTPC Ramagundam would definitely have an impact on the execution of the Telangana super thermal power project (2 x 800 MW).
04 May 2020||S. Harpal Singh,TELANGANA||Two facets of human nature come to the fore||The flood of migrant workers on NH 44 has not receded yet, but already a huge pile of bitter memories of the lockdown and the exodus of thousands of the poor walking under hot sun has been created. The memories being carried by the workers concern their being pathetically pushed to an extreme by employers and middlemen who ought to have taken care of them, and of the people at large who rose to the occasion to feed them through their perilous ‘travel’. “We were told to return home by the employers and labour contractor. With no money and no work we could not have done anything but start for our place on foot,” recalled mason Prakash Thakur Gond and his wife Bharatibai from Rajnandgaon in Chattisgarh, of the events post-lockdown, summing it up for the droves of the labourers pouring onto the NH 44 in Adilabad district starting March 25. The locals, especially the conscientious lot living in villages on the over 50 km stretch of the NH 44 between Ichoda and Dollara village located on the inter State border with Maharashtra on Penganga river bridge in Adilabad district organised food and water for the hordes of exhausted and famished people walking towards their destination. “We could not have let them go hungry,” observed Nomula Santosh Reddy and Mayur Chandra, sarpanch of Pipparwada and Bheemsari villages respectively. It is estimated that about 50,000 labourers have crossed the inter State border into Maharashtra during the about 40 days of the exodus. For the villagers of Pipparwada, feeding the stranded people had started on March 22 itself when the sudden lockdown had hundreds of lorries stopping at the local toll plaza and the inter State border about 3 km further. The participants in the great show of humanity include the couple associated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Soma Srinivas Reddy and Rekha from Karanji village who used to get up at 2 a.m. every day and arrive on the NH 44, about 15 km away at 5 a.m. to feed the labourers. There was Ramanna of Gimma village, a tea seller who inspired villagers to donate rotis to the workers who had taken the difficult railway line route, as those from the north are not accustomed to eating rice. There were scores of groups of friends like the one in which Rajnikanth from Adilabad town is a member, who served food and water for about 15 days in addition to the staff of the toll plaza and employees of the concessionaire.
04 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Kin stage protest as newborn dies in hospital||A newborn baby boy died in the district hospital on Sunday. According to sources, Chakali Varalakshmi was admitted for delivery at the hospital on Saturday night. As she developed labour pains she was taken to the labour room where she gave birth to a baby boy, but he died due to respiratory problem. Her husband Dhanaraj and others held dharna at the hospital but they were pacified by the police.
04 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Use water judiciously, Harish tells farmers||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon farmers to use water judiciously. He directed the officials to complete the pending irrigation works at the earliest. The Minister held a review meeting at his residence on Sunday morning. “Water should be released based on the need of farmers and they should inculcate the habit of closing channels (toomulu) once the usage is over,” he said.
04 May 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Over 200 COVID-19 samples ‘deleted’ after CS Suryapet visit, suggests data||Not only sample collection figures have been zero since April 22, the day Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar reviewed ground situation in Suryapet, but COVID-19 samples identified for diagnosis also were not tested. Either the samples were rejected or the results never disclosed to the press, data suggests. According to district bulletins, on April 21, 83 samples were collected and results of 191 reports were awaited – a total of 274 case pendency. It was also the day Suryapet witnessed its highest single-day spike of 26 cases and highest fresh admissions, of 210 suspects, to institutional quarantine. The next day, when the State team completed its review, the pendency fell to just eight cases, there was no information on pending results, and then the ‘COVID-free’ figures followed. Interestingly, within four days, the number of persons in institution quarantine also plummeted to zero. Two other dates would remain significant. April 18, which saw the highest 168 samples collected (22% of total 747 samples) from five locations, resulted in 26 positive cases (31% of total 83 positive cases). And April 21, which showed an accumulated pendency of 274 cases, but whose results are not disclosed fully. Mr. Somesh Kumar announced the last three positives the next day. District Officials, when contacted, expressed their doubts about the ‘200+ theory’, but on condition of anonymity said, “Samples were deleted because they did not fit the standard operating procedure (SOP) definition – samples and tests only from symptomatic and their primary contacts – which was highlighted in the State team meeting.” “49 duplicate entries were deleted. Some 40 asymptomatic secondary contacts were also sent back for home quarantine,” an official said, quoting his estimate. A top official rejected even the deletion of samples from the testing schedule. “There may be a difference due to sample duplication, for patients from Suryapet but living outside and vice versa, and wrong reporting. All samples were tested and results disclosed. The system was streamlined after the new DMHO took over on April 23,” he said. Till Sunday, Suryapet saw its 25 positives cured and discharged -- and the active cases dropped to 58.
04 May 2020||TUNKIBOLLARAM,TELANGANA||Mamidyala oustees depose before judge||S. Saritha, IV Additional District Judge, Siddipet, recorded the statements of Mamidyala oustees on Sunday. Mamidyala is one of the three villages that would get submerged in 15-tmcft capacity Kondapochamma reservoir. The judge visited Tunkibollaram and recorded the statements of oustees who approached the High Court seeking compensation under the Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act – 2013). The process was held at Bahilampur village panchayat officer located in Tunkibollaram Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony constructed for the oustees of Kondapochamma. Edla Pochaiah was among the first who deposed before the district judge. “I explained the humiliation we faced from the district authorities while forcing us to vacate village on the midnight of April 30. Huge police force was deployed in the village and DCM vans were kept ready for shifting us in midnight. Power supply was completely cut off. One officer threatened that he would be there in the district for three more years and would see to it that I do not get the benefits,” Mr. Pochaiah told The Hindu . Mr. Pochaiah provided shelter to Edla Ramaswamy and Edla Kishtaiah at his house as both of them were not allotted houses by the authorities. Both of them are sons of his brother. About three acres of their land was notified by the government for acquisition for the construction of Kondapochamma reservoir. They have house site at the village but they were not allotted any house at the colony and hence Kishtaiah has provided them shelter. Edla Marthalamma, wife of Kishtaiah, was admitted in hospital on Sunday as she fell down while going to washroom. “The approach to washroom in the single room dwelling was so worst that one is sure to fall down if unattentive. As I had to give statement before the judge, I stayed back and my wife was admitted at the hospital in Hyderabad. Operation will be performed tonight,” he said.
04 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DIST.,TELANGANA||Police officer dies in accident||A police officer driving to work was killed in a road accident after he lost control of the vehicle in early hours of Sunday. A reserve sub-inspector of police at the Police Training Centre (PTC) in Mamnoor of Warangal Urban district, V. Karnudu, 38, was driving the official vehicle, and he was going on duty to Hyderabad, when the vehicle went out of control and overturned. He suffered head injuries and died on spot. He was a resident of Gudur mandal in Mahabubabad district. Mr. Karnudu was 2004-batch Reserve Sub-Inspector (RSI).
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Bridging the deity-devotee gap online!||As all places of worship are closed in the State as part of the measures to contain spread of coronavirus, the administrators of some temples have taken to innovative ideas. After the introduction of online ‘pooja’ services by major temples such as Yadadri, Bhadradri and Vemulawada, several smaller temples have also taken cue. The endowments department has arranged online booking of specific ‘poojas’ by the devotees with the help of its portal. What is interesting here is that the devotees who book such service would not only get information about the selected pooja on their behalf, they would also get “blessings” after the event in the form of an sms. “It’s an effort to bridge the gap between the deity and devotee using the technology and there’s nothing wrong in doing so as the role of administrators including priests is always bridging the said gap”, a senior officer in the Endowments Department observed. After the Covid-induced facilities such as work from home, learning from home (online classes) and shopping from home (online purchase of groceries), there’s nothing abnormal in arranging ‘darshan’ from home.   Many people who are aware of the consequences of flouting social distancing norms and personal safety precautions against coronavirus are restricting themselves to their homes like never before and the political class is no different, except for some. In this background, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao took a dig at the Opposition leaders over their criticism against the government though they were nowhere in the public. Mr. Rao, who’s generally polite even against opponents, exhibited the other side of his personality by lambasting the opposition leaders saying “it’s we (the political functionaries in the government and ruling party leaders) who have been among people for the last 45 days under lockdown conditions and they (opposition leaders) are actually in isolation and making allegations sitting in the air-conditioned rooms.    The agonising wait of traders, owners of single shops in particular, for resuming their business after prolonged lockdown due to COVID-19 is continuing. Though the Central government, in its latest orders, modified the lockdown guidelines and allowed opening of the shops, except malls and shopping complexes, the State government is yet to take a call. The government has no doubt given its go ahead for construction related activities provided certain safeguards are followed, but it is yet to give orders relating to other activities. The identification of districts zone-wise — red, orange and green — has added to the suspense. One is not sure about the fate of shops in orange and green zones where the Centre has taken a lenient view. B. Chandrashekhar, N. Rahul and M. Rajeev
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital nurses to go on strike today||The number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital on Sunday saw the highest single-day jump for the second consecutive day with 427 new cases, said government officials. However, no deaths were reported. The latest health bulletin by the Delhi government stated that 1,362 people have recovered and 64 have died so far. On the other hand, nurses at Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in north-west Delhi said they would go on strike on Monday after the administration failed to address their demands. Nurses demand In a letter to the Medical Director of the hospital on Sunday, the nurses asked for separation of COVID-19 suspected and non-suspected patients, making PPEs available to all, provision of quality quarantine facilities for healthcare workers, insurance cover for treatment of medical staff among other issues. A spokesperson for the union said nurses were “treated differently” at the hospital. For instance, after a technician tested COVID-19 positive, doctors who came in contact with him, were quarantined but the nursing staff were “posted back to duty without getting tested negative”, the letter reads. It also alleged that the nurses, who tested positive for the virus, were being “dumped at quarantine centres with no facilities”. “This is the honour we get for being a part of hospital services and on the front line,” the letter reads. Their demands also include the provision of decent isolation facilities for those who tested COVID-19 positive, provision of hotel accommodation for nursing staff working in COVID-19 areas, private hospitalisation of nurses who develop symptoms, sanitisation of premises, and reduction in the percentage of staff on duty to control exposure to the virus. Six doctors test positive Nine people, including six doctors, in connection with two hospitals — Hindu Rao Hospital (HRH) and Kasturba Hospital — run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, were found COVID-19 positive on Sunday. The persons, who had come in contact with the patients, have been put in quarantine, said officials, adding that their samples have been collected. The nine patients were already in quarantine, said north civic body spokesperson. Earlier, a nurse from NRH and a first-year postgraduate student from Kasturba Hospital were tested positive for the virus following which the hospitals were sanitised, said officials.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||After new lockdown rules, RWAs against allowing helps||Most of the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) in the city have decided not to allow domestic helps to enter their neighbourhoods after relaxation of the lockdown, said an association representative on Sunday. Under directions issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the RWAs had been asked to take a call on whether domestic helps would be allowed in their localities following relaxation of the lockdown on Monday. Containment certainty Sharat Jha, president of the Apartment Owners Association (AOA) in Sangam Vihar said, “Till there was 100% certainty about the containment of the virus, we won’t allow.” Mr. Jha, and many others  argued that with a large number of asymptomatic cases, there was no way of ascertaining who was carrying the virus and who was not. He informed that only certain e-commerce services, from verified companies undertaking safety precautions would be allowed. B.S. Vohra of the East Delhi RWA association hit out at the government. He said that the move was an attempt to “shift responsibility [for the spread of the virus] towards the RWAs”. ‘How will we check who has the virus,” he asked, highlighting that the RWAs had not been supplied with thermal guns, sanitisers or PPE kits by local authorities. “RWAs are never consulted on any matter,” he complained. While such groups have been urging for empowerment, they have always been neglected in decision-making, he said. Rajiv Kakria, convener of the ‘Save our City’ campaign, an association for RWAs and NGO, argued that such a decision must not be shifted on to the RWAs. Stressing on the difficulties of enforcing such a rule, he pointed out that there were several households that were already asking maids to visit their houses, some with “genuine reasons”. However, with the relaxations extended, “once the floodgates open.. hundreds of maids will come”, he warned.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Metro makes over 3,500 trips to keep system ready for operations||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Sunday said that since the suspension of services due to the nationwide lockdown, which began on March 22, over 3,500 trips have been made by metro trains to keep the system ready to resume operations. The Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) system of over 2,000 train coaches have been checked and a first-ever drive to clean HVAC systems of around 1,200 coaches with special chemicals by effectively utilizing the lockdown was also carried out, the DMRC said. “This exercise would have otherwise lingered over longer periods due to train availability in normal scenario as carrying out such massive exercise has always been an issue in the past as trains run up to 20 hours a day. This thorough cleaning exercise would result in better air-conditioned environment in the summers,” the DMRC said. It added that 3,500 workers employed in various Delhi metro sites are being taken care of since the beginning of the lockdown. All basic amenities including medical care are being provided to them. Over 110 reimbursable online courses have been provided for the DMRC to enhance their professional skills and knowledge during the lockdown period, the DMRC said. Speaking on the 26th Foundation Day of the DMRC, its Managing Director, Mangu Singh congratulated the employees and said, “Today, the Delhi metro stands as one of the largest metro systems in the world with a massive network of 360 kilometres, 264 stations and 14 depots and more than 60,00,000 journeys with a punctuality of over 99%.” Highlighting the achievements during the year gone by, the DMRC said that the Dwarka-Najafgarh metro corridor was inaugurated on October 4, 2019, taking the metro for the first time to outer Delhi, areas of west Delhi and the work for Delhi metro’s Phase 4 also commenced on December 30, 2019 on the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram corridor.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||Four arrested for transporting 25 migrant labourers||Four people were arrested for allegedly trying to transport around 25 migrant labourers to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the police said on Sunday. The arrested truck drivers have been identified as 24-year-old Avinish Tiwari from Govindpuri and 28-year-old Manoj Kumar Yadav from Uttar Pradesh’s Allahabad, they said. During patrolling The police received inputs about illegal migration of labourers after which the accused were nabbed during patrolling. “The two trucks were intercepted near Okhla. Around 20-25 persons were found inside it,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena. During interrogation, the drivers said they were in contact with two persons — Aklu Bind and Ravi Shankar Kumar — for the past five days and the duo had convinced them to transport some labours belonging to Bihar, he said. The arrested accused — Aklu and Ravi – from Bihar said they currently live in a rented accommodation in Sanjay Colony, Okhla Phase-II. “They called the migrant workers belonging to their village to gather at a place and told them that they would be taken to their hometowns,” the DCP said. A case was registered under relevant sections of the IPC. The trucks have been seized, the police added.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||I stand by my social media post: DMC chairman||Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan, who was on May 2 booked on charges of sedition after he allegedly made “provocative” social media posts, on Sunday said he did not delete his post and stands by it. “It has been erroneously reported in a section of media that I have apologised for the tweet and deleted it. I apologised not for the tweet itself but because it was ill-timed and insensitive in the midst of a medical emergency faced by our country,” Mr. Khan said, adding that the post was still there on his Facebook and Twitter pages. “I stand by my views and convictions. I will continue, now and in future, the fight against hate politics in the country. FIRs, arrest and imprisonments do not change this path which I have chosen continuously to save my country, people and the Indian secular polity and the Constitution,” he said. A senior police officer said the FIR has been registered under Sections 124 A (Sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony base on a complaint by a resident of South Delhi’s Vasant Kunj. The complaint said Mr. Khan on April 28 had shared a post on Twitter and Facebook which was “provocative”. Mr. Khan, in his post, had thanked Kuwait for taking note of the persecution of Indian Muslims, in the context of the violence in north-east Delhi.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||List hospitals for free treatment, HC to govts.||The Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and the Delhi government to place on record the list of hospitals where patients could receive free-of-cost treatment for ailments other than COVID-19, according to their eligibility. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Yogesh Khanna also directed AIIMS to also state whether these patients could be provided treatment at the hospital itself, as they were receiving earlier. AIIMS facility The court’s direction came on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Karan Seth highlighting that about 100 out-station patients and their attendants, who, were earlier being provided treatment at AIIMS for several ailments are not being provided treatment any longer. The plea said that due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, AIIMS stands converted into an exclusive facility to treat COVID-19 patients. The plea also said that these patients and their attendants are being housed in Rain Baseras opposite AIIMS where social distancing norms were not being maintained. AIIMS’s counsel submitted that the main hospital facility is not an exclusive COVID-19 facility, and that the health institute continues to treat patients with other ailments. It sought time to submit a status report on the issue. The HC will hear the case on May 8.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||Four held for robbing five persons in two days||Three people were arrested and a juvenile was apprehended for allegedly robbing five people in the last two days alone in south Delhi amid the ongoing lockdown, the police said on Sunday. The accused was identified as Vivek (22), Nagender (23) and Raju (22), all residents of Sangam Vihar, they said. With their arrest, the police claimed to have solved five cases of robbery and two cases of theft. The victims of the robberies were milkmen and food delivery boys, the police.  The incidents came to light after the police received two calls regarding robbery from Malviya Nagar and Neb Sarai on Saturday night.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC registry official tests COVID-19 positive||A Delhi High Court registry official has tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital here. The person is stated to be stable. The Registrar General, on behalf of the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court, has enquired about the well-being of the staff and one senior official has been deputed to check on his health on a regular basis. The official has also been requested to inform the Registrar General in case of need or assistance of any kind either for himself or his family members, a High Court source said. According to sources, the official has not been coming to the court complex since March 20. “He has, so far, not been able to find out as to how he got infected,” the source said. The official was admitted to the hospital on Saturday.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Stop targeting anti-CAA protesters’||Over 1,100 feminists from across the country have demanded an immediate stop to targeting of anti-CAA Muslim women activists under the garb of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. Well-known rights activists, including Annie Raja, Medha Patkar, Farah Naqvi, Aruna Roy, Shabnam Hashmi and others, have demanded that false cases against peaceful anti-CAA protesters must be dropped, and all those arrested on trumped-up charges must be released immediately. The list of signatories condemned “the brazenly malicious attacks, arrests and intimidation by the Delhi Police of Muslim women, students and activists, as well as other citizens who have spoken up against the unconstitutional moves of the present ruling dispensation”. “Media reports that over 800 anti-CAA protesters have been held or arrested since the lockdown, which means they have had little or no access to lawyers and legal aid,” they said.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police Commissioner takes stock of situation||Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Saturday held a meeting through videoconferencing with senior police officers to review the preparation and arrangements to contain the spread of COVID-19. In the meeting, Mr. Shrivastava reviewed the situation arising out of the lockdown and health of police personnel who tested positive for COVID-19. He reviewed the status of police officers’ health. It was reported that 59 police personnel have been found positive for COVID-19 so far, out of which nine have recovered. Mr. Shrivastava directed all supervisory officers to brief their subordinate staff on precautions to be taken while discharging their duties.  He directed all joint CPs to assess the ground situation regarding migrants living in shelter homes as well as other localities.  During the meeting, he took feedback from six committees he had formed to take stock of the situation at police stations and police colonies.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep- NDMC (Can be brief)||The New Delhi Municipal Council on Sunday announced a compensation of Rs. 15 lakh in case of death of any of its employees contracts COVID-19 while on duty. This compensation will be available to all eligible cases for a period of three months from the date of issue of the order. The sum will be paid to the kin of the deceased.
04 May 2020||Noida,||8 new COVID-19 patients in Gautam Buddh Nagar, 7 discharged; total cases 167||Eight more people, including two women, tested positive for COVID-19 in UP’s Gautam Buddha Nagar on Sunday, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases in the district to 167, officials said. Seven patients were discharged from hospitals and the number of recoveries crossed the 100 mark.PTI
04 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Migrant workers escape from quarantine centres in Odisha||Over a 100 migrant labourers back from Gujarat’s Surat escaped from two quarantine centres in Kodala block of Odisha’s Ganjam district on Sunday. It happened while thousands of migrant labourers from outside the State started arriving in Ganjam district by buses and trains. The escaped migrant workers had been kept in the quarantine centres at Janata High School of Beguniapada and Odisha Adarsh Vidyalaya at Ragapur in Kodala block. According to sources, the Janata High School quarantine shelter had 221 returnees from Surat, while the Ragapur quarantine centre had 179. Most of them had reached Ganjam district by buses on Saturday night. Alleging lack of proper amenities and bad food, over a 100 migrant workers escaped from these two quarantine centres on Sunday morning. They tried to reach their homes through agricultural fields and orchards. Receiving information about the escape, police and administrative officials, including Ganjam Collector and Superintendent of Police, rushed to the spot. The officials held discussions with the rest of the migrant workers at the quarantine centres to persuade them to stay back for 14 days to save themselves and others from COVID-19 infection. Till evening most of these escaped workers had been rounded up by police. But search was on to track down 36 workers of Janata High School quarantine centre. All escapees of Ragapur quarantine centre were caught. Meanwhile, for the first time two COVID-19 cases were reported in Ganjam district on Sunday morning. Both were Surat returnees. Return of thousands of migrant workers from Surat has increased the threat of rise in COVID-19 cases in Ganjam district.  Special train A special train with 1202 Odia migrant workers from Surat reached Jagannathpur station on outskirts of Berhampur in Ganjam district on Sunday. After initial medical check up at the station, arrangements were made to take them to their respective panchayats in Ganjam district to be kept in institutional quarantine for 14 days. Three more special trains have started from Surat on Sunday for Ganjam district. They will arrive on Monday.
04 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Two accidents force Odisha to divert buses||Following two accidents involving buses carrying migrant labourers from Gujarat’s Surat at Kalinga ghat on Kandhamal-Ganjam district border, the Odisha government on Sunday decided to change the route of buses to Ganjam district. According to official sources, since Saturday night, over 75 buses with migrants from Gujarat have entered Odisha. Most of them are on their way to Ganjam district. Two migrants had died on Saturday and several others were injured when their bus hit the guard wall at a turn on Kalinga ghat road. On Sunday, another bus from Surat to Ganjam met with a similar accident. Luckily, only three were injured in the second accident. Both accidents had occurred as the drivers of buses from Gujarat were not acquainted with the turns onthe dangerous hilly road. The Odisha government has ordered a probe into the accidents. Transport Minister Padmanabh Behera said instead of traversing the hilly road of Kalinga ghat, the buses carrying migrants would now travel to Ganjam district via Boudh-Charichhak-Nayagarh. According to the Sub-Divisional Police Officer of G. Udaygiri in Kandhamal district, both accidents happened because the bus drivers lacked the skill and knowledge about the dangerous turns on the hilly road.
04 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab witnesses biggest one-day spike||Punjab on Sunday reported one more COVID-19-related death, taking the total tally to 21, besides the State saw its biggest one-day spike of 331 cases, according to an official statement. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases have reached 1,102 in the State, with most of the new cases linked to pilgrims who had recently returned from Nanded in Maharashtra, where they had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib. The latest victim, who was from Ferozepur, was being treated at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College. The State health department said on Sunday that 75 new patients were reported from Amritsar, 62 from SBS Nagar, 46 from Hoisharpur, 43 from Muktsar, 33 from Bathinda, 24 from Gurdaspur, 16 from Ludhiana and nine from Ropar districts. The total number of active cases in the State at present is 964. As many as 117 patients have so far recovered, it added. Meanwhile, politics surrounding the Nanded pilgrims continued as the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal leaders indulged in verbal spat over the issue. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu asked SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other Akali leaders to apologies to “Sikh Sangat” for their misleading propaganda over the return of Nanded pilgrims after 20-25 sewadars of Gurdwara Langar Sahib in Maharashtra tested positive. “In view of the sewadars of Gurdwara Langar Sahib in Nanded testing positive after tests conducted there, it was evident that pilgrims had contracted the virus before entering Punjab,” he said. Mr. Sidhu hit out at the Akali leaders for indulging in political one-upmanship over a very sensitive issue, that too without verifying any facts. “These leaders unnecessarily hyped this issue by spreading propaganda that pilgrims are being labelled COVID-19 positive as part of a conspiracy. By indulging in politicising this issue, Akali leaders are not only trying to demoralise all corona warriors who are going beyond their call of duty to save Punjab but also giving false and fabricated comments over such a sensitive issue,” he said. On the other hand, SAD leader and former Minister Bikram Majithia asked the Punjab government to transfer the entire Hazur Sahib pilgrims, who were quarantined in unhygienic government facilities, to Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee “sarai”, saying Sikh organisations and SAD would look after them. Accusing the Congress leaders of playing politics on the issue, Mr. Majithia said the party would not allow Congress leaders to turn the pilgrims into scape goats to hide their own failures. “We will also not allow anyone to demean Takth Sri Hazur Sahib or the sangat which has returned after paying its obeisance,” he said.  ‘Guidelines not followed’ Mr. Majithia said the Punjab government did not follow ICMR guidelines while repatriating the pilgrims. “Air-conditioned buses were used against established norms. Social distancing was not followed. The buses came through red zones and it was because of this mishandling that pilgrims, who were in good health in Nanded for more than one month, tested positive for COVID-19 on their return to Punjab,” he alleged.
04 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab’s textile industry in dire straits||Amid the economic slowdown during the ongoing nationwide lockdown, Punjab’s textile industry has pegged losses at around Rs. 2,000 crore so far. “The collective turnover of the textile industry here (Amritsar) is between Rs. 7,000 crore and Rs. 8,000 crore yearly. The global and domestic shutdown for the last two months due to the pandemic had huge cascading impact on textile trade. The complete closure of wholesale and retail markets across all continents have dismayed the clothing sector, which is facing a bleak and uncertain future. The industry in Amritsar has already suffered a loss to the tune of not less than Rs. 2,000 crore,” Amit Kandhari, senior member of Amritsar Textile Processor Association (ATPA), told The Hindu . Mr. Kandhari said that the current year is a total washout with payments as well as new orders have been put on hold by customers, which has virtually created a debt trap for the entire clothing and garment business. “We are unable to operate our units under the current fluid situation due the spike in COVID-19 cases in India and other countries and very precarious financial conditions. This segment can only be revived back provided all supply chains including all textile outlets and retail showrooms start operation in full swing that too in next two months, otherwise it would not be possible to redeem their payment stuck at various level across the board,” he said. ‘Open weaving units’ P.L. Seth, a prominent shawl manufacturer, said that the government must ensure protection of the outstanding dues. “In case the lockdown is further extended for next two more months, this sector would not only become sick but a majority of the units would come under “NPA” category,” he said. “The State and the Centre should allow the opening of small weaving units to operate the night shift with limited labour and staff,” said Mr. Seth, who is also president of the Shawl Club. Another textile mill owner Sandeep Sajdeh said that with blocked orders and funds, it would be extremely hard to pay wages and salaries. “The exports orders for woollen fabrics are in the pipeline but the constraints of reopening of mills is a huge task with supply chains under current lockdown was making it very difficult to operate,” Mr. Sajdeh said. “My export shipment is stuck at Bangladesh border awaiting clearance for last one month. I am hoping lockdown will ease and the consignment would reach Bangladesh,” he added. “Amritsar, which is a thriving textile business hub for the last one century producing woollen fabrics, shawls, blankets besides having large number of nylon knitting and embroidery mills is on its throes as the opening of this segment is facing uncertainty with depressing economic situation,” Mr. Sajdeh said.  ‘Devise exit strategy’ Ashok Sethi, a member of the task-force constituted by the Punjab government to devise an exit strategy from the lockdown has sought an immediate financial stimulus by way to total waiver of bank interest for minimum of six months and deferment of term loan EMIs for at least one year. “The governments should open up the ESI and PF corpus worth over several thousand crores and come to the rescue during huge payment crisis as the industry has literally no resources to pay wages at present. On the GST front at least 50% relief be provided which would help the industry not only to survive but also grow,” he said.
04 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana govt. flayed for VAT, bus fare hike||The Haryana government’s decision to increase bus fares and hike the VAT on diesel and petrol besides imposing market fees on sale of vegetable and fruit in mandis, has evoked sharp criticism from the Congress. Terming the government’s decision “insensitive and unfortunate”, State party president Kumari Selja has accused the ruling BJP-JJP government of ignoring the interests and burdening the people of the State. Ms. Selja, in a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal, said that instead of giving relief to the public the government has put additional burden on them by taking anti-people decisions. She said that already the people of the State were struggling with financial crisis and the COVID-19 epidemic and in such a scenario the government decision to increase VAT on fuel and hike in bus fares would hit people very hard. “Also, the government has restored 2% market fees in vegetable and fruit market under market committees. There will be 1% market fee and 1% HRDF cess,” she said, adding that the Congress government had waived this fee in 2014. Ms. Selja said on account of these decisions petrol, diesel, vegetables and fruits will be expensive and people will have to pay more for travelling in the roadways buses.  ‘Unfortunate move’ “In the time of such epidemic, this will put more economic burden on the people of the State. These decisions are insensitive, unfortunate and ignores the suffering of the people of Haryana. I urge the Chief Minister to take back these decisions which would inflict economic casualties on the people,” she said.
04 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Sector markets to open in Gurugram||In line with the new guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for orange zones issued on May 1, the Gurugram district administration has decided to allow the opening of barber shops and sector markets and domestic workers to return to work, besides resumption of operations for industries with “marginal procedural changes”. The relaxations came more than six weeks after the first phase of lockdown beginning March 24. However, Galleria Market, Sector 29 commercial sector and Sadar Bazar are still not allowed to open, besides the shopping malls. “We are going to implement all (Ministry of Home Affairs) guidelines for orange zone in Gurugram. There is no change,” said Chief Executive Officer, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority V.S. Kundu, also Nodal Officer for COVID-19 for Gurugram. The relaxations come into force from Monday onwards. Mr. Kundu clarified that mohalla markets and sector markets for the local residents would open, but the designated markets such as Galleria, Sector 29 and Sadar Bazar are not allowed to open. As per the MHA guidelines, taxis and cab aggregators with one driver and two passengers only are allowed in orange zone. Also inter-district movement of individuals and vehicles, only for permitted activities, is allowed. However, inter-district and intra-district plying of buses are prohibited. On the industries front, all e-commerce activities are allowed with 50% staff in the first week of the extended lockdown, and with 75% staff in the next week. Similarly, the Information Technology and IT-enabled services companies are allowed to operate with 50% staff in the industrial areas with access control such as Special Economic Zones and 75% staff in the second week. However, all industrial units and entrepreneurs need to apply on Saralharyana portal for passes to employees.  Maruti gets permission The Maruti Suzuki India Limited also received permission to run its Gurugram Sector-18 plant on May 2 with more than 10,000 workers and 24 vehicles, but the company’s spokesperson said the decision for resumption of production was not taken as yet. In a related incident, migrant workers in Manesar’s Kho thronged the village streets in large numbers on Sunday to fill forms for returning to their homes. Police have filed an FIR for violation of distancing norms.
04 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||African swine fever: Assam told to go for culling||Assam Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Minister Atul Bora on Sunday said the Centre has advised the State government to go for the culling of pigs affected by the African swine fever (ASF). “After a lab in Bhopal attributed the death of thousands of pigs to the first-ever case of ASF in the country, we have been told to cull the animals in the affected areas,” Mr. Bora said. “We have been told to divide the affected areas into zones and go for culling accordingly. The situation is quite serious since there are many farmers with more than 20 lakh pigs.” The Minister said the disease was first reported in November-December 2019 from areas of China bordering Arunachal Pradesh. Pigs in the eastern part of Assam started dying in mid-April. “On the brighter side, the rate of infection has flattened a bit in the past couple of days. Data collected from the affected districts says about 2,500 pigs have died and the infection is more among the animals that are not confined to sties,” Mr. Bora said. Veterinary officials said a few organised piggeries have been affected and the possible carrier could be humans.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Smile amid gloom||
04 May 2020||Rome,||Hard-hit Italy prepares to lift lockdown||European nations on Sunday prepared for further cautious easing of COVID-19 restrictions following signs the pandemic may be slowing, with hard-hit Italy set to follow Spain in allowing people outside after weeks of confinement. More than 2,43,000 people have been killed and 3.4 million infected worldwide by the virus, which has left half of humanity under some form of lockdown and pushed the global economy towards its worst downturn since the Great Depression. With signs that the spread of the disease is coming under control, parts of Europe, Asia and the U.S. have begun to lift restrictions to try to inject life into economies crippled by weeks of closures and ease the pressure on populations weary of confinement. Strolling in parks After a two-month lockdown, Italians on Monday will be allowed to stroll in parks and visit relatives. Restaurants can open for takeaways and wholesale stores can resume business, but there was some confusion about the extent of the easing. Romans were doing aerobics on their rooftop terraces and exercising indoors on Sunday and the squares in the city centre were mostly empty on the last day Italians were obliged to remain within 200 m of their homes. Italian authorities have said some preventative measures are still needed in a country that has the second-highest number of virus deaths in the world after the United States. Several industries, including automobile sector and construction, have already restarted work. But Italy’s 20 regions have imposed their own regulations, leading to some confusion over what people can and cannot do. Veneto and Calabria lifted their lockdowns early and allowed bars and restaurants to open with outdoor tables. Football in Germany? Elsewhere in Europe, Germany will continue its easing on Monday, while Slovenia, Poland and Hungary will allow public spaces and businesses to partially reopen. In another sign of life returning, Germany’s Minister for the Interior and Sport said Sunday he supports a resumption of the country’s football season this month as long as teams respect hygiene conditions. Face masks will be mandatory on public transport starting Monday in Spain, where people were allowed to go outdoors to exercise and walk freely on Saturday after a 48-day lockdown. Even as some European countries gradually lift restrictions, officials in Moscow urged residents to stay home. There are also signs that the pandemic is slowing down in some parts of the United States. In New York City, the epicentre of the U.S. outbreak, an emergency field hospital erected in Central Park is set to close, the Christian charity running it said on Saturday, as virus cases decline in the city.
04 May 2020||Madrid,||Cycling activists seize the moment, seek more bike lanes||Halfway through his 30-minute bike ride to work, police ordered Juan Pasamar to dismount, accusing him of breaking Spain’s lockdown rules by exercising in public. The officers were not buying his explanation he was commuting to his job outside of Zaragoza, the northern city where he lives. “You have a car, don’t you? Why don’t you use that?” he said he was asked. Mr. Pasamar eventually had to hire a lawyer to convince police that the government had not banned cycling. Crowding on trains As countries seek to get their economies back on track after the devastation wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic, bicycle use is being encouraged as a way to avoid unsafe crowding on trains and buses. Cycling activists from Germany to Peru are trying to use the moment to get more bike lanes, or widen existing ones, even if it’s just a temporary measure. The transition to more bike-friendly urban environments “is necessary if we want our cities to work,” said Morton Kabell, who co-chairs the European Cyclists’ Federation. “A lot of people will be afraid of going on public transportation, but we have to get back to work someday. Very few of our cities can handle more car traffic,” he said. In addition to bike lanes separated by curbs, Mr. Kabell backs subsidising electric bicycles. The benchmarks are Copenhagen, the capital of Denmark, where half of the daily commuters are cyclists, and the Netherlands, with its vast network of bike lanes. Still, countries around the world are catching up at different speeds. The French government asked cycling activist Pierre Serne to draw up a plan for when its lockdown ends May 11. His recommendations, including bicycle lanes separated from other vehicles at an estimated cost of €50,000 per km, have been submitted to the Transportation Ministry. In Berlin, the Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg council simply painted yellow lines on the some roads to take space from car lanes. This bike infrastructure builds on what is called “tactical urbanism” — low-cost changes that are technically simple and reversible. Taking over space Similar initiatives are popping up elsewhere. Officials in Lima, Peru; Barcelona, Spain; and Milan, Italy, are speeding up plans to expand bike paths or take space from cars or current parking sites. In Bogota, where bicycles are used mostly by Colombia’s blue-collar workers, Mayor Claudia Lūpez has urged everybody returning to work this week to cycle instead of using public transportation, which is now operating at 35% of capacity. With many U.S. nonessential businesses closed, there is little point now in cycling that isn’t recreational. But cities like Oakland, San Francisco and New York are closing some streets to traffic to allow room for runners and cyclists. Pedro Diaz, a member of Pedalibre, a Madrid cycling club, sees this as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to take over space from cars and resist giving it back when the pandemic ends.  If arguing for environmentally friendly transportation was a key factor for activists before, the economic fallout from the virus is adding momentum, said Laura Vergara, head of Spain’s ConBici advocacy group.  Beyond infrastructure, cycling advocates say many minds must still be changed, noting that many officials have called for prioritising the use of private vehicles in the lockdown.
04 May 2020||Washington,||Pompeo hints at Wuhan lab’s role||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Sunday that there was “enormous evidence” that the COVID-19 pandemic originated in a laboratory in Wuhan, China. “There is enormous evidence that this is where it began,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.” But while highly critical of China’s handling of the matter, Mr. Pompeo declined to say whether he thought the virus had been intentionally released. President Donald Trump has been increasingly critical of China’s role in the pandemic. He has insisted that Beijing recklessly concealed important information about the outbreak and demanded that Beijing be held “accountable.” News reports say Mr. Trump has tasked U.S. spies to find out more about the origins of the virus, at first blamed on a Wuhan market selling exotic animals like bats, but now thought possibly to be from a virus research laboratory nearby. Not a man-made virus Mr. Pompeo told ABC that he agreed with a statement on Thursday from the U.S. intelligence community in which it concurred “with the wide scientific consensus that the COVID-19 virus was not man-made or genetically modified.” But he went further than Mr. Trump, in citing “significant” and “enormous” evidence that the virus originated in a Wuhan laboratory. “I think the whole world can see now, remember, China has a history of infecting the world and running substandard laboratories,” Mr. Pompeo said. He said early Chinese efforts to downplay the coronavirus amounted to “a classic Communist disinformation effort. That created enormous risk.” “President Trump is very clear: we’ll hold those responsible accountable.”
04 May 2020||Jerusalem,||Israel: hearing to challenge govt. begins||Israel’s top court on Sunday started hearing arguments to bar Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu from forming a new government as he faces a criminal trial on corruption charges. The Supreme Court will also hear petitions challenging a coalition deal with his rival-turned-partner Benny Gantz, who is currently speaker of the Knesset, Israel’s Parliament. Either case carries with it the danger of forcing another election, after three polls in less than a year failed to produce a government and left the country in a grinding political deadlock. The hearing was broadcast live on the court website.
04 May 2020||Tehran,||Iran to reopen mosques||Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said mosques would reopen across large parts of the country on Monday, as officials reported a drop in the number of deaths caused by the novel coronavirus. Health Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said 47 people died of the virus over the past 24 hours, the lowest daily count in 55 days. His remarks came as President Hassan Rouhani said 132 counties, around one-third of the country’s administrative divisions, would “reopen their mosques as of tomorrow”. “Social distancing is more important than collective prayer,” he said, in a televised meeting of the country’s virus taskforce.
04 May 2020||Cairo,||Cairo, May 3, 2020 (AFP) -||Egypt’s Interior Ministry said on Sunday that 18 suspected militants were killed in North Sinai in a firefight with security forces, two days after a blast claimed by the Islamic State. “National security received intelligence about terrorist elements hiding out in a home in Bir al-Abed, where they were planning to launch hostile operations,” it said.AFP
04 May 2020||Colombo,||Foiled prison break leaves inmate dead in Sri Lanka||Prison guards in Sri Lanka foiled an attempt by inmates to escape on Sunday after they used ropes and bed sheets to scale down the wall, leaving at least one dead, police said. Seven prisoners tried to flee the penitentiary in Mahara on the outskirts of the capital Colombo, the police spokesman’s office said.AP
04 May 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan’s coronavirus tally crosses 19,000; death toll at 440||Pakistan’s COVID-19 tally crossed 19,000 on Sunday after 989 new patients were diagnosed in 24 hours. The Ministry of National Health Services said 23 patients died in this period, taking the total toll to 440. So far, 4,817 people have recovered, the Ministry said.PTI
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||No relief for the nowhere people||Jamalo Makdam, 12, died on April 18 walking back from the chilli fields of Telangana to her home in Chhattisgarh. She and a group of other workers decided to return home on foot, as many migrant workers did, after losing their jobs, incomes and even accommodation following the announcement of a nationwide lockdown. Her journey ended in death, possibly due to electrolyte imbalance and exhaustion, said health officials. In the past month, migrant workers have died, been lathi-charged, herded into shelters with minimum facilities, sprayed with dangerous chemicals, and denied entry into their home villages by the dominant elite. These reports and images have seared our conscience. No rights and entitlements The labourers — men, women and children — are the classic nowhere citizens of India. They have no rights and entitlements in the areas in which they work and to whose prosperity they contribute. Being from the poorest and the socially discriminated groups, they are also denied entitlements in the villages to which they belong. Not surprisingly, they have been invisible in policy discourse. There are no firm estimates of their numbers. Estimates prepared by this author and updated from time to time suggest that short-term and circular migrants in the informal wage economy could number 60-65 million. About 40% of these migrants work in the construction sector and 15% in agriculture. The rest are engaged in manufacturing, transport, and other services. With accompanying family members, their numbers would not be less than 100 million. About half these labourers are inter-State workers. We exclude in this estimate longer-term circular migrants who also work in the informal wage economy and as self-employed workers in the urban economy. Data from the National Sample Survey and the India Human Development Survey (IHDS) show that these migrant labourers are mainly from rural areas in poor regions and States, and belong to the poorest socio-economic classes. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes are over-represented among them. They form the largest section of child, bonded and trafficked labour. They predominate in activities that are characterised by three Ds — dirty, dangerous, and difficult — and consistently face a fourth D — discrimination. Nearly 70% of migrants work in urban and peri-urban areas in and around growth centres in States in the north, west, and south of the country. Industry and employers are bemoaning, for the first time, the fact that activities in a number of crucial sectors and industries will not see revival without these workers. The lockdown imposed by the government has exposed the deep fault lines in India’s labour market which operates in a sea of growing informal employment relations. We know that nearly 81% of wage workers even in non-agricultural sectors do not have any contract with their employers and enjoy no security of tenure. Many do not even know their final employer. The IHDS tells us that half the migrant labourers are hired through contractors. Their condition shows the dismal state of implementation of labour regulations, particularly with respect to inter-State migrants. With the government’s sudden lockdown decision, wages for jobs already carried out remained unpaid. A large percentage of migrants remained saddled with debt taken as advances from their employers, contractors, or landlords. The government’s announcement of a tepid relief package on March 26 did not address any of the concerns of this section as the frail social security net largely does not cover them. Crucially, the government side-stepped its major responsibility of paying compensatory wages to the informal workers for the lockdown, putting this onus on employers who are already hit hard by the lockdown. As the migrant workers tried to move to their homes, the government responded with a strict State and inter-district lockdown and ordered placing migrant workers in quarantines-cum-shelters, and the detention of workers who remained on the move. In a status report submitted to the Supreme Court on March 31, the government argued that the movement of these workers to rural areas constituted a serious risk of spread of COVID-19, a fact that has remained unsubstantiated. By the end of the first week of April, the government submitted that about 6.3 lakh workers were in shelters run by governments in different parts of the country, while another 4.5 lakh were in shelters run by NGOs and others. Nearly 10 million workers were receiving food assistance through governmental and non-governmental sources. About 5 lakh to 6 lakh workers had reached their source States. As a matter of fact, reports from the ground suggest that a large proportion of intra-State migrants had trudged back home so the total returnees was probably closer to 25 million. At present, with about a million migrant workers in shelters or quarantines, at least 20 million such workers are still stranded at worksites or living in hovels. Most of these, as successive surveys attest, have not been able to avail of any food or cash assistance, and are on the brink of starvation. Shifting the burden On April 19, the Indian government issued a standard operating protocol on movement of stranded labour, permitting the movement and employment of stranded migrant workers in worksites only within the States in which they were involuntarily detained in shelters. On April 29, the Central government issued another notification finally permitting stranded labourers and populations to travel inter-State to their homes only by buses. On May 1, the Railways were permitted to run special trains for migrants with coordination and costs being borne by the States and, in some cases, fares being paid by the hapless migrants. The receiving States, it must be pointed out, are precisely those which have the weakest fiscal capacity. The ensuing confusion and delay has also increased the plight of the migrants. It goes without saying that it must be the responsibility of the Centre to coordinate the movement of the stranded populations by trains, air and buses, and to provide adequate resources, not only for transportation, but also for wages and food requirements of all such workers whose loss of jobs and incomes followed the national lockdown. The fight against the pandemic can only be built on a vision of a society that is inclusive, equitable, and non-discriminatory. India needs a unified labour market and universal social security system which can ensure security, safety, and dignity to all workers. Pandemics do not recognise artificial walls between living spaces and work spaces, and both have to be able to provide basic amenities and access to health security to all. However, it seems that current policy responses to the crisis and towards the migrants are still embedded in a short-sighted framework that recognises and reinforces the idea of two Indias. Ravi Srivastava, former Professor of Economics at JNU, is now honorary Director of the Centre for Employment Studies, Institute for Human Development, Delhi
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemics without borders, South Asia’s evolution||Even if the COVID-19 pandemic spares South Asia the worst impact it has reserved thus far for the northern latitudes, it is certain that this region of nearly a fourth of the global population will be wounded gravely — economically, and as the process unfolds, socio-politically. Holding the largest volume and density of poverty in the world, the countries of South Asia are looking into an abyss of distress and discontent. Dire sign As the region from the Indian Ocean to the Himalaya is hit by recession, more than half a century’s effort against poverty could be wasted. The coddling of the middle class and neglect of the majority underclass, so starkly seen during the pandemic response, points to all that has gone wrong in our electoral democracies; no country of South Asia is presently a formal dictatorship. Amidst our separate insularities, South Asians should take the pandemic as a wake-up call beyond public health, on ills ranging from plastic pollution to global warming, extinction of species, hijacking of the commons, dirty water, toxic air, a weakening of the welfare state, infrastructural exceptionalism — and the rapid conversion of our demographic diversity into the worldwide sameness of a suburban mall. If we fail to act, the COVID-19 episode will be but an interlude as we wade further into the Anthropocene quicksand. You can see the return to ‘normalcy’ in the aircraft tracking apps that show China’s airways bustling once again, as they were before the coronavirus radiated out from Wuhan. As a dire telegram sent by Earth to Humanity, COVID-19 has laid bare the demagoguery that marks the democracies of South Asia. The response of the regimes has been to entrench themselves further, and they are shifting blame on mal-governance to the pandemic even as they tighten state control through surveillance, repressive laws and radical populism backed by ultra-nationalism. The public’s fear of the virus is allowing Presidents and Prime Ministers to press on with top-down rule, whereas the lockdown should be the time to generate momentum towards federal devolution and Gandhi’s empowering ‘gram swaraj’ — a term that must be revived without a sense of embarrassment. In Sri Lanka, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa takes advantage of COVID-19 to grant pardon to a war criminal. In Pakistan, the Army has Prime Minister Imran Khan against the ropes, and Nepal’s political class uses the pandemic for political adventurism and Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli engages the military to carry out key COVID-19 tasks, from buying protective gear to contact tracing. The virus has solidified the foundation of Sheikh Hasina’s one-party rule in Bangladesh. India’s continent-sized polity craves federalism, but COVID-19 has energised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s centralising mission. His Hindutva-backed, Pakistan-focused ultra-nationalism creates a web of control that strengthens Mr. Modi but weakens India. After a series of polarising actions from Kashmir to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, we watch unbelievingly as Islamophobia is injected into the pandemic response. The majoritarian attitude exhibited by the state, mass media and social media towards India’s 200 million Muslims will before long transfer to the Dalit, tribal and Adivasi communities, and the underclass as a whole. The anti-poor imperiousness seen in the demonetisation of November 2016 was evident also in the four-hour notice given for lockdown on the night of March 23, in a country of more than 350 million workers, many of whom are internal migrants. Since Mr. Modi shuns unrehearsed encounters, journalists and academics are not able to challenge him about the fabric of India that is tearing. Soft power The reason to talk at length about India within South Asia is that the country comprises much of the region by population and geography. Further, the actions and the omissions of India impact each neighbour. While all the other capitals have adversarial positions vis-à-vis New Delhi, however, it is also true that modern India has been aspirational for neighbouring societies — till now, that is. The trajectory of India, with its galloping centralisation, removes governance from the people’s reach. There was a time, decades ago, when New Delhi’s messaging was limited to promises of ‘ roti , kapda aur makaan’ , but ever more populist slogans were required to maintain command. Hence, the strident Hindutva-laced nationalism, which can only divert attention of the huddled masses, not spread prosperity nor social justice. In both India and Pakistan, the two large countries of South Asia, ending insensitivity and inefficiency in governance require power and agency to pass to the provinces/States. Self-correction is only possible in smaller, devolved polities. As has been seen during the ongoing crisis, the States of India have risen to the occasion and are seen to be more caring, for the simple reason that they are closer to the ground and more accountable. India has shone in the world because of its soft power, defined by a textured history, empathetic open society, “scientific temper” and Gandhian legacy. India simply cannot succeed as a hard power, which is why under the Bharatiya Janata Party-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the country is losing the very values that command respect abroad. If India were an internationally confident nation-state, as in decades past, it would have used its clout to lobby and build demand for a sitting of the UN Security Council to discuss the global security threat represented by the COVID-19 pandemic. India is also weakened internally by the New Delhi intelligentsia’s China fixation, which must be overcome. Unknowingly or with deliberation, New Delhi seeks to copy-paste Beijing’s centralism as well as its xenophobia, both of which are bound to backfire in a country whose historicity and circumstances are quite different. A reformatting The unflinching lack of caring for the citizenry by governments in South Asia can only be reversed through a formula that incorporates the internal and external to the nation-states, a reformatting of relationships. Internally, power must devolve from the capital to the provincial units of the two larger countries (Pakistan and India), as well as empowerment of local governments all over (as done in Nepal under the 2015 Constitution, but not yet fully implemented). Externally, the countries of South Asia must bring down the hyper-nationalist mind barriers to allow porous borders, thereby reviving historical synergies in economy, ecology and culture. This is essential for both social justice and economic growth, and cannot happen without a palpable reduction in military expenditures that will come with abandonment of the national security state. South Asian regionalism requires resuming the evolution of the subcontinental polity that was terminated in 1947 with Partition. Regionalism would lead to collaborative battles against pestilence, and for wealth creation through trade, comparative advantage, and economies of scale. Regionalism would help fight plastic pollution in our rivers, battle the air pollution that wafts across our frontiers, promote cooperation in natural and human-made disasters, and boost the economies of the geographical “periphery” of each country. The push for South Asia-wide thinking and planning need not be seen as a malevolent attempt to subvert India. Instead, it is the path for India’s own socio-economic advance, and the way to garner international recognition of its soft power. Internal devolution and cross-border bonding has always been a necessity but impossible for some to contemplate. Hopefully, the shake-up of the COVID-19 pandemic will succeed where past exhortations have failed. The opinion-makers of India — economists, political scientists, philosophers, sociologists, diplomats and others — have tended to be New Delhi-centric, and, as a result, downright reluctant to address issues of both federalism within and regionalism without. They have thus far been unable to see the jungle for the trees. Kanak Mani Dixit, a writer and journalist based in Kathmandu, is founding Editor of the magazine, ‘Himal Southasian’
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s disease surveillance system needs a reboot||In a recent press briefing, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare reported noticeable trends with respect to COVID-19 cases in India. Its data shows that 75.3% of deaths have been concentrated in the age group of 60 years and above, and in 83% of deaths, the deceased were battling pre-existing identified health conditions. Evidently, we have reason to fear the novel coronavirus for which we have no established cure. However, there is even more reason to fear a combination of COVID-19 with existing illnesses and medical complications. The disease is lethal for those with compromised immunity brought on by age, existing respiratory infections, or essentially, malnutrition. In technical medical terms, this is a situation of comorbidity, which in ways makes it difficult to differentiate between dying of COVID-19, or, dying with COVID-19. Issue of disease watch In comparison to many western countries combating the disease, India appears to have the advantage of a relatively young population. This is, of course, negated by the poor health conditions of the vast majority of Indians. It is then imperative that we do not ignore already prevalent diseases and illnesses. Unfortunately, the recent experiences of the public health-care system in India indicate the side-stepping of precisely this issue. There are many among the poor who are battling various diseases but now have little access to major public hospitals in the wake of the lockdown. Routine functioning, particularly of out-patient department services in public hospitals, has been severely affected, and largely, emergency cases are being entertained. Patients now complain of even greater high-handedness of hospital staff in the still functioning emergency intensive care unit, labour rooms, tuberculosis (TB) wards, etc. Ironically, cardiology and neurology departments that cater to elderly sick patients are turning away many in the bid to streamline “critical” cases. In such circumstances we can expect an aggravation in the poor health conditions already affecting large sections of people who have limited access to health-care services. Let us scrutinise this issue more closely. Many of the adverse medical conditions prevalent among the vast majority of our country are not even identified due to the lax disease surveillance system. The failure of disease surveillance requires explanation. For one, a significant number of the infected (poor and marginalised people) do not have access to health-care facilities and so fail to report their condition to certified medical practitioners. Even when an infected person has access to such facilities, their clinical case does not always culminate in the required testing (blood/serum, throat swab, sputum, stool, urine). Third, there is a widespread practice among pathological laboratories to categorise diseases on the basis of the pre-existing classificatory system, which results in failure to identify the definitive cause (aetiology) for an illness by differentiating and separating pathogens (disease-causing microorganisms) on the basis of variations in groups, subgroups, strains, etc. Silent epidemics There is, consequently, pervasive non-identification of a definitive cause behind a number of illnesses. Many ailments are simply clubbed together and referred to by generic names such as ‘Respiratory Tract Infection’ (RTI), ‘Urinary Tract Infection’, ‘Acute Febrile Illness (AFI)’, ‘Acute Undifferentiated Fever’, ‘Fever of Unknown Origin’ (FUO). Certain of these undifferentiated illnesses are known to affect lakhs of people every year worldwide. They claim many lives, especially of the poor who are victims of low immunity and have limited access to health care. Sources claim that RTI kills over 900 people in India every day. Likewise, Acute Lower Respiratory Tract Infection (ALRTI), which affects mostly children below the age of five years, has been known to infect approximately 3.40 crore people every year worldwide. In recent years it has led to roughly 66,000 to 199,000 deaths. Shockingly, 99% of these deaths are reported from developing countries, and India has a larger share in it. The large number of hospitalisations, enormous deaths and suffering caused by contagious undifferentiated diseases indicate the prevalence of persistent but undeclared silent epidemics. Even if the definitive cause of an illness is identified, it does not necessarily gain the focused attention of scientific research. As the disease evolves but “interest” in it remains fleeting, the differences developing in the sub-groups, strains in genotype of the pathogen concerned fail to be consistently tracked. Knowledge of the pathogen, and, consequently, the required disease control soon lag behind. This overall process is due to the selective, biased approach of mainstream scientific research that is driven by the profits of private pharmaceutical companies, and is the fallout of the lack of priority that governments assign to general health care and diseases of the poor. Even when the identity of a contagious disease and its treatment are well known it does not mean that the disease’s prevalence will generate the necessary reaction. TB is a suitable example. According to public health experts, one person in every 10 seconds contracts TB, and up to 1,400 people in India die every day of the disease. This indicates that TB has a R0 value (basic reproduction number) and fatality rate that is way higher than those attributed to COVID-19 so far. However, it is important to note that TB and many other contagious diseases are ignored as “ordinary”, and elicit very low attention. In contrast, some diseases are quickly identified as epidemics of greater public concern. Diseases are being selectively discovered and have the propensity to be identified as an epidemic when they have a signalling effect for the scientific community. In a majority of instances, it is only when there is a threat of transmission to the well-to-do sections of society or wealthier regions that the disease actually has such a signalling effect. It is not a coincidence that a relatively downplayed disease such as TB is largely a poor man’s disease. Clearly, we are confronted by a skewed relationship between our ways of knowing (social epistemology) and epidemiology. It is precisely in this context that COVID-19 has gained singular prominence over several other lethal diseases. Importantly, pre-existing diseases have the potential to combine with COVID-19, and with devastating consequences. It becomes imperative to identify the comparative fatality rates of many of the silent epidemics, which in their own right require urgent attention. Maya John teaches in Jesus and Mary College, University of Delhi, and is working on the history of epidemics and epidemiology
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Being wrong||The headline of this column written on World Press Freedom Day draws from a fascinating book by Kathryn Schulz, Being Wrong: Adventures in the Margin of Error. The 2010 book has some excellent observations about the three stages of committing errors: why we make mistakes, why we don’t know we are making them, and what we do when recognition dawns. COVID-19 has not reduced readers’ expectations of a responsible newspaper. When they see any infraction in journalistic principles or humanistic values, they respond within hours, even during this pandemic. A front-page report with a Ghaziabad dateline, “2 priests found dead on U.P. temple premises” (April 29), triggered responses from readers. They cited my earlier columns — “Cloak-and-dagger words” (December 18, 2017) and “Why context matters” (August 20, 2018) — while registering their protest against the report. The memory of cyberspace cannot match the memories of committed readers. A criminal act, not a hate crime An academic friend asked whether the report passed the test I had spelt out on the use of religious or caste identity. I had argued that in cases of excesses — be it lynching or expulsion from a public space — the journalistic team, which comprises reporters and the desk, gives due consideration to human dignity in reporting, editing and providing headlines: “Identities of victims are mentioned only when the victim’s dignity is trampled upon because of her identity. The team makes a fundamental difference between a crime and a crime that is driven by hate and bigotry.” G. Selva, a reader from Kachaleeswarar Agraharam  in Chennai, was taken aback by the fact that the report mentioned the caste of the suspect. He wrote: “[The report] does not only openly state the caste of the suspect but also identifies the suspect as a drug addict and thief. Therefore, it indirectly associates drug addiction and thievery with Scheduled Caste groups, in a society where Scheduled Castes are oppressed, excluded and stigmatised in everyday life. Moreover, this news also carries the picture of the suspect being [taken by the police] in his underwear.” News suggesting that a Scheduled Caste person is the suspect and was paraded half-naked is not only disturbing, but also has the potential to lead to further violence against Dalits, he said, allowing perpetrators to act with more impunity. Most readers in different ways said that direct identification of a suspect as belonging to a Scheduled Caste will only intensify stigmatisation.  The readers are right, and the newspaper was wrong in this instance. The U.P. crime cannot be treated as a hate crime. It is a mistake to identify a criminal act as a hate crime. The Editor had given specific instructions to the desk about the use of caste and religious identity in reports. But the slip-up happened and we can offer no excuses. Not just the Readers’ Editor, but the Editor too sometimes has to suffer the Sisyphean burden of witnessing mistakes like these, about which he had already warned the desk. There are manuals, style books and value statements that guide a newsroom, and the popular belief is that these should ensure flawless copy that adheres to the highest standards. The former Managing Editor, P. Jacob, while updating The Hindu ’s in-house style book a couple of years ago, had remarked: “The style book should not be reduced to a rare reference book. It should be an essential part of the daily practice. Unless journalists internalise the features, the fear of slip-ups and mistakes looms large.” A tricky subject Handling caste in journalism is not an easy task. The desk must know when to name a community and when to refrain from doing so. This is not a form of self-censorship. One needs to understand the power of the caste hierarchy that perpetuates a dominance-dependency equation undermining our egalitarian imagination. Journalists must understand that their writing should uphold the dignity of people and not become a tool to humiliate them. Most importantly, one cannot permit the journalistic space to normalise any form of humiliation. Apart from deadline pressures, a journalist sometimes tends to read what he assumed he wanted to say rather than what he had actually written. But a Readers’ Editor has not only the benefit of time but also the advantage of collective scrutiny of a text. Acknowledging and correcting a mistake is an essential element of ethical journalism. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||BRICS against COVID-19||In the global war against the novel coronavirus, emerging economies, many belonging to BRICS, have reached out to other countries humbled by the pandemic. India has reinforced its credentials as a rapidly emerging pharmacy of the world. As the world’s largest producer of hydroxychloroquine, India has recently exported the drug not only to SAARC countries and to its “extended neighbourhood” in the Gulf, but also to Russia, Brazil, Israel and the U.S. This has set the stage for India to forge an inclusive BRICS-driven pharma alliance, which could also actively explore the production of vaccines.  Workshop of the world Despite allegations that it had delayed sounding the alarm about COVID-19 infections that had broken out in Wuhan, China has, subsequently, responded strongly in containing the pandemic, leveraging its position as the workshop of the world. Notwithstanding teething problems and quality concerns, China has steeled the transcontinental response to the disease by providing the “hardware” — masks, gloves, coveralls, shoe covers and testing kits — to hotspots across the globe. Under its Health Silk Road doctrine, the Chinese reached out to two of the worst global hotspots, Italy and Iran. A Chinese shipment of 31 tonnes, which included essential supplies and equipment, including respirators, protective suits, masks and medications, arrived on March 12 in Rome. Six days later another Chinese team flew directly to Milan. Soon China was running a medical air bridge bound for Europe. Despite fighting the virus at home, Russia too sent its doctors and virologists overseas, including the launch of the famous ‘From Russia with love’ air mission to Italy. At the request of U.S. President Donald Trump, a Russian Antonov-124, packed with medical supplies and experts, landed at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport. Since Soviet times, Russia has top-of-the-line emergency services, which are equipped to handle any kind of emergency including biological attacks, nuclear radiation, and chemical weapon attacks. On the African continent, South Africa, the current rotating head of the African Union, is engaged in framing a pan-African response to COVID-19. Among the BRICS nations, only Brazil’s response may need a course correction, as its resistance to breaking the infection chains through travel bans, lockdowns, isolation and testing appears to have led to an infection surge. Time to coordinate efforts Having demonstrated their comparative strengths as providers of Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR), BRICS countries now need to pool and coordinate their efforts, in partnership with the WHO, and Europe and North America, both badly affected by the pandemic, as part of a global assault on the virus. But for seeding a robust institutional HADR response, the BRICS countries may have to reactivate an existing disaster response mechanism, and earmark resources and assets to combat a whole range of natural disasters, with special focus on the emerging economies and the global south. The Shanghai-based New Development Bank of the BRICS countries has already demonstrated the way forward to allocate financial resources to combat COVID-19. In April, during a meeting of the NDB Board of Governors, NBD President K.V. Kamath announced that apart from disbursing a $1 billion emergency loan to China, and subsequently to India, South Africa and Brazil, the NDB had the financial heft to provide $10 billion in “crisis-related assistance” to BRICS member countries. The NDB’s financial model, demonstrated to address the pandemic, can now become a template to address natural disasters. atul.a@thehindu.co.in
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||No comfort in numbers||West Bengal, which reported its first COVID-19 case in mid-March, has now recorded a total of 922 cases. The State has reported 48 deaths but had not counted 72 who died of comorbidities. Though it is India’s fourth populous State, it now ranks fourth lowest in terms of the number of those tested, and is also way lower than Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Against a national average of 721 tests per million, West Bengal has a dismal 212.6 tests per million. But what is disturbing is the general reluctance of the government to ramp up testing and to acknowledge deaths from the disease as such. This comes as a surprise given its initial proactive stand on several fronts to tackle COVID-19. It was the first State to move from containment to mitigation to contain the spread when it announced a complete lockdown before the Prime Minister announced it nationally. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was seen doing all the right things including demonstrating how social distancing is to be practised and setting up quarantine centres in every district. While it is not clear if testing has improved, there is clearly a reluctance to divulge the true extent of spread of the virus. The hesitation is pronounced on the issue of sharing mortality numbers. At over 13%, the case fatality rate is very high in West Bengal while the detection rate continues to remain the same, which is a reflection of poor surveillance and a failure to actively look out for fresh cases. When surveillance is good and testing is ramped up, the number of cases reported is bound to increase, as was seen in Kerala, Maharashtra and Rajasthan, and even South Korea in particular. As Kerala has demonstrated, early detection of cases and tracing of contacts, quarantining and testing will not only help in containing the spread but also markedly reduce the case fatality rate. Trying to keep the numbers artificially low by testing fewer people or not divulging the actual numbers and tracing their contacts allows the virus to spread unchecked. At some point, poor surveillance and delay in testing will overwhelm the health system and result in even more deaths, something that no government would be proud of. A higher number of cases is only a reflection of how active the State has been in waging a war against the virus, while a higher case fatality rate serves as evidence of poor response. With the lockdown now extended by two more weeks, the government should follow the advice of WHO and cover lost ground by aggressively testing and isolating cases, and tracing contacts. Assembly polls next year should not be a reason for the Union and the State governments to politicise a public health issue that has been declared a pandemic.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Slow release||Balancing lives and livelihoods, the Centre has extended the national lockdown for COVID-19 for two weeks from May 4, with fewer restrictions on activity. But the highly contagious virus has not disappeared and the weeks ahead present a challenge to States. They must ensure that the gains from the lockdown in terms of a relatively low death toll and a cap on new cases are not reversed overnight in the red, orange and green zones, where normality of varying degrees is to be restored, barring the containment zones. Kerala, lauded for its success in containing the pandemic, has chosen to retain some curbs even in green zones. Allowing some economic activity, though not at full pace, and under safeguards, was inevitable, although the stipulations in the Home Ministry’s orders require a high degree of civic cooperation. The continued suspension of air, rail, inter-State and urban public transport, and the bar on mass gatherings and entertainment venues remove a major source of crowding, although the restrictions on the number of passengers allowed in private vehicles and taxi cabs, and the protocol for personnel in industries call for strict adherence to succeed. Allowing outpatient clinics to reopen and the permission given for plumbers, electricians and other technicians to work with safeguards are welcome. The relaxation process can be eased greatly if States adopt a ‘how to’ approach and communicate to citizens clearly. In the absence of medical remedies, prevention remains the only option against the virus. Using face masks, now mandatory, hand washing and physical distancing at all times are universally recognised precautions. Such measures were adopted relatively late in India, with politicians initially reluctant to even adjourn legislatures, leave alone impose strict curbs on public activity. It has taken more than a month to move migrant workers back to their home States by train; in the interim, several desperate families have tried to walk home across vast distances and many have perished. Besides ensuring decent conditions for these workers and the education of their children, States must also prepare for the arrival of expatriate workers in large numbers from West Asia and elsewhere. These unprecedented pressures add to the need to maintain the highest vigil against COVID-19. Unsurprisingly, the biggest cities, with a legacy of market-driven housing policies, unplanned densification, rampant pollution and poor health-care access are red zones, with large infection clusters. Their decay is marked by the absence of usable commons, including pavements in normally crowded localities, making it difficult to maintain distancing. This is an appropriate moment to start repairing that damage. What the public must be told emphatically is that the relaxation of the lockdown is not a return to life as it existed before the coronavirus. It is a new reality, one that calls for safe, measured activity.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||India and Nepal||King Mahendra, who recently set himself up as interim Chairman of his own Council of Ministers, has now appointed a Royal Council under his son and heir, Prince Birendra, to look after routine State affairs during his convalescence. The King is reported to be recovering from an attack of chicken-pox. King Mahendra is the fountain of all power in Nepal, and he is of the opinion that the panchayati system alone is fitted to his country. But there are demands from certain sections of his people for some modifications at least in the three-tier system of panchayat elections and for more civil liberties. The King may eventually have to satisfy these demands. Relations between India and Nepal have been passing through a difficult stage in recent months and Indian personnel who had been doing useful work in that kingdom are being progressively withdrawn. Indian wireless operators from eight checkposts on the Nepal-Tibetan border have returned home and others will return by the end of this year.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Khilafat and non co-operation.||At the request of the Madras Khilafat Committee, Mr. C. Rajagopalachariar addressed a political meeting of Hindus and Mohammedans on the subject of the “Khilafat and non co-operation”. Mr. Rajagopalachariar, who spoke for nearly an hour and a half, devoted a good portion of his speech to answer certain adverse criticisms made by Mr. C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar and Dr. Subramania Aiyar in the volumes of the “New India” paper in respect of the Resolution on Non Co-operation passed at the Khilafat Conference held recently in this city. The speaker said that he agreed to the view expressed by Dr. Subramania Aiyar “that the interests of India are inevitably bound up with the maintenance of British power as long as it is possible to preserve it by every legitimate means,” but he protested emphatically against his statement “that I cannot as a Hindu subject of the Empire consent to co-operate with other subjects in it who would seek to destroy the British power on grounds not strictly connected with the Indian interests.” Far from Muslim British subjects in this country seeking to destroy the British power, they sought to get the British Government resolve the Khilafat problem so as to continue to maintain their power.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Look before you leap||We are going through challenging times. There is correction in the equity market, defaults in debt funds and even issues with certain banks. Many investors are wondering what is ‘safe.’ Nothing has changed fundamentally in our economy or the financial markets. Due to COVID-19, economic growth has been impacted, but we will come back over a period of time. There is no reason to suspect something is going wrong with investments in general. To put the current situation in perspective: the equity market, in particular, the global markets, pre-COVID-19, had a significant run up. There was a lot of surplus liquidity floating around (there still is) and that pushed up prices in equity markets in advanced economies. In India, the equity market had moved up but more at the index level (Nifty, Sensex) and in large cap stocks. The broad market, taking all listed stocks into consideration, had not moved up as much. After the pandemic, the sharp correction has been inevitable as advanced economies are staring at a recession. With markets being interlinked, the correction had to happen in India as well. The defaults in debt funds happened due to multiple reasons, the major one being the cleaning up of the system. Earlier, the practice of ever-greening was rampant i.e. granting one more loan so that an existing loan does not go bad. With stricter regulations, including the IBC, some companies were taken to the NCLT. The risk in debt in still there as the economy has slowed down but it is not so alarming as to make one exit all one’s debt investments. For now, due to the challenging situation, the government is supportive and going slow on entrepreneurs. Issues in banks are specific to a few lenders. The macro issue due to higher NPAs and consequent losses have been addressed by the infusion of capital by the government. Certain banks had supressed NPA information earlier, which is coming to light now, leading to issues. Concerns due to the reasons mentioned above and their impact on your investments are natural. It is in human nature to make an investment without caring about risk factors. Afterwards, when something breaks out, people tend to over-react to the risks by moving out of the investment at the wrong time (when prices are low) or trying to pin the blame on somebody. What should you do? First, decide which asset categories you want to invest in. The investment avenues are equity stocks, debt i.e. bonds and, to a limited extent, other investments such as gold and real estate. You may invest either directly i.e. purchase shares or bonds, or, do it through a vehicle such as mutual funds. Every investment avenue has its own worth, return potential and risk factors. You should understand these before you make the investment so that you know what you are getting into and will not be taken by surprise later on. If you are investing through an adviser, ask questions and understand the downside, i.e. potential correction such as the one happening in the equity market now. If you are managing investments yourself, you have to do the research and convince yourself about what you are getting into. [About] 30% correction in the equity market is not unheard of in history; the question is whether you are aware of it and mentally prepared for it. Defaults in bonds is a potential risk; what is happening over the last one-and-half years is on the higher side and unnerving investors. Once you decide which asset you want to invest in, decide how much to invest and into which category. Certain investments have a higher potential for uneven returns such as equity. If you have a longer period to stay invested in, you can cross over the volatile phases and reap the returns. It would be a wrong decision to exit from equity at this juncture, just because prices have come down. Rather, lower prices are a reason to buy more. Growth potential remains The growth potential of the Indian economy remains the same, only that there is a dull phase till we come back from the lockdown. In assets such as equity, you should keep as much as you can for a long period of time, without worrying about day-to-day returns. For debt investments, which is preferably done through the mutual fund route, there are risks of volatility and default. You have to choose the fund category accordingly, so that you understand the risk-return profile of that fund. Your allocation to debt funds should be as much as you can keep for the appropriate period, which is less than equities. Gold, as an asset, does not produce anything; its value increases in times of uncertainty like war or a pandemic. Hence, the allocation of your funds to gold should be of a lower proportion. Your investments should be productive, not just depending on uncertainties to prolong. If you raise the concerns before making the investments, you can save yourself the hassles of agony on negative returns in a particular phase or defaults in debt, and sleep peacefully. The other aspect you have to take care of is the communication gap between you and your services provider. You are investing your hard-earned money and you have to be clear about what you are getting into. For this, you have to ask the relevant questions and convince yourself: why it is suitable for you; how long you have to stay invested; and what the potential for negative surprises is. The only reason to exit an investment prematurely is if the nature of the investment itself is changing, which is not the case now.  (The author is founder, wiseinvestor.in )
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Mixed picture for gold, silver||There was a strong uptrend in the early part of April that pushed the price of Comex gold to seven-year high on April 14. The recovery in the equity markets in the latter half of April played a key role in capping the rise in precious metals. As a result, they remained largely range bound in the second half of the month. Comex gold gained 6.1% in April to settle at $1,694.2 an ounce while Comex silver, too, gained by 5.2% to settle at $14.9 an ounce. In the domestic market, gold futures at MCX gained 3.9% in April to settle at Rs. 44,906 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures gained 4% in April to close at Rs. 41,390 per kg. In the short-term, Comex gold is likely to remain in the range of $1,650-1,800 zone. A strong breakout from the extremes of this range would set the tone for the next move in gold. Above $1,800, gold price could rally to $1,860-1,870 an ounce. On the other hand, a fall below $1,650 would be a sign of weakness and a further slide to $1,1550-1,580 is likely. Comex silver has a strong resistance at the $16.8-17 zone. A move above $17 would be a sign of strength and the price could then rise to the subsequent target of $17.8-18.2 range. A fall below $14 would indicate weakness and silver could then slide to $12.4-12.8 zone. As long as $14 is not breached, there would a case for a rally to $17.8-18. MCX gold futures ruled firm in April and also achieved the earlier mentioned target of Rs. 44,800-Rs. 45,000. The short-term outlook is positive and a breakout past Rs. 46,800 would push the MCX gold price to the short-term target of Rs. 47,800-49,000. The trend would turn weak if the price falls below Rs. 44,000 per 10 gm. MCX silver, too, edged past the earlier mentioned target of Rs. 43,500. The short-term outlook is positive, and the price could move up to Rs. 47,500-48,000 range per kg. A breakout above the immediate resistance at Rs. 45,000 would strengthen the positive view. A drop below Rs. 39,500 would be a sign of weakness and reduce the possibility of a rally to Rs. 47,500-48,000. To summarise, precious metals presen a mixed picture. While the prices of gold and silver are stuck in a range in the international markets, the short-term outlook in domestic markets is relatively positive. ( The author is a Chennai-based analyst / trader. The views and opinions featured in this column are based on the analysis of short-term price movements in gold and silver futures at Comex and the Multi Commodity Exchange of India. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Long-term investment Q.I am 31 years old and looking for some good investment options on a long-term basis for me and my husband. We can’t have a PPF account as we are NRIs right now. What is the best option for us? Last week, I started investing in Bajaj Allianz Goal Assure on a monthly basis. Is this a good option? Malemnganbi Naorem A.We do not know about your time frame and goal and what plan under the Bajaj Allianz Goal Assure you have chosen. This is a ULIP. So, if your primary purpose is to build wealth, you have to make sure the fund is performing well. Ask your adviser/agent to send regular updates on the growth of your money. If you find the performance not up to the mark in five years compared with mutual funds, consider stopping SIPs then. Try not to invest in bundled insurance products unless you are sure you understand all the features and costs. As for other investment options, your time frame is paramount in deciding the risk you can handle. Having invested in a ULIP, I am assuming that you are willing to take market risks. If you are an NRI outside U.S./Canada, you can consider some exposure to index funds or ETFs in India. There are funds on the bellwether indices such as the Nifty 50, Next 50 or Nifty 500. You can own a mix of these for the equity component of your portfolio. This should constitute a long-term portfolio for the next 5-10 years, with regular SIPs to average the cost. For the debt component, for the next 1-1.5 years, the low interest rate notwithstanding, consider NRE deposits in large private or public banks. We may see smaller banks coming under pressure post COVID-19 and hence, you need to be careful with the choice of banks. This is not a time to chase returns in deposits. Look for safety. Lock into shorter tenures (1-1.5 years and not more). If you have a demat account, you can also check with your broker if they offer government securities (called gilts) and you can invest in those for the long term. Any top-rated PSU bonds (nothing other than PSU) maturing in 3-4 years, traded in the market, will also be the options if your broker will help you with the same. If you are based out of the U.S./Canada, your investment options are quite restricted here. It would be better for you to seek the advice of a fee-based investment adviser who is also familiar with the U.S. security and tax laws. Retiring from the Army Q.I am retiring from the Indian armed forces at 35. I will get pension and some lump sum in the form of PF, gratuity and other dues. Where and how should I invest my money? Ratul Basumatary A.We are assuming that you will take up some employment and have some regular income or that your pension will be sufficient for regular expenses. In that case, you can invest this sum for the long term for any goal you may have, including retirement from your next career, a couple of decades later. If you are very conservative and only safety matters, then consider large pubic or private bank deposits, post office time deposits and deposits with large NBFCs like HDFC or Sundaram Finance. Lock into these for only 1-1.5 years as rates are low now. You can renew them when rates go up a year or two later. If you can take some risks, then our suggestion would be that you park 20-30% of your corpus in equity index funds such as Nifty 50 or Nifty 500 for a minimum of 7-10 years. You can also park 5-10% of this in Indian funds that invest in U.S. indices such as the S&P 500 or Nasdaq 100. This will help provide exposure to the U.S. markets, too, by just investing in rupees. Use a systematic investment plan to invest in these over the next 1-1.5 years and don’t let the market ups and downs worry you. Make sure 70% of your money is in safe in deposits. You can also consider the RBI Taxable Bond available with all major banks. Do not be lured by any high interest rates in deposits. Over the next 1-2 years, high interest will carry far higher risks.  (The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
04 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘2021 WC is pretty much open’||India ODI captain Mithali Raj believes the pause in sporting activity due to the coronavirus pandemic has evened out the competition ahead of the 2021 Women’s World Cup in New Zealand. With lockdowns in place almost everywhere in the world, sport finds itself in limbo, with games suspended and strict physical distancing norms in place. On hold “Access to gyms is restricted and play has been put on hold. So the 2021 World Cup is pretty much open and there are no favourites,” Mithali told Sportstar in an Instagram live session. She said that the players were in regular touch with coach W.V. Raman and the support staff to devise training routines that will suit their requirements. “Some of us have running space while others like me have to manage within the restricted spaces indoors, so our trainers are adapting routines for us. W.V. Raman(sir) is trying to be creative with our skill training regimen. It is difficult because irrespective of how much we train indoors, we need to get out onto the ground to be fully prepared,” Mithali said. Relying on experience The 37-year-old announced her retirement from T20 cricket last year to prolong her ODI career. On her priorities in the run-up to 2021, she said: “Fitness, at my age, is something I need to consciously and constantly keep up. I know I can’t forget my skill — I still have some batting in me. I might need a few sessions to get my rhythm going.” Mithali has enlisted the assistance of her watchman and his son in her daily cricket practice. “I get them to bowl to me with a tennis ball or I use a hanging ball. It’s nowhere close to a regular routine at the nets, but it keeps me going with my basics and helps me clock some batting time,” the Hyderabad-based cricketer added.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Travelling with a physio has prolonged my career: Bopanna||Behind every journey to the top, there is a fascinating story. Former World No. 3 doubles star, French Open mixed doubles champion and Asian Games gold medallist Rohan Bopanna gave an account of his professional journey in conversation with coach Sureshkumar Sonachalam, during the webinar presented by the All India Tennis Association (AITA) in collaboration with the Sports Authority of India (SAI). Early hiccups The 40-year-old Bopanna recalled how he was not selected for Britannia Tennis Amritraj (BAT) scheme in Chennai, and could not win a scholarship for the Batra Centre run by coach Nandan Bal in Pune. Having started playing tennis at 11, and reaching a career-best rank of 601 among juniors, Bopanna did well to shine on the professional tour as a late bloomer. He reached a best singles rank of 213. He played some vibrant matches against some of the world’s best players in the Davis Cup and on the Tour. “I didn’t have tennis-specific fitness those days,” Bopanna said. On the importance of a physical trainer, he said: “Travelling with a physio has prolonged my career. I was in Stuttgart last year, practising with Denis Shapovalov, against Alex de Minaur and his partner. I wondered what was I doing with guys half my age. Shapovalov moves on court so well that I may break my ankle if I tried the same.” Looking back, Bopanna fondly recollected his five-year training stint in Pune, and how his dad had given him a bicycle to commute about 15 kilometres every day for tennis. “My mom and dad said yes or no together. They had clarity. After four years, I convinced my dad to give me a motorcycle,” said Bopanna. Expressing gratitude to Mahesh Bhupathi’s father, C.G.K. Bhupathi, for bolstering his game later in Bengaluru, Bopanna remembered how the confidence in his new-found game had helped him beat Nitten Kirrtane in the final for his first big title at the age of 21. “Then I got into the Davis Cup team in 2002, and kept getting better. In the juniors, you just focus on fundamentals, strength and movement. I had the game style to compete at the highest level, but was half step slow,” Bopanna admitted. From pushing the ball to swinging at it freely, and developing a kick-serve, Bopanna improved his game, for a dramatic change in fortunes.
04 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||S.L. Narayanan takes honours||GM S.L. Narayanan won Chess Kerala’s Checkmate COVID-19 international online blitz tournament here on Saturday. Narayanan, who was tied with Commonwealth champion GM Abhijeet Gupta with nine points, won the title by virtue of a better progressive score. Narayanan and Abhijeet Gupta donated their prizemoney of Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 8,000 respectively to the Kerala Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. “What a lovely event Checkmate Covid-19 was! Glad I could win it! But the best part is we all managed to chip in for a good cause. Thanks to Chess Kerala for the initiative, the entire proceeds will go to distress relief fund. Let’s fight this together” tweeted Narayanan soon after his victory. GM Renato Terry (Peru) and IM Ravi Teja came third and fourth respectively with 8.5 points each. The 10-round Swiss event attracted 429 players from 16 countries. The tournament collected nearly Rs. 3.90 lakh as donation and the entire amount will be given to CMDRF by Chess Kerala.  Final standings: 1. S.L. Narayanan (9 points), 2. Abhijeet Gupta (9), 3. Renato Terry (Peru) (8.5), 4. Ravi Teja (8.5), 5. Arjun Erigaisi (8).   6. Vaibhav Suri (8), 7. Abhimanyu Puranik (8), 8. Nihal Sarin (8), 9. Runak Sadhwani (8), 10. R.R. Laxman (8).
04 May 2020||Coimbatore,||Nervous wait for Jerlin||When 16-year-old Jerlin Anika clinched four medals, including a gold, at the World deaf youth badminton championship in Taiwan last year, her father Jayaratchagan shed tears of joy. This time, however, it’s bitter-sweet as his little one is unable to practise for the Summer Deaflympics to be held in Brazil next year. “A medal for the country is a challenge that I have taken in my hands. It is something very important for her. We have been working for hours together in a bid to achieve this dream. But COVID-19 has crushed our hopes,” he said. Determined father However, Jayaratchagan is determined to make it happen. “I still believe things will return to normal soon. I want to see her smashing shuttles on the court again,” he added. The class ten student of Avvai Corporation GHSS in Madurai, however, is sure to face some ring rust. “It takes time for an able-bodied player to strike form after a break. In my daughter’s case, it’s going to take even longer,” he said. But he believes her coach T. Saravanan will work his magic and Jerlin has been sincerely following the fitness exercises given by the former. Jayaratchagan has plans to send Jerlin for a three-month training to Malaysia, but that may not happen given the current situation. But Jerlin isn’t bothered. After dedicating all her time and effort to the sport over the years, she can now finally enjoy her time with family. After all, she has already seen the big stage, at the 2017 Deaflympics. The expectations may have now gone up, but Jerlin’s many sacrifices on and off the court will keep her in good stead as she chases glory.
04 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Plan to resume national camps from May end, says Rijiju||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Sunday said the Government would allow elite athletes to resume their training at the earliest in order to keep them ready for future competitions. “We are planning out a way to start functioning as soon as possible. I thought we should first allow practice for athletes who have qualified for the Olympics and those participating in the qualifiers or important championships. “We can’t open all the coaching centres, so we will allow only elite athletes [to train]. Junior camps have to wait for some time as safety will be the priority,” said Rijiju, at a video conference attended by 140 boxers and coaches. Top pugilists, including Mary Kom, Amit Panghal, Pooja Rani, Simranjit Kaur, Lovlina Borgohain, Vikas Krishan, Satish Kumar and Manish Kaushik, took part. Rijiju expressed confidence that boxing — nine Indians have won Olympic quotas already — would help the country shine at the Tokyo Games next year. Indian boxers will fight for four more in upcoming qualifying events.
04 May 2020||Melbourne,||CA secures $50 million loan as safety cover||Cricket Australia has secured a loan of $50 million, an upfront payment as part of a larger $200 million credit, which it has sought to cover the losses if India fails to tour the country later this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to a report published in The Sydney Morning Herald , stakeholders have been informed that the loan with the Commonwealth Bank is a “done deal”. More questions However, it raised fresh questions about CA’s decision to stand down 80% of its staff due to financial crisis. CA stood down more than 200 staff on 20% pay until the end of June with chief executive Kevin Roberts fearing they might run out of money by August if the drastic cuts were not made. The decision, which had saved CA about $3 million, is in question now with the governing body securing $50 million loan. Staggering CA is staring at losing a staggering A$300 million in the wake of the pandemic and India’s four-Test tour in December-January could provide relief to the struggling body.
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘WTC points system is ridiculous’||West Indies fast bowling great Michael Holding has termed the World Test Championship’s points system as “ridiculous”, where some of the Tests will be rendered inconsequential once teams realise that they can’t finish in top two in the points table. As per the current points system, the value for each Test match win in a two-match series is 60 points a game. However, if it’s a five-match series, the value of a Test match win is reduced to 24. So basically, a team can gain up to 120 points from a series, regardless of the number of matches. The top two qualify for the final. “It doesn’t work,” Holding told Wisden Cricket Monthly during a round table when asked if the Test championship was achieving what it was designed for. “First of all, the points system is ridiculous. You can’t play five Test matches and get the same amount of points if you play two Test matches. “And secondly, at some point you’re going to have teams who know they cannot get to the final and so those Test matches aren’t going to be all that entertaining. People know it’s just another game.”
04 May 2020||ROME,||Italy gives Serie A clubs some hope||Italy offered Serie A clubs a glimmer of hope on Sunday after it said footballers could take part in individual training sessions as the strictest Coronavirus lockdown measures begin to ease. The Interior Ministry’s go-ahead for players to attend their club’s training facilities offered fans in the football-mad country the first sign that the 2019-20 season might yet be saved. Matches were abandoned on March 9. Some of the bigger clubs with title aspirations from the less affected regions have been talking about going back to training for weeks. But Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte only allowed teams to resume organised activities on May 18 — a date that might push back this season’s completion into the start of the next. Several regions that have avoided the worst of the pandemic have taken matters into their own hands and allowed clubs to open their facilities for players to train on their own. Teams such as Napoli and Parma have followed the lead of Lazio — trailing leader Juventus by just a point — and gave the nod for players to return.
04 May 2020||PARIS,||Duplantis and Lavillenie share honours||Three of the best pole vaulters of all time went head-to-head from their back gardens in a competition on Sunday. World record holder Armand Duplantis and former Olympic champion Renaud Lavillenie cleared five metres 36 times in half an hour, while world champion Sam Kendricks managed 26 successful attempts. The event saw Lavillenie competing from his home in Clermont-Ferrand, France, Swedish star Duplantis in Lafayette, Louisiana and Kendricks in Oxford, Mississippi.
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen to face Nakamura in final||Magnus Carlsen bounced back to win the last two games and pipped Ding Liren at the post with a 2.5-1.5 verdict on way to the final of his signature event — Magnus Carlsen Invitational Online chess tournament — on Saturday. In the final, Carlsen will take on Hikaru Nakamura.   The result: Semifinal: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ding Liren (Chn) 2.5-1.5 .
04 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Indian-owned company develops test kit||After the United States, Italy and Europe, India might soon see the deployment of antibody ELISA kits to know if a person has actually recovered from the COVID-19 coronavirus without even knowing that he or she had been infected, thus returning to a normal life without restrictions. The kits will be put to use after they receive the approval of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the national regulatory body for pharmaceuticals and medical devices. They have been developed by scientists from India, the U.S. and the U.K. for Erba Mannheim, a company founded by Mumbai-based businessman Sunil Vazirani. ‘Not going away’ Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Vazirani, who started TRANSASIA Bio-Medicals in 1979, long before he set up Erba Mannheim Germany in 1995, said that the world was realising the coronavirus was not going away without a vaccine. “Our kits help identify individuals who had COVID-19, were asymptomatic and recovered without even knowing. They can thus confidently return to work and bring back normalcy to life, while reducing the stress on the frontline warriors," Mr. Vazirani said. Italy is testing 5 lakh people a day using the kits developed by Erba Mannheim. Each kit can be used to perform 100 tests, Mr. Vazirani said. The kits took a month-and-a-half to develop. After first receiving the European CE approval, Erba Mannheim also received the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s nod for the advanced method of testing antibodies, which it claims is much faster than the rapid testing kits from China. Mr. Vazirani claims that his COVID-19 antibody ELISA kits can test 100 samples an hour, with an accuracy rate of 98%. Research tells us that the SARS-CoV-2 viral antigens stimulate the body’s immune system to produce antibodies that can be detected with IgM and IgG antibody tests. IgM is produced first and is detectable during early onset of the disease. IgG is produced later and is maintained for long-term immunity. ERBA Mannheim’s kit, called ErbaLisa® COVID-19 ELISA kits, can detect both antibodies. Through group company TRANSASIA India, Mr. Vazirani’s team has applied for permissions to use the kits in India, for which 500 sample kits have been imported. “Antibody tests are important to do. India imported rapid test kits from China which, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research, have a 6-30% [rate of] accuracy,” he explained. A team that includes Drugs Controller General of India Dr. V G Somani and others is looking into approvals for the antibody kits. Asked how many people could actually be infected with COVID-19, Mr. Vazirani said, “It is anybody’s guess, but 20-30 times more than those [who have been] tested have been infected. Our understanding is that 80% of those infected don’t show symptoms.” Existing plants Once the approval is obtained, Mr. Vazirani plans to produce the kits at existing TRANSASIA India plants in Daman and Sikkim, which will further the setting up of a COVID-19 unit making only testing kits for the virus. This plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Med Tech Zone is backed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and is awaiting necessary regulatory approvals and on-ground permissions. For the future, Mr. Vazirani believes that the kits will help individuals test themselves, and also help companies test their employees in a big way. “Everybody is worried. This is an easy and affordable test. It will help bring back confidence in people — that they have the antibodies. ,” Mr. Vazirani said.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 07:29 IST,||Sudoku - May 4, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The new normal||COVID-19 is bringing about a whole set of new challenges in every possible realm; higher education being just one. Given the rapidly evolving situation around the pandemic, has this forced shift from offline to online mode of teaching-learning given us a peek into the reality ahead? How will COVID-19 transform the future of teaching-learning? Technology-enabled teaching is definitely the future we are looking towards, but will it be easy to make this transition? How should different stakeholders contribute to ensure a smooth transition? It is important to identify key challenges for students and teachers in the current scenario. Once identified, academic leadership and the government can address these through innovations in focus areas. Here is a list: 1Semester completion Challenge:Since neither students nor teachers were prepared for this sudden lockdown, it has become difficult for them to continue as per the original plan.  Focus area: Emphasis should be given to develop a robust plan in order to complete semesters and ensure degree completion of final-year students. The academic plan needs to be modified in order to suit the current situation, changing both teaching and assessment methods. Shift from offline to online methods should be encouraged — building technology infrastructure to deliver content, strengthening the existing Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) content platforms like Swayam, along with promoting innovative personalised teaching-learning platforms, teacher training and student awareness will be key. As a short-term solution, allowing course completion via Swayam as a substitute for course requirements within universities can address this crisis. In the long run, these investments will help ensure personalised teaching-learning in the classroom, along with reducing the workload on the teacher. However, ed-tech models pose a huge scalability challenge given the limited Internet penetration. Hence, a blend of traditional and online methods of teaching-learning could emerge as the more feasible and scalable model. 2Jobs and internship opportunities Challenge:Some companies are rescinding job/internship offers after being negatively impacted by COVID-19. Junior students are finding it harder to find internships, especially foreign research opportunities, which play a key role in interdisciplinary research and exposure to global research facilities.  Focus area: New project opportunities by universities and within government institutions should be floated and due recognition given. In the long run, leadership within universities and government institutions should push policies to motivate and support an entrepreneurial ecosystem within colleges by setting up more innovation and incubation centres, grants/fellowships to pursue start-up ideas and flexible policies for deferred placement for start-up enthusiasts. 3.Psychological disturbance Challenge:It is normal for faculty and students to undergo stress because of the uncertainty they are facing. Not being able to carry on with a set routine will further add to their anxiety and affect their mental health.  Focus area: A proper psychological support system needs to be established through courses/curriculum and training. Focus should be on maintaining mental well-being in these difficult times. 4Innovation through research (COVID-19-related research)  Challenge: Even though many students and faculty are coming together to find a solution to COVID-19, the lack of financial support in the form of a dedicated COVID-19 research grant might hold them back.  Focus area: Faculty and students should be encouraged to undertake research, and proper funding for it should be ensured by the university, industry and government Institutions  (In the long run for non-COVID-related research)   Challenge: Companies might show a lack of interest and funds to sponsor non-COVID-19 research due to a falling economy, and give more preference to COVID-19 research. This can lead to tech research being compromised in the long run.  Focus area: A policy needs to be in place to ensure proper financial support for all kinds of research, whether COVID-19 related or not. The proposed National Research Foundation will address the challenges mentioned above, and it is imperative that it is set up at the earliest. 5Spending on tech infrastructure: Challenge: Universities will suddenly need to invest huge amounts to establish a tech-enabled teaching-learning network . This will be a problem with most private universities who are already asset heavy and hence may hesitate to spend more money during times of recession.  Focus area: Private universities should come up with innovative solutions and use open-source platforms for digital transformation and to build their tech infrastructure. 6Reduced paying capacity of parents Challenge:This will be a time of global recession, with many people experiencing financial difficulties. The gap between private and public mode of education will further increase because of the sudden requirement of a digital facility — creating even more problems for students from middle and lower classes.  Focus area: New avenues for scholarships and loans should be opened, enabling students to complete their higher education, get placed, and repay the loan In short, to move forward post the pandemic phase, it is important to: 1. Build a robust infrastructure for tech-enabled teaching-learning, ensuring both students and teachers are fully equipped for the digital transformation in higher education 2. Create a three-way communication channel between students, teachers and the government, which operates offline and online and bridges the teaching-learning gaps in areas without an Internet/4G access. 3. Relax criteria/policies for universities to offer online and hybrid degrees. This will enable universities to cater to a much wider audience in tier-2 and tier-3 cities, making degree certifications much more economical and logistically easier. 4. Boost counsellor/teacher capacity to provide psychological support within institutions, catering to the growing mental health issues. Teachers should be trained to understand their students’ mental health needs. 5. Build, maintain, and fund entrepreneurial ecosystems in universities, leading to job creation in the short run and boosting the economy in future. 6. Increase upper cap over financial support for biotech research projects, to ensure there is no constraint for students/faculty doing COVID-19 related research. 7. Push collaboration for interdisciplinaryresearch. For example, motivating research across engineering, medical and management, which may bring innovative outcomes. 8. Set up Disaster Management Research Centres. All universities must have a mandatory course on Disaster Management to ensure that everyone is prepared for a sudden crisis like this one and can ensure least damage. We must remember that this is only a phase and this too shall pass. However, we must make sure that it does not create a long-term impact, which is difficult to mend. It will take a huge amount of public and private sector investment, in terms of time and money, to tackle this impending educational crisis.  Disclaimer: Views are personal and do not represent the views of work organisations of the authors.  Purushottam Basava, I.A.S., is PS (Chief of Staff) to Union Minister HRD.basava.ias@gmail.com Smarthveer Sidana is an IIT Delhi alumnus & Harvard HCONF Scholar. smarthveer@gmail.com  It is important to identify key challenges for students and teachers, in the current scenario. Once identified, academic leadership and the government can address these through innovations in focus areas.
04 May 2020||May 04 2020 00:00 IST,||News for you||Virtual classes during COVID-19 shutdown  The COVID-19 outbreak and the resultant uncertainty has impacted schools and educational institutes across India. Rising to the occasion, JD Institute Fashion Technology has announced its full support to students so that the learning does not get affected. Rupal Dalal, executive Director, JD Institute of Fashion Technology, said,“We have taken steps to ensure our students’ safety. Apart from disinfecting classrooms and distributing free masks to staff and helpers, we have started virtual classes for students, where queries are taken online and will continue until authorities announce a return to normal teaching.”  Free bridge courses for PU science students  Deeksha has initiated a free 21-day online bridge course, which helps students who have completed their class X to transition smoothly into PUC science streams. The course focuses on important concepts, problem-solving and formulae in the core subjects of math, physics, chemistry and biology. The course will have six-day, four-hour classes. Post registration, students will be given a login ID and password to the Impartus platform where lectures are taught and later uploaded for access, along with live doubt clarification and homework. To register for the course, call 9513743874. For more details, visit https://www. deekshalearning.com/  Uninterrupted learning for the underprivileged  Social enterprise Avanti recently launched Sankalp, an app to help students from government and Hindi-medium schools to ensure that there are no dropouts from the financially weaker sections. The free-of-cost e-learning facility will not be confined to the COVID-19 lockdown period, and will continue throughout the year as the social enterprise aims to be beneficial to weaker sections. The app integrates math and science curriculum for Hindi-medium government school students between classes IX and XII. For details, visit, https://avanti.in/ .  India’s largest student-managed investment fund  Masters’ Union School of Business, Gurugram, recently announced the launch of The Masters’ Union Investment Fund, which has a corpus of Rs. 5 crore and will invest in real estate, capital markets, derivatives, stressed assets and startups. This idea behind a student-managed fund is to instil portfolio management skills in students as a part of the programme and offer them real-time exposure to different asset classes. The student fund-managers will be mentored by veterans from the industry who are teaching at Masters’ Union. The students will begin investing from November this year, after their first trimester. Forty percent of the fund will be allocated to capital markets (debt, equities, futures), 30% to real estate, and the remaining to startups. For details, visit https://mastersunion.org/
04 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Inside a quarantine centre, a drive to save lives||At the quarantine centre in Sultanpuri, one of facilities where members of the Tablighi Jamaat are being kept, a handful of men can be seen roaming around with their masks on while others sit in the balconies of their rooms, carefully observing every movement outside. A community hall on the premises has been demarcated for blood plasma donation and a queue stretches outside, of men willing to contribute in whichever way possible to save lives. A tall, lean man walks lazily near the hall. When greeted, he identifies himself as Ehtesham Ahmad, a 24-year-old policeman from West Bengal. “I was the first person to donate plasma. It’s the holy month of Ramzan and what can be a better deed than saving someone else’s life,” he says, looking towards the community hall. For Mr. Ehtesham, coming to Nizamuddin in March was just “bad timing”. Recalling his trip, he says he had come to the Nizamuddin police station on an official visit on March 20 and was staying at the police quarters adjacent to the station. “I had gone to a mosque in Nizamuddin to offer namaz on March 23. I hadn’t gone inside the Markaz [Tablighi Jamaat centre] though. I was taken to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital because I had visited the mosque,” he says, adding that he stayed at the hospital for 20 days before being shifted to the Sultanpuri centre. Mr. Ehtesham says he tested positive in the first test but his next two tests were negative. To his surprise, a friend whom he had asked for help was also sent to a quarantine centre in Narela. Mr. Ehtesham blames himself for his friend’s ordeal. “I had asked him [the friend] to pick up my belongings from the police quarters. Because of that he was also taken and quarantined. He doesn’t even know why he is there because he has tested negative throughout.” Mr. Ehtesham says he also sought help from his department in West Bengal to reach home in Kolkata but was informed that he can only come back after the authorities in Delhi relieve him. He blames the media for the “negative image” of those associated with the Tablighi Jamaat. “The media has hyped it. Cases are increasing even now when the Tabhighi Jamaat members are recovering,” he says.  ‘Time to amend things’ A few metres ahead, a man wearing a chequered lungi , a T-shirt and a skullcap, stands in the long queue of likely donors. After ticking off several boxes on the requirement list, he is ready for the tests. Sharfuddin, 49, works as a technician in government departments in Port Blair. An ardent follower, he says he came to the Nizamuddin centre on February 15 and stayed there till he was evacuated on March 29 and taken to the Lok Nayak Hospital. “Maulana Saad sahab [Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi] has asked us to donate plasma. People want to harm him by spreading rumours about Tablighi Jamaat,” he says. “Whatever happened was wrong, it shouldn’t have happened, but this is the time to amend things,” he says. Mr. Sharfuddin was brought to the Sultanpuri facility on April 19. He too tested positive once and then tested negative twice. His fourth test report is awaited. Back home in Port Blair, his two sons and wife are waiting for him. He speaks to them on the phone every day but doesn’t know when and how he will be able to meet them. First visit Standing a little away from the crowd, Saleemuddin, a 50-year-old resident of Allahabad, looks agitated when asked about his story. “This was my first visit to the Nizamuddin centre. I am an illiterate person. My elders were coming here and they asked me to join them. I came here as late as March 21,” he says, adding that the centre was shut on March 23 and he got stuck. On March 29, he was shifted to the Lok Nayak Hospital and then to this facility in Sultanpuri. “I came to Delhi for the first time, didn’t know something like this would happen to me. I will not come again,” he says, adding that he can’t wait to go back home to his wife and four sons. A power loom worker, Mr. Saleemuddin says he donated plasma a day earlier. “I was told that donating blood will help cure another person, so I gave.” Asked about plasma therapy, he says he had no knowledge of what was being taken out from his body till a doctor told him that it was plasma and not blood. On his life inside the quarantine centre, he says he spends his time praying and watching life pass by from the windows and balconies. “People here treat us well. They maintain a distance. There is a person assigned for each building who leaves breakfast, lunch and dinner at our door and attends to our needs. They have given us electric kettles, biscuits and fruits in our twin-sharing accommodations,” says Mr. Saleemuddin. Stuck for no reason There are also those who are spending time in quarantine for no reason. Ibrahim, a senior citizen, complains that he never tested positive for the virus but was still moved to the facility and there are many like him. “We don’t know what’s happening with us.” He says irrespective of the scenario and the presumptions about the Tablighi Jamaat outside, over 750 people from the community queued up to donate plasma at the community hall the evening before. “So many foreigners were willing to donate plasma but they were not allowed. Minimum requirement even for an Indian is to test negative twice, be between 18 and 60 years of age and have no complications in complete blood count report,” he says. Dr. Ishrat Kafeel, who is supervising the donation of plasma by members of Tablighi Jamaat at three quarantine centres in Delhi, says his interaction with them sometimes leaves him surprised. “I was holding a conference with the donors at the quarantine facility in Narela. I asked them, ‘Plasma therapy is a clinical trial, it’s Ramzan and you’re fasting, yet you are so willingly waiting for your turn. Why does this matter to you?’ A man from the centre, about 70 years old, told me, ‘Because it’s not about how much I give or what I give but how much love I put into giving. Even if the last drop of my blood can save someone’s life, I am more than ready to give it, without question and without hesitation’.”
04 May 2020||New Delhi,||Under lockdown, life in Nizamuddin||Bang next to the Hazrat Nizamuddin police station, a lane going towards the basti is barricaded and guarded by CRPF officials. A huge white building hidden behind lush green trees is visible. It’s the infamous Nizamuddin centre where members of the Tablighi Jamaat gathered and were then being villifed for a massive spike in COVID-19 cases. After news of the outbreak from Nizamuddin in late March, Nizamuddin residents have been living behind the barricades and for most the world outside the area has been reduced to an apprehensive stare. As this reporter walked from the police station, to the left and the right, all entry and exit points could be seen heavily barricaded with thick ropes covering the little space left uncovered by the barricades. From behind one barricade, Shamim Bano, a 30-year-old resident of the Basti’s Nizam Nagar area, who used to work as a sanitation worker in the UPSC Building on Shahjahan Road, was seen walking around, tragedy writ on her face. When asked, she began to share an ordeal she won’t forget — the birth of her grandson about two weeks ago. “My daughter went into labour. I called for ambulance but no one picked up. I went to the police station and they told me to call PCR. Though the van came in 20 minutes, my grandson was already born. She still hasn’t got injected with tetanus,” she said. Ms. Shamim said that while there were medical shops opening inside the basti , there were no doctors available inside 24x7. “The medical shops open only for a limited period of time, about two hours each in the morning and evening. Only basic medicines are available there. No clinics are open here and no doctors are available. There’s a dispensary accessible for us where doctors come for a particular time,” she said. Inside the basti — where the houses are as small as the size of a large trunk with seven-eight family members cramped — is a contrast to the empty spaces outside. Grocery, chicken, fruits and vegetables vendors have their shops and stalls open as a loudspeaker message from Delhi Police runs on loop asking people not to step outside without a purpose. “There is no problem for fruits and vegetables for buyers inside because we bring them from Okhla Mandi every morning after standing in queue for four hours, which is an issue for us vendors. We have been issued travel passes for movement,” said Mohammed Azhar, a vegetable vendor. Constant vigil Assistant Sub Inspector Rakesh Kumar holds a stick and asks people to remain in their houses. But how could he prevent children from walking into public toilets? Most houses in Nizam Nagar are dependent on public toilets, which are cleaned by the municipal corporation workers in the morning. However, Mr. Kumar keeps a vigil on those moving about aimlessly and ensures they go home. A shop owner sitting inside his grocery store, who gave his name as Raju said that over the last one month, there had been no change or relaxation in the restrictions inside the basti due to which the situation is under control. Police sources said that the last person who was reported positive was on April 24 Restricted entry The famous Nizamuddin Dargah also has its doors shut for public, but three persons are allowed to offer prayers every day inside this Dargah and about 18 other mosques in the area. The three persons sanitise themselves and pray every day, locals said. Altamish Nizami, Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya’s ancestral descendant and also member of the Dargah Committee, said that everything was available inside and even home deliveries were happening. He also said that during Ramzan security personnel have allowed people to move around “only a little” in the evening while breaking the fast. “There’s absolute restriction on entry and exit but for people residing inside, they are allowed to step out a little for opening their fast in the evening,” he said. Mr. Nizami also shared how the Dargah Committee is preparing and distributing about 500 food packets every evening for the needy. “Every year, about 2,000 people break their fast at the Dargah and we prepare food for them. This year, we can’t host them but still we are sending food,” he said. When talking about the religious centre, several residents were sympathetic towards the members of the Tablighi Jamaat. “They were evacuated but not all of them were infected. They should not be villified like this,” Mohammed Shahnawaz, another resident of the area, added.
04 May 2020||Nuh,||‘The infection is not about a religion, community or nation’||RASEEL RAHMAN   39, Kozhikode (Kerala)  How did it feel to become a “corona warrior” after being labelled“corona spreader” by sections of the media? Raseel Rahman chuckled: “It’s all people’s choice. We (Tablighis) don’t want any label.” He said some people formed an opinion about the Tablighi Jamaat without knowing what had actually happened at the Nizamuddin centre in the days leading up to announcement of the nationwide lockdown on March 24. Having recovered from COVID-19, Raseel, from Kerala’s Kozhikode, was under quarantine at Nuh’s Malabh Polytechnic College till May 2. A Tablighi Jamaat worker, the 39-year-old is one of those who have offered to donate their plasma for the treatment of those infected with the deadly virus. The Haryana government, however, is yet to initiate the process of collecting plasma. Raseel said his decision to donate plasma was not to seek anyone’s approval, but for the “pleasure of his creator”. “Whatever we [the Tablighis] do, whether in public or in private, is not to show off or to earn a label. We want the pleasure of our creator. This is our only focus,” he said. Scheduled to return to Kozhikode on March 30, the commerce graduate was left stranded due to the sudden lockdown. Out to propagate the Tablighi Jamaat’s message in Nuh, Raseel voluntarily went to a government health camp in Bisru village on March 30. Along with some other Tabligh workers, he was taken to Malabh Polytechnic College the next day and then to Al Afai Civil Hospital on being diagnosed with influenza-like Illness symptoms. The results for the test came two days later after a swab was taken on April 1 and Raseel, along with three others, tested positive. He was then taken to Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College and discharged on April 16. MOHAMMED ALAMGIR 32, Sitamarhi (Bihar) A footwear seller from Bihar’s Sitamarhi district, Mohammad Alamgir, also quarantined at the Malabh Polytechnic College in Nuh, said he felt good about his decision to donate plasma since someone could benefit. The 32-year-old said he had not watched television since he reached Delhi for a Tabligh programme on March 10 and did not know what people had to say about the cluster of cases emanating from the Tabligh’s Nizamuddin centre, but “we are sorry if we have caused illness to anyone”. Alamgir said he had reached Pinangwan in Nuh on March 11 for a 40-day Tabligh programme after spending a day at the Nizamuddin centre before he tested positive for COVID-19 on April 6. He said he reached Punhana camp after the sarpanch told him about the administration’s directions and was found infected along with three more people in his group of 11. Raring to go back home, Alamgir said that he would abide by the directions of the government and the doctors. SOHRABH KHAN 70, Nuh (Haryana) A retired Central Reserve Police Force Assistant Commandant, Chaudhary Hazi Sohrabh Khan is waiting to return home after his quarantine ends on May 5. He had gone to Malaysia along with six more people from Nuh for a Tablighi Jamaat congregation and tested positive on his return. He also spent two days at the Nizamuddin centre on his return from Malaysia on March 17 and was tested only after 10 days. He has now offered to donate his plasma. A resident of Siroli village in Nuh, Sohrabh said it was wrong to single out a community for the spread of the infection since it was not about a religion, a community or a nation. “It is just because we were travelling that we contracted the virus. Lakhs of people have been infected and they are from different religions. An illness cannot be associated with one community,” said Sohrabh. Sohrabh, 70, said he had donated his blood on several occasions earlier during his long government service and was willing to do it again. He was hopeful that people’s opinion about the Tablighis in particular and Muslims in general would change as misconceptions disappear.
