04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Coronavirus toll touches 62; revised testing norms likely||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in the country with 336 new cases reported in the past 24 hours taking the total tally to 2,547, while 18 more deaths were reported, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. India has registered 62 deaths due to COVID-19 so far, while 162 patients have been discharged. Nationwide, 66,000 samples have been tested so far, which includes repeat tests on patients to confirm health status. “India, due to its early measures, had been able to keep its COVID-19 numbers low but one incident has caused our numbers to rise, which highlights the need for absolute compliance. The 647 coronavirus cases reported over the last two days are linked to the religious gathering of the Islamic sect Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. These cases are spread across 14 States. Some deaths have also been linked to this,” Joint Secretary at the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said at the Ministry’s daily press briefing. According to reports from State Health Departments, the total number of confirmed cases nationwide was 2,947 with 2,655 active cases. The death toll rose to 83. Maharashtra continued to report the most cases at 417, followed by Tamil Nadu and Delhi where numbers have spiked to 411 and 386 repectively. Kerala reported 286 cases, while Telangana reported 229 cases. Despite the rise in cases, Mr. Agarwal said the revised testing guideline is still under consideration and would be released by Saturday. He added that the Ministry’s newly launched app — Aarogya Setu — had been downloaded by 30 lakh people. Rapid antibody test In an interim advisory, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recommended the use of the rapid antibody test in the country’s coronavirus hotspots. The decision was taken at an emergency meeting on Thursday of the National Task Force dealing with the COVID-19 crisis. “Population in hotspot areas may be tested using rapid antibody test. Antibody positives to be confirmed by RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) using throat/nasal swab, and antibody negatives to be quarantined at home,” the ICMR advisory said. The official said the Health Ministry was in touch with the States to trace, track, isolate and treat cases.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM: on Sunday, light lamps for 9 minutes from 9 p.m.||On the 10th day of the nationwide lockdown imposed due to the pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the countrymen to demonstrate a collective will to fight coronavirus, a token demonstration of which, he said, would be to light candles, lamps and hold mobile phone torches for nine minutes from 9 p.m. on April 5. In an address to the nation, he noted, “There is no bigger force than our conviction and resolve. There is nothing we cannot achieve with these forces.” Mr. Modi made it very clear that the coronavirus threat could only be combated with the full cooperation of the people, and that the collective strength was what would take the country out of what he termed “darkness that engulfs us” in the form of coronavirus. ‘We are not alone’ The plight of the poor, with the grinding halt of all economic activity, was also foremost in the Prime Minister’s speech. “We have to take our poor brethren towards the light and certainty. To defeat this darkness, we have to shine the light in every direction,” he said. Mr. Modi acknowledged that being under a lockdown could be a lonely experience full of anxiety and assured the people that “we, none of us, are alone” and that the “collective will of 1.3 billion people of India was with us in this time of crisis”. As his earlier exhortation to applaud essential services workers during the Janata Curfew of March 22 saw instances of mass gatherings in some parts of the country, Mr. Modi made it a point to say that nobody should repeat it. “Either stay at your doors, on your balcony, etc., but please do not cross the ‘Laxman Rekha’ of your home,” he said. “Social distancing is the only Ram Baan [weapon] we have to combat coronavirus.”
04 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State’s containment plan working : CM||Kerala’s containment strategy has worked well so far and the State has managed to keep COVID-19 transmission at manageable levels, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Friday. The State’s strategy of strict surveillance, testing and treatment, and clamping down on potential disease transmission through stringent quarantine and contract tracing has been yielding good results, he said, while briefing the media. On Friday, Kerala reported nine new COVID-19 cases, seven of which were from Kasaragod, while one case each was reported from Thrissur and Kannur. The case in Thrissur was that that of one person who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting at Nizamuddin in Delhi. Three Nizamuddin returnees have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. The State has so far reported 295 COVID 19 cases, out of which 251 are under treatment. Mr. Vijayan said the happiest news he had to deliver on Friday was that 14 people who had been under treatment had tested negative for the disease. They included a nurse in Kottayam Government Medical College Hospital, who had contracted the disease during patient care. An elderly couple, 93 and 86 years old, from Pathanamthitta, who had contracted the infection from their son and family who had returned from Italy were discharged on Friday.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC calls for quick end to Kerala-Karnataka border row||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered the Centre, Kerala and Karnataka to confer immediately and “formulate parameters for passage of patients for urgent medical treatment at the interstate border at Talapadi”. The order by a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta came on a series of petitions highlighting Karnataka’s blockade of the border. The blockade, the court was informed, had resulted in deaths as ambulances bound for Mangaluru (in Karnataka) were not being permitted to cross the border. The court listed the case for hearing next on April 7. The order came on petitions to facilitate the free movement of vehicles carrying persons for urgent medical treatment across the border between Kerala and Karnataka (Talapadi). The court, meanwhile, issued formal notice on an appeal filed by Karnataka against the Kerala High Court order of April 1 allowing patients to cross the border for treatment. Karnataka has argued that the blockade was in the interest of public health. The situation regarding coronavirus was “really dire”, it said. Karnataka has warned that opening the blockade would cause a law and order issue as the local population wanted the border to remain sealed. Karnataka argued that Kerala was the “worst-affected” State in the country with nearly 194 coronavirus cases. In this, Kasaragod, adjoining Karnataka, was the “worst-affected” district of Kerala with over a 100 positive cases. The court separately considered a writ petition by Kasargod MP Rajmohan Unnithan for an order to forthwith open the border. He said Karnataka’s blockade was “ill-planned and dangerous” and had already led to the loss of lives.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Teachers find these classes too hot to handle||From teachers struggling with technology to get their online classes going to students playing clips of music or cookery lessons during lectures. These are some of the problems facing colleges that have adopted online tutorials for students after the COVID-19 lockdown. Many of the audio clips of these classes are already doing the rounds on social media and are a source of comic relief. Teachers are heard pleading with students to listen to them while others are threatening to reduce their internal evaluation marks if they continue to disrupt classes. Some of the more popular clips include students playing popular Kannada songs, and an audio of how to make tomato rice in the middle of the lecture. A lecturer of Bangalore University (BU), who has been conducting online classes, is surprised by the level of disturbance in the classes. “When I begin the class, I mute the students. I unmute them later. But in the middle, students unmute themselves and start playing songs from the radio,” he said. A challenge But laughter aside, technical glitches are a challenge. According to the BU lecturer, 25 minutes into the class, the audio malfunctions and students are unable to hear him properly. While the university has stated that these online classes are useful and that professors will be able to complete portions on time, students and faculty members disagree. Other colleges are also facing similar problems. “During regular classes, I would be able to complete what I had planned in an hour. But in the online classes owing to the disturbances and technical glitches, I am able to complete only half of the study plan,” said a lecturer of a city-based degree college. A postgraduate student of BU said that she was unable to attend classes owing to poor internet speed in her village. “Many of us went to our villages after college closed. It is very difficult to attend the class as our video keeps getting disconnected every few minutes. So I will just study on my own. What is making it challenging is that none of the reference books can also be found online,” she said. However, what is heartening for the lectures is that the attendance rate for these online classes is higher compared to physical classes. “Many of our students who normally bunk classes are logging in because they have nothing else to keep them engaged. Attendance for the online classes is as high as 90%, while for regular classes it is normally between 70 and 80%,” said K.R.Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University.  When I begin the class, I mute the students. But in the middle, students unmute themselves and start playing songs. a Bangalore University lecturer
04 April 2020||Coimbatore,||In Coimbatore, take your daily bread & leave cash in the box!||With physical distancing being underscored repeatedly to avoid the spread of COVID-19, a sweet shop owner at Rathinapuri in Coimbatore city, has set up a temporary stall outside his closed shop, stocked with loaves of bread but with no shop attendant. The customers can simply pick up a loaf and leave Rs. 30 in a cash box placed nearby. With grocery shops being instructed to down their shutters before 2 p.m. amid the COVID-19 lockdown, this initiative has garnered a good response from the residents, said A. Vignesh, owner of Moondru Kambam Nellai Muthu Vilas Sweets and Bakes. “We set up this stall last Tuesday evening itself,” he said, referring to March 24, when prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC came into force across Tamil Nadu at 6 p.m. About 300 bread loaves are left at the makeshift stall daily. The stall is open throughout the day. The bread is baked in Mr. Vignesh’s bakery behind the sweet shop. “A simple meal would cost Rs. 40. There are some who cannot afford it. At least they can have this bread for one meal,” says the 24-year-old.
04 April 2020||Bhopal,||Doctors who escaped mob return next day||A day after they were heckled, pelted with stones and chased away from a locality in Indore, doctors Trupti Katdare and Zakiya Sayyed returned to the same spot. Back to finish an incomplete task, they refuse to abandon the role that could help save lives. “I am not afraid. The profession we picked is a noble one,” says Dr. Sayyed in a message. “And right now, the country needs us. So, don’t step back, step forward and help the country.” The incident in Indore on Wednesday, where cases have soared to 112, left both the doctors, and the country, shocked and outraged. “Not even in our dreams could we imagine it,” says Dr. Katdare. As they traced contacts of a patient in Tatpatti Bakhal, tempers flared on requests for quarantine, and a mob chased them out. Dr. Katdare fell to the ground and hurt herself, while others were injured as stones landed from behind. After managing to escape in the tehsildar’s car, they met the Collector who motivated them. But the push from their husbands proved most useful: “They said you should not give up this easily,” says Dr. Katdare. And they returned the next day.
04 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. villages tense as many skip quarantine||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh are struggling to contain people inside the COVID-19 quarantine centres in rural areas. In many districts, migrants who returned home following the lockdown, and consequent loss of jobs, and were kept inside these centres as per preventive protocol have jumped quarantine or found reasons to leave the centres. 2.5 lakh returnees The government estimates that around 2 lakh-2.5 lakh such migrants returned to various districts of U.P. after it operated bus services to transport them back from Delhi and nearby cities. In Sultanpur district, 26 persons out of 115 in a quarantine centre in Faridipur village escaped from the second floor on March 31 night. However, the Sultanpur police said all 26 were soon traced and arrested.
04 April 2020||LUCKNOW/ ghaziabad,||NSA to be filed against 6 for harassing nurses||The Uttar Pradesh government has said that six persons associated with the Tablighi Jamaat who have been accused of misbehaving with women staff at the district hospital in Ghaziabad will be charged under the National Security Act (NSA). Though the government is yet to issue an official statement, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi attributed the direction to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. “Ye na kanoon ko manenge, na vyavastha ko manenge, ye manavta ke dushman hai... [They don’t follow the law or the system, they are enemies of humanity],” Mr. Awasthi said in an official WhatsApp group quoting Mr. Adityanath. The police had filed an FIR against the six persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation in Delhi and were admitted to the MMG District Hospital. Nurses there accused them of inappropriate behaviour and complained to Medical Superintendent Ravinder Singh, who wrote to the Uttar Pradesh police. Dr. Singh said the six were using obscene language and were making vulgar gestures at the staff. His letter said that some of them were moving around in a state of undress and were demanding bidis and cigarettes.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana reports spike in COVID cases||The State saw a huge spike - the highest on a single day - in COVID-19 cases on Friday with 75 persons testing positive for the virus. The earlier single day highest of 30 was on Wednesday. With Friday’s cases, the total number of positive cases in Telangana stands at 229. A media bulletin of Health Minister Eatala Rajender said two patients undergoing treatment died on Friday. One of them from Shadnagar and the other from Secunderabad. This took the total deaths due to COVID-19 in Telangana to 11. As many as 186 patients who tested positive were still under treatment in hospitals. Fifteen persons were discharged from hospitals on Friday which was again the highest on a single day since the pandemic spread in the State. All the fresh cases admitted to hospitals were people who returned from Tablighi Jamaat function in Delhi. Mr. Rajender said that all people who attended the Markaz prayers from Telangana were identified. They and their family members who had symptoms of the virus were referred to isolation centres. Investigations were carried out on the suspects on a war footing at six labs which worked 24 x 7 in three shifts. This apart, the government has put 26,586 persons with history of foreign travel and their contacts under home quarantine.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Vijayawada man the first casualty in State||The State on Friday reported the first death caused by COVID and the total number of positive cases reached 164, including 15 recorded in the last 24 hours. The deceased was 55 years old and hailed from Kummaripalem on city outskirts. According to a bulletin issued by A. Srikanth, nodal officer for COVID-19 containment, the man was admitted to the government hospital here at 11.30 a.m. on March 30 after he complained of chest pain, diabetes and hypertension. He died within an hour. The man was suspected to have contracted the disease from his son who had returned from Delhi on March 17 and subsequently tested COVID-19 positive. Reacting to the situation, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered that a comprehensive survey be conducted to be better equipped for tiding over the crisis. Mr. Jagan said the lockdown should be strictly enforced while spreading awareness about the critical role of self-protection from the disease.  IMA promises all help The IMA offered to help the government in scaling up its efforts to contain the disease which continued to spread in spite of a multipronged approach by health, medical and family welfare and other line departments. The GoM discussed an entire gamut of issues particularly social distancing, quarantine facilities, supply of essential commodities and the plight of farmers.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Disappointing, says Oppn.||Opposition leaders expressed disappointment over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video message asking citizens to light lamps in their homes on Sunday. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor called him a “showman and a photo-op Prime Minister”, while former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram questioned why the government had not announced a second financial action plan. CPI leader D. Raja said people expected Mr. Modi to come out with substantial measures.page 8
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,||No more free food at Indira Canteens||The State government has decided to stop free food at Indira Canteens from Saturday. This follows several complaints of poor quality, quantity and irregularities in distribution, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Friday. Addressing presspersons here, he said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa got a taste of the poor quality when someone brought a sample to him. “Moreover, we have also learnt that some people were taking away 200-300 parcels in bulk from the canteen in autorickshaws. This defeats the very purpose of free food for the poor,” he said.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A battle won||
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 hospitals for 18 districts||Twenty one hospitals, including four in Chennai, have been notified as designated hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 patients in Tamil Nadu. Each of these hospitals will cover patients from earmarked districts.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown lifts Delhi’s air quality to 5-year high||The lockdown has pushed pollution levels in Delhi to a 5-year low and, across India, the number of cities that recorded ‘good’ on the air quality index jumped from 6 on March 16 to 30 on March 29, according to the Central Pollution Control Board.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two deaths, 93 new cases in the Capital||The Capital on Friday reported two deaths and 93 new COVID-19 cases. The death toll now stands at six with the total number of cases jumping to 386. Of the 93 new cases, 77 are from the centre run by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Supreme Court quashes I-T case against NDTV||The Supreme Court on Friday quashed an income tax reassessment notice issued against New Delhi Television Limited. The department had accused NDTV of “round-tripping” finances in connection with a July 2007 issuance of step-up coupon bonds amounting to $100 million through its U.K. subsidiary.
04 April 2020||Bagalkot,||Bagalkot man dies||The 75-year-old man, who was the first positive case of COVID-19 in the district, died on Friday. The person was admitted to the isolation ward after he tested positive. Deputy Commissioner K. Rajendra has confirmed the death. Meanwhile, a total of 13 out of the 288 persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi have tested positive in Karnataka.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Chief Secretary meets religious leaders||Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Friday chaired meetings with heads and representatives of religious communities at the Secretariat to explain to them the magnitude of COVID-19 and steps taken to contain its spread. Leaders and representatives of various denominations of Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Sikh and Jain communities took part in three separate meetings in which senior government officials and police officers participated. The officials also took their suggestions.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Stock up, don’t go out daily, CM tells people||Warning residents that the government would strictly implement the prohibitory orders, CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami advised them to stock essential supplies for at least a week instead of stepping out daily. Around 45,000 cases have been registered for violating prohibitory orders and 50,397 persons arrested and released on bail.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 deaths, 93 new cases in Delhi||Two deaths and 93 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Friday, taking the total number of deaths to six and total cases to 386 in the city, according to the Delhi government. This is the second highest number of cases reported in a single day so far in the city. Of the 93 new COVID-19 positive cases, 77 are people from a centre run by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, which has been evacuated by the authorities. A total of 259 people from the centre have tested positive for COVID-19 so far in Delhi alone — this is 67.1% of the total COVID-19 cases reported in Delhi so far. Till Thursday, Delhi had 293 cases of COVID-19. Thursday, Wednesday, and Monday had recorded the biggest single-day jumps till then in the city, with 141, 32 and 25 cases respectively. “Of the two people who died, one person is a 36-year-old man from Tamil Nadu and is connected to the Markaz (centre) event. He died on March 31 and his test came positive today,” an official said. The second person is a 70-year-old man from Delhi who died late on Thursday night and he was not connected to the Markaz centre. “We are still tracing how he got infected,” the official said. ‘79% positive’ “All the people from the Markaz who have been taken to hospitals (536) have been tested and many of the results are still awaited. Till now, 79% of them have tested positive,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . They official said the authorities had also checked and evacuated about 400 people from other mosques in the city, who had visited the Markaz in March. “From these people, the ones with symptoms have been moved to hospital and others have been moved to quarantine facilities. They will be tested from tomorrow and only then will we know whether they are infected or not,” the official said. The government on Friday launched a helpline to provide updated information. Introducing a COVID-19 helpline chatbot to provide all information pertaining to COVID-19, Mr. Kejriwal said, “The government is issuing a WhatsApp number today, which will provide you with all the information related to the coronavirus.”
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Slum dwellers struggle in Delhi||Laxmi has been a widow for the last 40 years, but this is the closest she has come to despair. Three months ago, a cataract operation forced her to quit her job as a domestic worker. Now, the COVID-19 lockdown prevents her from getting any work. And without a ration card, her meagre pension of Rs. 2,000 per month leaves her flirting with starvation. “I applied for a ration card more than a year ago and they gave me this parchi,” says the 66-year old, showing a faded and much-folded piece of paper. “But they told me there is a quota for rations in Delhi, so I cannot get on the ration list until someone else has dropped out.” The 66-year old lives in a tiny windowless room in Jagdamba Camp, a basti in south Delhi’s Sheikh Sarai area. Her corrugated metal roof has failed to keep out the unseasonal rain, leaving her bed and the broken concrete floor damp and musty. “I only have my daughter, who is also a widow with five children of her own to bring up, so I can’t expect much from her. Sometimes, she gives me a few rotis,” she says. While the spotlight has been on the plight of migrant workers hit by the COVID-19 lockdown, there are lakhs of long time residents in Delhi’s bastis and slum settlements who do not have ration cards either and cannot benefit from the government’s promise of a free and increased ration allocation. Jagdamba Camp has 2,000 registered voters, with a total population about triple that number. Crammed into tiny flats linked by narrow, twisting alleys, and sharing communal toilets, the residents are aware that any COVID-19 infection could sweep unchecked through the basti. Shanti Devi tries to keep her three grandchildren indoors due to the fear of the virus. However, her son, the family’s sole earner who gets about Rs. 300 per day as a labourer, has lost his livelihood due to the lockdown and the family has no ration card or pension. The family still has to pay Rs. 3,500 rent each month for their two-room home. “We want to protect the children from this disease they are talking about, but what is the use if they die of hunger instead?” she asks. The family cannot even apply for a ration card, as they do not have any residence proof or any identity documents.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Modispeak is disappointing, says Opposition||Opposition leaders expressed disappointment over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s latest video message of asking citizens to light lamps in their homes on Sunday. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor called him a “showman and a photo-op Prime Minister”. “Listened to the Pradhan Showman. Nothing about how to ease people’s pain, their burdens, their financial anxieties. No vision of the future or sharing the issues he is weighing in deciding about the post-lockdown. Just a feel-good moment curated by India’s photo-op PrimeMinister!” tweeted Mr. Tharoor. In a series of tweets, former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram questioned why the government had not announced a second financial action plan even as the lockdown entered the tenth day. He said every working person — from business persons to daily wage earners — expected Mr. Modi to announce steps to arrest the economic slide and restart the engines of economic growth. “Dear Prime Minister, We will listen to you and light diyas on April 5. But, in return, please listen to us and to the wise counsel of epidemiologists and economists..Symbolism is important, but serious thought to ideas and measures is equally important”, he said. ‘Prices being hiked’ The Congress, in an online media briefing, also claimed that the supply chain for transporting essential commodities had nearly collapsed and prices have skyrocketed in the past 10 days. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “Of the 12 million kirana [grocery] stores of the country, only 2.5 million are open. The rest are shut because of disruption of supplies of essential commodities. The Centre’s intervention is a must. The tomato, which is available in the mandi at Rs. 18 a kg, becomes Rs. 50 to Rs. 60 a kg for the consumer. Likewise, the potato, which is available in the mandi at Rs. 16 a kg becomes Rs. 50,” he added. CPI general secretary D. Raja said people expected the Prime Minister to come out with substantial measures to guard them against COVID-19 as well safeguard the economic interests of the migrant workers and daily wage earners. “He could have announced full ration for the migrant workers or wages to MGNREGA workers,” he said. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury didn’t directly comment on Mr. Modi’s call to light lamps but targeted the government over inadequate health infrastructure in rural India. “When public money is wasted on vanity projects like statues, bullet trains, PR campaigns & personality-promotion, no surprise that health infrastructure has further crumbled under this govt. Its priorities over past 6 years have been laid bare by the #COVID19 crisis. Poor will suffer as more distractions are mounted. Rectify immediately,” he said on Twitter.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||25,000 Indians stuck abroad, but govt. wants them to wait||Twenty-three-year-old Rahul V., an MBA student in East London, first heard about Air India flights coming to the United Kingdom from a British government website he has been tracking for the past two weeks, ever since India banned travel for passengers from the U.K. due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The student from Hyderabad, one of hundreds stranded in the U.K., among the about 25,000 Indians stranded in different parts of the world, says he felt let down when he was informed that the flights would go back to India empty as the government has refused to lift its strict ban on any passengers, including Indian citizens, to enter India. “The British government is bringing its people home, despite the pandemic, it’s just sad that the Indian government isn’t doing the same,” he told The Hindu , disappointed that despite several flights being operated to the U.K. from April 4 by the national carrier, he cannot return home on them. No change in rules Indian missions in several other capitals are facing similar questions from thousands of Indian citizens who are stranded and need to return. Air India announced on Thursday that it would operate chartered flights to Paris, Frankfurt and London for citizens of the U.K., Germany, France, Canada and Ireland. In Germany, dozens of students recorded a videotaped appeal to the government, offering to pay full fare if Air India flights would accept passengers on the way back. However, the government says it will not change its decision to not allow any passengers, including Indians, to fly here from about 37 SARS-CoV-2-affected countries, until the lockdown ends, as it is due to, on April 15. “We are asking stranded Indians to stay put wherever they are in view of local restrictions as well as travelling restrictions to and within India. This is good for their own health and safety as well as that of their family and larger community,” a Ministry of External Affairs official told The Hindu . Among the Indians stranded worldwide are students whose universities are shut down, business travellers who were unable to return in time before the lockdown, and tourists who were stopped from boarding when the Indian travel bans went into place. The MEA did acknowledge that some of them had been stopped wrongfully, as airlines read the travel deadlines over-zealously or misinterpreted them, but pleaded helplessness at changing the rules for their return. Significant backlog Officials also point out that it will take some days to clear the backlog of passengers given their numbers, depending on how quickly regular commercial flights will be allowed to resume. Many of the passengers will need assistance as they have spent money buying tickets on airlines that cancelled flights and are unable to afford another full fare ticket. Finally, there remain questions about quarantine requirements for all those passengers returning home, given the limited quarantine capacity in India, and the Ministry of Health would have to take a decision on whether they can return right after the lockdown is lifted. “Most of the students here are desperate now, and have no money. They are willing to do any job, even if it means catching the virus, because they are struggling to survive,” said Mr. Rahul, one of the several students The Hindu spoke to. Reaching out daily On the Indian High Commission’s helpline, and social media portals, several students like Mr. Rahul call or write in everyday, describing their problems, including details of ailing parents back home, health problems they have, trouble with the long supermarket queues for food, and difficulties in finding accommodation. Officials say they are coordinating their requests as much as possible, and have had to reach out to local NGOs and food aid groups as well as Indian student associations to help.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Ruthless containment’ is key to controlling virus spread||Rohit Kumar Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health), steers the huge health workforce in Rajasthan, which is toiling round the clock to tackle COVID-19 and control the spread of the novel coronavirus. He discusses the strategies to deal with the situation in an interview to Mohammed Iqbal in Jaipur on Friday . What are the special steps the Medical & Health Department is taking in Rajasthan to tackle COVID-19, which are different from other States? ‘Ruthless containment’, which we have adopted at the hotspots of infection, is the key to controlling the spread of coronavirus. Despite the hardships, people have accepted our strict decisions, and are complying with the guidelines. You have to weigh what you want — people’s comfort or spread of the disease. We also went to all households in the affected areas for screening. For example, we touched 40 lakh people in the worst-affected Bhilwara district, while the figure for the entire State is 4.16 crore. Did the screenings lead to identification of COVID-19-positive cases? After going to every individual in Bhilwara district and asking them about symptoms, we identified 14,000 people who had influenza-like condition. We kept track of them and if anyone showed the COVID-19 symptoms, along with a history of contact or travel, he or she was isolated. We have followed a very structured standard operating procedure. What is the purpose of the 11-day-long “all down curfew”, which has started in Bhilwara on Friday? We wish to cover every person who might have been left out. The figure of recovery of COVID-19-positive people in Bhilwara is very encouraging. Of the 26 infected persons, 17 have recovered. The strategy is: Don’t let the virus spread and treat the people who are already infected. The government is working on both fronts. Will the random sampling also help prevent the community spread? Because of the nature of the disease, there might be the people hovering around in the sub-clinical stage. They may not be showing symptoms, but they are carriers. The community sampling involves rapid test, instead of a diagnostic procedure. If there is a probability that someone is carrying the virus, we start isolating them and go for confirmation. After Bhilwara, the Ramganj area in Jaipur has emerged as a major hotspot. How are you tackling the situation there? Ramganj is our bigger worry now. The character of the area is different, as it is densely populated and has small and congested houses. People live there in close proximity, and it is not possible for them to maintain social distancing. We have been carrying out an intense contact tracing there since the first case was detected and have asked the people to keep distance from the suspected cases. Only today, two bus-loads of people were sent to an isolation facility after being asked to live separately for some days until the disease settled down. The good news from Ramganj is that no COVID-19-positive person has come up in the 170 tests we conducted since Thursday. Are Tablighi Jamaat members who have returned to their native places or travelled to different towns after the attending the Delhi event emerging as a greater risk? Tablighi Jamaat members are, indeed, a big risk. The infection has emerged in the districts such as Dholpur, Bharatpur, Churu and Tonk, which were earlier unaffected. Tonk is a big hotbed now, with 17 cases. But the saving grace is that they have been largely identified. We have persuaded them to give details about where they went and whom they met. Our attempt is to isolate them and test them. Were there some instances of attacks on doctors and health workers who went to the affected areas in the State? There were some instances because of the emotional and social issues involved in this entire scenario. But the situation has improved with the protection given by the police to the teams of the Medical and Health Department. I have received reports that the people gathered in large numbers to get screened at several places when they were convinced about the exercise. Will the situation be under control in Rajasthan by the time the nationwide lockdown is lifted? I believe the situation will come under control, unless an unforeseen incident like the Nizamuddin centre’s infection takes place. Before the Tablighi Jamaat cases were detected, we were reasonably in control till April 1. But these cases will be controlled, as they are very defined and structured. We are handling the entire of set of Tablighi Jamaat members, not just those who attended the Delhi event, to be on the safe side.  There were some instances of attacks on doctors because of the emotional and social issues involved
04 April 2020||Mumbai,||Tablighi Jamaat link to death in Dharavi||The Mumbai police have prima facie found out that the first person who died of COVID-19 at Dharavi had come in contact with around 10 Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the gathering of the sect in Delhi. The police, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and health officers will have to find out every place they visited in the city, including in Dharavi, before they reportedly left for Kerala if they test positive. On Wednesday, Dharavi reported its first case, a 56-year-old garment shop owner from Baliga Nagar, and the person died on the same day. On Thursday, a doctor from Wockhardt Hospital living in the area also tested positive. He might have contracted the disease from his hospital as Wockhardt has so far reported at least two confirmed cases. A conservancy worker who did not live at Dharavi but had worked there had also tested positive, leading to concerns over whether Dharavi would become a hotbed. In the case of patient 1, the police believe that he had come in contact with some Tablighi Jamaat members. Five men and five women who came to Mumbai on March 22 after attending the meeting in Delhi had stayed at Dharavi. The men stayed at the local masjid, while the women stayed in a flat owned by patient number 1. The police believe they left for Kozhikode on March 24. Three couples went by air and the other two went “by other means.” While the police believe that the deceased spent time with them, it is not yet clear if any of them have been tested positive. The police are in contact with their counterparts in Kerala. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone V) Niyati Thaker said, “It appears the deceased had come in contact with Tablighi members. They left around March 24 and are suspected to have gone to Kerala. It seems the deceased provided them his flat. It is possible that they came in contact with several residents of the area. Now we have to trace each and every person but for that people need to co-operate.” Assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward Kiran Dighavkar said, “We are trying to establish the link of where the first patient got the virus from. Things will become clearer once the reports of his close contacts are in. If at all the people coming from Delhi were carriers of the virus, we will have to find out where they ventured in the area or even the city, who they came in contact with and screen all of them. It will be challenging.”
04 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||$1 billion WB aid for India to fight COVID-19||The World Bank has approved a fast-track $1 billion India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Project. The project will help prevent and detect the disease and respond to the pandemic and strengthen the country’s public health preparedness. The largest-ever health sector support from the bank to India, approved by the board of executive directors, will cover all States and Union Territories and address the needs of infected people, at-risk populations, medical and emergency personnel and service providers, medical and testing facilities, and national and animal health agencies. The project will help scale up the efforts to limit human-to-human transmission, including reducing local transmission of cases and containing the epidemic from progressing further. In parallel, interventions to strengthen the health system will be rolled out to improve the country’s capacity to respond to the epidemic and be better prepared to respond to emerging disease outbreaks, including transmission between humans and animals. Procurement of testing kits; setting up of new isolation wards — including turning hospital beds into intensive care unit beds; infection prevention and control; and purchase of personal protective equipment, ventilators, and medicines, particularly in district hospitals and designated infectious disease hospitals; will be scaled up under the project. “The World Bank is working in close partnership with the government to provide urgent and flexible support to the country as it fights the spread of COVID-19,” Junaid Ahmad, World Bank Country Director for India, said on Friday. “This operation is expected to enhance surveillance capacities, strengthen diagnostic systems, and expand the capacity of laboratories,” Mr. Ahmad said.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure that basic needs of poor are met: President||Taking note of the problems faced by the homeless, the unemployed and the weaker sections of society during the COVID-19 crisis, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Friday that the country would have have to be extra sensitive towards their needs and ensure nobody is left hungry. Stating that people had set an example by “showing exemplary courage, discipline and solidarity in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic”, the President expressed concern over two incidents — the gathering of migrant workers in Anand Vihar and the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin — that caused a setback to the efforts. Speaking with the Governors and Lieutenant Governor (L-Gs) in a video-conference, the President asked them to deliberate upon the ways and means to help the poor and needy. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu also took part. He suggested that voluntary organisations could be roped in to help. The meeting also deliberated upon reports of doctors, health workers and police personnel coming under attack in some parts of the country. “In the conference, there was unanimity that there is no scope for laxity or complacency in fighting the invisible enemy. In this context, the President noted with concern the incidents of attacks on doctors, health workers and police personnel in some parts of the country,” a statement from the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown lifts Delhi’s air quality to a 5-year high||The ongoing lockdown has pushed pollution levels in Delhi to a 5-year low and, across India, the number of cities that recorded ‘good’ on the air quality index (AQI) jumped from 6 — on March 16 — to 30 as on March 29, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board. PM 2.5, the most dangerous pollutant, measured at the pollution monitoring station in Anand Vihar, New Delhi, ranged from 16 g/m³ - 42g/m³ (microgram per metre cubed) from March 25 to April 1, the first week of the lockdown. By comparison, PM 2.5 had ranged from 72-187g/m³ during the corresponding period last year, and 72-171g/m³ in 2018. In 2016, it spanned 49-116g/m³, station data on the website of the CPCB shows. It wasn’t possible to compare the air quality index, which is a weighted average of the contribution of several pollutants, in this week from that in previous years, as such data wasn’t available on the website. Janata curfew report The CPCB in a report on the impact of the ‘Janata curfew’ on March 22, said that on the day before, AQI was ‘Moderate (101-250)’ in Delhi. “Overall, up to 44% reduction in PM10 levels was observed in Delhi during March 22-23, 2020, compared to previous day. The PM2.5 reduction was 8% on the curfew day but declined to 34% next day owing to negligible combustion activities on March 22-23, 2020, in and around the city,” the report said. The key factor that triggered the decline was the number of on-road vehicles, which contributed to a 51% reduction in NOx levels and a 32% reduction in carbon monoxide levels during March 22-23 as compared to March 21.Unlike in the winter months, Delhi and other regions of the Indo Gangetic Plains generally tend to have better air quality in March, aided by consistent wind and sunlight, which help flush out pollutants. “The impact of meteorological factors was partially favourable... however the reduction in air pollution can be largely attributed to transport and commercial-industrial restrictions,” the CPCB said in its report. Research studies have attributed the key sources of PM2.5 in summer to be: dust and construction activities (35%), transport sector (20%) and industry (20%). Lockdown effect During the lockdown PM10 and PM2.5 levels were reduced by about 35-40%. The cessation of industries contributed to this reduction by 10%, vehicles 10-15% and dust another 10-15%, the organisation calculated. As on March 29, a total 91 cities were under ‘Good’ (0-50) and ‘Satisfactory (51-100)’ categories, with 30 cities with ‘Good’ AQI values. However, Lucknow, Muzaffarpur, Kalyan, Guwahati and Singrauli were under ‘Poor’ category during March 25-28. High emission levels in Lucknow and Guwahati were noted for PM2.5, attributable to ‘local’ combustion related activities. As on March 29, no city was under ‘Poor’ AQI (251-300) category.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Cases on foreign Tablighis can delay their exit: experts||A directive from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) asking States to register criminal cases against foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat could prolong their stay in India by up to five years. On Friday, Joint Secretary MHA Punya Salila Srivastava reiterated that States have been asked to register cases against 960 blacklisted foreigners and at “this stage the question of deportation does not arise” but whenever it happens it will be done as per health protocols. Police in a quandry Police in different States are divided on registering cases against the foreign members under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, punishable by up to two years and Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946, punishable by up to five years. Several police officers The Hindu spoke to said there was no point in arresting the foreigners as their visas have been cancelled, they have been blacklisted, and as per legal requirements they would have to be deported as soon as they are fit to leave the quarantine centres. According to a MHA statement, from January 1, about 2,100 foreigners visited India for Tablighi activities. Among those blacklisted are 360 foreigners linked to Tablighi who have already left India. The 960 blacklisted foreigners who are in presently in India include four Americans, nine British, six Chinese, three French, 379 Indonesian, 110 Bangladeshi, 63 Myanmarese, 77 Kyrgiz, 75 Malaysian, 65 Thai, 33 Sri Lankan, 12 Vietnamese and nine Saudi Arabian nationals. Officers in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh Police, however, insisted that the foreign workers will be arrested and sent to jail. The police in Delhi report directly to the MHA and Uttar Pradesh is ruled by the BJP. Uttar Pradesh Police has registered 35 cases in 15 districts under Section 14 of Foreigners Act against the foreign Tablighi members. Common FIR A senior Delhi Police officer told The Hindu that a common FIR has been registered regarding the congregation at Markaz (centre) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area in March and any future arrests will be made under it. Police in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Telengana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra — the States where the foreigners dispersed to from the Nizamuddin Markaz in March, have not registered any case so far. A senior police officer in M.P. said the police has located about 68 foreign Tablighis in and around Bhopal and they had been placed in a quarantine. “If MHA has cancelled their visa and they are in quarantine then we cannot register any case against them. Due to the ongoing lockdown they have not committed any crime. The legal process is to deport them as soon as they leave the quarantine after all medical check ups,” said the officer. Shifted to hospital A Tamil Nadu police officer said 125 foreigners traced in the State have been quarantined in mosques and a few who showed symptoms have been shifted to hospitals. “They will be served ‘leave India notice’ after they come out of the quarantine; maybe cases can be registered against those who provide them logistic help,” he added. Former Uttar Pradesh DGP Prakash Singh said if their visas are cancelled then they should be deported as soon as possible. “Government should give priority in deporting them and getting rid of them….registering a case means that trial might go on for years. It is essentially for public consumption that government is taking harsh measures,” Mr. Singh said.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jammu BJP raises concern over domicile rule with Shah||The notification of domicile rules for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has the Jammu unit of the BJP worried and upset, as it not only loosens the criteria of who can claim domicile but also keeps lower level jobs reserved for locals and higher level jobs open for all. The local unit has flagged these concerns with the party’s national leadership and also with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “According to what we gathered from the notification, only Group D jobs will be reserved for locals, while others are open for all. We have been told that the provincial services board will take care of some levels of hiring keeping locals in mind, but that is just oral assurance, the notification itself does not reassure us,” said a senior Jammu BJP leader. “This [the notification] means that all the higher level jobs are out of the purview of reservation for domiciles, also the 15-year threshold for claiming domicile means that anyone who comes in to work in J&K and stays on for 15 years, their children, if they stay here, will be considered for domicile,” said a source. Speaking to The Hindu , BJP general secretary Ram Madhav, who has been handling Jammu and Kashmir for the party for a long time, said there were issues that the Jammu unit of the party had flagged, and that “their fears are valid.” He said Mr. Shah had been apprised of the concerns raised.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over two fold rise in domestic violence cases: NCW||The first week of the nationwide lockdown, which has left many facing job losses, uncertainty over salaries, forced isolation and stressed households, has resulted in a steep rise in violence against women. The National Commission for Women (NCW), which receives complaints from across the country, has recorded more than a two fold rise in gender-based violence. The total complaints from women rose from 116 in the first week of March (March 2- 8), to 257 in the final week of March (March 23-April 1). Complaints of rape or attempted rape have risen sharply from two to 13, while cases of domestic violence have increased from 30 to 69 over the same comparative period. Simultaneously, there has been an almost three fold increase in police apathy towards women’s complaints, with the NCW receiving 16 complaints on the issue as compared to six earlier. Similarly, complaints relating to the “right to live with dignity” too have doubled, rising from 35 cases to 77. Such cases could pertain to discrimination on the basis of gender, class or caste or all three of them combined. Activists believe that these may only be the tip of the iceberg, as many women will not be able to reach out because of restrictions on movement and lack of privacy inside homes. Jagori, a Delhi-based NGO, which runs helplines for women victims of violence, has, in fact, experienced a 50% drop in calls. “Women need to be at ease to make calls for help,” said Jaya Velankar, director, Jagori. “They need privacy, when they are certain that they will not be discovered by their family. But when the entire family is at home, it is difficult for them to call the helpline,” she added. “Lockdown can’t mean that you save me from a virus, but you expose me to other forms of violence,” said Senior advocate and women’s rights activist Vrinda Grover. She said that groups will be making a representation to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the issue.
04 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Over 7,000 fishermen from A.P. stranded in Gujarat’s Veraval||The countrywide lockdown forced by the COVID-19 pandemic has left thousands of migrant fishermen from Andhra Pradesh stranded at the Veraval fishing harbour in Gujarat, one of the country’s largest. “More than 7000 fishermen, mostly migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh and a few hundred from villages in Saurashtra region are stranded at Veraval due to the lockdown,” Ritesh Fofandi, a community leader and owner of Samudra Sea Foods company, told The Hindu from Veraval. They are stuck in their boats that have been anchored at the harbour after they returned from deep sea fishing expeditions. According to Mr. Fofandi, there are around 4500 fishing boats or trawlers at Veraval harbour on the Saurashtra coast. “Boat owners have made arrangements for their food, but the problem is that all of them have to live on the boats as there are no other arrangements to shelter thousands of people,” he said. Around 10-12 workers live in a mid sized trawler, where social distancing is impossible to maintain. They do practically everything, from cooking and eating to bathing and sleeping, on the boat. He said that these workers can only go home after train services resume. There is no other means of transportation as their villages are over 2000 km away. When the government imposed the lockdown to contain the spread of Coronavirus epidemic, most of these workers would have been in mid seas. When they returned to the harbour, everything was shut. “No fishing trips because of lockdown, as fish processing has stopped. Transportation has been affected, no ice is being produced to store the fish stock... the entire supply chain has been derailed,” a leading marine food exporter from Overalluntry told The Hindu . Normally, migrant fishermen return to their native places from May onwards and come back in August for the next fishing cycle. Fishing activities are not allowed during the monsoon. Gujarat, as the country’s largest seafood producer, draws thousands of migrants, called “Madrasis” locally, from Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam to work on mechanised fishing trawlers from August to April every year.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea seeks minimum wages for migrant workers||The Supreme Court has expressed concern over the plight of migrant workers, especially in the unorganised sector, during the lockdown and asked the Union government to respond by April 7 to a petition demanding that Central and State governments pay them minimum wages. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, through videoconferencing, took a serious note of a petition filed by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj, who said the declaration of the 21-day national lockdown without prior information “precipitated an unprecedented humanitarian crisis” for migrant workers, resulting in their mass exodus to their home towns. The petition said the Centre and the States should, either jointly or severally, take responsibility to pay migrant workers at least a week’s wages for their sustenance. The Bench took suo motu cognisance of a letter sent by Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra highlighting the condition of hundreds of migrants stranded without jobs and essential items during the lockdown that started from March 24. It is an attempt to enforce social distancing to prevent the infection from spreading among the general population. Mass exodus However, shortly after the lockdown declaration, a mass exodus of panicked migrant workers was witnessed. They were moving from the metros, where they had come for work, to their home towns. The government has maintained that the panic was caused by 'fake' news. The Disaster Management Act, 2005, mandates the Centre and the States to pay compensation to those who have suffered losses during a disaster. The law requires the government to prepare a national plan to combat the disaster.
04 April 2020||Bhopal,||NSA invoked against four Indore residents||The Indore district administration in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday invoked the National Security Act, 1980, against four persons accused of instigating residents of a locality to throw stones at health workers on Wednesday. “We have arrested 13 of the accused. The Act has been invoked against four of them,” Vivek Sharma, Inspector-General of the Police, Indore Zone, told The Hindu . Pelted with stones A team of health workers, revenue officials, anganwadi workers, municipal officials and policemen were visiting the Tatpatti Bakhal area of the city to trace the contacts of a COVID-19 patient when they were pelted with stones, said a note issued by the Collectorate. The administration invoked Section 3(2) of the Act and passed an order to move the four accused to the Central Jail, Rewa. “Such persons are not humans, they are enemies of humanity. Attack on paramedical staff and doctors, who are risking their lives to save people’s lives, will not be tolerated,” Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. On Wednesday, a case was filed against unidentified persons under Sections 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 336 (Act endangering life or safety of others), 145 (Joining or continuing in unlawful assembly, knowing it has been commanded to disperse) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.
04 April 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Six more CISF men at airport test positive||Six more men of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), posted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai, tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, taking the total number of infected personnel to 11. A total of 147 personnel who shared the Panvel camp with these men have been isolated, and the entire Kalamboli camp has been sanitised. “The first CISF person to test positive has since recovered and his tests have come negative,” CISF spokesperson Hemendra Singh said. The 11 personnel were in a stable condition. Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) Commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said that after five CISF personnel were found to be positive on Wednesday, 147 of the remaining personnel at the Kalamboli camp were isolated at MGM Hospital. “Of the 146 tested, six were found to be positive and the remaining negative, making a total of 11 CISF employees positive. Of the 11 positive, 10 are staff and one is a helper. It is suspected that they had contracted the virus during an air-lifting operation. Their routine included going to work from the Kalamboli camp to the Mumbai airport and back to the camp. Hence, we do not see any other possibility of contracting the virus. The CISF camp has been sealed and sanitised by us,” Mr. Deshmukh said. Konkan Divisional Commissioner Shivaji Daund said the staff at MGM Hospital would continue to be quarantined there. “Two wings in the hospital have been dedicated to the CISF staff who have been quarantined there,” he said. Mumbai is the only airport where CISF personnel tested positive.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC issues notice to govt. on plea for free testing||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to respond to a petition seeking free COVID-19 testing facility at all laboratories, including private ones. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao issued notice on a plea by Delhi resident Shashank Deo Sudhi, who challenged the legality of a March 17 advisory that caps the price for testing for the SARS-CoV-2 virus at Rs. 4,500 in private labs and hospitals. Mr. Sudhi has argued that the advisory was both discriminatory and a violation of the fundamental right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. “It is extremely difficult for the common citizen to get himself/herself tested in the government hospital/labs and [there] being no alternative in sight, the people are constrained to pay the capped amount to the private hospital/labs for protecting their lives,” the petitioner contended. “The respondents are completely insensitive and indifferent to the plight of the common citizens of the country who are already financially burdened on account of [being] completely locked down with no possibility of” the lockdown being lifted in the near future, he added. In the alternative, the petitioner asked the court to direct the government to “ramp up the testing facilities at the earliest, given the escalating mortality and morbidity rate across the country”. Mr. Sudhi said ideally the tests should be conducted under NABL-accredited pathological laboratories.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,||After PM’s call, energy authorities make plans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for switching off electric lights at homes across the nation for nine minutes at 9 p.m. on April 5, as a mark of demonstrating a collective will to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, has prompted energy authorities to swing into action. The Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO), which runs the national load despatch centre, got in touch with all the regional load despatch centres, which, in turn, asked constituent-States to prepare plans for managing the power supply position in their States for the purpose. This led senior officials of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) and Transmission Corporation (Tantransco) to discuss details of the plan that was being finalised, one of the officials said. Mr. Modi’s call pertains only to the domestic lighting load and does not cover electricity consumption by the domestic category on account of use of refrigerators or air-conditioners or television sets, the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, observed. Energy industry officials added that the move is not likely to cause any major disruption in the power distribution system. As a thumb rule, lighting constitutes 50% of the domestic sector’s overall load. If you take Tamil Nadu, for instance, the share of domestic consumers in overall electricity consumption is about 18%. At the all-India level, it is 24%, according to “Energy Statistics 2019,” a document published by the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. This is why the situation is manageable, point out the experts. Even now, the ongoing 21-day lockdown has resulted in a perceptible reduction in peak demand. Compared to the country’s evening peak demand of about 1.56 lakh megawatt (MW) a month ago, the present demand according to the POSOCO is about 1.2 lakh MW. In the wake of the Prime Minister’s call, the demand may go down by a maximum of 20,000 MW during the nine-minute period. In India, the evening peak demand is measured at what is recorded at 7 p.m. every day. An official said that Tamil Nadu may see a maximum drop of 2,000 MW in demand during the nine-minute-period, after which there would likely be a surge. Regulating the operation of several distribution feeders and keeping ready hydel reservoirs (which can generate 650 MW almost instantaneously) and gas-powered stations were among the measures being planned by the Tangedco. One more reason for the assessment of the experts is the presence of an all-India grid, which comes handy in transferring power seamlessly from one region to another and maintaining the frequency of the country’s power network at about 50 Hz.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court quashes I-T case against NDTV||In a major relief for New Delhi Television Limited (NDTV), the Supreme Court on Friday quashed an income tax re-assessment notice issued by revenue authorities against the premier news broadcasting company. Though the Income Tax department had accused NDTV of “round-tripping” finances in connection with a July 2007 issuance of step-up coupon bonds amounting to $100 million through its U.K. subsidiary, the Supreme Court stood firm to hold that the revenue authorities failed to show that the channel did not make a “full and true” disclosure of its income for the assessment year 2008-09. “In our view the assessee (NDTV) disclosed all the primary facts necessary for assessment of its case to the assessing officer. What the revenue urges is that the assessee did not make a full and true disclosure of certain other facts… We are of the view that the assessee had disclosed all primary facts before the assessing officer and it was not required to give any further assistance to the assessing officer by disclosure of other facts. It was for the assessing officer at this stage to decide what inference should be drawn from the facts of the case,” the Supreme Court Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta held in its judgment. The court held that NDTV had disclosed the fact “that step-up coupon bonds for $100 million were issued by NNPLC (the U.K. subsidiary). However, the court found that the Revenue had sufficient reasons to believe that undisclosed income of the assessee escaped assessment, and therefore, there were grounds to issue the notice in question.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus death toll touches 62 in India||“Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has appealed to patients and their families not to create any obstacle and allow the medical staff to discharge their duties. He is concerned about the violence against medical staff being reported from various part of the country,” Mr. Agarwal said. Dr. Vardhan visited Dr. RML and Safdarjung Hospitals, on Friday, to review preparations to tackle the COVID-19 outbreak. At RML Hospital, the Minister visited the flu corner, emergency care center, trauma centre and corona screening centre while at Safdarjung he took reviewed facilities available at the super speciality block which has been converted into a COVID-19 isolation management centre, with 400 isolation and 100 ICU beds.  Meanwhile, the Home Ministry launched two more COVID-19 related helpline numbers —1930 (all India toll free number) and 1944 (dedicated to Northeast) in addition to the existing seven.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. villages tense as many skip quarantine||The administration has taken action against such persons in across districts including Hathras, Sultanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, and Azamgarh. Returning workers are being kept in primary schools or other buildings outside villages for a designated period before being allowed home. In Rae Bareli on Thursday, an FIR was lodged against nine persons in Kubna village in Maharajganj tehsil for escaping the isolation centre built inside the local primary school. In Rae Bareli, the district magistrate also ordered FIRs against 19 persons in Salon, Deeh and Nasirabad areas for escaping the quarantine centres and not following “quarantine norms.” Hathras police officials on Thursday evening said they had lodged a case against 29 persons under Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act for allegedly escaping the quarantine centre in Sarabar village in Sadabad. Thirty-five persons were kept at the quarantine centre with some of them coming there recently after the huge influx of migrants fleeing home from cities like Delhi. Police brutality In Lakhimpur Kheri district, police are probing the death of a 25-year-old Dalit man Roshan who was found hanging in the fields of his village Thariya Pipriya on March 31 three days after he returned home from Gurgaon where he worked in a power tower firm. His family alleged that he was threatened and badly thrashed by policemen for allegedly escaping from the local quarantine centre, following which he hung himself. Roshan had left the quarantine centre after his sister-in-law asked him to go to local flour mill to grind the grains, his brother Sipahilal said in his police complaint. Superintendent of Police, Lakhimpur Kheri, Poonam said Roshan was not present at the quarantine centre when the verification was going on. “He was roaming outside the village,” she said, adding that policemen of Maigalganj had an altercation with him. Both constables have been sent to the police lines while a circle officer is probing the matter, Ms. Poonam added. Conflicting statements While Roshan’s family alleged that he had fractured his arm in the police assault and received other injuries, Kheri police said in a statement that no such injury was found in the autopsy and that the reason of death was hanging. Kranti Kumar Singh, a political activist associated with the Samajwadi Party, questioned the credibility of the police probe saying they did not file any FIR against the constables. Mr. Singh said locals had a video footage showing injury marks on Roshan’s body. “He left hand was fractured and had swelling marks on his hip and right hand. That’s why he wasn’t cremated but buried so that a fresh autopsy can take place through a court order after the lockdown phase,” Mr. Singh said. Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary home, said 40-50 persons had also left the quarantine centre in Hapur, adding that action would be taken against officials for laxity. ‘Practise yoga’ Mr. Awasthi appealed people to not leave the quarantine centres unnecessarily, saying it was in their interest, and even suggested that people can pass time by practicing yoga. Briefing media on Friday, Mr. Awasthi also said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed that the district police chief and district magistrate would be held accountable and action be taken against the concerned karmacharis if people escape from the quarantine centres.
04 April 2020||Srinagar,||Regional parties rebuff J&K police’s warning||The J&K police’s warning to locals against criticising and “instigating” people over the domicile laws drafted by the Centre has been rebuffed by regional parties here. National Conference provincial president Devender Singh Rana on Friday described the domicile law as “unjust, and betrayal of educated unemployed youth” and spoke of “consequences”. Peoples Democratic Party spokesperson Tahir Sayeed said, “If the people of J&K are not happy with this Tuglaqi farman (diktat), it’s their fundamental right to express displeasure in a democratic way.”
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||NSA to be filed against 6 for harassing nurses||Manish Mishra, Superintendent of Police (City), Ghaziabad toldThe Hindu, that the complaint was against six Jamaatis who were picked up from the Masuri area of Ghaziabad. Shailendra Kumar Singh ADM (City) said the six persons, including the one who has tested positive, have been shifted to another quarantine facility. It has been decided that female staff would not attend to them. Fuzail Ayyubi, one of the members of the legal team of the Tablighi Jamaat, said, “Their alleged behaviour is condemnable in any civil society. However, we are trying to ascertain whether they really attended the congregation. The Jamaatis are not known to indulge in such behaviour,” he said.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Allow movement of trucks, Centre tells States||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday wrote to Chief Secretaries of all the States and Union Territories, clarifying that inter-State and intra-State movement of all trucks and other goods vehicles with one driver and one additional person had been allowed. The drivers should have a valid driving licence. If the vehicle is empty, the invoice, way-bill and other related documents for delivery or pick up of goods should be carried by them. “The movement of driver and one person from their place of residence to truck should also be facilitated by local authorities,” said the letter. All movement of persons with the passes issued by the authorities concerned will be subject to strict adherence to the norms for hygiene and social distancing as required in the context of COVID-19 Mr. Bhalla said as laboratories had been exempted from lockdown restrictions. The category includes the testing laboratories in the private sector for COVID-19 samples. The samples have to be collected through various centres and then transported to the laboratories. Therefore, the opening up of temporary collection centres, movement of lab technicians and transportation of samples have also been allowed. The production, warehousing and transport of essential goods have been included in the exemptions to the lockdown measures and the district authorities are issuing individual passes to the businesses covered in the category. The State and U.T. governments have been advised to issue authorisation letters to companies and organisations having nation-wide supply chains of essential goods. Issuance of regional passes for easy movement of critical staff and workers has also been allowed, said the letter.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Questions over foreign donations for PM-CARES||The government has sent conflicting signals over the question of foreign donations to the new Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund. Initially, Indian ambassadors were directed to mobilise donations from abroad, with SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) code details made available in order to accept such contributions. However, the Centre has now seemed to take a step back, indicating that foreign funds would be accepted only from individuals and foundations, with details of foreign donations unavailable for now. The PM-CARES Fund also does not seem to have any website with details of objectives, income and expenditure as yet, raising concerns about its transparency and accountability. Repeated queries on these issues sent to a senior official at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) remain unanswered. Public charitable trust PM-CARES is a public charitable trust launched on March 28 as a “dedicated national fund with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like the one posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected,” according to the original press statement. That statement, as well as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first tweets on PM-CARES, included both an IFSC code as well as a SWIFT code. However, the donation link on the PM’s website now says that “account details for foreign donations will be available in 2-3 days”. Only the IFSC code is available on the donation link. Government sources now say that the “PM CARES Fund will simply accept donations and contributions from individuals and organisations who are based in foreign countries.” . They pointed to an official statement in August 2018 that contributions from “NRIs, PIOs and international entities such as foundations would be welcome.” While this seems to indicate that the PM-CARES Fund will not accept foreign funds from governmental or corporate sources, it does seem prepared to accept unlimited tax-free donations from Indian corporates.
04 April 2020||Kolkata,||Treat patients with compassion: Mamata||COVID-19 patients should be treated with care and compassion, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday. She urged doctors to provide a yeoman service to them. The total number of coronavirus patients went up from 34 to 38 in the past 24 hours in the State. Ms. Banerjee appealed to people to come together and stamp out the virus. Officials were running into resistance while raising exclusive hospitals for COVID-19 patients. Hospitals were not too keen to treat these patients. “Please do not do this. The job is to provide selfless service. Do we expect that the patients would not visit the hospitals?” she said. “Even people are not letting [the authorities] cremate the bodies of the coronavirus victims. I am told by experts that the deceased cannot carry the virus..., ” she said. Ms. Banerjee said the government had opened 206 quarantine centres, where 5,165 persons had been admitted. While 3,218 were discharged, 1,892 were under treatment. The Health Department designated 59 hospitals for COVID-19 patients.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Path of dharma||Tradition has used the terms Vedas, Dharma, Truth, Supreme Being, etc, to indicate the moral excellence on which the entire universe rests. So, the enquiry into the notions of dharma and adharma has always existed. Many discussions on the ethical code occur as expositions or quotations from the Vedas, the Upanishads and the Smritis and so on in the Bhagavata Purana. Among them, the one explained by Narada to Yudhishtira after the brilliant narration of Prahlada’s devotion gains special importance for many reasons, said Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. Yudhishtira requests the sage to explain the nuances of Vedic dharma that are not explicit to all and are well hidden like the root of the tree. For there could be none better than Narada, who is exceptionally devoted to God, to expound the subtleties of dharma. Then Narada begins to explain the essence of dharma that he had imbibed from the very source and fountainhead of dharma, the Lord. The Lord says in the Gita: “I am the knowledge that is to be gained from the study of all the Vedas; I am the creator of Vedanta and also the knower of the Vedas.” He is also beyond the universe and He is the essence of Vedanta. So what Narada teaches is the direct and authentic version of the theory and practice of dharma as taught by Lord Narayana. Dharma includes the universal laws of nature that sustain the universe and its functions with precision as much as the practices and duties that take care of the individual and the society. It is central to human life and means not only religious ideas and worship of gods, but moral conduct and righteous behaviour, truthfulness, duty, etc. There is nothing higher than dharma for it is the path by which man strives for release from samsara.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||States get Rs. 11,092 crore for COVID-19||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday approved the release of Rs. 11,092 crore under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF) to all the States to take measures for containment of the COVID-19 pandemic. The funds were allocated to the States on the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday that the Centre release Rs. 1 lakh crore to tackle the pandemic and the ramifications of the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s videoconference with Chief Ministers, “the Central Government has released in advance its share of the first instalment of SDRMF for the year 2020-21, amounting to Rs. 11,092 crore, to augment funds available with the State governments,” a statement by the MHA said. Maharahstra which has reported the highest number of cases has been allocated Rs. 1611 crore. Kerala with a higher number of cases, however, has been allocated Rs. 157 crore, lower than most States, including Uttar Pradesh which gets Rs. 966 crore, Odisha Rs. 802 crore, Rajasthan Rs. 740 crore, Bihar Rs. 708 crore, Gujarat Rs. 662 crore and Madhya Pradesh Rs. 910 crore. The SDRF is the primary fund available with the States to meet the expenditure of immediate relief to the victims of disasters.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||All quiet||
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delay arrest of Teltumbde, Navlakha’||More than 5,000 individuals and over 15 organisations around the world have pleaded that the impeding arrest of activist-academics Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha be delayed in light of the COVID-19 pandemic as their health could be put at risk. The activists were recognised for their life-long advocacy for the rights of the marginalised, a statement said. Signatories include Professors Angela Davis, Cornel West, Jean Dreze, Sukhadeo Thorat, Zoya Hasan and Noam Chomsky; writers and artists such as Arundhati Roy, Aparna Sen and T. M. Krishna. The statement was organised by India Civil Watch-International, a transnational democratic and civil rights advocacy group.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Take criticism in right spirit, says Congress||Rejecting Home Minister Amit Shah’s allegation that the Congress is playing partisan politics over COVID-19, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said that the party is only constructively engaged. Mr. Shah in a tweet on Thursday had accused the Congress of playing petty politics. “High time they think of national interest and stop misleading people,” he had tweeted. Mr. Sharma said that such allegations were completely baseless, and that the Congress, as a responsible and mature Opposition, has national interest at its heart. “Giving critical inputs or recommendations should not be misconstrued by the government. They should take it in the right spirit,” he said adding that the government should adopt whatever suggestions could be acted upon.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||On the draw SURENDRA||
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Six Navy ships, medical teams on standby||As part of India’s measures to assist neighbouring countries in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic, six Navy ships have been kept ready and five medical teams are on standby for deployment to the Maldives, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and Afghanistan when required, the Defence Ministry said on Friday. “Twenty eight fixed-wing aircraft and 21 helicopters of the Indian Air Force (IAF) are on standby at various locations across the country for transporting essential supplies,” the Ministry said in a statement. Its fleet is being used to assist in transportation of essential supplies, medicines and medical equipment. The six naval ships with medical teams and Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief kits onboard are on standby for assistance at Visakhapatnam, Kochi and Mumbai, a defence official said. Five viral testing labs at armed forces hospitals, which can carry out the COVID-19 test, have been made part of the national grid, the ministry said. The armed forces are running six quarantine facilities at Mumbai, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Hindon, Manesar and Chennai — where 1,737 people have been handled.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19: EU official speaks to Shringla||Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Friday held a telephonic discussion on the COVID-19 pandemic with the Secretary General of the European External Action Service, Helga M. Schmid. The discussion came in the backdrop of a large scale evacuation of European Union (EU) citizens from major Indian cities over the past week. “They exchanged notes on the situation and respective efforts to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic in the EU and India as well as coordination in the framework of G20, SAARC, etc,” said a source familiar with the exchange between the two top diplomats. EU has been part of India's global dialogue to contain the crisis. India and EU skipped a summit in March as the COVID-19 crisis exploded across the world leading to the suspension of international travel. While several major EU countries have evacuated nationals from India, Indian citizens continue to remain in major European destinations as India has suspended commercial air service and declared that no citizen will be evacuated without a pre-flight COVID-19 test. Apart from the continental Europe, a large number of Indians remain stranded in East European countries.
04 April 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal-based firm to make testing kits||Bhopal-based 3B Blackbio Biotech (I) Ltd. is going to be the second Indian firm to produce real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) COVID-19 testing kits, after securing the approval of the Centre on April 2. A subsidiary of KILPEST India Ltd., the firm’s production capacity of 10,000 kits a day will give a leg up to testing efforts across the country, after its kits were cleared by the Indian Council of Medical Research. So far, Pune-based My Labs has been supplying kits, besides imports from the United States.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Roorkee develops ventilator||Amid the growing demand for hospital ventilators due to the COVID-19 pandemic, IIT-Roorkee has developed a low-cost portable ventilator in association with AIIMS-Rishikesh, which can be manufactured for just Rs. 25,000. On Friday, the machine was presented to more than 450 companies and several have expressed interest in commercial production, IIT-Roorkee said. Named ‘Prana-Vayu,’ the closed-loop ventilator can deliver the required amount of air to the patient, with an automated process. controlling the pressure and flow rates.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||New Delhi||
04 April 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||731 people quarantined||Health officials here have quarantined 731 people with travel history abroad or other States in an attempt at containing the spread of COVID 19 disease. The district administration has set up 13 quarantine facilities across the district where these individuals are being monitored regularly. The facility at Meenakshi Ramaswamy Engineering College currently houses 62 people, while Government Arts College has 73, ITI college has 42, Jeyankondam National Polytechnic College has 11 and Government Girls'High school, Andimadam has 16 people. The district administration provided clothing, pillows, mat, toothbrush and toothpaste, along with three meals for a total of 206 people. Meanwhile, 119 workers at Sathamangalam Sugar Factory, 67 at Kovil Esani camp, 13 at Thamaraikulam camp, 71 workers at Jeyankondam circus and 20 people at Sokkalingapuram have been quarantined. A total of 23 individuals have also been home quarantined. Citizens can call 044- 28590804 or 044- 28599188 with queries.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. told to provide rice, dal to non-cardholders at ration shops||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government not to insist upon the presence of migrant labourers and others who do not possess ration cards at the Collectorates concerned to obtain 15 kg of rice, one kg of dal and one kg of edible oil offered to mitigate the hardship caused by the nationwide lockdown to fight COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar feared that asking people without ration cards to approach the jurisdictional Collectorates might defeat the object of maintaining physical distancing. Hence, they ordered that the essential commodities be supplied to such people too in the nearest ration shop itself. In order to keep a check over any irregularities in supplying the commodities, the ration shops must be ordered to submit the details of daily transactions to the Collectorate, they added. ‘Communicate orders’ The judges also requested Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian to communicate the orders passed by them to the Chief Secretary forthwith. The directions were issued on a public interest litigation petition filed by P. Arularasu, who wanted essential commodities to be supplied even to those without ration cards. He said Aadhaar or driving licence should be permitted as alternative identity proof. However, the AAG told the court that even those without ration cards could avail the benefits at the Collectorates. Passing interim orders in yet another PIL petition filed by advocate G. Rajesh, the Bench directed officials to ensure that physical distancing was maintained at ration shops when beneficiaries queue up. Technical committee The Bench further directed a technical committee led by the Health Secretary to consider a representation made by a litigant, P.A. Joseph of Chennai, to suggest ‘Kabasura Kashayam’, a Siddha medication, to boost immunity against COVID-19. Though the litigant sought a positive direction to the government to prescribe it as a preventive medicine and also as a medication for treating COVID-19 patients, the judges left it to the discretion of the committee to take a call. They recalled having passed similar orders early this week on a public interest litigation petition, which sought a direction to the government to consider providing alternative medication such as Siddha, Unani and homeopathy to treat COVID-19.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virus alert: eight clusters identified, access points sealed||The Chennai Corporation has identified eight hotspot clusters in the city where multiple COVID-19 cases have been reported, and imposed strict restrictions on the movement of residents and traders in these areas. On Friday, the clusters were sealed by authorities and barricades placed at various entry points to prevent movement of vehicles. Uniformed police personnel began guarding vantage points to ensure that residents did not venture out of their houses, even for buying essential commodities. The Corporation has deployed 25 to 30 people in each cluster to identify symptomatic cases. “Once the symptomatic cases are identified, the doctors will come in. The person will be given an option to go to a private hospital. If not, the doctors will make arrangements for an ambulance to take them to government hospitals. Baseline data in hotspot clusters have been generated and more than 150 persons with symptoms have been admitted to hospitals,” said an official. According to the government’s medical bulletin, 78 cases have been reported in Chennai Corporation limits till now. Many of the new positive cases reported in the clusters had attended the Nizamuddin event held recently, the police said. In a cluster where five cases were reported, a police officer said, “The entire area is under quarantine. We follow standard protocols. It is more vulnerable, as the area is densely populated.” Each hotspot cluster will have more than 50,000 residents. Some clusters have a significantly higher number of residents. Government agencies, however, are yet to make arrangements for supply of essentials in the clusters, officials said. Residents have requested officials to make arrangements for the supply of essentials.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State still in Stage 2, says Health Secretary||Three out of 376 persons, who were admitted to hospitals for severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), have tested positive for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in Tamil Nadu. This shows that the State is still in Stage 2 of COVID-19 transmission, according to Health Secretary Beela Rajesh. “With more number of positive cases being reported, we lifted samples (throat and nasal swabs and blood) from 376 persons who had SARI and tested them simultaneously. Only three of them, who had contact with COVID-19 patients, tested positive. What this shows is that we are still in Stage 2 and community spread of COVID-19 has not yet happened,” she told reporters on Thursday. This was why self-isolation and physical distancing should be adhered to, she said. “We are insisting on better care and isolation of vulnerable groups such as elderly persons, immunocompromised persons, persons with diabetes and hypertension.” Swift action “What Tamil Nadu is doing differently is that we do not wait for clusters to happen to carry out containment plans. “As soon as a person tests positive for COVID-19, our focus is on the containment plan. “Several departments come together to take up the containment plan in full swing,” she said Dr. Rajesh said the containment plan was centered around the patient’s residence and any of his/her high-risk contacts. Till Thursday, 5,000 field workers were involved and nearly five lakh population was covered under the containment plan. She said while exclusive COVID-19 hospitals were notified in the government sector, some of the patients preferred private hospitals. “As per the Chief Minister’s order, we are notifying private hospitals too,” she said. According to details available in the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Chennai, topped the list in terms of number of positive cases. Biggest spike The city had 81 cases, with the biggest spike so far being on Friday (35 cases). Dindigul climbed up the list with 43 cases followed by Tirunelveli with 36 cases and Erode 32 cases. A total of 3,684 samples had been tested so far. Of these, 484 samples were under process. A total of 1,580 persons were admitted to isolation wards of various hospitals. The State has 23,689 beds in the isolation facilities. A total of 5,080 persons had completed the 28-day quarantine period. A total of 86,342 persons were under active home quarantine and 105 in government quarantine facilities. Officials said it was important to ensure that those under home quarantine and those who test positive were not stigmatised.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. prisoners make 36,000 surgical masks every day||The prison authorities have pooled in the expertise of inmates with tailoring skills to increase the production of surgical face masks to meet the growing demand of the Police Department, which has deployed thousands of its personnel to enforce the COVID-19 prohibitory orders and maintain law and order in the State. Shutting its tailoring units temporarily, the Prison Department commenced manufacturing of face masks. The inmates of Puzhal, Tiruchi and Coimbatore central prisons rolled out 3,000 face masks a day. With the police asking for more, Director General of Police Sunil Kumar Singh asked the inmates in three more central prisons to join the work and increased the productivity to 36,000 face masks per day. “We are making proper surgical masks at a cost of Rs. 10 per piece. We have so far supplied 2.16 lakh pieces. Since there is an acute shortage of face masks in the open market, private hospitals and establishments are approaching us. We declined an order to make 1 lakh masks recently because our focus is on to meet the requirements of the police force,” Mr. Singh said.  Hand sanitisers The prisoners are making hand sanitisers, but only for in-house consumption. The 135 prisons located across Tamil Nadu have a capacity of 23,392 inmates. The occupancy was brought down to 51% from 62% a week ago with hundreds held for petty offences released on bail. Since there was no public transport due to the lockdown, suspects released on bail were being dropped home in police vehicles. The Prison Department banned family interviews for prisoners as part of measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. However, it has procured smart phones to facilitate prisoners make video calls to their family. Convicts can make calls twice a week and undertrials, thrice.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private clinics warned||The State Appropriate Authority, Clinical Establishments Act and Director of Medical and Rural Health Services has cautioned private establishments that provide maternal and child healthcare, and treatment for chronic illnesses against closing down their establishments and offer medical services for their regular patients. In a letter to all private clinical establishments in the State, the authority has said that in view of COVID-19, these health facilities should provide essential services — maternal and child health services on follow-up, and services to those with chronic illnesses such as maintenance dialysis, chemotherapy and other neurological supportive care. “It has been brought to the notice of the State Appropriate Authority about the denial of the above services which is unethical and against the Medical Council of India rules. Hence, it is reiterated that establishments providing such services should not close down, and should offer medical services for their regular clients,” the letter said. The authority said that any deviation will attract suspension or cancellation of registration of the erring establishments under the provisions of Clinical Establishments Act.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. designates 21 hospitals for treatment of COVID-19||Twenty one hospitals, including four in Chennai, have been notified as designated hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 patients in Tamil Nadu. Each of these hospitals will cover patients from earmarked districts. The Health and Family Welfare Department on Thursday issued a government order designating hospitals in 18 districts as “exclusive COVID-19 hospitals”. Thirty seven districts in the State should have their own exclusive isolation room for admission and treating influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory syndrome patients. Each district should have one exclusive quarantine facility, inside the health facility. In Chennai, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital and Block B of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, are the designated hospitals for Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts. The Government Vellore Medical College Hospital will cover Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts. The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for Salem, the Government Erode Medical College Hospital in Perunthurai will cover Erode district. The ESI Hospital will cover Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Nilgiris while the Government Medical College Hospital in Villupuram will cover Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts. The Government Tiruvannamalai Medical College Hospital has also been designated while those in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri can go to the Government Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital. Government Karur Medical College Hospital will cover patients from Karur, Dindigul, Namakkal while Raja Muthiah Medical College, Chidambaram, will cover Cuddalore. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi will cover Ariyalur, Perambalur, Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts. The other hospitals and the districts that the institutions will cover are — the Government Thanjavur Medical College Hospital (Thanjavur), the Government Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital (Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam), the Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital (Sivangaga and Ramanathapuram), the Government Madurai Medical College Hospital (Madurai and Virudhunagar), the Government Theni Medical College Hospital (Theni), the Government Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi) and the Government Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital (Kanniyakumari).
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Avoid shopping daily, CM urges people||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday urged people not to step out of their homes to shop daily for essential supplies. Instead, they should stock supplies at least for a week during the lockdown. Mr. Palaniswami said the government would strictly implement the prohibitory orders since many were not taking them seriously. After visiting three camps for migrant workers, he told journalists, “People should follow the instructions in the right manner. They should not go out to shop for essential supplies daily. They could shop for vegetables and provisions for a week.” Some have not realised the seriousness of the pandemic. “Some are out on two-wheelers and many are coming in cars too,” he said and added that about 45,000 cases had been registered for violating prohibitory orders and 50,397 persons were arrested and released on bail. About 37,000 vehicles had been impounded and 92 cases were booked for spreading rumours and 95 persons arrested in that regard. He warned that if people did not listen, then “law will do its duty.” The prohibitory orders were issued in people’s interest. “Every family is important to the government and it is the government’s responsibility to ensure their safety. The people should cooperate by staying at home,” Mr. Palaniswami appealed. Asked if the lockdown would be extended, he said: “The Centre has announced it until April 14. Wait and see.” On the price rise in some places, he said though lorries with essential supplies were allowed to operate, not many were operating. The government had been taking steps to tackle this and action taken against those selling commodities at higher prices. No salary cut He replied in the negative when asked if the salary of government employees would be cut like in a few other States. The Chief Minister visited camps in Raja Annamalaipuram, Velachery and Periamet, where migrant workers had been provided shelter, food and relief material. Workers from Assam, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and so on were in the camps. About 1.18 lakh workers from other States were working in Tamil Nadu. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation G. Prakash, and Chennai District Collector R. Seethalakshmi accompanied him.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin distributes aid to workers||DMK president M.K. Stalin visited his constituency, Kolathur, on Friday and distributed food, ration, sanitisers, masks and other essentials to 1,000 conservancy workers, autorickshaw drivers and children in the constituency. The DMK said, on Mr. Stalin’s advice, the party had been providing food to 1,000 conservancy workers in the area for the past seven days. On Friday, the DMK leader visited the constituency and personally served breakfast to the workers at the party’s office. He distributed protective items to be used against COVID-19 and groceries to families. He gave food, sanitisers and masks to migrants as well as clothes, bedsheets, and toiletries, the party added. At the market, Mr. Stalin checked on the availability and prices of vegetables. He distributed Rs. 500 to over 500 autorickshaw drivers in the area who have lost their daily livelihood due to the lockdown and 5kg of rice and other ration items to their families. He thanked the police officials on duty for their service during the lockdown and handed over masks and sanitisers to them, the party said.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. reaches out to community leaders||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Friday chaired meetings with heads and representatives of religious communities in the Secretariat to explain to them the magnitude of COVID-19 and the need to contain it. Leaders and representatives from various denominations of Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Sikh and Jain communities took part in three separate meetings in which senior government officials and police officers participated. “The meetings were held primarily to seek cooperation from them and to explain the magnitude of the situation ,” an official said. Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, one of the participants, praised the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “Even so many years ago, the authentic sayings of Holy Prophet Muhammad tells us that during epidemics such as plague and others, travel is banned and one should confine himself within the house. I told my Muslim brothers that we should support the government in its efforts,” Mr. Ali said. Fr. Patrick Paul, secretary to Archbishop of Madras-Mylapore Most Rev. Dr. George Antonysamy, said: “The government explained the seriousness of the pandemic and steps we could take.”  Home Secretary S.K. Prabakar, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh and Chennai Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan were present. ‘Ensure transparency’ Manithaneya Makkal Katchi founder M.H. Jawahirullah on Friday said the State government must be transparent in testing for COVID-19 Muslims who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi. In a statement, he said names of the patients were released in a few districts and urged the government to clamp down on those spreading rumours and hate.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drones put to novel use: help enforce lockdown in bylanes||The police have deployed drones fitted with public addres systems, advising people not to venture out from their houses. In the past, the police have used drones for patrolling, surveillance of rallies and meetings, among others. Now the drones have come in handy to enforce curfew in lanes and bylanes, in various parts of the city. For surveillance Additional Commissioner of Police, South, Prem Anand Sinha and Deputy Commissioner of Police G. Dharamarajan, with assistance of a few technicians, deployed the drones fitted with public address systems. On Friday, the drones were used in Pudupet, Chepauk, Egmore, Chintadripet and other areas. “The drones have come in handy, especially in surveillance. Since it is a flying object with the public address system, it attracts people and makes them listen and obey curfew orders. Besides, we are also using autos fitted public address systems,” said an officer. Drones are handy tools to spot people wandering on narrow lanes and warn such persons to stay indoors, the officer said. Despite a curfew being in place, people were spotted on streets for frivolous reasons. The city police booked 399 cases from Thursday night till Friday morning.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Separate jails for fresh inmates||In a bid to ensure that prisoners already lodged in prisons across the State do not contract SARS-CoV-2 infection from fresh inmates, the Prison Department has notified district jails, sub-jails and Borstal schools in 37 cities/districts to accommodate new comers. Director-General of Police (Prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh said that the move was to prevent the spread of COVID-19 from any newcomer to the existing prisoners. The newly earmarked prisons were cleaned and disinfected to house the new comers, the Director-General of Police (Prisons) said. Adequate staff strength was provided in jails notified for fresh inmates remanded in judicial custody. “As a precautionary step, the newcomers will be subjected to medical screening and anybody with symptoms of cough, cold, sneezing, breathlessness, sore throat and fever will be referred to the nearest government hospital,” Mr. Singh said in a release. Procedure st andardised Although the Standard Operating Procedure in prisons is that all newcomers are isolated for 14 days in quarantine blocks, irrespective of whether they have any symptoms or not, the decision to notify separate jails was to prevent the possibility of asymptomatic infected persons mingling with a larger crowd, sources in the prison department said. The occupation of the 135 prisons in the State was 11,985, which is 51.23 per cent of the total capacity. About 4,000 inmates involved in petty offences were released on bail, including personal bond, in the last ten days, the sources added.  Newcomers will be subjected to medical screening and anybody with symptoms will be referred to the nearest government hospital
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Family provides food for workers||Every day, a vehicle arrives at Kilpauk Water Works, not to fetch water, but to deliver homemade, piping hot food to workers at the public utility. A family in Kilpauk has been preparing breakfast and lunch for nearly 300 workers of Metrowater and Chennai Corporation, in the locality, since the beginning of the lockdown. The workers, including lorry drivers, at Kilpauk Water Works and zone 8, have been struggling to find food, as eateries are shut by the time they finish work, late in the afternoon. A Metrowater official in zone 8 said: “Several lorry drivers are from other parts of the State, including Tiruchi and Madurai, and depend on eateries.” The household of Ashok Parmar, a resident of Rajarathinam Street, gets busy at the break of dawn, and in four hours, breakfast and lunch is cooked, and is ready to be transported. Mr. Parmar’s family was involved in voluntary efforts during the 2015 floods as well. “We serve lunch consisting a variety rice, with a side dish, to Metrowater workers, and breakfast and lunch to Corporation workers. We check the number of people who need food the previous day and they collect it from us,” said Mr. Parmar. “It is our contribution for workers who are providing essential services during the crisis,” he said. Such voluntary efforts motivate workers to continue their work, a Metrowater official said.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At Stanley, robot takes on nursing duties||Now, a robot delivers food, water and medication to patients admitted to the COVID-19 ward of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. The hospital has introduced the “robot nurse” to reduce the number of times a healthcare provider, especially a staff nurse, interacts with a COVID-19 patient, according to hospital authorities. The robot was put on trial for a few days at the hospital, and a staff nurse, who was posted at the ward, was trained in operating the robot, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. Protecting workers The Minister, who inspected the upcoming 500-bed COVID-19 facility at the hospital on Friday, said: “The robot will help avoid overexposure for staff nurses. They can operate it and send food, water bottles and medicines for the patients in the COVID-19 ward.” It is important to protect healthcare providers from infections, he added. P. Balaji, dean of the hospital, said that they had deployed the robot so that the contact of a nurse with a patient is restricted. “It has a two-way camera too. We can also send books for patients using the robot. Our staff need not walk into the ward frequently and this will also reduce apprehensions among them,” he said. Dr. Vijayabaskar added that the hospital was in the process of setting up a COVID-19 facility with 500 beds and 100 ventilators.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile ATM makes withdrawals easy||To prevent crowding at ATMs in St. Thomas Mount police district and to help families of police personnel and residents withdraw money without hassle, the police have tied up with the State Bank of India to operate a solar-powered mobile ATM. There are 15 police stations in the St. Thomas Mount police district and there are hundreds of policemen living in the police quarters in the jurisdiction. Besides, there are thousands of apartment complexes. K. Prabakar, Deputy Commissioner, St. Thomas Mount, spoke to the State Bank of India, Guindy, and arranged for the solar-powered mobile ATM. “It will go to apartment complexes and police quarters, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., every day, till April 15. The machine and the van are disinfected frequently and people are made to use hand sanitisers before entering the vehicle,” the Deputy Commissioner said. People are made to follow physical distancing norms while entering the vehicle to withdraw money. “Now we can withdraw money at our doorsteps,” said I. Senthil Kumar, who works in the St. Thomas Mount Deputy Commissioner’s office. D. Kesvan, head constable, Tambaram police station, said such ATMs were helpful. “We no longer have to enter ATMs that are crowded at the beginning of the month,” he said.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Firms can’t force employees to take leave without pay’||Companies cannot force employees to take leave without pay amid the 21-day lockdown imposed by the government to control the spread of COVID-19, according to experts. “In general, annual leave is a statutory entitlement to be availed at the employee’s discretion and as per terms of company policy. It cannot be forced upon the employees,” Vikram Shroff, head of HR Laws at Nishith Desai Associates, said. The government has clarified that employees shall be deemed to be on duty in case of a lockdown. The employer may treat it as leave without pay if an employee refuses to work from home, he said. Mr. Shroff pointed out that as a result of a natural calamity, factories and industrial establishments may be able to lay off its workmen in compliance with law and the employer’s Standing Orders, subject, however, to the government notifications. S. Ravindaran, a senior advocate, said the legal compulsion to suspend the operations/activities in factories, shops, commercial establishments/offices, etc., did not result in denial of wages to employees, including contract workmen. An employee could be denied wages only when he was absent from work or when he was on strike and, therefore, all employees, including contract workmen, were entitled to full wages lastly drawn by them during the period up to April 14, he said. S. Kannan, CITU president, Kancheepuram district, said the State government had to pitch in to clarify on the issue of wages. “This is an extraordinary situation. Even in times of floods and cyclone the recovery has been fast. If companies cut things like shift allowance or conveyance it is understandable. But cutting basic wages is not acceptable,” he said.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief for those who returned from foreign trips||All persons, who arrived in India after February 15 and were in government/government-arranged quarantine facilities, will be “released” “after the expiry of their specified mandatory quarantine period and being tested COVID-19 negative.” A G.O. was issued to this effect on Friday. An earlier G.O. of March 25 had not specified when these people, who were in government/government-arranged quarantine facilities, would be “released” (lifting of quarantine). Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, in his order, amended the earlier G.O. to exempt transit arrangements of foreign nationals in India from the lockdown. According to the Standard Operating Procedure now, persons who returned from abroad after February 15 would be ‘released’ from the quarantine facilities after testing for COVID-19 as per standard health protocol. However, “this will not apply to a group, where even one person tests positive for COVID-19.”  In view of a number of foreign nationals being stranded in different parts of the country due to lockdown, some foreign countries had approached the Centre to arrange for the evacuation of their citizens.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ration cardholders to get dole at doorstep||The State government has decided to distribute the Rs. 1,000 cash aid to rice family cardholders at their doorsteps when the tokens are given to them to collect rations, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Friday. Mr. Palaniswami told journalists in Chennai that since there was a possibility of crowding at the time of collecting financial assistance at ration shops, the money component would be distributed while the tokens were given. As for those who were not in a position to collect the assistance, they could do so till the end of this month. In another decision, he said since journalists were involved in spreading awareness about COVID-19 and highlighting the government’s actions, a special assistance of Rs. 3,000 each would be distributed to accredited journalists.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Customs waives late fee||Customs has waived late fee for consignments that arrived on or after March 20, owing to the COVID-19 outbreak, according to a press release. Container freight stations too have waived storage charges.
04 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable shops at mofussil bus stand from today||As many as 124 vegetable shops is expected to start functioning at the mofussil bus stand at Gandhipuram here from Saturday. These were shops from the Thyagi Kumaran vegetable market. There were more than 400 shops at the market. Of these, about 80 had shifted to the Coimbatore town bus stand. Another 124 would move to the mofussil bus stand, said M. Rajendran, president of the market’s vegetable traders association. Apart from these, 36 onion and tomato wholesalers from MGR market had shifted to the Mettupalayam bus stand. They would only sell in bulk and not to retail customers. In Ukkadam, 130 shops were functioning at the bus stand, he said. The shops in the Mettupalayam market had announced leave till April 14. However, this had not affected vegetable availability in Coimbatore as there was no sales to Kerala from here now. The vegetables that the traders got here wes adequate to meet the city’s needs, he added.
04 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries look for support from govt.||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) here have appealed to the bank to implement the announcements of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and also to come out with special measures so that industrial activity revives after the lockdown period. Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Micro Enterprises president J. James said some of the nationalised and private banks had sent messages to the industries asking them to reply to a number if they did not want the interest to be debited. “We have not received any message from the banks. The interest has been debited,” he said. In a memorandum to RBI Governor Shakthikanta Das, Mr. James said that though the Governor had ordered all national, private banks and financial institutions to give three month period to the debtors to pay the interest for loans, the banks had debited the interest amount. The banks were also sending messages to the account holders who did not have adequate amount to have enough money in the account. The RBI should order banks to refund the deducted instalment amount and also should not ask people to pay the interest, he said. R. Ramamuthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said the banks had deducted the interest to all MSMEs that had accepted auto-debit. “The bank officials have promised that the amount will be credited to the accounts of the units again. We hope they do it soon,” he said. But there are also reports that many banks are debiting and are not reversing it. This is affecting finance of the micro units. Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association president V. Krishnakumar said that water pumps were used for agricultural purposes and as summer had set in, panchayats need water pumps to provide drinking water. Companies had received orders for pumps, but were unable to supply. So pumps should come under essential commodities. Further, goods in trucks were stuck in different places and many States were not allowing the trucks to proceed. The States should permit movement of the goods and give relief to the industries. The government should provide financial support to the industries to continue to take care of the migrant workers, he said. Tiruppur Exporters Association president Raja Shanmugham said the government should pay one month salary to all ESI card holders. In the case of unorganised work force, who did not have ESI card, the government could make payments through the Jan Dhan accounts. The industries need one year moratorium to repay interest and loans. When the global market opened up, fresh working capital was needed, he added.
04 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore, Tiruppur units get into protective gear production||Some of the industries in Tiruppur and Coimbatore, with manufacturing facilities, are getting into production of personal protection gear, either the complete set or in individual products. In Tiruppur, three companies have gone into manufacture of masks and some are doing coveralls. According to Raja Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters Association, there are a lot of enquiries for masks and coveralls as Tiruppur is a textile hub. “But we need fabric sealing facility for coveralls. Even in the case of masks, so far, we only use dust-preventive masks. We need to use sterilised non-woven fabric for the masks used by healthcare sector as a precaution against COVID-19. Availability of the fabric meeting the approved standards is not much. Many are asking for the masks. But we cannot shift to it easily. We can only stitch masks. We cannot do the moulded ones,” he says. According to the General Manager of Coimbatore District Industries Centre, Karthigaivasan Kachirayar, two companies make coveralls that meet the government standards and one is making coveralls that the healthcare workers can use. One manufacturer is contemplating production of the entire Personal Protective Equipment kit. “We have provided the technical details to the manufacturer,” he said. For masks, three units were already making three-ply masks and two more have got into it. One person has got into face cover. Apart from these, two companies produce ventilators for larger brands. One manufacturer is getting into it and has done three prototypes. One more company has started producing. “There is higher movement of ventilators from here,” he said. A lot of textile manufacturers in States such as Punjab had switched over to protective gear recently. Coimbatore was a major textile centre and the government was talking to the manufacturers to encourage them to get into this segment, he said.
04 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||All attendees of Tablighi conference located||The district administration has identified all persons from the district who had attended the meet organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, Delhi. According to sources, 91 persons had attended the conference. Initially, there was some confusion regarding the number of persons because a few of them had two or more addresses on record and one or two of them turned out to be either old or non-existent. After vetting all the details, the administration had come to the conclusion there were only 91 persons from the district who had attended the event. Of the 91, 21 had tested negative for COVID-19. Of the remaining 70, 26 had tested positive and the results of tests on nearly 35 persons were expected soon, the sources said. The administration had quarantined them at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and at the government hospitals in Mettupalayam, Annur and Pollachi.
04 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Supply tea through PDS outlets: small growers||The Nilgiris Nelikolu Micro and Small Tea Growers and Farmers Development Society has appealed to the State Government to procure tea from the Government-owned tea co-operative Indcoserve and distribute it free of cost to ration card holders through the Public Distribution System (PDS) outlets in the State. H.N. Sivan, founder president of the society, said there were around 1.7-crore ration cards in Tamil Nadu under the PDS. Amid steps to control the spread of COVID-19, the State Government was also providing support to the public by distributing essential commodities through the PDS outlets. Claiming that drinking of tea helps build immunity, he said distributing tea through PDS would also protect the livelihood of the small tea growers of the Nilgiris, who grow and supply green tea leaves to the INDCO Co-Operative Tea Factories. The 15 INDCO Tea Factories procure around 35 % of total Nilgiris green tea leaves from more than 25,000 small farmers, out of the 70,000 small tea farmers in the Nilgiris district and produce nearly 1.70 crore kg of Made Teas a year. The State Government should consider distribution of teas through PDS outlets to all card holders, he said.
04 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles seized||Officials from the district administration and Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) on Friday seized over 600 bottles of liquor and arrested four men on charges of illegally selling liquor on Sanganoor Road near Ganapathy on Friday. A team led by Coimbatore North Tahsildar T. Magesh Kumar and PEW officials seized the bottles worth nearly Rs. 1 lakh, the police said. R. Selvaraj (43), R. Selvam (39), A Veerasekaran (34) and S. Sengol (34) were arrested and remanded in judicial custody. Arrested for hate speech The Selvapuram police on Friday arrested a man on charges of spreading rumours on COVID-19 and targeting a particular community in a denigrating manner. D. Sathishkumar aka Sathish (34) was booked under sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups), 294 (b) (Uttering obscenities), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 505(2) (Statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code. Man lodges complaint A functionary of Tamil Puligal Katchi lodged a complaint with the Karumathampatti police on Friday alleging that miscreants were spreading rumours that he was tested positive for COVID-19. In his complaint petition. M. Saravanan claimed that he had recently converted to Islam and changed his name to Abdul Rahman. He sought action against those who spread rumours that he attended the Tablighi event.
04 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Home Guards, police lend a helping hand to migrant workers||Personnel from Tamil Nadu Home Guards and the Coimbatore City Police engaged in distributing food packets and essential commodities to the migrant workers stranded here on Friday. Home Guard personnel distributed about 250 food packets in Rathinapuri area to the migrant workers. According to T.K. Dhanasekhar, Area Commandant of Home Guards, Coimbatore City, nearly 10 personnel began distributing the packets from Thursday morning. A total of 500 packets – 250 each for breakfast and dinner – were being distributed, he said. The food was prepared through a tie-up with a local restaurant in Rathinapuri. “The intention is to make sure that no one is suffering from hunger,” Mr. Dhanasekhar said. Nearly 200 Home Guards personnel were deployed in the city at 36 points to monitor the situation along with the police, he said. Similarly, the Singanallur police started distributing commodities to the migrant workers in Irugur and K.G. Pudur. M. Muneeswaran, Inspector at Singanallur Police Station, said the commodities distributed to each person would last for at least 10 days. The police tied up with volunteers and local non-governmental organisations for this initiative, he said.
04 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Meat stalls to remain closed on April 6||All chicken, meat and beef stalls will remain closed on April 6 on account of Mahavir Jayanti, says a Coimbatore Corporation release. As slaughter and sale of animals is banned, any establishment found violating the order will have to face action, the release warns.
04 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Interfaith solidarity for COVID-19||Nine religious leaders from Coimbatore issued a joint statement on Thursday requesting people from all religions to display “interfaith moment of hope and solidarity” to fight COVID-19. The leaders requested the people to cooperate, offer comfort and prayers, keep all places of worship closed and support and serve vulnerable families. The leaders included Santhalinga Maruthachala Adigalar (Religious Harmony Committee), L. Thomas Aquinas (Diocese of Coimbatore), M.A. Abdul Raheem (Jamaatulma) and Gurpreet Singh (Gurudwara Singh Sabha).    Real estate firm Globus Arima Builders said that they donated masks to the district administration and the Coimbatore Corporation on Friday to help fight COVID-19. A total of 8,000 masks worth Rs. 1.6 lakh were donated to the Corporation and 7,000 masks worth Rs. 1.4 lakh were handed over to Collector K. Rajamani, a release said.         A total of 3,000 masks were sent from Tiruppur to Chennai via goods train on Friday, railway officials said. The masks were sent via the Parcel Cargo Express Special train, which was operated by the Salem Division of Southern Railway between Coimbatore and Chennai to transport medical supplies, the officials said.
04 April 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||26 persons to be shifted to Karur GH||All the 26 persons, who tested positive to COVID-19 virus would be shifted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital, said Joint Director (Health) Poongothai here on Friday. The group of persons who had attended the conference in Nizamudeen last week, were taken to isolation wards two days ago. After the samples were sent for swab tests, it was declared that all the 26 persons were found to be positive for COVID-19 virus. They were stable, doctors said. As the facilities were better, they would be shifted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday. The health workers had identified the dwellings of all the 26 persons in the district, which included five in Palani, eight in Natham, two in Dindigul Block and 11 in Dindigul Town respectively. All the neighbourhood in the vicinity were cordoned off for ‘local containment plan’. Special teams from multi departments would be monitoring them regularly, officials informed at a review meeting chaired by District Collector M. Vijayalakshmi.  Bus facility The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (Dindigul division) has made arrangements to operate buses for health workers and para medical teams to come for work to the Government Hospital and to other designated locations including Anganwadi, Amma Unavagams ets. According to a TNSTC official, buses would be operated as special service at 6 a.m., 7 a.m., 12 noon, 1 p.m., 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. covering Natham, Pattiveeranpatti, Eriodu, Kannivadi, Kodaikanal Road and Ariyalur. The arrangement has been made after there were complaints that police harassed two-wheeler riders, who said that they dropped their spouses at the GH or had to pick them up. When the issue was taken up by the Health Department, the Collector ordered plying of buses on select routes to pick up the staff and drop them back.  Talks to be held Even as the district administration had announced that all meat stalls and fish markets in the district would be instructed to down shutters till April 14, in a bid to prevent public movement, the association office-bearers made an appeal to the Collector. A meeting has been convened on Saturday and a decision would be made known, an official said.
04 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway men continue to keep infrastructure in shipshape||Though working with a skeletal staff strength, railway officials and employees in Madurai Railway Division have been putting in strenuous efforts to move essential goods from various parts of the country to the southern districts even under the lockdown period. Staff from all departments of the railway are working day and night to ensure safe running of the goods trains despite cancellation of all passenger trains. “Railway is an essential service and under this extraordinary situation wherein people have been asked to stay indoors, our men have braved not only to come out but also to put in their best efforts to run the goods trains so that all essential goods are available everywhere in this critical situation,” a senior railway official said. Most of the people have either locked themselves within four walls or working from home so that they do not contract the COVID-19 infection. “But our men are there out in the empty railway stations, deserted tracks and remote railway gates so that the safety of the rakes, goods carried and railway men is in place,” the source added. Trackmen are working every day on all the important railway routes to make sure that the tracks are fit for operating goods trains. “Though it is not new for them to work in the most remote parts, what makes the difference is that they are working in more secluded places these days as normal movement of people has been curtailed under lockdown,” another official said. The railways have operated 18 rakes since March 21 and have moved 16,000 tonnes of rice, 9,325 tonnes of sugar, 5,132 tonnes of paddy, 2,670 tonnes of wheat and 1,350 tonnes of petroleum products. Though there was no originating load from within the division, unloading had been done in various stations. Government agencies such as Food Corporation of India, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and private players had used the railway services, the official said. The goods have been unloaded in Meelavittan, Pudukottai, Mayiladuthurai, Aruppukottai, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar, Rajapalayam and Dindigul. The task is not limited to operating the goods trains, but also in ensuring personal safety of railway employees and workers involved in loading and unloading. “We have given masks and hand wash facilities at all working spots. The officials made sure that the workers maintained minimum personal distance while working. Besides, personal details of all the loading workers were collected as a precautionary measure,” the official added.
04 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection exercise on in Madurai villages||The district administration has issued an order on Friday to disinfect all villages to prevent spread of coronavirus The conservancy workers have been provided with masks and gloves while disinfecting villages using phenyl and bleaching powder. Additional Director of Panchayats A. Chelladurai said that since bleaching powder in Tamil Nadu was in demand and costly too, they were procuring it from Gujarat at Rs. 970 a bag. The exercise would be taken up on on alternate days in the 420 village panchayats. The district administration was spreading awareness through flex boards regarding reporting of symptoms of COVID-19 to the nearest health facility. This, however, has not elicited much response. A health official says there had been no voluntary response from those with travel history due to the fear of stigma. Mr. Chelladurai says they have begun door-to-door campaign and spread awareness of physical distancing to address this problem. In Tirumangalam and Chellampatti, migrant workers were served food, he added.
04 April 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||5 Delhi returnees test positive for COVID 19 virus in Nagapattinam||Five out of the 31 persons in the district who had attended the meeting of Tablighi Jamaat at New Delhi have tested positive for COVID 19 virus. Results are awaited for more samples sent for test to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur district. The residences of the five persons have been sealed and the members of their families put through the quarantine procedure. Family members of one of the COVID 19 positive patients had initially resisted the attempt by a team of health department officials and policemen to undergo testing, but eventually gave in. The inmates were subsequently moved to the isolation ward at the Government Hospital, Nagapattinam, sources said. Three of the five COVID 19 positive patients are neighbours in a locality and two others reside in other localities. From Saturday, buffer and containment zones will be created at three places in the town for restricting movement of outsiders, Collector Praveen P. Nair said. At a meeting of religious leaders convened by the Collector, the participants assured to extend their fullest cooperation to the district administration for its containment measures. They accepted to keep a watch on circulation of hate messages in the social media. In Karaikal district, the samples of six persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting and a contact had tested negative. Urging people to remain indoors to contain the spread of the virus, Karaikal Collector Arjun Sharma appealed to them to cooperate with the frontline staff of health department involved in community surveillance. Essential supplies were available in sufficient quantities, and there was no need for making panic purchases, the Collector said.
04 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||54 contract staff removed from payroll||The government has removed 54 contract workers at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMC&RI) from the payroll for disrupting COVID-19 related medical services. Collector T. Arun on Friday issued an order removing them from service with immediate effect. Mr. Arun acted on the basis of a report submitted by the Dean of the institution. “Their action shows clear dereliction of duty and also amounts to negligence on the part of officials in controlling the pandemic,” the order said. The report stated that the 54 contract workers abstained from work on April 2 and also interrupted other staff from discharging their medical duties. The government had converted the medical college into a COVID-19 facility.
04 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Declare fishing as an essential service’||The National Fisherfolk Forum has demanded that fishing be declared as an essential service. In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, former MLA and NFF chairperson M. Ilango said fish was a cheap source of protein for a large section of the population in the country. Mr. Ilango said that fishing should be declared an essential service. An announcement in this direction will protect their livelihood, he said.
04 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Coordination helped contain COVID-19’||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said the absence of communication gap between the political leadership and the administrative leadership helped effectively contain the spread of COVID-19 in the Union Territory. Participating in a video-conferencing review convened by President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Ms. Bedi said apart from the daily review meetings at the levels of Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar and Collector T. Arun, the office of the Lt. Governor held an audio-call stocktaking of the daily situation. Seamless coordination There was seamless coordination between political leadership and administration as envisaged in the Disaster Management Act, in addition to the existing technology channels such as social media, group mail and WhatsApp groups that linked officers with the leadership, volunteers and trainers.
04 April 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 precautionary measures discussed||Collector P. Uma Maheswari held a meeting with representatives of various religious faiths here on Friday to inform them about the various precautionary measures taken by the administration to check the spread of COVID-19. The meeting held at the Collectorate was attended by Superintendent of Police P.Ve. Arun Sakthi Kumar among others. Collector Uma Maheswari said precautionary measures were being executed on a war footing to check the spread of the viral disease. The administration had been consistently appealing to the general public to stay at home in the wake of the prohibitory orders. Public have been advised to maintain personal distancing in case they had to venture out for any necessary work. The Collector, in a press release, said the representatives of various religious faiths assured to extend their full cooperation to the district administration to check the spread of COVID-19.
04 April 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Pamban rail bridge opens during lockdown||Around 10 fishing vessels carrying over 60 persons that been waiting for the Pamban rail bridge to open for about a week now, were finally allowed to pass, on Friday. The bridge was shut down due to the imposition of Section 144 in view of COVID-19. An officer from the Port office in Pamban said that the bridge was opened after obtaining permission from Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao at 11.45 a.m. Of the 10 boats, nine were from Nagapattinam. The 61 people on board the vessels were involved in deep sea fishing and had attempted to dock at Kochi port but were disallowed from doing so due to COVID-19 scare. The boats travelled through Thoothukudi and eventually landed at Pamban in Ramanathapuram district but could not cross due to the railway bridge being closed. “The fishermen reached out to their Collector in Nagapattinam who eventually connected to the district administration here. Only after authentication were the fishermen allowed to proceed home,” the officer said.
04 April 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Two test positive in Ramnad||Two persons, who had been to the religious conclave in Delhi, had tested positive for COVID-19, said District Collector K Veera Raghava Rao here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said that 41 persons from different parts of the district had been to Nizamudeen as delegates. Twenty-five among them returned, 14 stayed back in New Delhi and two were still in Chennai. After 25 persons in the district were admitted to the isolation ward here, samples were taken from 17 persons for swab test. The reports received indicated that two had tested positive. He said as per the WHO guidelines, the residences of all the 25 persons were identified and disinfectants sprayed. As a precautionary measure, 113 family members have been quarantined. For about five kilometres, all the dwellings have been declared as ‘local containment zone’. As many as 417 health workers, supervisors and officers from multi-departments were supervising the measures. The Collector said that 35,000 dwellings would be under strict medical surveillance for the next 14 days. The authorities in New Delhi and Chennai were informed about those who had stayed back in the respective cities, he added and clarified that the two positive-tested patients were stable. Replying to a question, Mr. Rao said that out of 4,777 foreign returnees, 2,309 have completed 30 days home quarantine as per the Health Ministry's guidelines The remaining 2,468 persons continued to be in quarantine. Checks by field level officers have suggested that they were fully cooperating. The district administration would open few more makeshift markets for the benefit of the residents. He appealed to the people to refrain from unnecessary travel. By remaining indoors, the people can break the virus chain and also facilitate the police to enforce the law effectively.
04 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man in home quarantine dies||A senior citizen, who was in home quarantine died here on Friday. Health officials clarified that the deceased did not suffer from COVID-19 symptoms. According to officials, the deceased was a resident of Sooramangalam and was advised home quarantine since he travelled to Delhi for attending a wedding. J. Nirmalsen, Deputy Director, Health Services said that the person was advised home quarantine due to travel history and was undergoing treatment for heart-related ailments as well.
04 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘More containment zones to be set up’||District Collector S.A. Raman has said that containment measures are being carried out in the district and more zones would be set up here. Mr. Raman said that 33 persons have been quarantined here in connection with Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamudddin, and containment plans are on. Mr. Raman said, “their samples have been collected and sent for tests. Besides the mosques and premises where the first set of patients from Indonesia visited here, containment measures are also being carried out in Tharamangalam, Mettur, Edappadi and Gengavalli.” Mr. Raman along with officials from the Civil Supplies and Revenue departments distributed ration items to migrant workers residing at Alagapuram and nearby areas. He said that the needs of migrant workers are being attended to and they are being provided with food and dry rations. Mr. Raman said that their well-being is taken care of. Mr. Raman said, “there are about 200 migrant workers and about 40 families living in Alagapuram area and they were being provided with food since the beginning of lockdown. With support of various rice and other mills in the area, they have been provided with dry rations. Similar steps are being taken for all migrant workers in the district.” He added that there are about 1,000 migrant workers in the district. He said that the control room is receiving distress calls and are being attended to.
04 April 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Sale of 11 vegetables for Rs. 100 begins in Karaikudi||State Khadi and Village Industries Minister G. Baskaran launched the sale and distribution of 11 vegetables for Rs. 100 packed in cloth bags to consumers here in Karakudi on Friday. The initiative, which was proposed by the Municipal authorities, was given shape considering the COVID-19 pandemic situation. As large number of people could be seen in markets and bus stands during mornings and evenings, the officials decided to stagger the crowd and take the essential commodities to the doorsteps in the Municipal limits. The officials procured vegetables and packed them in such a way that it would be sufficient for small families and would make them stay indoors for three to four days. Thus, a bag which contained 11 items, including potato, onion, brinjal, drumstick, tomato, raw banana, curry leaves, chow-chow et al for Rs. 100, was neatly packed. The takeaway bags for Rs. 100 was affordable for a large section of residents and also the price was fixed as a rounded off figure Rs. 100 so that it would be convenient. The Minister also visited the GH here, where a isolation ward was kept ready for treating persons, who had complaints of fever, cough or cold. The Municipality also received two mobile gadgets to sprinkle liquid disinfectant in public places. According to a press release, the district had 51 persons, including one from Ramanathapuram district, kept in isolation wards. As per the results, five persons tested positive and they were stable. Municipal Commissioner Malathi, DSP Arun and other officials were present at the launch.
04 April 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Mild force used to disperse crowd in Tenkasi mosque||Police had to use mild force to disperse a group that gathered in a mosque at Nadupettai here on Friday. As social and religious gatherings have been banned following the nation-wide lockdown clamped in the wake of COVID-19 threat, prayers involving large number of persons have been stopped in all places of worship. When a group of people gathered at Nadupettai mosque here on Friday, Tahsildar of Tenkasi, Shanmugam and Inspector of Police Aadivel rushed to the spot and asked the jamaath members to send them out of the mosque. Since it led to heated argument between the officials and some of those who had gathered for prayers, chairs were thrown and the police had to use mild force to disperse the crowd. Two persons were taken to the police station for interrogation in this connection.
04 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Early ‘kuruvai’ cultivation to start||It has been estimated that early ‘kuruvai’ cultivation would to be taken up on 30,000 hectares and pulses such as green gram on 10,000 hectares and sesame on 5,000 hectares in the ‘chithirai pattam’ in Thanjavur district. To meet the demand for urea in the district 1200 metric tonnes of urea had been moved from Chennai to Thanjavur and the consignment had reached Thanjavur on April 1 by rail. Another consignment of 2000 metric tonnes through rail was expected to reach Thanjavur by this week, official sources added. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Department has called upon small and marginal farmers in Thanjavur district to utilise the tractors and other farm implements offered free of charges for taking up preparatory works for summer cultivation in their fields. According to a press release issued by the Joint Director (Agriculture), A.Justin said that the Agriculture Department had entered into an agreement with the JFarm, an agriculture research centre of the Tractors and Farm Equipment (TAFE) Limited, Chennai, to offer this service in view of the difficulties faced by the small and marginal farmers in engaging farmhands for taking up summer cultivation preparatory works due to the COVID-19 virus scare. Stating that the service would be available for the next 90 days, the JD (Agriculture) said that those in need of this assistance should register their names and the type of implement required through `Uzhavan’ Application or by dialing the toll-free number 18004200100 of JFarm Service Centre or with the JFarm field representative, N.Udayakumar (95973 81420) by indicating the date and time at which they would like to avail this service. The Massey Fergusan and Eicher tractors and the implements required for preparatory works would be made available to the farmers, he said and added that the ryots could also contact their Block Agriculture Assistant Directors to avail this service.
04 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘70% of people kept in isolation ward discharged’||Around 70% of those who had been kept in observation at the COVID-19 isolation ward at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital has been discharged, according to the Collector M.Govinda Rao. Disclosing this to reporters here on Friday, the Collector said that so far 230 persons were admitted to the TMC hospital and of them 160 have been discharged. Kumudha Lingaraj, Dean, TMC Hospital, said that if a person tested positive in the COVID-19 swab test, he or she had to remain in the isolation ward till the swab tests turn negative in two consecutive tests. Further, they should remain in the hospital for another 16 days from the date of the second negative test result so as to ensure that they were free from the infection, Dr. Kumudha Lingaraj added. Stating that a total of 27 persons who have returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin West in New Delhi have been admitted as in-patients in the TMC hospital, the Collector said these persons after treatment should remain in quarantine for 14 days either in the Government hospitals or at the Government identified facility before getting back to their homes. Further disinfectant tunnels would be set up at four places - the Thanjavur Medical College hospital, the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Kumbakonam, the Government Hospital, Pattukottai and at the Collectorate in Thanjavur. People had to pass through the tunnel where sodium hydrochloride solution would be sprayed on them, he added.
04 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI office gesture||The Communist Party of India, Thanjavur district unit, has offered a portion of its office premises in Thanjavur town for COVID-19 prevention activities. In a letter to the Collector, M. Govinda Rao through e-mail and WhatsApp, the CPI district secretary, M.A. Bharathi, and the general secretary, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation AITUC union, C. Chandrakumar, have stated that the district administration could utilise the 3,000 square feet space available in the CPI district office and TNCSC AITUC union office building on the East Raja Veedhi, Thanjavur.
04 April 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||21 of 29 test positive in Theni||Out of the 29 persons admitted in Theni Government Medical College Hospital’s isolation ward, 21 tested positive to COVID-19 virus, officials said here on Friday. After the district administration realised that a group of persons had been to Nizamudeen conference, the health officials took them to isolation wards two days ago. A video from one of the admitted persons, which went viral on social media on Thursday, showed the person complaining about the way they were handled by health officials. The video had appealed to the Jamaat here to immediately take steps and ensure that they were all set free as many were psychologically disturbed due to the ‘forced detention’. Realising the issue, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam immediately called the representatives from the Jamaat and held talks with them at the Collectorate. A retired medical professional, who was associated with the Jamaat, was entrusted with the task of explaining the steps taken by the team of doctors to the representatives. After about three hours, when they were convinced that there was no ill-treatment meted out to any person, the Jamaat members addressed the families and those kept in the isolation wards following which they agreed to cooperate with the doctors in the treatment. As the video spoke about substandard food being served, the Deputy CM informed that the diet, which has been prepared as per medical standards, was served to them. The officials read out the diet plan for the persons kept in isolation wards for COVID-19. Gadgets handed over Theni MP O. P. Raveendranath Kumar, under the MPLAD fund, gave away gadgets worth about Rs. 1 crore, including ventilator, for COVID-19 virus treatment. The gadgets were handed over to the Government Medical College Hospital officials in the presence of Mr. Panneerselvam, Collector M Pallavi Baldev and other officials.
04 April 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers to aid civic body||Collector Sandeep Nanduri has informed that 1,500 volunteers will be involved in disbursal of COVID–19 relief at the doorstep of senior citizens, physically challenged and those in home quarantine. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, he said the district had recorded five positive cases and they all had participated in the Delhi meeting. While three of them are undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital, two are in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for treatment. Moreover, nine persons are in the isolation ward here. Since 130 persons were in contact with these positive patients, they have been isolated and home quarantined.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MGMGH ready to handle positive cases||Preparations are on to handle COVID-19 positive cases at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after it has been declared as an exclusive COVID-19 hospital by the Health and Family Welfare Department. Following instructions from the Health Department, the Speciality Block at the hospital, which was initially set up as a quarantine facility where patients would be kept under observation until they test positive or negative for COVID-19, has been converted into a full-fledged isolation ward, R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH, said. He told The Hindu that each floor of the six-floor block will have nearly 100 beds. “Apart from government-allotted Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for healthcare professionals, donors have also been providing sufficient equipment,” he said. We have a total of 85 ventilators and are well-equipped to handle patients, he added. The total capacity of the isolation facility at the MGMGH will be 640 beds where only patients who test positive will be admitted. Patients from the neighbouring districts of Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai will also be brought to the MGMGH if they test positive for COVID-19. Other blocks in the hospital can also be converted if the need arises, he said. “We will serve as a COVID-19 hospital for these four districts,” he said. Arrangements have been made for the transportation of these patients through 108 ambulances. Meanwhile, the Tiruchi SRM Medical College Hospital will be converted into a quarantine facility where patients with contact history or symptoms of COVID-19 will be taken to. “Throat swabs and blood samples will be drawn from the patients there itself and taken to the testing centre. Only if they test positive will they be brought to the MGMGH,” he said. Patients visiting the MGMGH for other ailments will likely be referred to the Srirangam GH. “A few patients come on a regular basis for dialysis. They may continue to come as we do not want to inconvenience them. Arrangements have been made for their safety,” Dr. Yeganathan said.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of tender coconuts resumes over the past couple of days||Tender coconut vendors in the city, who had been hit by poor sales and arrivals over the past few days owing to the lockdown enforced to check the COVID 19 pandemic, have started resuming sales over the past couple of days in parts of the city. Over the past week, many tender coconut vendors had to shut shop as the authorities began to strictly enforce the prohibitory orders. After the prohibitory orders were enforced, most vendors were shooed away by the police and other officials. In the past few days, the vendors have been allowed to resume their trade but with restriction - they can sell the nuts only till 2.30 in the afternoon. Quite a few of the coconut vendors on Thillai Nagar Main Road could be seen back in business on Friday. But they were far and few between in other parts of the city. Some have started getting loads from usual suppliers. “We have started getting loads from Pollachi over the past couple of days. I was already left with about 150 nuts and I resumed sales only a couple of days back,” said Mani, a vendor. Though the city heads towards the peak summer when tender coconuts would usually be in big demand, most vendors report that sale is dull due to the curfew. “I used to sell a load of 500 coconuts in two days. Now the coconuts are hardly moving,” said Lakshmi, one of the vendors on Thillai Nagar Main Road, pointing to the bunches of coconuts that she has to keep covered under sheet of cloth to protect them from the harsh sun. Despite poor demand, the price has risen by at least Rs. 10 a nut. “Our suppliers have hiked the price citing difficulties in transportation. I have to shell out Rs.40 a nut and have to necessarily sell at Rs. 50 to make a profit. Some others are selling the nuts at Rs. 60 apiece,” said Ms.Lakshmi. For many of the vendors, the prohibitory orders has seriously jeopardised their livelihood. “I have been earning a living by selling coconuts for 22 years now. But for the past one week I had to close my shop and all the coconut stocks left with me turned rotten,” said Manoharan (65). He says he decided to reopen the shop as he was left with no money but was still being shooed away by the police. “ I don’t know what to do. Coconuts should be treated as an essential commodity, especially for patients undergoing treatment in hospitals all around in this area,” he said, getting ready to wind up sales for the day on Friday noon.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Churches embrace technology||With Holy Week and Easter round the corner, churches in Tiruchi are making special arrangements to make use of technology to reach out to the faithful in view of the prohibitory orders in force. Many churches are looking to stream sermons online, especially for Good Friday and Easter Sunday. At St. Mary's Cathedral in Melapudur, it has been an unusual season of Lent. The 40 days prior to Easter, nearly 5,000 devotees gather at the church every evening to pray while keeping a Lenten fast. This year, however, they have been asked to follow the mass proceedings on television, says Fr. T. Sagayaraj, parish priest at the cathedral. The church is mulling live streaming mass for the Holy Week, beginning with Palm Sunday on April 5, Maundy Thursday, Good Friday which will culminate with the Easter Sunday mass. “It has been difficult to convince the devotees to stay at home. They are not satisfied with watching the masses on television too. For their satisfaction, we will be live-streaming it on our website and on Facebook,” he said. At the church, three priests, including the parish priest have been conducting the regular mass proceedings through Lent in the absence of church members. At the Infant Jesus Church, Edamalaipattipudur, Fr. Irudhaya Raj encourages his parishioners to read prayers and Bible verses. “Through the Bishop of the Tiruchi Diocese, all churches have been given booklets for people to read and pray at home. We are a little old-fashioned here,” he laughed. At St. John's Church, the masses are recorded and shared by pastor Rev. S. Sudharshan and his assistant from the beginning of Lent season.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A few engineering colleges begin online classes during lockdown||A few engineering colleges in Tiruchi have begun online classes due to the nationwide lockdown for the containment of the spread of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). At M.A.M. B-School, a standalone management institution in Tiruchi, Zoom app has come in handy to conduct online classrooms for the students. After the curfew, the safety of the faculty became a priority, said M. Hemalatha, director, M.A.M.B-School. She convened an online e-meeting and instructed the faculty members to conduct the online classes for students through the app. “Professors are being involved in online delivery and training with a pre-planned timetable scheduled with the duration of three hours consisting of 45 minutes per subject, and at the end of every session doubts are being clarified,” she said. Question papers and assignments are shared using Google classrooms. The assignments were evaluated immediately and the performance level was made known on the same day. There are also question and answer sessions. “We advised the faculty and students to enrol in at least one of the NPTEL (National Programme on Technology-Enhanced Learning) online courses conducted by professors of Indian Institutes of Technology across the country,” said M.A. Maluk Mohamed, College Committee chairman. “Enrolment in online courses would not only help the students and teachers to overcome boredom, but also stay mentally healthy during the lockdown period,” he said. Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology in Pudukottai district has also availed the utility of digital mode of teaching through Google and Whatsapp platforms. “For students staying at home this is a very useful method of learning, making use of the ventures of educational technology. Students will not miss classes during this lockdown period even while remaining healthy at home, teachers said. "Internal exams were conducted as per schedule in the online mode. Google classroom was the go to app for conducting exams and rectifying the mistakes,” the teachers added. The virtual learning environment has been appreciated by parents and students alike, they said, adding that the placement training for the students was also being carried out in the digital mode. Students are able to learn at their own pace and time and complete their task in the stipulated time. Project review for the B.E final-year students was also going on through the online mode, the teachers said. Some other institutions are in the process of evaluating the scope for availing the utility of open source software for online teaching-learning interfaces. They are looking at live instructor-led, self-paced methods of learning.
04 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits those battling alcohol addiction the hardest||The lockdown to control the spread of COVID-19, has left many of those receiving treatment for alcohol addiction in the lurch, say mental health and rehabilitation professionals in the city. On March 27, Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) had announced the State-wide closure of all its shops and bars until April 12. However, for many alcoholic patients, the dry spell could be a taxing experience, especially when their detoxification begins. “While most hard drinkers can somehow survive for one day without liquor, their withdrawal symptoms become apparent from the second day onwards. Many of these are manifested as psychiatric problems, and in extreme cases, even show up as delirium or seizures in alcohol abusers,” M. Rajaram, consultant psychiatrist, Athma Hospitals, Tiruchi, told The Hindu . The lockdown has affected many of those who are undergoing de-addiction therapy, not just in the city, but elsewhere, too, said Dr. Rajaram. As such, Athma Hospitals, which has been working from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., recently launched a nationwide telemedicine consultation facility through its website. A dedicated phone number (9842422121) allows people to book an appointment for an online consultation. The facility is being offered free until April 12, according to a statement by the hospital. “We have been getting at least five to six calls per day from places like Chennai and Hyderabad in the past week, and the number is sure to go up as the lockdown progresses,” said Dr. Rajaram. While many alcohol-dependent people are able to curb their habit for long stretches for religious reasons such as pilgrimages, they may not react similarly to a complete shutdown of regular life, said Dr. Rajaram. “When they cannot control their craving, many addicts are often driven to self-destructive behaviour,” he said. As hospitals have closed their outpatient departments (OPD) during the lockdown, getting treatment for withdrawal symptoms has become difficult, say rehabilitation professionals. When substance abusers combine alcohol with other psychotropic and narcotic drugs, the effects can often be lethal, and medical attention is crucial. “It is easy to ask alcoholics to stop drinking. But the actual cessation can be done only in phased stages,” said S. Diaz, project co-ordinator, Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts, SOC SEAD (Society of Cross Society for Education Development). SOC SEAD is taking a break during lockdown, but Mr. Diaz said their more serious cases are being given a combination of medicines aimed at boosting the nutrition and stamina levels of the addicts. He added that incidence of domestic violence and criminal behaviour by addicts increases in stressful situations like a lockdown. The rising rate of recreational substance abuse among young children and women remains a cause for concern, said rehabilitation workers.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Masks, hand sanitisers given to police||The Tiruchi city police authorities on Friday distributed masks and hand sanitisers to police personnel working in the city limits as a precautionary measure to check the spread of COVID-19 disease. Commissioner of Police V. Varadharaju gave away packs containing a couple of masks and a 500 ml hand sanitiser bottle to the police personnel, members of Home Guards and Tamil Nadu Special Police personnel working in the city besides to the Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force at the city police office. He also distributed the packs to the ministerial staff working at the Police Commissionerate. A police press release said the packs containing masks and hand sanitisers were given to 2,500 police personnel and ministerial staff. Teams of police personnel have been deployed across the city limits to enforce prohibitory orders issued in the wake of COVID-19.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation launches delivery of vegetables||In an attempt to ensure that residents stay indoors during the 21-day lockdown, the Tiruchi Corporation has launched a delivery service for vegetables across the city. The vegetables will be purchased directly from vendors at the Gandhi Market and distributed to residents across all wards of the four zones within city limits, officials said. The initiative, which was inaugurated by Vellamandi N. Natarajan, Minister for Tourism, S. Valarmathi, Minister for Backward Classes and Minority Welfare, on Friday morning at the Ariyamangalam Zonal office will be made available for all residents. A vehicle containing the stock of vegetables will make rounds through the city and those who wish to purchase it can stop the vehicle, a senior official said. A bag of vegetables would cost Rs. 150 and will contain 11 vegetables including - one kg of tomatoes at Rs. 12, one kg of brinjal at Rs. 18, drumstick for Rs. 5, green chillies for Rs. 3, beetroot half-a-kg at Rs. 8, carrot one kg Rs. 10, one-kg potatoes at Rs. 32, Bellary onions at Rs. 32 a kg, chow chow or Bengaluru kathirikai at Rs. 9 per kg, raw banana for Rs. 5 and a coconut for Rs. 16. Speaking at the launch, Mr. Natarajan said that the initative was to ensure that the public would not have to wait in lines at markets to buy essential vegetables. “Through the district administration, we are following the advice of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami who urged the public not to gather in crowds during the curfew,” he said. The civic body has arranged for one mini-truck per zone to ferry the vegetables. The number of vehicles will be increased if the need arises, they said.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DRF creates awareness of personal distancing||A team from the Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force has been deployed here to assist the police in emergency situation in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The 40-member team which had arrived here a few days ago and stationed at the Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion premises conducted awareness campaigns as advised by the city police authorities in different parts on Friday. Attired in suit and wearing gloves and mask, the Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force team members met the general public and drove home the importance of personal distancing in the wake of COVID-19 spread and to stay indoor during the lockdown period. The team members circulated pamphlets containing a host of awareness messages to general public at the Rockfort temple entrance, Big Bazaar street, Gandhi Market and Palakkarai areas. The team also drove home to the public the importance of taking precautionary measures such was washing hands using soap or hand sanitisers, keeping their surroundings clean and prevent children and elders from venturing out of their home. They also appealed to the general public to wear mask while going out to buy essential commodities. Police sources said the Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force team would assist the city police in any emergency situation in the wake of COVID-19. The team containing police personnel trained in commando operations would remain in Tiruchi city until the lockdown period, the sources added.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Narikuravas are deprived of livelihood||Narikurava community members at Devarayaneri along the Thanjavur Highway on the outskirts of Tiruchi city feel like fish out of water as they have been confined to their locality for the first time in their life for many days at a stretch, due to the nation-wide lockdown for containing spread of COVID 19 virus. The community members are known to be ever on the move, eking out a livelihood by selling bead garlands wherever they go. Now, there is no way to sneak out as they get chased by the policemen manning the checkpost on one side and the Toll Plaza on the other. "Of what use are the bead garlands in our possession. We need to sell our products all through the day to earn Rs. 200 to Rs. 300 and meet the cost of food and essentials. We have exhausted whatever money we had in our possession," said 40-year-old Manjula, a mother of two daughters and a son. On Thursday, the members of the community received the Rs. 1,000 promised by the government per family card holder for the lockdown period. But, within a day, most of them are penniless. “We bought provisions on credit from a grocery shop in the locality for the last 10 days and had to settle the dues with the Rs. 1,000 cash relief provided by the government. We are a relieved lot that the usual quota of free rice has also been supplied alongside distribution of the relief. But then, while elders can manage with consuming porridge, infants need to be provided with milk and biscuits. We are left with no money to take care of the nutritional needs of the children,” Samuel, another resident of the locality, said. To make matters worse, there is another problem in store. The residents have their fingers crossed as one of the two shops in the locality was sealed by the authorities as it was kept open beyond 2.30 p.m. on Friday. The residents say the shopkeepers are finding it tough to replenish the stock of grocery items, vegetables and other provisions due to the severe restrictions in place. The residents have no idea if the only shop they will have to depend on from Saturday onwards will have sufficient stock of the provisions required for the entire locality.  “Somehow, the residents do not seem to find the novel coronavirus scary. As such, the fear of mass hunger in the event of the lockdown prolonging indefinitely is what haunts our mind,” said Samuel.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHEL develops disinfection chamber||Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Tiruchi, has readied a prototype light-weight, walk-through disinfection chamber based on its in-house concept and design as a contribution to the country’s efforts to contain the spread of the Covid-19 viru The 12 ft-long chamber manufactured is a light-weight structure built with a tubular mild-steel frame fitted with a disinfectant storage tank, a pumping system and precision spray nozzles for uniform dispersion of disinfectant into an atomised mist at pre-determined angles to sanitise a person walking through the chamber, a press release said. The prototype on its trial run at the High Pressure Boiler Plant was tested in the presence of R. Padmanabhan, Executive Director, BHEL Tiruchi Complex.
04 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Policemen give away masks to public||Police personnel of Tiruchi rural distributed masks and other materials at various places to general public on Thursday. The men in uniform distributed food packets to the aged persons without any family support as well as to the visually challenged persons in Tiruverumbur police station limits. Sanitisers were given to gypsies at Devarayaneri in Thuvakudi area. Masks were given to public in Tiruverumbur area where disinfectants were sprayed, a police press release said.
04 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||More doctors and nurses need PPE||While doctors and nurses posted in COVID-19 treatment ward of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital where 38 patients are undergoing treatment have been given personal protective equipment (PPE), those in other wards are discharging their duties without them. They work with trepidation while the hospital waits for supply from the State government. The PPE - N-95 mask, gloves and coverall - guard the health workers from viral infection to a great extent. “Since the COVID ward is located close to our ward, we asked for the PPE. But due to short supply, we could not get them. Of course those who man that ward should be given priority as they risk their lives while giving treatment to patients afflicted by the serious viral infection. At the same time, doctors and the nurses working in nearby wards should also be given similar protective equipment which will enable them to work without fear and anxiety,” said a senior doctor. The hospital authorities say they expect fresh arrival of masks and coveralls in a week. Nurses working in the COVID -19 ward, who work in this high risk zone on a turn basis, say after their turn of seven days of work, they could not go home at once as their family members could get infected by the deadly virus. Hence, they have been asked to stay on the hospital’s home quarantine premises, which is also being used by the CRRIs (Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship). “Leaving the family for long periods, especially our children under life-threatening conditions, causes stress and mental agony. Moreover, our neighbours stare at our family members with fear and suspicion, despite our home quarantine period et al,” say the nurses. Another problem for these nurses is that some of the interns who share the ‘home quarantine’ building also have this fear and anxiety. So the hospital administration, in consultation with the Collector, should identify a suitable facility nearby for their safe stay, they say. PPE must be given to all the 400 nurses working in the hospital. Nutritious food must be served to them to boost their immunity and protect them from viral infection, the nurses say.  The immediate need Hospital expects fresh arrival of masks and coveralls in a week  Nutritious food must be served to doctors and nurses to boost immunity They want a ‘home quarantine’ facility near the hospital
04 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile vegetable shops launched in Tirunelveli||The Corporation, through private vendors, has started operating 35 mobile vegetable shops to prevent crowding in makeshift vegetable shops in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai. After crowding in ‘Uzhavar Sandhais’ became a major problem in the wake of physical distancing being emphasised in the wake of COIVD-19 threat, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has ordered for creation of temporary vegetable shops across the city so that people can buy fresh vegetables directly from farmers at the right prices. Subsequently, temporary vegetable markets were created at several places and more places are being identified depending on demand. Now the Corporation has started operating mobile vegetable shops through individuals who have expressed their willingness to sell vegetables and fruits to consumers at their doorstep on cargo autorickshaws. As many as 35 vendors have come forward to operate the mobile vegetable shops in the city with 55 wards, and 20 more will join the fleet in a day or two so that all wards can be covered. “We have told the mobile vegetable shop operators to announce their arrival through public address system,” said Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan while launching the service on Friday. Those who bought vegetables from the mobile shops say the vehicle should be fitted a board showing the price of each fruit and vegetable. “The price may be slightly higher than what is fixed in ‘Uzhavar Sandhai’ by agriculture officials as the vendors come to the doorstep by spending money on fuel. And this price should be fixed by the Corporation and the price list displayed prominently on the vehicle,” said Jude of Samathanapuram.
04 April 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Constable suspended||An Armed Reserve police constable was placed under suspension on Friday on charges of attacking three persons with a lathi near Uthukuli in Tiruppur district. An official release said constable Selvakumar on Thursday attacked the three persons for assembling at a place in Mudalipalayam in spite of the prohibitory orders. Based on complaints from the residents and investigations by Uthukuli police confirming the attack, Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal ordered the suspension till further notice.
04 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||HMK man detained under NSA||Hindu Makkal Katchi (HMK) functionary Nandu alias Nandakumar alias Bhagavan (50), who was arrested by the Tiruppur district police for staging an assault upon himself allegedly to aggravate communal tensions, was detained under the National Security Act (NSA). A release from the district police said Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan ordered his detention on Thursday based on recommendations made by District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal. The detention order was served to Nandakumar at the Coimbatore Central Prison, where he is currently remanded in judicial custody. On the night of March 17, Nandakumar claimed that he was attacked by miscreants, following which the Perumanallur police registered a case. Assault staged However, investigations revealed that he employed his own driver P. Rudramoorthy (20) to stage the assault so that he would get a personal security officer assigned to him. While the accomplice was arrested on March 18, Nandakumar was arrested the next day upon his discharge from the hospital.
04 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure basic facilities to migrant workers’||Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan has requested industrialists in the district to ensure basic facilities to their migrant workers during the COVID-19 lockdown. According to a press release, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said thousands of migrant workers from 22 States including Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Nagaland worked in Tiruppur. The companies must ensure facilities such as food, shelter and drinking water for those who were staying within the premises of the firms, he said. The district administration has been estimating the number workers staying outside company premises and assisting them by providing essential supplies, he said. Companies must also ensure that migrant workers did not gather in large groups and that they practised personal distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Obtaining permits To prevent people visiting the Collectorate in large numbers to obtain permits for essential travel outside the district, the Collector announced that three officials had been authorised to issue the permits. Sub-Collector of Dharapuram would issue the permits for residents of Dharapuram and Kangeyam Blocks. Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruppur would do it for residents of Tiruppur North, Tiruppur South, Palladam, Avinashi and Uthukuli Blocks. Revenue Divisional Officer, Udumalpet would issue the permits for residents of Udumalpet and Madathukulam Blocks. Those who wished to apply for the permits for travel could do so in person or via email (rdodpm.tntpr@gmail.comfor the Dharapuram Sub-Collector,rdotpr.tntpr@gmail.comfor Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruppur andrdoudm.tntpr1@gmail.comfor Revenue Divisional Officer, Udumalpet).
04 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable bags being sold to residents at containment zones in Udhagamandalam||The Horticulture Department and the Department of Agri-marketing have prepared vegetable bags to be sold to residents in containment zones and remote villages surrounding Udhagamandalam. The first 400 of these bags, each costs Rs. 150, were sold to residents on Thursday and Friday. Joint Director of Horticulture, the Nilgiris district, Sivasubramaniam Samraj said the first 100 bags of vegetables were sold at cost-effective prices to people living in Khandal, one among the containment areas set up in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Kotagiri. “Each bag will contain seven to eight essential vegetables like carrots, potatoes, onions and tomatoes, which we estimate will last an average family of four around five days,” said Mr. Samraj. The initiative, undertaken on the instructions of Collector, J. Innocent Divya, is being spearheaded by the Tamil Nadu Horticultural Development Agency (TANHODA). Sales counters The residents can also buy the bag from the TANHODA sales counters in the coming days. The vegetables are being procured from the farmers’ markets in the Nilgiris. “The vegetable bags will not only be sold to people living in the containment zones in Udhagamandalam, but will also be taken to remote villages with little access to the major towns,” said Mr. Samraj. In Coonoor, Farmer Producers Groups were being employed to sell vegetables and fruits in trucks in each locality, officials said.
04 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Protective suits given to conservancy workers||The Forest Department handed over 70 protective suits, it purchased using funds from its eco-tourism initiatives, to the district administration for use by conservancy workers. The coverall suits, purchased at Rs. 84,000, will be given to the workers engaged in fighting the spread of COVID-19 in the district. D. Guruswamy, District Forest Officer, Nilgiris division, said the suits would be used by the workers when disinfecting an area. “We asked the district administration as to what kind of help they require from the department, and we were told that the suits would help keep the frontline staff battling the pandemic safe from infection,” said Mr. Guruswamy. The funds were generated from the Muthanad Mund Eco-development committee (EDC), and the suits were handed over to the district administration on Thursday. “Our EDCs in the Nilgiris forest division are working with their respective local body authorities in preventing the spread of COVID-19. The forest staff too have been sensitised to the precautions they need to take to prevent them from contracting the infection,” said Mr. Guruswamy.
04 April 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Large crowds in ration shops to receive government aid||Ration shops in rural pockets of Tirupattur district witnessed large crowds as tokens for government aid were distributed on Wednesday. Residents who got tokens did not adhere to maintaining the stipulated distance between recipients. In a fair price shop in Periangkuppam in Ambur more than 75 people had gathered in front of the shop at 6 a.m.
04 April 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||MP helps stranded T.N. workers||Over 1,500 migrant workers from Villupuram district stranded in Maharashtra in the middle of the lockdown, have got help, thanks to the timely intervention of Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar and the district administration.
04 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||No takers for kodukkapuli in the wake of lockdown||Prolonged lockdown and limited working timings of markets has hit farmer K. Chinnapandi, 60, badly as he is unable to sell his kodukkapuli (Madras thorn fruit), which is available between January and May. Mr. Chinnapandi of Chinnathathampatti near here has inherited several Madras Thorn trees from his father. “Some of the trees are as old as 80 years and had been raised by my father,” recalls the farmer. He sells the fruits from 100 trees across the State. He has market for this produce, liked for its sweet and sour taste, in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kovilpatti and Madurai. “There are some people who fondly buy my produce from as far as Palladam near Coimbatore. I used to send them by bus every week and the money is deposited to my bank account,” Mr. Chinnapandi said. However, with no bus service now and very few cargo vehicle are operated after the lockdown that began on March 23, his problem started,” he said. Mr. Chinnapandi has already left mulberry raised on five acres to dry up with severe water shortage. He raised groundnut though with reduced yield. He got a better harvest of guava some months back and now waiting for the next harvest in about a month. “With the well having dried up, I’m pumping water from a borewell and diverted it from irrigating mulberry and carefully maintaining the Madras Thorn trees as they are ready for harvest,” he said. Last year, he managed to harvest upto 200 kg a day. But now the harvest has dwindled to 40 to 50 kg. Even this has no takers. “It takes lot of time to pluck the fruits and grade them. By the time they reach the market, the traders hardly get adequate time to sell them as shops have to be shut by afternoon under the lockdown rules,” the farmer said. The traders are not paying him as they are not able to sell them. Village children are very fond of this fruit. But with schools also remaining shut, the small vendors who sell them near schools are not buying it. The fruits can remain fresh only for a maximum of four days. “With no cold storage facility, we are allowing the fruits to be feasted upon by birds,” he said. The fruit has high medicinal values, Mr. Chinnapandi said adding that it acts as a laxative and also helps to keep the body heat down. “Till now only the vagaries of weather has been playing with our fate. Now, Coronavirus fear too has hit us,” he said.
04 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||71 more quarantined in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district administration has quarantined 71 persons who were in close contact with the 10 persons who have tested positive for COVID-19, Collector R. Kannan, has said. Stating that the infection has not reached the third stage of community spreading so far, he said however, the district administration has kept hostels of various colleges ready to convert them into isolation wards to meet any eventuality. A total of 1,877 people were in home quarantine and were under close monitoring by officials of Department of Health. The areas around the residences of the positive cases have been cordoned off to prevent casual movement of others. Tracking of more people who had direct contact with infected people was also under way, he added. ‘Pray in house’ Earlier, chairing a meeting of representatives of all religions here on Friday, Mr. Kannan said it was unanimously resolved that people should pray in their houses during the curfew period till April 14. A maximum of only four persons would be allowed to take up prayers in all places of worship, he added. Stating that several people had taken lightly the curfew and many were not complying with the prohibitory order and coming out as if they were indulging in some adventure, he said that so far 1,214 violators of the curfew order have been booked and 672 vehicles have been seized.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Amma Canteens serve the needy during lockdown||With most of the restaurants and eateries downing their shutters due to lockdown, Amma Canteens serve the needy as the number of people dependent on the canteens has doubled in the past one week. Erode Corporation is running 11 canteens selling breakfast and lunch at a low price to the poor in the past years. On an average, 3,500 to 4,000 people consume food at the canteens. However, after the lockdown was announced from March 24, most of the hotels and eateries were closed causing fear among the homeless people and others involved in providing essential services on the availability of food. To ensure that nobody is left without food, the civic body decided to run the canteens during night hours also to provide dinner to the people. A conservancy worker said that he leaves home at 5 a.m. for his duty and the canteen at Kollampalayam solves his food needs. “With Rs. 15, I can finish my breakfast and lunch”, he said and added that though parcels were allowed in hotels, very few are running their business. Homeless people, conservancy workers, police personnel, labourers and others involved in essential services depend on the canteens everyday to solve their food needs. Each canteen has 12 workers making and selling idlis, variety rice and pongal for the people. “Our workload has gone up, but we are happy to serve the people during the lockdown”, said a worker at Kollampalayam. She said that earlier about 50 to 75 people used to consume breakfast which has gone up to over 200 now. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that currently over 5,100 people consume breakfast alone while the number goes up for lunch and dinner. “On an average 16,000 people visit the Amma Canteens everyday”, the Commissioner said. He also added that NGOs were also providing food to over 300 homeless people who were accommodated at corporation schools in the city. “Our aim is ensure food for all”, he said.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Safety precautions on at UPHCs||In the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, various safety precautions, including conducting a limited number of ante-natal check-ups and regular disinfection, are under way at Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) in the city. An official from the health wing of Madurai Corporation said that based on a schedule, only 10 pregnant women are undergoing ante-natal checkups at the UPHCs. “We are individually calling up pregnant women to indicate their date of check-up. We want to ensure that no pregnant women misses their check-up and at the same time want to prevent crowding of patients,” said the official. Nutrition kits are also being distributed to eligible pregnant women. Similarly, abiding by a schedule, immunisation is also done only for a limited number of patients on Wednesdays. “We are ensuring that personal distancing is being maintained between patients at the UPHCs,” said the official. Since March 15, non-communicable disease (NCB) patients have been supplied drugs for a two-month-period. The official said that the number of outpatients at the UPHCs have reduced by half since the lockdown. The UPHCs are disinfected four times each day. Complete medical check-up was done for the homeless, who were rescued and rehabilitated by the Corporation. Multi-vitamin tablets were also prescribed for them.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aches and pains and a spot of exercise during COVID-19||Since the lockdown, with restricted movement in place, a number of people have expressed concern about getting adequate exercise, among other things to be worried about. If you have a regimen in place and that is disrupted, anxiety may follow. Some people also have to, for medical reasons, get adequate exercise during the day. We have also been flooded with calls, mainly from people with chronic issues — pain mostly. Since they are probably sitting at home in all kinds of odd postures and watching movies on the net or phone. We have been getting an extraordinary amount of calls from people complaining of backpain, shoulder and neck pain. The general tips that I would give all these people anxious about getting exercise and those who must exercise, are: 1.Involve your family member (could be spouse, parent, sibling, child) in the exercise effort. 2.Try to use any available space inside the house, around the house or the terrace for exercises. About 30 to 40 minutes of brisk walk daily would be recommended. 3.Try to do some strength training too, using household things that you can lay your hands on, like waterbottles (filled with water), bags, etc. Free weight or body weight exercises such as squats, lunges, planks, etc., are helpful. 4. Do remember to warm up and stretch before the exercises. 5.Try to assign a fixed time to your exercise activity, which will ensure that you will follow your routine and wont skip it. 6. Keep an eye on your diet and temper it to suit your activity levels. Following the same diet that you were on when you were more active during the lockdown will only result in weight gain and misery. 7. Post surgery patients should stick to the physiotherapy schedule prescribed by their surgeon or therapist. When in doubt about anything, it is better to be cautious and call your doctor and check.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 95,000 persons home quarantined in Erode district||While 32 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the district, 25,557 families comprising 95,692 members have been home quarantined as on Friday. Collector C. Kathiravan told presspersons that of the positive cases, 28 were in the isolation ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital, Perundurai, while four were admitted to the E.S.I. Hospital in Coimbatore. He said that totally 83 persons were in the isolation ward. A total of 25,557 families in Sultanpet, Kollampalayam Housing Unit and persons who had returned from abroad and other States were in home quarantine. “Essential commodities were distributed to them. They are being monitored by medical teams continuously”, he said. The Collector said that 17 persons who had returned from Kashi yatra were also kept in a marriage hall at Athani and were monitored. Thirty persons from the district had participated in the Tablighi conference at New Delhi and the details of 27 persons were obtained so far. Efforts were on to trace a few whose mobile phones are switched off, he said. While three Thai nationals tested negative, three others tested positive. They were recovering.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. flags off trucks for door delivery of vegetables||To prevent public from crowding at markets and grocery stores and to ensure delivery of essentials at doorsteps, Salem Corporation has introduced trucks for delivery of vegetables. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh flagged off the trucks for door deliveries at the corporation office here on Friday. According to corporation officials, vegetable kits will be distributed through these trucks to households here. The kits have been readied by the Salem Agricultural Producers Co-operative Marketing Society and are priced at Rs. 100 each. Mr. Sadheesh said, “trucks have been arranged for each zone to ensure door-to-door delivery in all the wards in the corporation limits. In total, 20 trucks, five trucks for a zone have been arranged for distribution of the vegetable kits.” Corporation officials said that the kits contain 12 varieties including daily vegetables like tomatoes, onions, besides coconut, green chillies, coriander and mint leaves. According to officials, public can contact phone numbers 70103-05699 or 90915-80517, if they require more vegetables and for delivery of items. Mr. Sadheesh advised public to avoid venturing out of their houses unnecessarily and remain in their homes to prevent spread of COVID-19. The corporation has also arranged an alternative place for meat and fish shops on the outskirts of the city to function during weekends until further notice.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem Division operates special parcel train to Haryana||The Salem Railway Division on Friday operated a special goods train from here to Hisar Junction in Haryana and earned Rs. 26.5 lakh through this consignment. The railway division transported 463 tonnes of cotton seeds through the special train to meet the demands of cotton farmers in Haryana. According to railway officials, they are ensuring that essential goods are transported smoothly despite lockdown. Officials said that a freight train was operated earlier as well and they were the first to do so soon after the railway ministry advised them to ensure transportation of essential commodities. They said that necessary safety measures were taken for loading the goods to the train and COVID-19 safety protocols were followed. Personal distancing was strictly followed among loading personnel. All loading workers were provided with safety gadgets like hand sanitisers and masks to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The loading workers were allowed to enter the premises only after checking their body temperature. Railway officials said that they are ready to operate exclusive parcel vans for transportation of essential goods.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No free entry||
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Deserted, yet dazzling||
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||102 more test positive||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that a majority of persons who had attended the Nizamuddin conference and had tested positive for COVID-19 in the last three days were asymptomatic. “We checked with the neighbouring States that have reported positive cases among those who had travelled to Nizamuddin. It seems that at least 40% of the persons who tested positive across the country are asymptomatic. Nevertheless, we will have to study this,” he said. “We are planning to study the virus strain. We need to understand if immunity levels play a role, and look at the virulence of the virus.” The condition of all patients, including the 10-month-old baby and 73-year-old woman who had tested positive earlier, was stable, he added.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 UPDATE||As on April 3  Coimbatore  House quarantine cases: 4,435 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 1,780 Samples lifted: 300 Results declared: 262 Negative: 228 Positive: 33 (all old cases) Results awaited: 38  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 1,172 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 41 Samples lifted: 25 Results declared: 6 Negative: 5 Positive: 1 (admitted to ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Results awaited: 19
04 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Check for lapses in stores’||Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has instructed officials in his constituency to raid shops that were hoarding or selling items at higher prices and distribute the items among the poor for free. “The police should not beat people who are walking on the streets. Rather, you do this work [raiding shops], along with the tahsildar,” he said.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||200 choultries, marriage halls to house homeless||Vishwanath from Gouribidanur has been living in the homeless shelter at Upparpete in Majestic area for nearly two months. Over the last week, during the lockdown, beds have been filling up fast. The already cramped shelter has been stretched to accommodate the homeless, jobless migrant workers and those who are stranded in the city, like Babul Sheikh and his brother Abid Sheikh from Bihar. The 10 shelters of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) are bursting at the seams. “Prior to the lockdown, they accommodated around 250 people but the number of residents has almost doubled since,” said a civic official. The BBMP recently opened three temporary shelters in the Majestic area: one out of a school, another in a government building and a third is a tarpaulin tent on an open ground. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said, “We have also identified over 200 choultries and marriage halls across the city where temporary shelters for the homeless can be set up. The Labour Department is monitoring the situation, and temporary shelters will be set up on a need basis.” At the shelter in the government building, occupants sleep on mats. “I am stranded in the city and have no means to go back to my native town in Haveri. But here we are given good food, regular medical checks and there are yoga sessions too,” said one man who did not want to be named. However, he admitted that the facilities were being overwhelmed by the number of people in need. The civic body is also taking help from NGOs like Centre for Urban and Rural Development Society. But will it be enough? “More temporary shelters are necessary,” said several officials. ‘Overcrowding is a health hazard’ Activists and NGOs are worried about the lack of monitoring, given that people are living in such close quarters. If even one person is a carrier of the novel coronavirus, others will be exposed. “Health officials talk about social distancing, but it’s not possible here,” said S.S. Rajani, who has worked with the homeless. Officials admit that they cannot maintain social distancing. “We have maintained cleanliness and are providing good food. We conduct medical checks also. More temporary shelter homes are necessary at such times,” said one senior civic official. Several social welfare organisations and NGOs have come together to help out. Anand Murthy, who manages the BBMP’s shelter in Upparpete, said the civic body has been providing food packets to residents. “A few NGOs have donated biscuit packets, bottled water, coffee and fruits,” he said. In December 2018, the BBMP, with assistance from Impact India, an NGO, undertook a survey of the homeless in the eight zones. In the three core zones, nearly 4,000 homeless were found. This number, which has risen over the years, did not include families living by in small tarpaulin tents along roads. For instance, around 30 families have been selling pottery on the street between ITI Gate and K.R. Puram government hospital for decades. They live in tents by the road and have been bearing the brunt of the lockdown. “The last time we ate was Monday afternoon. We are waiting for someone to give us food. The children have not been fed. There is no milk,” said Angoori Bayi, a labourer from Rajasthan, who lives in the area.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 impact: State Budget figures likely to undergo massive revision||The numbers of the Karnataka Budget for 2020–21 are expected to undergo massive revision as the State government will have to set aside higher allocations for expenditure, especially in social sectors such as health, sanitation, drinking water, and subsidised distribution of food. Following the 21-day lockdown in March–April, the State’s tax collection is expected to slow down both in the previous financial year as well as in this financial year (2020–21). Yet to assess impact Though the Finance Department is yet to assess the impact of the slowdown in tax collection owing to COVID-19 outbreak, it is a fact that all major revenue-generating departments such as stamps and registration, motor vehicles, and excise are closed during the lockdown period. Like other States, Karnataka too has been facing cash problem, sources in the government admitted. Owing to severe shortage of cash, the government has come out with an order restricting its expenditure to most essential items such as salaries, social security pensions, food security, and basic administrative costs. The government has also refrained administrative departments from issuing orders on new schemes announced in the State Budget 2020–21. “Needless to say, all expenditure on fighting COVID-19 will be given utmost priority,” the Finance Department said in the order laying out guidelines on release of funds and delegation of financial powers in April. The government, however, is expected to permit expenditure under the Arogya Kavacha scheme, purchase materials and supplies for the Health and Family Welfare Department, particularly during this “health crisis” period. The government has allowed servicing of loans availed of by various boards and corporations with some conditions. The boards and corporations have been asked to submit its cash position to the Finance Department. However, the government has barred departments from purchasing new vehicles, furniture or taking up any major repairs of buildings during the month. Officials maintained that actual adverse impact of COVID-19 on State finances would be known in the later part of this month or early next month, depending on the ground situation.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In these times of uncertainty, they deliver the news to people’s homes||At the crack of dawn, as the city slowly starts to awaken, vendors and delivery boys reach different localities to ensure that newspapers reach people in time. But the lockdown has hit the newspaper distribution chain hard. Multiple vendors across the city told The Hindu that though newspapers are being printed, distribution had reduced by more than half. Roadside newspaper stalls, general shops that procure papers, libraries, schools and colleges have all been shut, affecting a major chunk of their business and distribution network. Many apartments and societies have refused to buy newspapers and others are not letting vendors inside for any delivery, affecting a major chunk of the business. “This is due to the rumour that newspapers could be carriers of the novel coronavirus. What they do not understand is that if newspapers can spread the virus, then even milk packets or online food delivery packets are also not safe,” said Nagesh K., a newspaper vendor in Whitefield, the frustration evident in his voice. According to G. Varadhan, president of Whitefield Newspaper Vendors’ Association, due to the lockdown, the income of vendors will fall by at least 55-60%. “Earlier, during bandhs or other such situations, the circulation of newspapers would always be regular and normal. However, this time, due to the intensity of fear, newspaper circulation has taken a massive beating,” he said. Vendors also say they were not able to deliver newspapers because of the restrictions. “The police are always sceptical and sometimes ask for passes. We do not have any identity cards also. However, the situation is getting better now,” G.S. Prakash, a newspaper delivery boy in Tin Factory on Old Madras Road, said. Despite paranoia and restrictions, newspaper vendors and agents say they are trying to deliver newspapers to homes wherever possible. “To quash such rumours, many newspapers clarified that the virus doesn’t transmit through newspapers. Even government and scientific bodies have dismissed it,” Mr. Nagesh said. Many agents across the city, including those Vidyaranyapuram, K.R. Puram, Whitefield, Mahadevapura, Kengeri, Banashankari stopped the supply of newspapers from March 25, but some resumed distribution from April 1. “Commission is the only profit we get. Since there are no signs of the situation getting better anytime soon, we do not know for how long we will need to suffer,” Mr. Varadhan said. As the newspaper distribution chain is categorised as essential service, vendors and newspaper agents have been demanding that they be given insurance and short-term financial assistance by the government or the industry.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS to start testing samples from today||Following approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the BSL-3 laboratory at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) will start testing COVID-19 samples from Saturday. With this, four government-approved labs in the city — NIV unit at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), and the VRDL labs at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, Command Hospital, and NIMHANS — will test COVID-19 samples for free. This apart, two private labs — Neuberg Anand Diagnostic Laboratory and Cancyte Technologies Pvt. Ltd. — are also authorised to conduct the test. Trials V. Ravi, senior professor and head of neurovirology at NIMHANS, said the approval was accorded after NIMHANS took up trials and sent the reports to the ICMR on Friday. “The ICMR sent us the reagents on Thursday and will provide us more as and when required,” he said. Pointing out that NIMHANS lab has a capacity to test 96 samples a day, Dr. Ravi said, “We have a cut-off timing of 1 p.m. and any samples that come to us after that will be tested the next day,” he said. To prevent indiscriminate flow of samples for testing, the ICMR has made it mandatory that the treating physician, who suspects the infection in a patient, should fill a form and send it toknlabcovid19@gmail.comround the clock. “The State Surveillance Officers will approve the request and allot a unique ID number to each approved case. Following the approval, the physician has to fill out another lab/test request form, collect the sample, and send the swab for testing to any of the COVID-19 testing laboratories. If the sample request is rejected, the State Surveillance Officers will send the reasons for rejection and the clinician can request for reconsideration and approval,” he said. So far, 4,587 samples have been tested in the State in various labs and 4,281 have tested negative. While laboratories at the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute, Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences, and Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences are already testing in the State, the process of approval for more laboratories in Hubbali, Ballari, and Mangaluru is under way. “I was assigned the task of assessing these labs and I sent my recommendation to the ICMR today [Friday],” Dr. Ravi said. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research and the nodal officer for Lab Testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the State’s order for one lakh antibody test strips was likely to arrive on April 12. For the State government, over 1.2 lakh passengers who arrived on international flights in Karnataka between January 20 and March 23 and their primary contacts comprise the pool vulnerable to COVID-19. Its strategy is focused on this group, which includes about 37,358 people who are under observation.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 test for everyone quarantined at Haj Bhavan||The Health Department has decided to test all those quarantined at Haj Bhavan on Thanisandra Main Road in Bengaluru. As many as 134 people, many of whom neither belong to the Tablighi Jamaat nor attended the religious congregation held at Nizamuddin West in New Delhi last month, have been quarantined there. G. Srinivas, Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer (DHO), who admitted on Thursday that most of those quarantined had not attended the meet and would be sent home after approval from higher officials, told The Hindu on Friday that it was now decided that they would all be tested. “We tested 30 symptomatic persons on Thursday and all their reports came back negative. Now we are drawing samples of the remaining 104. Based on their results, and if they have completed 14 days since their return, we will send them home. As many as 68 persons who completed the 14-day quarantine after their return on Friday will also be sent home only after their swab test reports arrive on Saturday,” he said. Following the mix-up of congregation attendees and those who did not belong to the Jamaat at the Bhavan, the inmates are worried that some of them who were “healthy” might have contracted the infection. The Hindu had reported on Friday that most of those quarantined were not part of the Tablighi Jamaat as they had been “picked up” based on the Centre’s list, which in turn was based on mobile numbers traced to Nizamuddin West area during the event.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MPs draw flak for PM CARES contribution||Bharatiya Janata Party MPs from the State have drawn criticism on social media and from the Opposition as most of them have allotted Rs. 1 crore from their Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds, which are meant for development works in their constituencies, to PM CARES, a relief fund floated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Many have argued that instead, the MPs should have taken up relief measures in their districts or contributed to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday termed the move a betrayal of the people of their own constituencies. “It is more responsible to useMPLADS funds, through Deputy Commissioners, to take measures in their constituencies,” he tweeted. The Congress leader said in another tweet, “The Central government has already betrayed Karnataka in the devolution of taxes through 15th Finance Commission and also in the distribution of disaster relief funds. Now, BJP MPs want us to beg again in front of Narendra Modi for COVID-19 relief, which otherwise can be directly spent in Karnataka.” Mr. Siddaramaiah’s tweets come days after Kannada activists took up a campaign on Twitter. “The pandemic cannot be fought from Delhi; it has to be fought from the States and districts. It makes no sense for our MPs to allocate MPLADS funds for the disposal of the Prime Minister. It re-centralises financial resources and decision-making,” said Arun Javgal, an activist from Banavasi Balaga. However, the BJP MPs have had little choice in the matter. The party’s national president, J.P. Nadda, tweeted on March 28 that all BJP MPs would release Rs. 1 crore from their MPLADS funds and all BJP MPs and MLAs would give a month’s remuneration to the fund. Before this, the Union government gave a one-time exemption to use MPLADS money for relief funds, which is prohibited otherwise. ‘MPs unhappy’ A senior party leader, on the condition of anonymity, said many MPs were unhappy with the directive from the party president, as it left them little elbow room to lead relief efforts in their constituencies. While several Ministers, BJP MPs and MLAs in the State are seen enthusiastically promoting PM CARES on their Twitter pages, very few have appealed for funds for the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Harish Narasappa, co-founder of DAKSH, an NGO that works on accountability and better governance, said, “This only ensures there is no local leadership in the fight against COVID-19.” However, P.C. Mohan, a three-time BJP MP from Bengaluru (Central), defended the move. “When the entire country was facing a crisis, it was immaterial where they pitched in from. The funds will be used to help the people of the country anyway.” He also pointed out that he was the first MP to make a contribution of Rs. 2 crore from MPLADS funds to the CM’s Relief Fund. Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar has made an allocation of Rs. 2 crore while Mandya MP Sumalatha has allocated Rs. 50 lakh towards equipping medical facilities in Bengaluru and Mandya, respectively.  It is more responsible to use MPLADS funds, through Deputy Commissioners, to take measures in their constituencies Siddaramaiah, Congress leader
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five held for attack on ASHA workers||Police arrested five youths, all residents of Sarayi Palya, for the assault on Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers who had gone to the locality on Thursday to conduct a COVID-19. The arrests were made hours after the assault. The arrested persons are Suhail Pasha, Mohammed Musatif, Sarfaraz, Sageer Sherief and Ansar Jabbar. More arrests will follow, senior police officers said. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare Department, on Friday visited the area. He appealed to residents to allow ASHA workers to help them and said credit for controlling COVID-19 goes to these health workers. “We will come down very heavily on anyone who attacks or threatens health workers. They are frontline soldiers and we will protect them to the last moment,” he said.  Deputy Chief Minister Dr. C.N. Ashwath Narayan had visited the area on Thursday.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Open pet shops, save animals: HC||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the State government to instruct all Deputy Commissioners of districts to ensure immediate opening of all pet shops to ascertain conditions and the plight of pets in these shops and provide food and medicine in cooperation with the State Animal Welfare Board. The district magistrate, who heads the district Societies for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCAs), will also have to identify suitable NGOs to feed stray animals that are not getting food for survival due to the lockdown, the HC directed. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the direction on a application filed by People’s Union for Civil Liberties-Katakana during the hearing, held through video conferencing, of PIL petitions-related issues that had cropped up due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. The State authorities will initiate immediate steps as the Animal Welfare Board of India on March 24, 2020, had already issued a communication to the State Chief Secretaries to protect animals during the lockdown. The Bench said that the district administration will have to take the assistance of the police to reach the owners of pet shops on priority as lives of animals locked inside shops are in danger. The authorities will also have to take measures to evacuate animals from pet shops to ensure proper food and medicine for the animals till the arrangement for opening pet shops are made. On identifying NGOs to feed stray animals, the Bench said the district administration will have to take measures to provide passes to the select representatives of such NGOs for feeding stray animals.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Government doubles relief for construction workers||The State government on Friday increased the relief amount to Rs. 2,000 each for registered construction workers. It was Rs. 1,000 each earlier. It also decided that sanitary and drinking water facilities would be provided for construction workers at construction sites. The decisions were taken at a meeting here. With a large number of COVID-19 cases being reported from the State capital, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a meeting with Ministers of the city and discussed problems being faced by residents. Mr. Yediyurappa will hold a meeting with all the 28 MLAs of the city on Saturday to discuss the problems being faced by residents during the lockdown period as well as facilities provided by the Health Department for infected persons. The Chief Minister has instructed Ministers to seek support of legislators and councillors to ensure transparency in distribution of rations under the PDS. He also told Ministers to convince prominent citizens of the city to come forward to donate funds to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A scramble to trace Tablighi event attendees||With many people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz congregation in Delhi and their primary contacts testing COVID-19 positive, the district authorities are scrambling to identify and isolate them. Three persons from Belagavi, all of whom had attended the congregation, have tested positive. They include a 70-year-old and a 20-year-old. They are all being treated at the designated hospital in Belagavi. About 30 persons who attended the Tablighi event in Delhi from Mysuru city have been traced and placed in a government quarantine facility. Samples of the throat swabs of at least 10 have been sent for the tests. A total of 62 from Mysuru city had attended the event, but only 30 have returned homeso far. Also, another 36 persons from various taluks in Mysuru district had attended the event, and 20 have returned to their home towns. The rest are said to be in Delhi, while one has been traced to Chhattisgarh. In Shivamogga, as many as 24 persons linked to the Tablighi congregation have been identified so far. Of them, 11 had attended the congregation, while the remaining are secondary contacts. K.S. Eshwarappa, Ministerin charge of Shivamogga district, said that the swab samples of all 11 direct attendees tested negative for COVID-19, while the results of the rest are awaited. None of them have shown any symptoms so far. As many as 16 people from Hassan district had been to New Delhi recently. The district administration got their details from the Centre. Among them, six who have returned to the district are under home quarantine. Four more are in quarantine in Delhi. Five people from Chikkamagaluru had been to the national capital recently. Among them, three returned to the district and are under quarantine. No one has shown any symptoms. The other two are in Uttar Pradesh.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM appeals to leaders to spread awareness||After several people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi tested positive for COVID-19, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a meeting with legislators and leaders belonging to the Muslim community in the State and told them to advise community members to offer prayers at home and maintain social distancing during namaz . Mr. Yediyurappa, who has been holding meetings with officials, Ministers and community leaders over the past few days, asked the leaders to share details of persons who participated in the programme in Delhi. He also told legislators to convince their community members to undergo tests for COVID-19 and ensure strict quarantine for the prescribed period. Several legislators from the community from Bengaluru attended the meeting, held at the Chief Minister’s official residence. The leaders informed Mr. Yediyurappa that they have conducted meetings with religious leaders and created awareness on the matter. They also said they have been advising community members to offer prayers at home. In a press statement, the CM said, “The minority community leaders responded positively and promised to extend full cooperation to the government.” During the hour-long meeting, the Chief Minister said that every individual, without discrimination of caste, religion or community, has to maintain social distancing during the lockdown. Following the heckling of Accredited Social Health Activists, allegedly by some people belonging to the minority community in Bengaluru on Thursday, legislators agreed to appeal to and convince community members to cooperate with health workers, said the release.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks State government to secure proper data||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to secure proper data from the Union government and other authorities in New Delhi on persons from the State who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat meet, held at Nizamuddin at the national capital, and subject them to COVID-19 tests. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the direction while hearing, through videoconferencing, two PIL petitions filed by Girish Bharadwaj and Geeta Mishra, both residents of Bengaluru. Govt. submission The Bench noted that no clear data was available on persons who attended the religious meet and were now present in Karnataka, as the government has only informed the court that 50 foreign nationals, who attended the meet, were traced in the State. Observing that it was the duty of the State to get proper data on the matter, the Bench directed it to locate such persons and quarantine them, besides taking further measures as per the COVID-19 advisories.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Russell market to be closed till April 14||Russell market in Shivajinagar will remain closed till April 14. The decision was taken as the shopkeepers were unable to enforce social distancing despite being instructed several times by the BBMP’s jurisdictional officers and police personnel, said civic officials. The decision was necessitated to ensure that the novel coronavirus does not spread. An order issued on Friday stated that no business is allowed either in the market or in the surrounding roads.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt.: Pvt. vehicles allowed for only genuine purposes||The State government on Friday clarified to the High Court of Karnataka that the police would allow use of private two-wheelers and four-wheelers only for genuine and limited purposes if users explain to the police the exact location and purposes such as purchase of medicines or groceries or visit to clinic. Additional Advocate-General (AAG) Dhyan Chinnappa pointed out to the Bench that restrictions on use of private two-wheelers and four-wheelers were imposed as people were found using their vehicles without any urgent reason but just to drive on empty roads and thereby defeating the very purpose of lockdown. The police are only seizing vehicles found using unnecessarily when the vehicle users had failed to give proper explanation about the purpose of use despite restrictions on movement of vehicles owing to lockdown. Following this clarification, a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna said that the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police could give instructions to the police across the State on the lines of submissions made by the AAG on use of private two-wheelers and four-wheelers. However, the Bench made it clear that citizens should not move in their vehicles unnecessarily and must cooperate with the police. It was pointed in a plea, filed by Syed Suhail Ali, that people may not get all essential commodities within walkable distance from their residences and at times it is difficult to carry them in hands.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, Suresh Kumar briefs media on COVID-19||The lack of coordination between Health Minister B. Sriramulu and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar over COVID-19 issues became even more apparent on Friday, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa directing Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar to take up the responsibility of addressing the media on the pandemic. For the first time, Mr. Kumar released the COVID-19 bulletin on Friday. With Dr. Sudhakar and Mr. Sriramulu making contradictory statements over the total number of cases and deaths, the Chief Minister had earlier issued a notification stripping the latter of all matters relating to COVID-19. Dr. Sudhakar was given the responsibility of all issues pertaining to the pandemic.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Motor vehicle tax payment date extended||The State government has extended the date for vehicle owners to pay the motor vehicle tax. An order issued by the Transport Department states that tax due between April 15 and May 15 can be paid till June 1 without any penalty. The department has taken the decision in the backdrop of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fiscal deficit||State Bank of India’s research report ‘Ecowrap’ has assessed that the combined fiscal deficit of 19 States could jump to 3.5% of gross State domestic product (GSDP) from the budgeted 2.04 per cent for the financial year 2021. ‘Ecowrap’ stated that the State finances look fragile and the Centre should compensate them in the financial year as part of a larger COVID-19 package. The assessment is based on a study of Budgets presented by 19 States.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jumbo calf no more||An elephant calf named Saraswathi, who was separated from her mother and taken into the care of Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), passed away on Friday morning. According to officials at the park, the calf had been suffering from loose motion for a few days but had responded to treatment. However, on Thursday, she suffered from loose motion again and also had stomach pain in the evening. She was treated symptomatically but did not respond to treatment and passed away at 4 .17 a.m. on Monday, an official communiqué said. Saraswathi was found near Ragehalli village and was rescued by the park staff on March 3.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stuck in Berlin, Bengaluru girl appeals for help||A Bengaluru student studying in Berlin has appealed to the Centre in a video that she circulated on WhatsApp to make arrangements for herself and fellow students who are stranded in Germany. M. Gautami, a resident of Yelahanka in Bengaluru, has been studying IT security and management in Berlin since October 2018. She told The Hindu that she has developed a kidney stone but alleged that hospitals in Berlin are not ready to operate owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. She said she was alone at home with little help and appealed to the government to help her return to her family in Bengaluru.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Officer on list||The Centre’s list of 1,500 people might have participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event includes not only several non-Muslims, but also some government officials. Among them is Subodh Yadav, an IAS officer who earlier served in Karnataka.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges join fight||Several colleges have come forward to help the government fight COVID-19. PES University on Friday donated Rs. 3 crore to the CM’s Relief Fund and Rs. 2 crore to PM-Cares. PES, said Chancellor M.R. Doreswamy and Pro Chancellor D. Jawahar, met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at his Home Office Krishna. Mr. Doreswamy, who is also the Advisor, Educational Reforms, Government of Karnataka, urged the government to ensure that the academic calendar is maintained. New Horizon Educational Institution which has pledged Rs. 5 crore to the PM-Cares fund, said that it is providing food to 5,000 daily wage workers.
04 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Phone-in programme||BWSSB will hold phone-in programme on Saturday (April 4) between 9 a.m and 10.30 a.m. BWSSB chairman Tushar Girinath will interact with consumers on issues like water billing, manhole overflowing, meter reading, improper water supply and sanitary issues. People can call on 080-22945119. Consumers are required to share their R.R. numbers before raising complaints.
04 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru/Ballari/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Contributions pour in for relief funds||The staff of Shankaracharya Mutt of Sringeri and Centre for Innovation, Incubation Research Centre at Bengaluru, have contributed Rs. 10 lakh towards the Prime Minister’s fund to tackle COVID-19. In a press release, V.R. Gowrishankar, administrator of the mutt, said the public should also contribute for the purpose. The mutt had been providing breakfast, lunch and dinner for people affected by the lockdown in Sringeri taluk. The mutt had been supplying food packets in its vehicles, he said.  In Ballari In Ballari, Donimalai Iron Ore Mines, run by iron ore producer NMDC Limited, has contributed Rs. 60 lakh to the district administration for the fight against COVID-19. Sanjeev Sahi, General Manager, Donimalai Iron Ore Mine, handed over the cheque to S.S. Nakul, Deputy Commissioner of Ballari, in the presence of B.N. Dash, Josey Thomas, S.K. Bansod and other officers of the company on Friday.  In Belagavi In Belagavi, the KLE Society will donate Rs. 1 crore to PM-CARES Fund. In addition, society chairman Prabhakar Kore will set aside Rs. 1 crore from his MPLAD funds and also donate Rs. 1 lakh from his personal salary account.
04 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Free milk for poor in Dharwad||Downtrodden families hit by the lockdown saw some relief as the State government’s programme to distribute milk for free was launched here on Friday. Minister in-charge of the district Jagadish Shettar launched the programme at an event at Bhvikatti Plot here. MLAs Aravind Bellad, Amrut Desai; Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa, HDMC Commissioner Suresh Itnal, senior officials of Karnataka Milk Federation, and others were present. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Shettar said that as a result of the lockdown to combat COVID-19, all KMF units had surplus stock of milk. Therefore, the government had decided to distribute the same to weaker sections of society. About 50,000 families in the district including 37,000 families of various slum areas of Hubballi-Dharwad city limits and 5,000 migrant labourers, brick kiln and construction workers, and others would benefit by this. Both declared and undeclared slums would be covered under this programme. As of now, each family would be provided with half a litre of milk and this would be enhanced to 1 litre if more milk was made available. The Dharwad Milk Union (DMU) would provide 25,000 litres of milk everyday for this purpose. The government would buy the milk from KMF and arrange for distribution, he said. He said people need not panic but co-operate with the administration. The administration had already arranged for the door delivery of vegetables. Similar arrangements would be made to deliver grocery and other essential commodities, he said. To a query, Mr. Shettar defended the police beating up the people venturing outside without valid reasons. “Sometimes, use of force becomes necessary to bring the situation under control. Public should not give scope for such things to happen,” he said. Meanwhile, members of People for Animals, an NGO have taken up the task of feeding stray animals in the city. Their volunteers are feeding eggs, biscuits, and rice to strays and fodder and water to stray cattle.
04 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Distribution from tomorrow||The district administration will distribute 25,000 litres of milk to workers from Saturday. Each family will get a litre of milk. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish on Friday instructed officers at the taluk level to arrange for distribution of milk in the morning. The requirement was 29,850 litres of milk a day. However, the government had allotted 25,000 litres. The same has been allocated to taluks.
04 April 2020||Hubballi/Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Row over offering prayers triggers stone pelting||Tension prevailed in Hubballi on Friday after four policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector, and few Muslim leaders, sustained injuries when a group of people pelted stones at them after the police took exception to an unlawful gathering before a place of worship. The police took several people, including women, into questioning in connection with the incident and used force to disperse the crowd. A case has been registered at Town Police Station. The incident took place near a mosque at Aralikatti Colony on Mantur Road. When many youngsters and women gathered near it, police personnel on patrol asked them to disperse. However, when this did not yield any result and the gathering turned hostile, the policemen called for backup. But by the time additional forces arrived, the men and women alleged that they were not being allowed to offer prayers and blocked Mantur Road. They also allegedly started pelting stones at the police personnel, injuring four of them, including ASI M.K. Kale. Muslim leaders Altaf Hallur, Mohammad Yousuf Khairati and others who tried to intervene and sort out the issue, but they also ended up bearing the brunt of the crowd. The police caned some of them to disperse the crowd and bring the situation under control. Additional forces were subsequently deployed in the locality as a precaution. In Shivamogga Meanwhile, in Shivamogga, the police booked cases against 77 persons found offering prayers at a mosque in Kesuvinakatte village on Friday, in violation of the prohibitory orders enforced to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Acting on a tip-off that a large number of people had gathered at the mosque, the Kumsi police visited the spot. All 77 at the mosque were subjected to medical screening. According to the police, of the 77, seven had fever and were immediately sent to McGann Hospital to be quarantined. The throat and nasal swabs of all seven have been sent for testing to the Viral Diagnostic and Research Laboratory at Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences.
04 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Contacts of positive cases in Hospet identified||The Ballari administration has identified 145 primary and secondary contacts of three persons who tested positive for COVID-19 from Hospet and are monitoring their health. These include 11 people, who were isolated. S.R. Nagar locality in the town, where the infected persons lived, was declared as a containment zone. Addressing a press conference in Hospet on Friday, Sheik Tanveer Asif, Assistant Commissioner, said movement of people and vehicles were restricted in a 5-km radius of the residences of the cases. “However, people can come out of their houses between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. to purchase essential commodities,” the Assistant Commissioner said. Sterilise streets As preventive measure, the municipal council will sterilise public streets and pavements. “We have formed 209 teams of health workers for conducting a door-to-door survey. Each team has anganwadi workers and ASHAs. A doctor will supervise 15 teams,” Mr. Asif said. Deputy Superintendent of Police Raghu Kumar said 250 bikes were seized of riders who were unnecessarily on the streets. “We have established check-posts in all roads leading to Hospet and are blocking the entry and exit of vehicles, except those involved in emergency and essential services,” he said. The Horticulture Department has taken up the job of supplying fruits and vegetables to people’s doorsteps. It has engaged 24 vehicles for the purpose.
04 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Modification of train coaches for isolation patients begins||Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division has commenced the work on modifying 20 non-AC coaches as isolation coaches at Mangaluru Coaching Depot. In about a week, the modification is expected to be completed, according to officials of Palakkad Division. The isolation coaches are being readied to house people who have to be quarantined or isolated on account of COVID-19. The Railway Board had ordered modification of 20,000 coaches across its zones and in the initial phase, modification of 5,000 coaches has been taken up. Each coach, after modification, can hold 16 occupants, apart from attendants and other paramedical staff. SR has been given the target of modifying 473 coaches and work has commenced at various coaching depots and divisional workshops of the zone in Mangaluru, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu. Modification will be done on only non-AC Integral Coach Factory sleeper coaches that are more than 15 years old, as per the guidelines of the Ministry. One Indian style toilet will be converted into a bathing room. The first cabin near the bathing room will be provided with two hospital/ plastic curtains transversely in the aisle so that the entry and exit to the entire eight berth cabins could be screened off. This cabin would be used as store/paramedics area. Two oxygen cylinders will also be provided by the medical department for which suitable clamping arrangement on the side berth side of this cabin is to be provided. While both middle berths in each cabin would be removed, extra bottle holders, mosquito nets and other essentials would be provided. For insulation of the coaches, bamboo/khus mats have to be affixed on the ceiling and each side of coach above and below the windows to shield from the heat. All charging points for laptop and mobile should also be functional.
04 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. vehicles ban yields results in Mangaluru||The Dakshina Kannada district administration’s decision to ban use of private vehicles, excluding permitted categories, from Friday for effective implementation of lockdown, began showing results since Friday morning itself. Mangaluru City Traffic Police and Dakshina Kannada district police erected several pickets at vantage places on arterial roads to check those moving without a valid reason. Several two-wheelers were seized during the checking while a few car drivers were let off with a strict warning. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic), M. Manjunatha Shetty, who was supervising a picket at Hampankatta, told The Hindu that movement of private vehicles has drastically reduced in the city. He said people were advised to buy essentials at nearby shops and not to venture on long rides or drives. The adjacent Central Market was wearing a deserted look after the administration asked wholesale vegetable and fruit merchants to shift their operations to the APMC Yard at Baikampady, off NH 66. However not many merchants had commenced their operations at Baikampady. On the other hand, business was as usual at Bunder, the wholesale grocery market, with the administration permitting its continuation. Almost all roads in the city did not have many vehicles moving around during the relaxation period of 7 a.m. and noon.
04 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man booked for hurling stones at ASI near Sullia||The Sullia police have registered a case against a 35-year-old resident of Kasaragod district of Kerala for allegedly throwing stones at an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of police patrolling at the border check-post at Mooruru village and causing injury to him on Wednesday. The police said on Friday that the ASI, Bhaskar Prasad, and head constable Ramanaika were at the check-post monitoring vehicles coming from Kerala. The two stopped the vehicle of Sinan of Parappe village of Kasaragod. Angered over being stopped, Sinan came out the vehicle and allegedly threw stones at the ASI. He also reportedly damaged the highway patrol vehicle used by the two policemen. Later, he went away towards his village, the police said. The ASI was injured on his head and was treated at the government hospital at Sullia. The head constable was not injured. The police registered a case under Sections 353, 332, 323 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code against Sinan.
04 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two held in Bantwal for threatening ASHA worker||The Bantwal town police have arrested two persons on charges of abusing and threatening the life of an Associated Social Health Activist (ASHA) on April 1. A police release said on Friday that the activist, Tulasi of Amtady village in Bantwal taluk, had on Wednesday called Nitesh and Jayant of Bantwal taluk who had returned from abroad to know about their health status. Later, Marappa Poojary and Umesh, relatives of Nitesh, telephoned the activist and abused and threatened her life. A case was registered against Marappa Poojary and Umesh on April 2 and they were arrested on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Bantwal town police seized six motorbikes parked outside Talapady Jumma Masjid in B. Muda village on Thursday. The release said that violating the lockdown order, about six to eight youth had gathered outside the masjid on Thursday. They fled after seeing the police
04 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Trial run of testing swab samples begins in Mangaluru||The trial run of testing throat swab samples for detecting COVID-19 has begun in the new virology laboratory set up at the Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru, according to Y. Bharat Shetty, MLA, Mangaluru City North and co-ordinator for COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada. The laboratory is awaiting the final approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The approval is expected soon, Dr. Shetty said. About 100 samples could be tested per day in the laboratory set up at an estimated cost of Rs. 80 lakh. After getting the final approval from the ICMR, the samples from the district need not be sent to the Government Medical College in Hassan for testing, he said. Dr. Shetty said that 41 persons from Dakshina Kannada who had attended the religious congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month have been identified till April 2.
04 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Two trees chopped down in Mysuru over fear of bats||Fear that bats could spread novel coronavirus has led to felling of two trees in Mysuru, much to the chagrin of environmentalists. The incident took place on Wednesday and a section of the local people said the trees were felled as they used to attract bats and it stoked fear in view of their possible role in the spread of the virus. Peeved by the development and also fearing that this could be used as a pretext to fell more trees, environmentalists have brought the issue to the notice of the Forest Department. S. Shyalajesha, environmental activist, said the Singapore cherry trees on Ramanuja Road had a good canopy and fruit-eating bats used to frequent and sometime roost there to forage on the cherries. But the trees were felled on Wednesday owing to the fear of bats. M. Pradeep, a city-based zoologist who has conducted studies on bats in Mysuru, said it is true that bats are carriers of lots of viruses but they do not transmit them to human beings easily. Scientists are still studying as to how and why the novel coronavirus transmission took place, but trees should not be felled merely because they attract bats. He said there are 13 species of commonly found bats in Mysuru, most of which are fruit-eating varieties. “Going by the same logic, one has to axe all the fruit-bearing trees as well across the city, which is ridiculous,” said Mr. Pradeep, cautioning against using bats as a pretext to seek permission for tree-felling. Deputy Conservator of Forests Prashanth Kumar said he would advise the staff down the hierarchy not to issue permission for tree-felling on such grounds. Referring to the Ramanuja Road case, Mr. Prashanth Kumar said the permission for felling was sought in February though the trees were felled on Wednesday. He said bats play an important role in pollination and seed dispersal and they need to be conserved. Their presence should not be used a pretext to axe trees, he said.
04 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tremors in Mysuru, Hassan||A tremor of 2.6 magnitude was recorded in the region bordering Mysuru and Hassan districts on Friday evening. Srinivas Reddy, director of Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, told The Hindu that the epicentre of the mild seismic activity lay between K.R. Nagar in Mysuru district and Arkalgud in Hassan district. The tremor was recorded at 5.18 p.m. Describing the seismic activity as a “micro-tremor”, he said tremors with a magnitude of less than 3 on the Richter scale do not cause any problems. “It happens only on account of some readjustment taking place in the crust. It may not create a big displacement,” he said. He also ruled out the possibility of the tremors posing any threat to KRS reservoir. “There is no need for panic,” he said.
04 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Not the time for blame game: KSE||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said that any efforts to draw political mileage by communalising the Tablighi Jamaat congregation should be deplored by civil society. “The congregation should not be viewed from a communal perspective. No individual should stoop to the level of creating rift in society for political or personal gains by vilifying a particular community,” he said at a press conference on Friday. Mr. Eshwarappa said both the Central and State governments are striving hard to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He said it was not the time to engage in strife or blame game in the name of religion. “In wake of the lockdown, members of the Hindus avoided going to temples on Ramanavami. Likewise, the Muslims are not visiting Masjid on Fridays and Christians are not going to church on Sundays. Such responsible behaviour will help India win the battle against the virus,” he said.
04 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||24 linked to Nizamuddin event identified||As many as 24 persons linked to Tablighi Jamaat Nizamuddin congregation have been identified in the district so far. The medical screening of the 24 persons has been done. Of them, 11 had directly attended the congregation while the remaining are secondary contacts. K.S. Eshwarappa, in-charge Minister of the district, told presspersons on Friday that the swab samples of 11 have tested negative for COVID-19. The results of the remaining are awaited.
04 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Milk to camps||Raviraj Hegde, president, Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd., launched the project to supply 5,000 litres of milk to migrant workers and poor stranded in relief camps here on Friday for free. The union will supply milk to these camps daily till April 14, he said.
04 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Sale of meat, fish allowed||Imposing certain restrictions, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao passed an order allowing transportation and sale of meat, chicken and fish in Yadgir district on Friday. In the order, the Deputy Commissioner specifically directed to maintain cleanliness. He said those working at slaughterhouses and selling meat and fish should wash their hands and customers should maintain social distance while buying.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Spike in demand for high-speed Internet chokes bandwidth||The lockdown, which is seeing lakhs of professionals from diverse fields working from home, has exposed the IT capital’s spotty Internet connectivity. With most working from home, the demand on bandwidth has skyrocketed. According to telecom operator sources, Bengaluru’s Internet consumption has witnessed a sudden spike of 100% in certain areas. The Cellular Operators’ Association of India (COAI) estimates that demand has gone up over 30% on an average across India since the lockdown. “Bengaluru is currently witnessing choking on Internet and telecom networks,” said Rajan Mathews, Director General, COAI. With more than a week left till April 14 and people looking at working from home even after that, net connectivity is a challenge.  Access and quality A source in a telecom company confirmed that there are hundreds of areas in the city where network remains patchy and signals are inadequate. “We are working towards access and quality. India has never seen this kind of a surge in internet usage. It came up on us all of a sudden. We are trying to keep networks up and going with the available spectrum.” COAI blames the civic body. “The BBMP demands outlandish charges and often do not give the requisite permissions on time. Often, after cables are laid, it goes on a cutting spree. Bengaluru is clearly one of the leading consumers of Internet in the country, but when it comes to supporting ISPs with permissions for towers, fibre, boosters and other infrastructure, the BBMP is very rigid,’’ said Mr. Mathews. He expanded on some of the other challenges that telecom operators face in the city while trying to ensure a healthy network. “The infrastructure requires that the telecom operators are able to use public spaces, especially for erecting telecom towers and for laying optic fibre cables (OFCs). Thus, it is imperative for the civic body to be accommodative,” he added. Allegations dismissed Senior BBMP officials, however, dismissed the allegations. “The entire administration of the civic body has been focussing on managing the COVID-19 situation. For the past month, there have been no enforcement activities. Though there are blatant and large-scale violations by various telecom and Internet service providers, the BBMP has not taken up any disconnection drive lately; more so because many people are working from home,” said a Special Commissioner. In the past, the BBMP had issued warnings and directed service providers to take all the optic fibre cables underground after getting the required permission. “However, many cables can still be found bundled on trees, streetlights, flyovers. Service providers have not adhered to the BBMP’s deadlines but only continue to blame the civic body,” the official added.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Shelter for homeless in Tumakuru||T. Bhoobalan, commiss-ioner, Tumakuru City Corporation, opened a shelter on the corporation premises for homeless at risk of contracting COVID-19 that can accommodate around 50 people. “They are provided free food and essentials like toothbrushes, soaps, toothpaste and sanitizers,” said an official. However, one facility will not be enough given the number of migrant workers who have been rendered jobless. Mr. Bhoobalan said new shelters will be opened depending on the number of people who need aid. Around 23 beggars were rescued and sent to the beggars’ home on the outskirts.
04 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Person admitted with COVID-19 tests negative||In a major sigh of relief, a person admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, with COVID-19 has been tested negative for the disease. Officials said here on Friday that the person would be discharged once the medical board took a decision to shift him to home quarantine. The person had travelled from Qatar to Goa before reaching Alappuzha. He was tested positive for the disease on March 24. The district has so far logged two COVID-19 cases. The first person, a Wuhan returnee, was completely cured in February. Meanwhile, four people were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease on Friday. Two suspected cases were discharged after their samples tested negative. The number of people under observation in hospitals stood at 12. Besides, 7,366 people were in home quarantine in the district, said an official. Of 316 samples tested so far, 293 have tested negative for the disease. Results of 21 samples, including 10 sent on Friday, are pending. 135 cases The police have registered 135 cases and arrested 140 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. They have seized 84 vehicles.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,KERALA||Eight hotspot clusters sealed in Chennai||The Chennai Corporation has identified eight hotspot clusters in the city where multiple COVID-19 cases have been reported. The Corporation has sealed them and imposed strict restrictions on the movement of residents and traders in the areas. The clusters were sealed by the authorities and barricades placed at various entry points to prevent movement of vehicles. Uniformed police personnel are posted at vantage points to ensure residents do not venture out of their homes, even for buying essential commodities.
04 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||With no auction, cardamom piles up||The cardamom sector is facing a deadlock in the absence of auctions, with the main buyers in Mumbai abstaining from taking new orders for nearly a month. The produce is held up with farmers and small-scale traders, K.S. Mathew, director, Vandanmedu Green Gold Cardamom Producer Co. Ltd., told The Hindu on Friday. There are 12 auctioneers at the Spices Park at Puttady under the Spices Board of India. As per the licensing agreement, the auctioneer has to pay the farmer the price of cardamom within 10 days of the auction. The traders and industrial units that purchase the produce have to pay the auctioneer the price within 21 days. The mechanism was going on unhindered with the daily auctions, he said. Cardamom’s price is decided at the auctions, without which there is total uncertainty. The price would be known only when the auctions restart, Mr. Mathew said. Last price It is estimated that the traders have to pay the auctioneers more than Rs. 200 crore for the last two to four consignments in the auctions. When the auctions were stopped following the COVID-19 scare the price was at Rs. 3,500 per kg. Marketing sources said prices could dip as the next crop, predicted to be a bumper one, is set to arrive in the market by June/July, and a major quantity produced in the last season has remained unsold. Moreover, the crop’s export prospects will depend on the stance of Saudi Arabia, the main buyer, sources said. No buyers The last harvesting season witnessed the highest ever prices quoted in the auctions, reaching up to Rs. 9,000 per kg. The absence of trading has affected not only the plantations but also small-scale farmers. Lalichan, a farmer in Peerumade, said there were no buyers with small-scale hill produce merchants ceasing to buy cardamom. A trader had agreed to take the produce without making payment now. A meagre price was offered. “How can one sell the produce without knowing the price and without being paid,” he added.
04 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Financial aid for local bodies||District Collector Adeela Abdulla has said that financial assistance would be offered to local bodies, especially those without own funds, to ensure the smooth functioning of community kitchens during the lockdown period. Local bodies will get Rs. 75,000 each as advance from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Three cases As many as 10,842 persons, including three COVID -19 positive cases, are under observation in the district, Ms. Abdulla said.
04 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Surveillance stepped up against KFD||The Wayanad district administration has stepped up surveillance against Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) or monkey fever in Thirunelly grama panchayat in the district. Speaking to mediapersons here on Friday, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said the District Medical Officer had been directed to step up surveillance in the wake of two monkey deaths reported in the Appapara area of the grama panchayat. A woman had succumbed to the disease in March.
04 April 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Escaped prisoner caught||A prisoner at the Central Jail in Kannur, who escaped on Friday morning while under observation for suspected COVID-19, was caught in the evening from Kannapuram railway station by the police. He has been identified as Ajay Babu, 21, of Uttar Pradesh. According to the police, he was arrested from a COVID-19-hit region of Kasaragod on March 25 in connection with a bank theft case, following which he was kept in the observation cell. However, he managed to escape by breaking the ventilation in the room adjoining the vegetable farm. Later, people who recognised him at the station informed the police, and he was arrested.
04 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Growing their own veggies in the time of lockdown||The enthusiastic response towards vegetable farming at homes under the Vadakkekara panchayat in this lockdown period has encouraged Chendamangalam and Mulanthuruthy local bodies to follow suit. Over 6,800 households in Vadakkekara have joined the initiative as on Friday after the panchayat authorities launched the vegetable farming drive eight days ago. Vegetable saplings were planted in the front yards and terraces of hundreds of homes as part of encouraging people to grow vegetables on their premises and make valuable use of the lockdown period. “Chendamangalam and Mulanthuruthy grama panchayats have also joined the novel project. About 14,000 seedlings were distributed to families in Mulanthuruthy on Friday,” said Sujith Karun, district coordinator of Haritha Keralam Mission, which is partnering with local bodies, Kudumbashree, the Agriculture Department and other agencies for implementing the project. Members of self-help groups under the Kudumbashree are actively taking part in the first phase of the programme. They are involving family members too in planting saplings while urging them to utilise the long hours available during the lockdown. Officials of the Agriculture Department said that organic manure, pesticide, and growbags had been distributed to beneficiaries through the departments’ eco shops. “We are also encouraging families to grow microgreens in their kitchen gardens. Microgreens are easy to grow and have high nutritional value. Some of the popular microgreens include wheatgrass, sunflower shoots, and pea shoots,” they said. Manoj Kumar I.B. of Edavanakkad, who is active in creating fruit forests, said that people should start growing vegetables in their front yards and open spaces as it was high time they stopped depending on neighbouring States for vegetables. “We can undertake a vegetable challenge to attain self-sufficiency in vegetable production. This should be a long-term project and not end abruptly after the lockdown is over,” he added. WhatsApp groups involving greens in the district and outside have given a call for spreading the message of kitchen gardens and vegetable farming in households. Members of such a group were found planting at least one vegetable sapling every three days.
04 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Logging on to the ‘wonder train’||A ‘wonder train’ has been chugging into many households since the start of the month, bringing together parents and children locked up inside. The game devised by the Railway Childline Ernakulam in collaboration with Sahrudaya Welfare Services aims at actively engaging children below 18 years who are staring at boredom during the lockdown. “The game involves assigning children a task every day, which they need to complete with the help of their parents. They should then post the image of the completed task in the comment section of our Facebook page. We promptly issue them a certificate with the name and age of the participating child below their post. The idea is to assign 14 tasks by the time the lockdown is lifted on April 14,” said Shano Jose, coordinator, Railway Childline Ernakulam. Three tasks have been assigned since the start of the game. The first task was to post a family selfie, the second was to create something using leaves while the third task was to post an image showing how meaningfully children and parents were using their time at home. Each task is assigned in the name of a popular train, with Rajdhani Express and Maveli Express assuming the names of the first two tasks. “The participation in the game has progressively increased and now around 120 children are regulars, with the numbers increasing all the time. “Since some children are not quite adept at using Facebook, they have been sending their completed tasks over WhatsApp as well,” said Mr. Jose. The organisers have got tasks for the rest of the days fully scheduled. In the coming days, participants will also have to upload videos of their tasks in addition to the images. Plans are afoot to effectively use the game platform for disseminating child-specific information. A Childline awareness video and various aspects of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act will also be relayed alongside the game. Participants having doubts regarding the game may contact 91882-11098.
04 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lakshadweep wards off the pandemic||The Lakshadweep islands have retained their clean, sanitised aura despite the heightened anxiety about COVID-19 spreading to the isles, home to around 70,000 people. No COVID-positive case has been reported there so far, despite ships and aircraft ferrying people and essential supplies from COVID-19-affected Kerala to the isles till a week ago. This apart, people who arrived in ships from Kochi and Kozhikode were not quarantined till a week ago, official sources said. “All foreign tourists left the isles by March 10 and domestic tourists by March 22. With COVID-19 cases being reported from elsewhere in the country, 500 people who arrived recently from Kochi have been placed in quarantine,” said Asker Ali, Director, Tourism and Education, and Secretary, Information and Public Relations. “Moreover, ferry services between the isles were stopped from March 23 as a preventive measure. We are in touch with health officials from the mainland and have readied an evacuation plan in passenger ships and, if necessary, in ships of the Coast Guard and Navy. Evacuation in helicopters will be tough due to the need for social distancing,” Mr. Ali said. “With these confidence-building measures in place, rumours of a few people in the isles showing symptoms of the pandemic and the demand to send them back to the mainland have died down. It is confirmed that they are perfectly healthy,” he said. The administration has stepped up procurement of medicines and essential items in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. “There are a sufficient number of masks and sanitisers. Aimed at ensuring supply of essential commodities, 1,500 tonnes of cargo has been sourced from the mainland. They will be routed through societies based on each island, to be supplied to the people at subsidised rate,” Mr. Ali said. Travel curbs might be lifted in mid-April, depending on ground-level assessments. But ship services to Kerala will resume only after the transit resumes between the islands, it is learnt. Kavaratti-based social activist Komalam Koya said the fear that gripped the isles till 10 days ago has lessened due to the introduction of preventive measures.
04 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fuel, cooking gas supplies on course||The public sector oil companies led by Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) are working to ensure round-the-clock supply of fuels, including cooking gas, and provide any emergency services in the form vehicle availability and ambulance services. The oil companies assured the public in a statement here on Thursday that there was no shortage of cooking gas and no reason to worry on this front. “Due to the current lockdown, customers are resorting to panic booking, resulting in backlogs in the market, depriving genuine customers, who are in real need of refills,” said a an IOC statement. All LPG bottling plants of the public sector undertaking are operating normally and regularly, providing sufficient supplies of refill stocks to the distributor network of the companies. The distributors have adequate stocks for delivery to the customers. Indian Oil, through its network of 339 distributors, supplies 87.76 lakh customers in Kerala, delivering 1.1 lakh cylinders a day. BPC and HPC too are regular in their supplies. Curbing panic As a measure to prevent panic booking, it has been decided that a customer who gets a refill would not be able to book the next refill for a minimum period of 15 days. They include Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) beneficiaries as well. The oil companies have announced an ex gratia payment of Rs. 5 lakh in case of death to the spouses or next of kin of workers engaged in ensuring fuel supply in these trying times. Those covered under the scheme include employees of petrol pump dealers such as customer attendants and managers and those of the distributors such as refill delivery men, showroom staff, godown keepers and LPG mechanics, lorry drivers, including bulk/pack transporters. To reduce the financial burden of the PMUY customers whose earnings have come under severe pressure owing to the lockdown, it has been decided by the government to give them three refills free of cost, one each for the months of April, May and June 2020.
04 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||App to keep track of quarantined people||The Ernakulam Rural Police have come up with a mobile app to keep track of quarantined people and to maintain seamless communication with them. The app, Happy@Home, developed with the help of a bunch of enterprising young software developers, was launched on Friday. It is available for download in Google Play Store. Quarantined people can log into the app using a four-digit One Time Password (OTP) sent to the mobile numbers they have registered either with the Health or police authorities. “The app helps the police keep track of quarantined people and verify whether they are complying with the quarantine protocol. It also helps people keep track of the period they need to spend in quarantine if they happen to test positive for COVID-19 midway through their precautionary quarantine period,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The app also has provision to feed information on places quarantined people have been to, enabling the police and Health authorities to piece together their route map if and when they test positive for the pandemic. “We will also be able to maintain daily contact with quarantined people and assess their condition through a questionnaire they can fill up over the app. In the event of an emergency, they can send out an SOS to the respective police stations which in turn will be able to locate them with the help of the app,” said Mr. Karthik. The app also helps those in quarantine to be in touch with the Janamaithri beat police officers of the respective police stations. Besides, it features all relevant contact numbers, including those of Disha and community kitchens.
04 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Evacuation flight for French nationals||Air India will operate an evacuation flight for French nationals on Saturday. An airport spokesperson said the flight, operated for the French Embassy, would land at the Cochin international airport from Bengaluru at 6.30 a.m. and would take off for Mumbai with 122 passengers at 8.30 a.m. Meanwhile, Oman Air operated a special flight from Kochi on Friday with 46 Oman nationals. While the original plan was to fly home 53 Oman nationals, seven stayed back at hospitals owing to various reasons. The Embassy of Oman in India oversaw the operation.
04 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Agency mooted for welfare of migrant workers||The amicus curiae appointed by the High Court in a case relating to the welfare of migrant labourers has suggested a common gateway or an agency to coordinate the activities of various functionaries involved in their welfare. In a report filed before the High Court, Parvathi Sanjay, amicus curiae, said there were various welfare projects launched by the State and Central governments and nodal officers were appointed to take care of the welfare of migrant workers. But there was lack of coordination among the functionaries. She suggested that continuous supervision or monitoring by the district administration be made mandatory during the lockdown period to ensure that the workers were provided adequate food and shelter. Besides, creating a sense of security among them would alone help to curb attempts of migrant workers to sneak out and cross borders without following the medical protocol.
04 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Health workers battle abuse and threats too||Deployed on the front line of COVID-19 containment activities, health inspectors and ASHA (accredited social health activist)workers are facing enormous pressure these days. Quarantine is no easy task for many and the health-care staff often find themselves at the receiving end of their anger. While they have been tolerating verbal abuses and threats, rising incidents of violence, including assaults, have left the members worried. “While checking on those in quarantine or spreading awareness, they have to endure a lot of hostility. All districts have reported such incidents. Strict legal action should be taken to ensure their safety,” says P.R. Balagopal, State general secretary, Kerala State Health Inspector’s Association . While a youth barged into the house of an ASHA worker and attacked her in Thriuvananthapuram last week, two health inspectors from Kollam and a volunteer from Malappuram were manhandled on Thursday and Friday. “A ward member informed us that a family at Sasthamcotta is throwing a birthday bash and they have guests from Pathanamthitta. They arrived in vehicles against the lockdown norms and when we sought details they abused us,” says junior health inspector Shibu. The family refused to give details of the visitors. “There were four men and one of them snatched the mobile phone of my superior Sunilraj and smashed a window glass. They threatened to file a complaint against us for trespassing and damaging property. Then they started beating us after locking the gate.” Panchayat officials and the police rescued the staff, who were later hospitalised. ASHA workers say their challenges start from making routine phone calls to visiting those in quarantine. “A family from Malta kept shouting every time I called them. However, there are many who offer total cooperation,” says Lissy from Ernakulam. A bigger battle Quarantined persons vent their anger at them and some even threaten to harm them after the lockdown. But we keep advising our women to ignore most such incidents since we are engaged in a battle for survival,” says L. Geetha, State general secretary, ASHA Workers’ Union. Problems compound when people are not willing to listen. “There are many who believe in quacks and think that COVID-19 is no serious threat. They first question our authority and if we insist, they abuse us. Ninety per cent of the incidents are settled at the local body office or police station. You get to hear only a few,” says Vineeth from Kozhikode.  ASHA workers say their challenges start from making routine phone calls to visiting those in quarantine
04 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Gunman, driver of Subcollector suspended||The District Police Chief on Friday suspended the driver and gunman of Subcollector Anupam Mishra for violating quarantine norms. Mr. Mishra is already under suspension for tricking the officials and travelling to his home town in Uttar Pradesh immediately after his foreign trip. He had reached Kollam after the visit on March 19 and his driver and gunman who picked him from the airport were asked to remain in home isolation for 14 days. But the very next day, they drove him to the Thiruvananthapuram airport against the instructions of health officials. “Since they had direct contact with Subcollector, they were advised to stay in home quarantine. But along with the Subcollector, they both violated the quarantine protocol and helped Mr. Mishra in leaving the State,” said an official.
04 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||2 discharged from Idukki hospital||Two COVID-19 patients from Idukki, who were tested negative for the virus after undergoing treatment, were discharged from the District Hospital at Thodupuzha on Friday. According to officials, the 32-year-old patient, a resident of Kumaramangalam near Thodupuzha, was discharged after being tested negative twice for the infection. The person, who works as an accountant in Dubai, had tested positive for COVID-19 on March 25 after returning from Dubai on March 19. The person has been directed to remain in home quarantine for 28 days. The political activist from Cheruthoni who was tested positive on March 26 too was discharged from the hospital here on Friday. Talking to media persons, he expressed his gratitude to the doctors and the staff at the hospital where he underwent treatment “I have learnt that some people who were in close contact with me, have now reported positive for COVID-19 and I deeply regret what I have done unknowingly,” he said, expressing “deep pain over the disparaging remarks” made by the Chief Minister against him. Three recoveries  So far, three patients who reported positive for COVID-19 in Idukki have recovered. The first COVID-19 patient from Idukki, who was a British national, had been discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, earlier. Presently, there are seven positive cases, including the five new cases reported on Thursday. As many as 2,946 persons have been quarantined in the district till Friday and the number is expected to rise further in the coming days.
04 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Fire services personnel step in to check COVID-19 spread||In the wake of COVID-19 spread, the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services has taken up the task of disinfecting public places, hospitals and other facilities visited by patients. Firefighters from 124 fire stations in Kerala have disinfected 8,800 public places across the State. This is in addition to the 921 hospitals and over 5,600 vehicles they attended to since the outbreak was confirmed in Kerala. Officials with the Fire and Rescue Services Department said that only Kerala had explored the strength of the squad fully during the COVID-19 crisis. Going by the Kerala model, some of the neighbouring States have also begun enlisting the support of firefighters for the task. Firefighters have disinfected bus stands, railway stations, Food Corporation of India godowns, public parks and waiting shelters across the State. The process is on in all districts under the supervision of district fire officers. Sodium hypochlorite mixed with water is being used as the disinfectant solution for cleaning public places. Designated squads are now working round-the-clock near all check-posts to disinfect inter-State vehicles used for delivering goods and services. As incidents of fire outbreak and other accidents have come down during the lockdown, the service of the rescue wing is fully available for COVID-19-related work across the State. “It is our squad members who now disinfect the houses of COVID-19 patients. Their vehicles, dress items and other articles are also covered by the service,” said R. Prasad, Technical Director, Department of Fire and Rescue Services. “Every week, Director General A. Hemachandran reviews station-wise activities through video-conferencing and gives further suggestions to improve the activities,” he told The Hindu . Department officials said their squad members were also engaged in emergency pick-and-drop service for patients, delivery of essential commodities for the needy, and distribution of life-saving drugs to patients. The helpline 101 was open round-the-clock to cater to anyone in need of emergency support, they added.
04 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A humble contribution to CMDRF amid concerns about their welfare||At a time when guest workers’ welfare tops the agenda of officials concerned in view of the lockdown, six labourers who work at a hotel in Karassery panchayat have together donated Rs. 10,000 to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) from their humble savings to assist the State’s fight against COVID-19. Ranjith, Gopal and Kumar, three Nepal natives among the six, handed over the amount to grama panchayat president V.K. Vinod on Thursday. They are employees of Amwaj hotel, which is now one of the community kitchens in the village. It was one of the first community kitchens opened in Kozhikode district ahead of the State government’s official call to start such units in grama panchayats. The other three, Abdulla and Ansar of West Bengal, and Deepak of Nepal had left for their homes before the lockdown announcement. The grama panchayat authorities hoped that the labourers’ act would inspire many who wanted to contribute to the State’s COVID-19 fight. Mohammed Haneefa, owner of the hotel, said many of his employees were keen to support the needy. “We did not want to reveal details of the latest contribution, but the grama panchayat authorities were disclosing it hoping that it would inspire those who want to join relief activities,” he said.
04 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||GCC situation bodes dark days for expatriates||The Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations have ramped up their health facilities to deal with COVID-19 even as the region continues to report a significant number of positive cases. Over 200 new cases have been reported in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), taking the total number to 1,024. It has reported eight deaths till now. The new cases have been detected on examining people who came into contact with previously infected patients and failed to adhere to the preventative measures. A number of these cases have resulted from international travel, according to the Ministry of Health and Prevention, the UAE. At the same time, expatriates, particularly Indians, who have been unable to fly back to their workplaces in the UAE fear that the lockdown and travel restrictions may be extended for some more time. This comes in the wake of the UAE suspending the entry of all valid visa holders for two more weeks. The health authorities are carrying out more than 2.5 lakh laboratory tests for COVID-19. Using the latest medical technology, drive-through coronavirus centres have been set up across the country. However, Dubai-based airline Emirates has said its aircraft will begin flying with a limited number of passengers, including residents and visitors in the UAE, from Monday. In Saudi Arabia, 165 new COVID-19 cases have been reported, bringing the total to 1,885 with a death toll of 21. In Kuwait, 417 persons have been infected with COVID-19 with 75 new cases being registered on Friday. The tally included 26 cases of Indians who have mingled with persons under examination for infection. The Ministry of Public Health, Qatar, has announced the registration of 114 new confirmed cases of COVID-19. The total number of positive cases recorded in Qatar has stood at 949 with 877 active cases. As per details available, there are 643 cases in Bahrain. The country has reported four deaths till now. The Omani Ministry of Health has reported 21 new positive cases of COVID-19 in the Sultanate, bringing the total infections to 252. Oman reported the first COVID-19 death, that of a 72-year-old citizen, on Tuesday.
04 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corporation to ensure fish availability||The Kozhikode Corporation has made arrangements to ensure the availability of fresh fish in the city from Saturday. The corporation had allowed a load of fish to be brought to the Central Market on Thursday following complaints about non-availability of fish and unauthorised sale of fish. However, the unprecedented turnout of retail merchants at the Central Market led to violation of the COVID protocol as well as Section 144 imposed in the district. Hence, the Mayor convened a meeting of police personnel and representatives of Fish Merchants Commission Association to arrive at an understanding. Accordingly, 16 loads of fish can be brought to the city and sold to retail merchants at 15 authorised fish markets. It will be unloaded and sold to retail merchants at these markets between 7 a.m. and 10 p.m. Retailers can sell fish at a maximum of 20% enhanced price within the premises of the markets. Bringing loads of fish to any other parts of the city will not be entertained. One load of fish each will be made available at the fish markets at Nallalam, Cheruvannur, Kallai, Panniyankara, Arakkinar, Elathur, Puthiyangadi, Vellayil, Kovoor, West Hill, Meenchanda, Mankavu, Idiyangara, and Karikkankulam, while two loads will be taken to the Central Market.
04 April 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Keezhattur situation sends shock waves among officials||The detection of COVID-19 in an 85-year-old man at Kariyamad in Keezhattur panchayat in Malappuram on Thursday has sent shock waves among health workers and people in the region. The man is believed to have contracted the disease from his son who returned from Jeddah after Umra pilgrimage on March 11. Although the Umra returnee was advised home quarantine, he is found to have grossly violated the restrictions. He reportedly attended a prayer congregation held in Anakkayam panchayat and met several other people. He is also reported to have boasted his ‘quarantine status’ at his meetings. District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem said that stern action would be taken against him for jumping the quarantine and for spreading the disease. He said making his route map was hard as he visited several places and met many people. His father, who was tested positive for COVID-19, too had interacted with several people. A ‘spiritual healer’, the octogenarian is learnt to have had regular visitors at his house until he fell ill a few days ago. The behaviour of the son and the father has given shudders to the district administration, which is planning to impose a complete shutdown in Keezhattur panchayat. The Health authorities warned the people of Keezhattur and neighbouring areas to exercise extreme caution in the coming days. Meanwhile, 858 more people were placed under quarantine in different parts of the district on Friday. The district has currently 14,794 people in quarantine. All but 100 of them are in self-quarantine.
04 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pangs of the pandemic emerge||Pangs of the COVID-19 pandemic have started taking its toll on the public life in Pathanamthitta. Though inevitable, the restrictions imposed by authorities on people’s movement and functioning of offices, shops, and banks as part of the ongoing intensive disease-prevention campaign have rendered many people jobless, at least for the time being. “Many marriage ceremonies have been cancelled or are being reduced to mere family functions with a participation of hardly 50 people. We caterers have lost all our orders for March, April and even for May. Our catering group had eight orders for wedding feast ( sadya ) in March alone and all of them have been cancelled,” says S.N. Sadasivan Pillai, a caterer at Aranmula. Mr. Pillai has closed his two village hotels in Aranmula, retaining all 12 workers from West Bengal and Tamil Nadu there with full wages, food, and accommodation. Wedding halls, auditoriums, and conference halls have been shut down since March 7 when the first five COVID-19 cases were reported from Ranni. This has also affected the livelihood of photographers, videographers, interior designers, decorators, beauticians, and vegetable and provision merchants. Raju Maglight, who owns a studio in Thiruvalla, says wedding photography has been the main source of a professional photographer’s monthly income. With the cessation of marriage ceremonies and receptions, the revenue source has been sealed. “However, we have been fully complying with all the restrictions imposed by the government in the larger interest of society.”  Bolt from the blue Many small-scale business people have availed themselves of small loans and have joined chit funds of financial institutions for starting their own businesses. The COVID-19 crisis is a bolt from the blue that badly hit all their financial plans and calendars.  In effect, the COVID-19 crisis has hit the livelihood of the self-employed people, daily labourers, farm workers, and a large number of women employed at various textile shops, shopping malls, and various other business organisations in the district.
04 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Solace to settlers, tribespeople at Gavi||Konni MLA K.U. Janeeshkumar called on tribespeople and settler families in the remote eastern forest tracts of Gavi on Friday in an effort to address their grievances against the backdrop of the nationwide lockdown. The MLA, accompanied by a team of officials attached to the Departments of Revenue, Tribal Welfare, Police, Forests, and Health, reached Gavi with food packets, rice, and provision kits for distribution as part of his social welfare scheme, Kaithangu.  Plantation workers The Sri Lankan repatriates employed by the Kerala Forest Development Corporation (KFDC) in its cardamom plantations aired their grievances before the MLA. They accused the KFDC authorities of forcibly employing them at the cardamom plantation for two more days even after the declaration of the lockdown. The workers said they were left with little option but proceed to Vandipperiyar, 35 km from Gavi, by foot to purchase essential items as the KFDC authorities were reluctant to arrange transportation. They alleged that the KFDC used to deny transportation to them even in case of emergency medical needs. The MLA summoned the KFDC divisional manager and warned of stringent action. He said the plantation workers should be treated in a humane way. Mr. Janeeshkumar visited all labour camps at Gavi. A medical team that accompanied him also conducted a medical camp at Gavi. The MLA distributed food and provision kits to all 300 settler families and tribespeople at Gavi, Kakki, Aanachaal, Meenar, and the surrounding areas.
04 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new cases reported in Pathanamthitta||No new COVID-19 case was reported from any part of Pathanamthitta on Friday. A total of 22 persons have been admitted to isolation wards at various hospitals in the district as on Friday, according to a medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu. Among them, 15 persons are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, five at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, and one person each at the Pushpagiri Medical College Hospital in Thiruvalla and the General Hospital in Adoor, the bulletin said. Nine persons have got discharged from the isolation wards at the three hospitals since 3 p.m. on Thursday.   The Collector said 26 persons from the district who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat meets held at Nizamuddin were identified so far. One of them, a retired Chemistry teacher, died and his funeral was held there itself and four others are still in Delhi. Two persons who returned from Delhi stay outside the district and seven persons have been admitted to isolation wards. As many as 8,512 have been placed in home quarantine in the district.
04 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Norms for bank, ration dealings||With people’s movement increasing on account of pension and ration distribution, the City police have urged the public to adhere strictly to the arrangements made by the State government in this regard, given the COVID-19 scenario. Ration card holders with card numbers ending in 6 and 7 can visit ration shops on Saturday. Service pensioners with SB account number ending in 4 and 5 can visit banks for collecting their pension amounts. Service and family pensioners with PTSB account number ending in 4 can visit treasuries between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. Jan Dhan account holders with account numbers ending in 2 and 3 can visit the banks on Saturday. Only one person from a household should go out for purchasing essential commodities, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. No new cases No new COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Friday, but 156 more individuals have been placed under surveillance. On the bright side, 59 people completed the 28-day surveillance period without developing symptoms. People who had come into contact with the Thiruvallam native who had tested positive on Tuesday have been traced and quarantined. As on Friday, 17,346 people are in home-quarantine in the district. Various hospitals in the district admitted 27 people who displayed symptoms, while 23 people have been discharged. So far, 15 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district. Of this five were cured. One person, a 68-year-old man Pothencode, died. Nine are under treatment. The City police registered cases against 52 persons up to 5 p.m. on Friday under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 for violation of lockdown rules. Cases were registered against 102 other individuals for unnecessary travel. As many as 123 vehicles also were seized. They will be released only after 21 days, Mr. Upadhyay said.  Ration card holders with card numbers ending in 6 and 7 can visit ration shops today.
04 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Everyone should wear masks: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday that considering the state of COVID-19 transmission, everyone should start wearing masks. He said there seemed to be some confusion regarding who should actually be wearing masks but that according to the latest opinion of experts, everyone — not just healthcare workers — should be wearing masks. The Chief Minister set off debates over the topic instantly because there is still no consensus even globally on whether the public should be encouraged to wear masks. While there is an argument that any kind of mask would reduce the potential risk of virus transmission through the respiratory droplets that are given out by a person while talking, there are also experts who feel that masks could lend a false sense of security to the wearers and they might relax on the other protocols such as social distancing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the United States and the World Health Organization have been maintaining that healthcare workers and patients’ caregivers should be wearing masks and that healthy individuals need not wear masks. However, earlier in the week, international media reported that the CDC might be altering its official guidelines that during the ongoing pandemic, the public should be encouraged to cover their faces. However, those who encourage the public to wear masks also specify that medical masks should be left for healthcare workers who are at high risk of contracting COVID-19 from patients. Several experts have come out openly to say that during the ongoing pandemic, even when social distancing should be practised strictly, every individual should be encouraged to wear non-medical cloth masks while they are out in public spaces. Care should be taken that these are washed and disinfected regularly. The story of the Czech Republic, which managed to “flatten the curve”, after the government ordered on March 18 that none should step out of their homes without masks, has been doing the rounds in international media. George Gao, head of the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, said in an interview to the Science magazine last week that the big mistake in the U.S. and Europe was that people were not wearing masks.
04 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||K.M. Abraham to head task force for action plan||Former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham will head an expert task force that will chart out an action plan to help the government restore normal life and kick-start economic activity when the lockdown ends. Specific schemes Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked States to come up with region-specific schemes to help the respective administrations to reduce the intensity of the nationwide lockdown without triggering a sudden, rapid and uncontrollable rush of people into public places in the country. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said a panel comprising law and order experts, newspaper editors, filmmakers, economists and business persons would assist Mr Abraham. Mr. Vijayan condemned as fake news the report that Kerala had blocked its inter-State border roads with neighbouring Tamil Nadu after epidemiologists identified Madurai, Salem and Erode as COVID-19 hotspots. The Chief Minister called people in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as ‘our brothers’ and said that Kerala stood solidly behind them in their hour of need. ‘Fake news’ He slammed the ‘fake news’ that the government had announced the calendar for the remaining SSLC and higher secondary board examinations. Relief for workers The Chief Minister announced ex gratia payments ranging from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 1,000 and interest-free loans up to Rs. 10,000 for lakhs of workers in the State. The beneficiaries included motor vehicle employees, bar and toddy shop workers, auto and taxi drivers, employees of stage carriage operators, salespersons, petrol pump staff, among others.
04 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A farm for the school, from the homeless||The Thampanoor bus stand has been home for lottery seller Radhakrishnan on most days. Except for a weekly trip to his home in Nedumangad, he used to sleep at the bus stand, waking up early to sell his tickets. When the COVID-I9 induced lockdown came without a warning, he, like many others, was stranded here. As the civic authorities took steps to rehabilitate the homeless last week, he was moved to the Government Central High School in Attakulangara, where he is now lodged with 223 others. But, they are not remaining idle. For the past four days, around 30 of them have been working hard to clear the shrubs and other undergrowth on the campus, to set up a garden and start vegetable farming. “I have some physical disabilities. So, I do whatever I can. We are cultivating okra, brinjal, spinach and other vegetables. It is a fairly large area and hence clearing it took time,” says Radhakrishnan. ‘No compulsion’ Sanal Robert, a social worker who oversees the camp, says that officials of the district administration and the Corporation have been supportive of the endeavour. “We have people from the ages of 28 to 92 here. Some of them are physically challenged, while some others are too old to move around and some do not co-operate at all. There is no compulsion. Some of the residents started doing this work, and on seeing the small garden, the tahsildar offered them support. Vegetable seeds are also being provided,” says Sanal. Among the residents here are those who came from other States to visit temples here and got stranded, those forced to live on the streets due to their meagre income, and even a few with criminal records. Small contribution “I came to this city around 36 years ago. I left home when I was young. For the past many years, I have been a cleaning staff in a hotel here, where I used to sleep. After the lockdown, I did not have any food or money. That is how I ended up here. This garden and vegetable farm are our small contribution to the next generation. They will be glad to see these, when they return after the vacation,” says a 62-year-old man, who preferred to remain anonymous.
04 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs eased, but fishers to wait||The government decision to allow country fishing craft out to sea from Saturday notwithstanding, several fishing villages in Thiruvananthapuram have opted to wait out the lockdown period before taking the boats out. A combination of factors has prompted fishermen organisations and religious institutions such as the church parishes to advise caution and wait till April 14. Marketing of the catch will be difficult as large crowds tend to gather on the beaches violating social distancing norms. Secondly, fish traders arrive from all over the district, including Pothencode and Manacaud where COVID-19 cases have been reported. This has triggered concern among the coastal communities. “We have decided to stay put till the lockdown is lifted on April 14. It was taken on the basis of meetings held on Monday which were attended by representatives of Matsyafed and the Fisheries Department,” said Fr. Bevinson, vicar of St. Thomas Church at Poonthura. “Thousands of people tend to gather on the beaches once the boats return. The government announcement on Tuesday has only served to sow confusion among the fishing community,” he said. Exceptions likely Most of the large fishing villages including those at Vizhinjam and Poonthura have decided to wait out the lockdown period, T. Peter, national secretary National Fishworkers' Forum (NFF), said. “On the other hand, some of the smaller villages are likely to allow fishing,” he pointed out. “Some of the parishes have also decided to wait till the Holy Week observance (commencing on April 5) is over,” he added. Status quo for trawlers On Tuesday, the government had decided to ease the restrictions on fishing by allowing country craft to venture out from Saturday. The decision, however, is not applicable to trawlers and fishing using gill nets and boat seine. Organisations in the sector have already demanded that the Central and State governments allot special COVID-19 packages for fisher families. The NFF had requested the Centre to allow a monthly allowance of Rs. 10,000 for three months, given the COVID-19 situation and the upcoming monsoon trawling ban.
04 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Governor seeks President’s intervention||Governor Arif Mohammad Khan has sought the intervention of President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu in solving the issue of Karnataka blocking roads with earthen embankments to stop the movement of vehicular traffic to Kerala. The Governor raised the issue in a videoconference organised by the President from Rashtrapathi Bhavan on Friday with Governors, Lieutenant Governors and Administrators of all States and Union Territories to contain and manage the crisis arising from the outbreak of COVID-19. Mr. Naidu also attended the videoconference. The Governor pointed out to the President that in the wake of roads to Karnataka being blocked for Kerala vehicles, the State government had ensured smooth supply of essentials by taking long routes. “But this inconvenience needs to be ended,” he added. It is learnt that the Vice President called the Kerala Governor from New Delhi after the videoconference ended and discussed the issue that had been dragged to the Supreme Court by Karnataka. In the videoconference, the Governor presented the proactive measures taken by the Kerala government to contain the deadly virus.
04 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi hopes for stimulus package||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Friday that he hoped that Prime Minister Modi would match his ‘spread the light’ message with a stimulus package that would bring cheer to the hearts of all. He said to spread the light was a good thing, and he felt no need to oppose it. But the critical point was to bring light into the lives of the people hit hard by the epidemic. The pandemic had brought economic ruin globally. Kerala, with its large diaspora, depends on income from Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) and may feel the pinch with its status as a predominantly consumer State. People in the State faced the threat of losing their livelihood. Many have been without wages for 11 days and more. Small businesses required help to start again. The global slowdown caused by the epidemic would force NoRKs to return home. The State has to confront several harsh economic realities in the coming days and ready itself for the worst. “Let us hope the Prime Minister is preparing the nation for something better,” he said. Mr .Vijayan said there was nothing wrong in the police issuing a pass for BJP State president to travel to Thiruvananthapuram from Kozhikode. “He represents a political party. Politicians and persons in public life would require to travel even in times of lockdown,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said the government would act against a private hospital which denied treatment to the relative of a COVID-affected health worker.
04 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Contributions to community kitchens||As many as 79,687 food packets were distributed from the city Corporation's community kitchens across its 25 circles on Friday. Breakfast was distributed to 26,505 people, lunch to 27,757, and dinner to 25,425 people. V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, contributed a mini lorry full of vegetables for the Corporation’s community kitchens. The Balasubramaniam temple at Chakka contributed 10 sacks of rice, the Small Scale Industries Association contributed Rs. 50,000 and a residents association in Chakka contributed Rs. 20,000. The Corporation’s rapid response teams disinfected the Medical College Hospital, Regional Cancer Centre, and SAT surroundings using power sprayers.
04 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala calls Isaac extortionist||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac appears to be running a protection racket amid the COVID-19 epidemic. He said here on Friday that Dr. Isaac, who had run the State economy to ruin through his quixotic policies, threatened government employees to forfeit their salary even without written consent. Mr. Chennithala said Dr. Isaac's attitude reminded him of mafia chiefs who demanded money from citizens for not plundering their businesses and homes. The Kerala High Court had condemned the State's move to extort money from employees in the name of flood relief.
04 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala receives COVID-19 diagnostic kits||The State has received the first batch of 1,000 indigenously developed COVID-19 diagnostic kits which uses RT-PCR (Reverse Transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction) methodology for diagnosing the disease. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the test kits were being made available due to the initiative and local area developments funds of Shashi Tharoor, MP. Mr. Vijayan said another 2,000 RT-PCR kits would be received on Sunday. Mr. Tharoor had also managed to arrange 250 flash thermometers and 9,000 personal protection equipment kits for the State.
04 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||‘No crisis in Kottayam community kitchens’||Reports of crisis in community kitchens run by the Kottayam Municipality due to paucity of funds are misleading, Minister for Local Self Governments A.C. Moideen has said. Addressing mediapersons in Thrissur on Friday, the Minister said role of vested interests was suspected behind such propaganda. “It is a fact that there is shortage of own funds for local bodies. But the Department of Local Self-Government has issued an order giving permission to local bodies for using Plan funds for running community kitchens,” he said.   Staff Reporter writes from Kottayam: Earlier in the day, a news channel aired a report quoting Kottayam Municipal Chairperson P.R. Sona that the civic body was running short of funds.
04 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU extends lockdown||All stations and colleges under Kerala Agricultural University will remain closed till April 14, but staff will work from home. Essential services such as security, supply of water, care of animals, irrigation of plants, and other related works permissible will be continued with minimum staff ensuring all precautions, a press release on Friday said.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||7 more positive cases in Kasaragod||Kasaragod witnessed a further increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, with seven persons testing positive for the disease on Friday. With this, the total number of patients under treatment for the disease in the district stands at 132. According to the District Health Department, three persons aged 36, 26 and eight from Kasaragod municipality, a 33-year-old from Mogral Puthur panchayat, a 29-year-old from Madur, a 35-year-old from Kumbala, and a 16-year-old from Mulliyar have been detected with COVID-19. There are 10,256 people under observation in the district. While 10,072 people are in home quarantine, 184 are in hospitals. Sixteen more persons have been admitted to isolation wards in hospitals on Friday. In Kannur One person tested positive for COVID-19 in Kannur on Friday. The patient, a 38-year-old man from Mokeri Koorara, arrived from Dubai on March 22. He was admitted to the Thalassery General Hospital. The number of positive cases in the district has reached 51. Eight have been discharged from hospitals after further tests. There are at present 10,352 suspected cases in the district. Of these, 39 persons are at the Government Medical College, Kannur, 19 in district hospitals, 14 at Thalassery General Hospital and 36 at the COVID-19 treatment centre, and 10,244 people under home observation. In Thrissur One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Thrissur on Friday. The 36-year-old man has been admitted to the Medical College Hospital. He had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet held at Nizamuddin recently and reached Thiruvananthapuram on March 25. He had travelled in a shared-taxi from Thiruvananthapuram to Chavakkad. The driver and co-passengers of the taxi have been kept under observation. The patient’s wife and three children are also under observation at the Medical College Hospital. There are 14,033 people under observation in the district. Of them, 40 are in various hospitals. In Kozhikode Only five COVID-19 patients are undergoing treatment in Kozhikode as no new cases were reported on Friday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, this is after the discharge of one more patient from the Government Medical College Hospital on the day. Another person had recovered on Wednesday. A total of seven persons had tested positive for the virus from Kozhikode so far. A total of 21,934 people are under observation, of whom 26 are at the medical college hospital.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back on job||
04 April 2020||ADILABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heightened police vigil at quarantine ward in Adilabad||Police enhanced vigil at the quarantine wards in the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Adilabad, on Friday after doctors and other medical staff manning the wards complained that they felt threatened by six Jamaat returnees, who are in isolation. The six had refused to cooperate with the hospital staff. They refused to subject themselves to medical tests, declined to sleep in the ward and shouted at the staff, sources said. “The COVID-19 suspects demanded cigarettes and were tampering with instruments,” a RIMS source said. “They used foul language with the staff,” he added. “We have received the complaint and deployed more force in the quarantine wards. After the period of quarantine, the persons accused in the complaint will be proceed against as per the law,” Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier said. Quoting the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which are applicable in this instance, the SP said everyone is required to cooperate. “Non cooperation with the authorities is considered a crime against humanity,” he observed. 134 tested in Karnataka A total of 288 persons, including 134 from Bengaluru who attended the Tablighi congregation, have been tested in Karnataka and only 13 of them have turned out positive. Releasing the COVID-19 bulletin on Friday, Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar told presspersons that the test reports of 88 persons were still awaited. Nineteen of those tested are foreigners. The Centre’s list also had names of several non-Muslims. The names of some officials including Subodh Yadav, an IAS official who earlier served in Karnataka, also figure in the list of 1,500 sent by the Centre. Meanwhile, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said the State has received a stock of 1.39 lakh Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits in the last one week and of that 53,000 is still remaining with the department. The rest have been distributed. While an order for one lakh kits has already been placed, an order for two lakh more will be placed soon, he said. ( With inputs from Bengaluru )
04 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Containment and buffer zones created in Kurnool||The Kurnool district administration has created some ‘red zones’ in the city and a couple places in the district as a precautionary measure following suspicion that three more person might test positive for COVID-19. Containment and buffer zones have been created within three km of Roja Street and Kappalanagar in Kurnool town, and Owk and Banaganapalle villages also have been turned into ‘No Go’ zones, where movement of people has been restricted. The district administration with the help of police is enforcing the stringent lockdown measures. These containment zones are within 3 km radius of the patient’s residence and a buffer zone of 7 km from the colony/village. District Collector G. Veerapandian said of the 840 foreign returnees, 352 had completed their home isolation period and the remaining 488 would continue in the quarantine facilities. While the official result of the 271 samples of Tablighi Jamaat returnees that were sent to Anantapur Government Medical College for testing were yet to come, some of them were expected any time on Friday night. The only COVID-19 positive person was being treated in Government General Hospital and he was hale and hearty. From the symptoms and other parameters of health of COVID-19 suspects, the district administration has turned extra cautious by closing 162 public distribution points in those red zone areas. The temporary vegetable shops too have been shifted from Prakash Nagar, Venkataramana Colony and Kappalanagar.
04 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Horticulture industry hit by virus scare and lockdown||As the country reels under the COVID-19 pandemic, farmers in the horticulture industry are a worried lot. A sudden plunge in demand and no means of transport has dealt a body blow to the industry. As a majority of workers engaged in transporting the produce are reluctant to continue their job owing to the virus scare and also with the lockdown in place, the export of bananas is hit hard. The plight of tomato-growers was also no better. While a kg of tomatoes was priced at Rs. 30 in the retail market, in the Madanapalle and Anantapur wholesale markets, boxes containing 20kg of tomatoes fetched only Rs. 30. Seeing the prices of their produce crashing drastically, farmers in Tadipatri rural mandal, Putluru and Obuladevaracheruvu had to dump the stocks. Looking at their plight, the district administration swung into action and arranged permissions for the transporting vehicles to take the produce to far off destinations. Speaking with The Hindu, Deputy Director of Horticulture Subbarayudu said: “We are trying for some tie-ups and transport arrangements to markets out of the State, where shortage of produce was noticed. We have also advised farmers not to harvest large quantities.” From Anantapur district alone, 9,695.5 tonnes of sweet lime, banana and tomatoes were shipped out with police protection in the last five days, and messages were sent to authorities in other States too to make sure that the consignments did not get stuck due to the lockdown.  In all, 17,309 tonnes of banana, 918 tonnes of tomato, 1,918 tonnes of muskmelon and watermelon, 193 tonnes of Sweet Lime, 154 tonnes of Pomegranate, 29 tonnes of flowers, 28 tonnes of grapes, 110 tonnes of mango, 1020 tonnes of other vegetables and horticulture crops were marketed in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka and Telangana in addition to Andhra Pradesh, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said. About 58 lakh tonnes of horticulture produce is grown every year in 2.02 lakh hectares. In all 1,340 vehilces were used to transport these horticulture crops. The Collector announced that needy farmers could approach call centre through the number - 08554 - 275805 or toll free number 1902.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Give transport or procure produce from farmers, says Karnataka HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to ensure either the availability of proper transportation for farmers to carry their agricultural and horticultural produce to markets or the procurement of produce from their doorstep. The court also directed the government to ensure passage of farmers and farm labourers to their fields as the Union government has allowed the continuation of farming and related activities, including transportation of produce to Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yards, during the lockdown. Twin objectives Taking note of incidents of farmers dumping fruits, vegetables and milk owing to non-availability of transport to take them to markets, the court observed that smooth progress of farming operations and transportation of produce to markets would not only help the State in assisting farmers, but would also ensure the supply of essential commodities. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the directions during a hearing, through videoconferencing, on PIL petitions filed on issues that have arisen because of the enforcement of measures to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. The Bench also said that the government would have to ensure that fertilizers, pesticides and seeds, as well as agricultural equipment and related repair services, should be made available to farmers by allowing shops and establishments to operate as per the orders of the Home Ministry. Earlier, it was pointed out by the counsel for People’s Union for Civil Liberties-Karnataka that farmers were in distress as police were obstructing the movement of labourers and vehicles transporting produce, despite their being specifically exempted from the lockdown. HOPCOMS clarity As some advocates pointed out the lack of clarity on facilitating direct procurement of fruits and vegetables by HOPCOMS from April 1 as announced by the government, the Bench asked the government to spell it out.
04 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||24 relief centres set up in Chittoor||Chittoor district administration has set up as many as 24 relief camps at various places, covering all assembly constituencies, in order to provide temporary boarding and lodging facilities to about 4,000 poor people and migrant workers affected by the lockdown. Inspecting the camps, Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told mediapersons here that apart from the relief camps, 13 social welfare hostels would be used to provide shelter and food facilities for the migrant workers from various States. As part of the relief fund, Rs. 1000 would be given away to 9.92 lakh beneficiaries holding the white ration cards in the district. “The distribution will commence from Saturday through gram volunteers,” Mr Gupta said. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar instructed the police personnel to seize vehicles of those moving after 3 p.m., and give it back only after the lockdown period is over.
04 April 2020||GARIKAPADU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||A tedious trek to reach home||“This is the first time that I walked many km in my life. I have been walking for the last three days and I don’t know how many days it will take for me to reach my village,” says a 25-year-old Sulochana, who is seen stumbling by carrying a bag on her shoulders. Her husband Nagaraju accompanied her and is seen carrying a child in his lap and the family look so tired. The couple, who went to West Godavari district in search of work during the Rabi harvest season, are returning to their village in Krishna district by walk. They travelled more than 100 km. Another family, who are struck in Prakasam district during the lockdown, are seen walking on the National Highway. “My sister is suffering from fever as she is walking continuously. My brother-in-law suffers swelling of both his foot. We don’t know whether we will reach our village or not or die in the middle due to heatwave. Owing to lockdown, we could not find hotels or any help from villagers,” says a labourer, Pydi Madhu. A few migrant labourers of the neighbouring Telangana, Odisha, and Tamil Nadu States are seen walking hundreds of kms to reach their villages. They fear extension of lockdown after April 14. Sent back “A man is seen walking with a two-year-old child on his shoulder at Gollapudi on Friday. He is walking towards Jaggaiahpet in Krishna district. The child is in dehydrated condition and need immediate treatment. We offered water and food to them and the labourer continued his trek,” says a woman Marthamma. Police manning the check-post at Kodikonda in Ananthapur district have told DGP Gautam Sawang that 300 labourers , who came from Bengaluru, have been stopped and sent back after giving information on rehabilitation centres arranged in Karnataka for migrant labourers. “We have sent back about 500 people of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Police provided food and sent them back by arranging vehicles,” the police have told Mr. Sawang. The Tada police, who have been guarding the check-post on AP-Tamil Nadu borders, say every day, more than 50 labourers who come by walk from Chennai, are being sent back. Same is the situation with the Telangana borders in East Godavari district, says SI Sagar, who has been posted at the check-post in the Agency area. “Panicky over lockdown, curfew-like situation and closure of industries, many labourers are returning to their villages by travelling hundreds of km.
04 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. clearing fraction of contractors’ dues: Sajjala||Adviser to the State government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said the government has begun clearing only a small percentage of bills of the Rs. 40,000-crore arrears to contractors and was still bearing the brunt of the financial mess created by the previous government led by N. Chandrababu Naidu. Addressing a media conference at the party central office at Tadepalli on Friday, Mr. Reddy refuted the allegation that the government has cleared bills amounting to Rs. 6,500 crore to contractors. The precarious financial position had prompted the government to defer payment of salaries to employees. ‘Grim scenario’ Thankfully, the employees responded in a positive manner, he added. The government has cleared bills due to hospitals under Aarogysri, fees reimbursement and welfare schemes. Mr. Naidu had not cleared health and power bills. The current situation caused by COVID-19 outbreak had only added to the woes of the government, he said. While the government was working overtime to overcome the crisis, TDP leaders were trying to mislead the people that State had recorded a surplus income, said Mr. Reddy. He accused Mr. Naidu and former Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu of playing cheap politics.
04 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur to be on high alert as COVID-19 positive cases touch 20||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has called upon the personnel working in emergency services as part of a containment plan to spread COVID-19 to fight the scourge of the virus. The district continues to be on high alert and the number of positive cases stand at 20, the Collector told reporters here on Friday. Guntur would have a coronavirus testing centre which would start functioning from Saturday with a capacity to test 90 samples a day. Of the 382 persons tested so far, 264 persons tested negative, while the results of 120 samples are yet to arrive. Red zone As the number of cases have spiked over the last few days, areas in Old Guntur, Macherla, Karempudi, Mangalagiri have been placed under red zone and barricades erected to prevent free movement of people. Mr. Samuel asked the revenue personnel to make a list of function halls, schools, colleges and private establishments which could be used as quarantine centres. In category 1, those establishments with a capacity to accommodate more than 100 should be listed, while in category 2, those with a capacity to accommodate less than 100 should be listed and arrangements should be made to provide food, beds and water. All those manning the quarantine centres would be provided with N-95 masks, sanitisers and personal equipment. People who work in these centres should remove the dresses, wash them in detergent and only having a wash, should meet the family members, he advised. Joint Collector AS Dinesh Kumar and other officers were present.
04 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MSP for paddy fixed at Rs. 1,815 per quintal||The government on Friday fixed the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy at Rs. 1,815 per quintal for common variety and Rs. 1,835 per quintal for special varieties. “Farmers can sell the produce in the open market if they get a price that is better than the one offered at the procurement centres,” an official press release here said. Procurement began at 260 centres, the release said. Besides, the government identified 1,280 centres that would operate for 75 days. In districts such as Krishna and East Godavari where harvesting had been delayed, the procurement centres would be opened at a later date.
04 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Video of shifting people to isolation centre goes viral||A video clip of the health personnel shifting a couple of persons at Srinivasaraothota, has gone viral spreading panic among locals. The video showed that the ambulance was parked in front of a hotel located opposite the ITC-ABD office on the GT Road and the health personnel were seen escorting a couple of persons into the waiting ambulance. Soon, the video went viral and social media posts appeared with speculations that the personnel working in the hotel were also infected. Mandal Revenue Officer (Guntur West) Tata Mohan Rao said that three family members of the man, suspected to have contacted the virus after travelling to Delhi to attend the religious congregation at Hazrat Nizamuddin, were shifted to an isolation centre on Friday. He is among 20 positive cases identified in the district so far. The immediate family members of the man were moved to the isolation facility at Katuri Medical College. They would be moved to their house after the 14-day quarantine period.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana sees 75 more virus cases||Tamil Nadu witnessed another surge in coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases on Friday. A total of 102 persons tested positive for COVID-19, of which 100 were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat conference held at Nizamuddin in Delhi. With this, the COVID-19 count in the State stands at 411. “Of the 411 COVID-19 cases in T.N., 364 are connected to the Nizamuddin conference. A total of 1,103 persons who attended the conference are already with us. The number has reached close to 1,200. Apart from the 364 who have tested positive, 303 have tested negative, and a few samples are under process,” Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. Of the 100 patients, one had contact with persons who attended the conference. Thirty-two persons from Chennai, 26 from Dindigul, 10 from Villupuram, six persons from Tirunelveli, five each from Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur, four from Thoothukoodi, three each from Namakkal and Karur, two from Salem and one each from Kancheepuram, Theni and Virudhunagar tested positive and are in isolation wards of hospitals. The remaining are residents of Chennai — one with a travel history to the U.S. and another with co-morbid conditions. The health department is looking into the contact and travel history of the latter, she said. Cases in Telangana Telangana had a fresh spike of 75 new coronavirus infections. Eleven patients have died at various hospitals in Telangana, two of them on Friday, while 32 were discharged after treatment. There were 26,586 persons with a history of foreign travel and their contacts under home quarantine. In Andhra Pradesh, it was officially confirmed that a 55-year-old man who died a couple of days ago in a government hospital in Vijayawada had succumbed to the virus. This is the first coronavirus death reported in the State, where the total number of cases rose to 161, of which three had recovered. The man had contracted the disease from his son, who returned from New Delhi after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation on March 17. “He came to the government hospital at 11.30 a.m. on March 30 for a check-up. His blood swab was sent for examination but in the meantime he died around 12.30 p.m. The patient was also suffering from hypertension and cardiac problems and was diabetic. The delay in confirming the cause as coronavirus was due to his other ailments, State nodal officer Arja Srikanth said in a press release. The man’s son tested positive for COVID-19 on March 31 and was in quarantine. “We have identified 29 others who came in contact with him and they were also sent to quarantine,” Mr. Srikanth added. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A.K.K. Srinivas said over 140 of 161 coronavirus positive cases in A.P. were related to the Jamaat event. “Of the 881 blood samples of those who attended the Jamaat event, 108 turned positive. Results of another 65 are awaited.” “Also, 32 of their contacts too tested positive for coronavirus,” Mr. Srinivas told reporters after a high-level review meeting with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Deputy CM said of the 1,085 people who attended the Jamaat event from A.P., 946 had since returned and among them, only 881 had been traced so far. More cases in Kasaragod Kerala reported nine new cases on Friday, with seven from the worst affected Kasaragod district, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. One case each was detected from Thrissur and Idukki. ( With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and PTI )
04 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police reach out to quarantined persons||The police department is reaching out to the symptomatic persons and those in quarantine by offering them goodies and free internet facility to give them a ‘homely’ feeling. The programme conceived by Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan was implemented on Friday by Deputy SP U. Suryanarayana at the Fathima Medical College in Kadapa town, which has been identified as the COVID hospital. Apart from food, goodies like bucket, tooth paste and brush, soaps, shampoo, slippers, gloves, masks, sanitisers, towels and water bottles, what is really alluring to them is the free Internet facility. “We are with you like your family members. Stay safe and complete the quarantine period,” Mr. Suryanarayana said. At a time when the number of suspects saw a sudden rise in the district , the department feels this approach would work in their favour.
04 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Port operations to be resumed by allowing workers||Additional Director General of Police Harish Kumar Gupta on Friday said that resumption of operations at the Kakinada anchorage port was being given top priority and nearly 6,000 workers were being allowed to attend to their duties at the port during the lockdown period. Mr. Harish Kumar, Special Officer on COVID Containment for the Eluru Range, told reporters here, “We are issuing passes allowing the movement of more than 6,000 workers associated with the Kakinada anchorage port to ensure resumption of the port operations.” The operations have been badly hit since the clamping of the lockdown as workers could not arrive at the port. Support to aqua sector “We have realised that smooth transportation of shrimp and other logistics of the aquaculture on the national highway in the Eluru range requires police intervention. Special focus will be on this task in the coming days,” said Mr. Harish Kumar. He enquired about the lockdown implementation at the inter-district and State borders (with Chattisgarh and Odisha) with East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi. Mr. Harish Kumar has pledged humanitarian support for the rescue and care of the migrants stranded in the Eluru range. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Eluru Range, K.V. Mohan Rao on Friday said that cases against 50,000 vehicle owners have been registered for violating the lockdown guidelines across the range.
04 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital cheers as elderly Kerala couple beat virus||In what is being dubbed by the medical community as a miracle cure, 93-year-old Thomas, the oldest patient to recover from the disease in the State, and his 86-year-old wife Mariamma returned home to Ranni, Pathanamthitta, on Friday after undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, for 23 days. Bringing a ray of hope to the State’s fight against COVID-19, a health worker who contracted the virus while taking care of the couple at the hospital too was discharged along with them, bringing down the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district to zero. “It was extremely challenging for us to take care of the elderly couple as they were suffering from cardiac, diabetes, and hypertension along with age-related disorders. We strived hard to keep them active at times, even though they insisted on clinging to their home routine. We, however, managed to overcome all those challenges through a team approach,” R.P. Renjin, Resident Medical Officer, told The Hindu . Attributed He attributed the recovery of the couple to the hospital staff and the medical establishment, besides the State government. Dr. Renjin said Thomas was treated with antiviral and antibiotic medication and monitored in intensive care as he had been suffering from heart failure and pneumonia. The RMO also hailed the support extended by Health Minister K.K.Shylaja, who kept a close watch on the treatment of the couple. “The Minister would call us everyday and ask us to stay positive and be unmindful of all external factors, including the cost of their treatment,” he added. Treatment protocols The duo, who suffered from symptoms of the infection, including fever and cough, were first admitted to the pay ward while their treatment protocols were finalised based on a primary medical examination. They were later shifted to the Medical ICU and then to the Transplant ICU to enable them see each other. The condition of Thomas, who suffered a heart attack, worsened later with the oxygen level in blood plummeting, following which he was put on ventilator. Both of them also developed urinary infection during the period. Although discharged, the couple will be in home quarantine for 14 days and monitored by various departments at the hospital. Parents of COVID-19 patients who had returned from Italy, Thomas and Mariamma were admitted to the MCH on March 9 after being referred from the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. Though they tested negative for a second time two days ago, the hospital decided to keep them under observation for a couple of days more and psychologically prepare them for the discharge. Meanwhile, Reshma Mohandas, the staff nurse at the hospital who tested positive for the virus on March 23, too returned home on Friday. Following the discharge, Reshma expressed her willingness to join duty after serving home quarantine for two weeks. Reshma is a native of Thiruvankulam in Ernakulam.
04 April 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||More areas declared red zones as Nellore reports 8 fresh cases||More areas in SPSR Nellore district were declared red zones in the wake of eight more persons testing positive for novel coronavirus. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district stood at 32 as on April 3. As many as 116 persons tested negative for the disease, while the results of 71 others are awaited, said District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu. Entry to the areas falling under red zone category was prohibited, he added. As many as 420 persons who had returned from New Delhi after attending a religious congregation at Hazrat Nizamuddin were identified and isolated, Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan said and warned that criminal cases would be booked against those who came out of their homes without any valid reason during the lockdown period. Meanwhile, the Italy returnee, the first to test positive for the virus in the district, was discharged on Friday. The district administration implemented cluster containment action plan in, among other places, Nellore, Naidupeta, Kavali, Sullurpeta and Sriharikota in the wake of the spike in COVID-19 cases.  Helpline People could get medical advice by calling 18004256040 or 1077 for any queries Joint Collector V.Vinod Kumar said. In Prakasam district, the authorities implemented the cluster containment strategy in Ongole, Chirala, Kandukur and Chimakurthy as 17 persons tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, the London returnee who was the first person to test positive in the district was discharged from the Government General Hospital on Friday, its superintendent D. Sriramulu said. Taking a serious note of traders jacking up the prices of essential commodities, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, who inspected the shops in the Bapuji Market complex and on the busy Gandhi road in Ongole, warned of strict action against erring traders.
04 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Runaway COVID-19 suspect traced, put back in hospital||A person who was admitted in the isolation ward of the Government General Hospital (GGH) here with suspected symptoms of coronavirus, including fever and cold, went missing on Friday. The 28-year-old patient was located by the police on a complaint from the hospital staff and put back in the hospital. “'The patient, who was in an unstable mental condition, is very much in our custody now,” GGH Superintendent D. Sriramulu said. The patient, who was put under observation, insisted that he be tested for the viral disease. The hospital authorities asked him to stay in the isolation ward for observation purpose.
04 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Allow essentials, emergency cases, DGP tells personnel manning check-posts||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has directed the police officers posted at the inter-State check-posts to allow goods vehicles, all essential commodities, aqua and agriculture products, vegetables, and health emergency cases (ambulances) after proper verification. He has asked the policemen to allow dhabas along the National and State Highways and provide food to the labourers free of cost during the lockdown period. Mr. Sawang, along with DIG (technical services) and Disha Special Officer Deepika Patil visited Garikapadu integrated check-post on AP-Telangana borders on Friday. Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu and Nandigama DSP S.V. Ramana Murthy explained that they were allowing transport vehicles and health emergency cases coming from Telangana. The DGP during a videoconference held from the Garikapadu check-post spoke to the officers posted at Nagarjuna Sagar, Salur, Ichhapuam, East Godavari, Pondugula, Tada, Kodikonda and other inter-State check-posts and asked then on entry of vehicles from the neighbouring States and the passengers, if any. Kurnool DSP Vinod Kumar said the passengers, who came from the neighbouring State, were sent for quarantine, and no passenger vehicles were allowed into the State, he said. Sub-Inspector Sagar, posted at the check-post in the Agency area in East Godavari district, said vehicles carrying chillies stocks, eggs and other perishable goods were allowed. “We have Chhattisgarh and Telangana borders and we are allowing dhabas to function near the check-post,” the SI told the DGP. 'A global challenge' “This is a global challenge and I thank all the doctors, nurses, gram volunteers, ANMs, police, panchayat secretaries, medical and health department staff extending services during the lockdown. Allow hotels and dhabas along the highways and arrange food to the labourers and migrants. But, maintain lockdown strictly for the next ten days to prevent the virus,” the DGP told the police. Later, the DGP served food to the labourers at Garikapadu check-post and to the migrant labourers of West Bengal at a shelter home at Nandigama.
04 April 2020||Special Correspondent,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chasing away COVID-19, ‘virtually’||Giving wings to their creativity, several artists came forward to ‘virtually’ chase away COVID-19 in a contest held recently. The Tirupati-based Sri Kalakshetra Artists Association conducted the virtual camp and competition, inviting entries from members on ideas to stay safe in view of the lockdown. Entries were shared through WhatsApp and email. Strengthening the view points of the central and State governments, the competition received 10 entries focussing on the social distancing theme.  Spiritual touch The organisation’s general secretary Sagar Ginne (G. Venkateswarlu) came up with a portrait showing the importance of lockdown. Even as the world in the backdrop witnesses chaos, India map, with ‘bolted and locked’ doors, clamps down on the novel coronavirus. “This shows the importance of lockdown and staying home,” Mr. Sagar told The Hindu . Artist Anand, a TTD employee, showed the spiritual as well as the scientific, represented by a pontiff and a doctor, looking up to Lord Venkateswara for a solution. Hemakshi Achari’s entry shows India conquering the corona depicted as a devil. The association president A. Ramachandraiah’s entry shows the virus waiting eagerly outside the locked house, even as the residents safely stayed indoors. Radha of Pakala projected coronavirus as ‘Ammoru’ and pleading with her to leave them. Balaji Singh’s entry stresses on personal hygiene by showing impure hands as extending invitation to the viruses. Seshagopal’s entry paid tributes to the sanitary workers and doctors for protecting the world. K. Maheshwar’s painting shows medical intervention as the only solution to the COVID threat. “Our idea is to display these paintings before the public to send them a strong message,” says Mr. Sagar.
04 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs come to the aid of the sick, elderly||The Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) has been providing food packets at the doorstep of senior citizens, differently-abled people and bedridden patients in Srikakulam who have become helpless for various reasons like servants and cooks not being able to come due to coronavirus fear and lockdown restrictions. “After conducting a door-to-door survey, we have identified 52 families and started supplying them food packets. Food is also being provided every day for those living in orphanages and old-age homes. Collector J. Nivas has asked IRCS to continue the service till normalcy is restored in the district headquarters town,” said P. Jaganmohana Rao, IRCS State vice-chairman and chairman of the Srikakulam unit. In association with other voluntary organisations and the support of mobile teams, IRCS could provide food packets to 22,000 needy persons in the State in the past two weeks. Volunteers of Junior Red Cross and Youth Red Cross were also undertaking awareness campaigns about the benefits of lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus, he said. Samachara Hakku Prachara Vedika Srikakulam general secretary J. Srinivasa Rao said essential commodities, including vegetables, were supplied to people living in Gara and Srikakulam mandals.
04 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door-to-door survey to trace symptomatic persons||Minister for Roads and Buildings Dharmana Krishna Das on Friday announced that the Srikakulam district administration would take up a door-to-door survey to identify persons with symptoms of coronavirus. Mr. Krishna Das said that identifying symptomatic persons and isolating them at an early stage would lessen the chances of transmission to other persons. He later visited and inspected the facilities at the GEMS Hospital which was chosen to treat COVID-19 patients. Speaking to mediapersons, the Minister said that no cases were reported so far but the administration had made all arrangements to face any kind of crisis in future. “As many as 30 ICU beds and 800 non ICU beds are kept ready at the GEMS hospital. A team comprising medical professionals has been appointed to monitor the situation,” said the Minister.
04 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGO takes up campaign on lighting of lamps||Representatives of the Praja Chaitanya Vedika have taken up awareness programmes in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and other parts of the North Andhra region to involve the maximum number of people in lighting of lamps on April 5 at 9 pm for nine minutes as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Association president Kalisetti Appala Naidu said that the Prime Minister’s message to fight against COVID-19 should reach every nook and corner of the region. ‘For a wider reach’ “People of remote areas could not understand the threat posed by coronavirus before the ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 22. Now, the awareness has increased significantly and it has to reflect with the lighting of lamps on Sunday,” said Mr. Appala Naidu. “We have involved many volunteers in urban and rural areas who would alert people on the initiative,” he added.
04 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bankers’ panel protests against police notice||The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) has objected to the notices issued by the police to banks warning them of stern action if excess staff are found on duty in violation of the COVID-19 lockdown norms. The SLBC has taken up the matter with State Police Chief Loknath Behera, convener of the committee N. Ajit Krishnan said here on Friday. The panel has intervened after such a notice has been slapped on a State Bank of India branch in Kottayam. According to the SLBC, more personnel are needed to handle the increase in customer flow. Bank branches are witnessing heavy traffic on account of Jan Dhan account payments and disbursal of welfare pensions. The rush is expected to continue for at least 10 days as the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) payments also are due. “The number of accounts in branches is not uniform across the State. Some branches may have 1,000 or 2,000 accounts, while others have 500 or less. Depending on the expected rush in that branch, we told the local officers to decide on the number of staff needed for handling the rush,” he said. On April 1, Kottayam District Police Chief emailed all Station House Officers (SHOs) pointing out that many banks were seen to be functioning with their full complement of staff, which was against the government instructions.
04 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eateries can deliver food on the doorsteps||The State government on Friday sanctioned door-to-door delivery of food from hotels till 8 p.m. An official said the order was part of the ‘one step at a time’ move to wake the State from hibernation without triggering an uncontrollable influx of people onto the street. Hotels and restaurants still cannot entertain any customer at their takeaway counter after 5 p.m. They cannot permit tight lines of customers, serve guests or allow patrons indoors. However, the establishments could accept orders online and via mobile phone. The door-to-door delivery and allied catering operations, including cooking, should halt by 9 p.m. The same norm would apply to shops selling essential supplies and bakeries. The government may also exempt courier agencies contracted by major online retailers from the lockdown. However, it may take more time for online retail majors to resume delivery of goods in Kerala due to the ban on the inter-State movement of non-essential goods. Operations hit The order has come as a boost for online food demand and delivery platforms. Most had scaled down operations after the Centre imposed the national lockdown on March 24. The government hoped the order would breathe some life into the almost moribund hotel industry.  It may not immediately open up inter-district borders for regular traffic after the lockdown. Almost eight districts continue to remain COVID-19 hotspots at least technically. It may allow inter-State bus operations on a convoy basis initially.
04 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Renigunta declared red zone||After the Thyagaraja Nagar locality in Tirupati, the Renigunta area abutting Tirupati has been declared a ‘red zone’, following the emergence of a COVID-19 positive case on Friday. The mandal headquarters town has been divided into three layers to implement the same. The area within a 3-km radius has been marked as ‘red zone’ where inward and outward movement from the 5,170 houses remain restricted. Special medical teams will check the health status of the residents in a radius of 1.5 km from the positive case identified. Likewise, 150 metres around the house will be treated as a very sensitive zone, said Revenue Divisional Officer (Tirupati) Kanaka Narasa Reddy. Meanwhile, COVID-19 observer R.P. Sisodia said the lockdown should be implemented very strictly. Speaking to Nagari municipal, police and revenue officials at the Tamil Nadu border check-post, he said the police should ensure strict adherence to lockdown, as even the economically strong nations struggled to defeat the virus due to inefffective lockdown.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1.28 crore houses surveyed so far to identify COVID cases, officials tell CM||Officials on Friday informed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy that 1.28 crore out of 1.45 core households were surveyed by the ward and village volunteers, ANMs and ASHA workers for identifying people with symptoms of COVID-19 and providing treatment to those needing it. At a high-level review meeting, the officials told the Chief Minister that 108 of the 946 persons who returned from Nizamuddin in New Delhi tested positive for the disease and the lab reports of 65 individuals were awaited. As many as 32 persons who were among others in contact with those who returned from Nizamuddin tested positive and the lab results of 335 persons were yet to come. Of the total 161 persons who tested positive so far, 140 had returned from the religious congregation at Nizamuddin. Mapping of doctors The officials told the Chief Minister that doctors were mapped in the municipal corporations and municipalities for availing of their services, and that emphasis was laid on scaling up testing. The tests were being done in Guntur and Kadapa, and the testing facility in Visakhapatnam was likely to become operational from April 6. Private laboratories were also being roped in to do the testing. One such facility would start functioning in one week, taking the total testing capacity to 900 per day. ‘Reach out to stranded persons’ The Chief Minister fiurther instructed the officials to take all steps for taking care of those stranded in Mumbai, Goa, Varanasi, Ajmer, Chennai, and other places. He wanted that senior officers be deputed to take action. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered that the standard operating procedure for quarantine and isolation should be strictly followed, and suggested to the police to counsel those roaming on the streets about the punitive action that could be taken under the Epidemic Act.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TS power utilities defying Dharmadhikari panel order’||The Andhra Pradesh power utilities have urged the Dharmadhikari Committee to give appropriate directions relating to the re-posting of and payment of salaries to the exchanged employees in view of the alleged defiance of it’s final orders by the Telangana utilities. It is reliably learnt that in a letter to Justice Dharmadhikari, AP-Transco Joint Managing Director K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu has stated that the AP power utilities are required to admit the 655 employees relieved from Telangana as per the committee’s final report dated December 26, 2019. Similarly, the Telangana power utilities are mandated to absorb 655 employees (584+71 special cases such as persons with disabilities, medical hardships, spouse cases etc.) relieved from the A.P. utilities as per the supplementary report dated March 11, 2020. The committee should, therefore, order the Telangana utilities to take immediate steps for giving posting to the employees and sorting out the issue of payment of salaries, Mr. Babu has requested. Discrimination alleged Meanwhile, the APSEB Engineers’ Association (APSEBEA) has informed the committee that the Telangana utilities have not come forward to induct the 584 employees relieved from A.P. in pursuance of the final orders dated March 11, 2020. The APSEBEA has alleged that the Telangana utilities have discriminated against the employees who are native of A.P. even while continuing some of the employees belonging to Odisha, Karnataka and Maharashtra. This approach of the TS power utilities is the reason for the prolonged dispute over the distribution of employees between A.P. and Telangana, the APSEBEA has stated, insisting that the committee should take necessary action.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gangavaram port donates Rs. 3 crore||The Gangavaram Port Limited on Friday contributed Rs. 3 crore to the A.P. Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to help the government fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Port Chairman D.V.S. Raju and Chief Executive Officer N. Sambasiva Rao handed over the cheque for the amount to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “The GPL is humbled to contribute to the CMFR. We are confident that our contribution will have a positive impact on the communities that have been hit hard,” Mr. Raju said on the occasion. He further said that the GPL had put in place strict measures to ensure that all its employees, partners, and stakeholders remained safe. It had also taken up an extensive awareness drive on the disease, he said, and added that the port management was committed to facilitating an uninterrupted movement of essential goods & services.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow HC directive on protective gear: Pawan||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan insisted the State government should follow the directions of the High Court on the provision of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to doctors and paramedical workers who faced a high risk of coronavirus infection. Citing the shortage of PPE, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said the doctors and paramedics were like soldiers thrust into the battlefield without weapons. He said in a press release the government should realise that the medical services personnel were not only risking their lives but also of their families. Therefore, necessary measures for protecting them should be taken urgently, he demanded.  COVID contribution He pointed out that the World Health Organization has strongly recommended the wearing of face masks, gloves, spectacles, etc. by doctors, paramedics and others exposed to the virus, but, doctors were complaining of shortage of N-95 masks and other protective gear. Meanwhile, Mr. Pawan Kalyan transferred Rs. 50 lakh each to the Chief Minister’s Relief Funds of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and Rs. 1 crore to the PM Cares fund towards his contribution for COVID containment.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of protective gear keeps pvt. doctors away from ‘corona’ battle||Going by the alarming rate at which the COVID-19 positive cases have multiplied overnight in the State, one wonders why private doctors have not been roped in to battle this difficult war against the pandemic. It is said to be because of the non-availability of PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) used by medical teams dealing with the virus-hit patients. “We are ready to extend our services to the virus-affected people and we have informed this to the officials concerned on more than one occasion. But we need the protective gear to treat the patients for which there has been no response so far from the other side,” said S.V.K. Prasad, State president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The ENT specialist from Dharmavaram in Anantapur district said due to non-availability of the PPE, which includes disposable 3-ply face masks, gloves, goggles and overalls, private doctors could not do much beyond giving advice to the queries they received from the public and distribution of food and fruits to the needy by the district IMA branches. Pleas to govt. After repeatedly asking for PPE kits in vain, the IMA now has started collecting money from its members to procure them on its own. “That is another challenge since we do not have any local manufacturer of these kits in the divided Andhra Pradesh. We may have to get them from Coimbatore for which logistics would be a hurdle in the current lockdown period,” explained Dr. Prasad. “It is three weeks since the virus broke out and the State is still grappling with the PPE kits,” remarked Tummala Karthik, president of the IMA in Vijayawada. The cardiologist from city said he had met the Health Secretary three weeks ago to inform him that private doctors would join the fight against coronavirus and also to seek supply of the protective gear. “They said they will do the needful and the equipment is still not in place,” he said, adding: “You can’t expect doctors to treat coronavirus patients without minimum protection. It is like asking a soldier to fight a war without giving him any weapons.” The IMA Vijayawada unit, meanwhile, contributed 60 kits of protective gear to the doctors and medical staff of the Siddhartha Medical College and Pinnamaneni Medical College at Gannavaram which have COVID-19 positive cases. Dr. Karthik also underscored the need for more testing. “Just 248 tests a day will not serve the purpose,” he said. Citing the guidelines given to private clinics to adhere to if they wanted to function in the lockdown period, Dr. Prasad said unlike in big corporate hospitals, space constraint and lack of facilities might not allow small clinics to follow the ‘social distancing’ and other norms.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. declares essential services||The government has declared the following as essential services to prohibit refusal to work in and for all government and private health and medical facilities with immediate effect for six months in exercise of its powers under the A.P. Essential Services Maintenance Act, 1971, according to G.O Rt. No.228 issued by Special Chief Secretary (health, medical and family welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy. The services are: all health facilities, doctors, nurses and health personnel, sanitation workers in health facilities, procurement, maintenance and transport of medical equipment, sale, transport and manufacture of medicines and drugs, ambulance services, water and electricity supply, security related services, food and drinking water supply and management and disposal of bio-medical waste.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Withdraw decision on deferment of salaries’||State BJP president Kanna Lakshmi Narayana has demanded that Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy withdraw his decision to defer the salaries and wages of government employees by paying in instalments. In a letter to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday, Mr. Lakshminarayana termed the decision ‘shocking’ and ‘unwarranted’ in the light of the current turmoil caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the inevitable lockdown had already created a plethora of financial exigencies for employees and that the government decision would further compound their hardships. The BJP leader pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been requesting not only the governments but also other establishments and individuals hiring servants not to deny or defer salaries and wages keeping in view the lockdown, and said the State move could not be justified. He also wondered as to how the lockdown could dislocate the finances of the State within a week.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM enquires about ‘police torture’ of textile worker||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy enquired about the alleged police harassment of a textile company worker P. Srinivasa Rao (21), who died under suspicious circumstances at Bapatla in Guntur district on April 1. It was alleged that the police took Mr. Rao into custody at Vedullapalli checkpost on Guntur-Prakasam district border on March 31, when he was coming on a two-wheeler. The police reportedly took him to the police station, registered a case against him, and allegedly kept him in custody for the night and tortured him before releasing him the next day. Police allegedly seized his two-wheeler. Mr. Rao was found hanging at the bus station in Bapatla the next day. The Chief Minister, who enquired about the incident with DGP Gautam Sawang, asked the police to act with sensitivity during the lockdown. “The Bapatla incident was unfortunate. An inquiry has been ordered into the incident and a report is yet to come,” Mr. Sawang said on Friday.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile rythu bazaars hit roads||With more containment zones being declared in the city, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has launched mobile rythu bazaars using various vehicles, including RTC city buses, in one-town and surrounding areas on a pilot basis. Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said that the mobile bazaars on goods vehicles and RTC buses would be available in all the municipal divisions in Circle-I, where Bhavanipuram Rythu Bazaar was closed, for eight hours daily.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector promises to sort out issues of bank staff||District Collector Md. A. Imtiaz on Friday responded favourably to a plea by bankers who sought permission to run business with skeleton staff during the lockdown period. At a meeting attended by lead district Manager Rammohan Rao and District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) Project Director Srinivasulu and representatives of various banks, at the Collector’s camp office, the bankers explained to Mr. Imtiaz the problems faced by their employees in reaching the workplace due to restrictions as part of the lockdown. They said staff from Jaggayyapet, Nuzvid and Muppala were finding it very difficult to attend duties because of the tight vigil by the police in their respective areas that had COVID-19 positive cases. They also wanted the Collector to extend time till 12 noon for refilling cash in ATMs from the present 9 a.m.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||80 persons sent to quarantine from Gupta Centre area||About 80 persons, both men and women, of Gupta Centre area, located at Bhavanipuram, were sent to quarantine by the police on Friday. The city reported the first COVID-19 death after a 55-year-old man died of the virus. West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) and Bhavanipuram CI D.K. Mohan Reddy held discussions with public representatives, community elders and the locals and convinced them to undergo medical tests. “We closed all the shops, hotels and other establishments after the death due to the disease on Friday, and no person is allowed outside. Police requested the residents to observe lockdown strictly and the area has been sanitised,” Mr. Mohan Reddy said. A few residents came voluntarily for medical tests from Gupta Centre and they were sent for 14 days’ quarantine. If they (locals) face any problem in the quarantine centre, public may call the police for any help, the ACP said. It was said that five persons of a family contracted coronavirus and one person died on March 30. The incident came into light today.
04 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Address lockdown issues, APCCIF urges Jagan||The Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (APCCIF) has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to constitute district-level economic task force committees headed by Ministers and with district Collectors, general managers of DICs and senior officials from the Police, Health, Agriculture, Transport and Labour departments and lead banks and industry body representatives as members, for mitigating the hardships being encountered by the industries due to the lockdown. In a memorandum to the Chief Minister, APCCIF president K.V.S. Prakash Rao and general secretary P. Bhaskar Rao stated that the committees should take responsibility to ensure that the decisions taken by the Central and the State governments were implemented effectively with focus on solving the problems faced by the micro, small and medium enterprises, travel and tourism sector, automobile and auto ancillaries, transport, granite (mining), spinning and textiles and agro and food processing units.
04 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Punish persons attacking doctors: KVP||Former MP K V P Ramachandra Rao condemned the violence against doctors, nurses and paramedics. In a statement here on Friday, Dr. Ramachandra Rao said violence against medical staff and institutions and damaging hospital properties should be condemned by one and all and the persons committing such crimes should be punished immediately. He said that as a doctor of medicine, he strongly condemns such heinous acts and recalled the Act passed by the Rajasekhara Reddy government in 2007 when the State was united. Later, a similar law was enacted by Haryana and several States followed. Strict implementation of this Act was essential now to boost the morale of the medical staff, he said. The commitment and dedication of health personnel during the outbreak of COVID-19 was laudable. They were discharging their duties round the clock even without having sufficient Personal Protective Equipment. He urged the Congress cadres in the two Telugu-speaking States and across the country to stay safe, follow the directions of AICC president Sonia Gandhi and help the needy in whatever way they could.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four more test positive in city||Four more persons, including three from a family, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Visakhapatnam on Friday, taking the total number to 15. The three positive cases belong to one family from Thatichetlapalem area, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. Mr. Vinay Chand said that the reports of the three persons had come at around 9.45 a.m. on Friday after which they were sent to GITAM hospital. “The teams are conducting survey in the containment zone to check if any other persons have the symptoms. Intense sanitisation drives are being taken up in the zone,” he said. Travel history “The person who first tested positive in the family from Thatichetlapalem area had a travel history to Mumbai in the recent times. After coming back to Vizag, two persons from the family had come into contact with him. After observing the symptoms, all the three have been shifted to Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD),” said an official. On Friday morning, health and sanitisation teams from the city blocked all roads leading to the area. A number of persons who came into contact with the three affected persons have been shifted to isolation centres in ambulances. Hot spots Apart from Thatichetlapalem, the district administration has identified several areas where most of the suspect cases have reported. Additional measures are being taken by spraying disinfectants at localities of the persons who have tested positive after going to the religious congregation held at Markaz in Nizamuudin of New Delhi. It may be recalled that 65-year old person, who was admitted to GHCCD on March 17, had completely recovered and was discharged on March 31. 173 in isolation Mr. Vinay Chand said that at present there are about 173 persons under isolation at GHCCD and GITAM hospital. Till April 2, as many as 418 persons were admitted in isolation wards in these hospital, and 245 persons were discharged, he added. He said that there were 134 persons under quarantine at various centres in the district. The district officials have arranged 4,434 isolation beds at various hospitals till now in the district.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Masks, sanitiser distributed to railway employees||A total of 20,000 masks were made by the staff of Waltair Division to overcome their shortage in the local market. The Diesel Loco Shed, Visakhapatnam, prepared more than 300 litres of sanitisers as on date and distributed it among its working staff and units, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar. A foot pedal/hands-free operated hand washbasin was developed at the ‘Sick line’ of Coaching Depot, Visakhapatnam, in an innovative way to clean hands. Soap water with washbasin has been provided at entry point of railway offices and units as a preventive measure to check spread of COVID-19. Thermal scanners also provided for scanning the persons entering into railway offices. Masks and hand sanitisers are being made available to all staff coming on duty. These are also being ensured for contract labourers. Soap, water and washing facilities are being provided at all work places. With local innovations hands-free washing facilities have been provided. Social distancing is being ensured by spreading awareness among all staff like trackmen and locomotive pilots.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Task force teams formed with MLAs in constituencies: Minister||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that they have formed task force teams with MLAs and other heads in various constituencies to keep a watch over the steps being taken to tackle COVID-19 in the localities. The Minister took part in a review meet with the officials of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) at the GVMC office here on Friday. “Sanitisation teams will continue disinfection spraying activities. Moreover due to plenty of rainfall, there will be no water crisis this summer,” he said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that they have also reviewed about the issues pertaining to doctors and will make sure they do not face any difficulties. He said that Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) will be provided to all staff working in hospitals. The government will also provide transport facility to the doctors. “If any doctors fall ill or have some issues, we will take help of doctors from private hospitals,” he added. He said that just when the district administration felt that the cases have started to decline, they increased after many from the district attended a religious meeting in Delhi. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V Satyanarayana, VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao and a few others were present.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing centre inaugurated at KGH||A COVID-19 testing centre, established at the King George Hospital (KGH), here, will start functioning soon, Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said. The Minister inaugurated the COVID-19 testing centre at the Rajendra Prasad ward on Friday in the presence of District Collector V. Vinay Chand and VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said the COVID-19 samples used to be sent initially to Tirupati and later to Kakinada for testing. He thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for releasing Rs. 1.25 crore for the testing centre. He said the next two weeks were crucial to cut the COVID-19 chain. The first positive patient in the city has turned negative as the case was detected early and timely treatment was given to him. The District Collector said that 60 tests a day could be performed at the COVID-19 testing centre in KGH. The samples of 19 persons, who returned to the district after attending the religious meeting at Nizamuddin, were sent for testing. Of them five were positive, nine negative and the reports of five were awaited. He said that 28 others, who had travelled with the group from Nizamuddin, were identified so far. The samples pertaining to 23 were collected and sent for testing, while five others, who came initially, left the district. The 23 persons are being treated in a hospital. G. Arjuna, Superintendent, KGH, P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, K. Indira Devi, Deputy Superintendent and Kamala Devi, Virology Lab in-charge.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare bird sighted on beach road in Vizag||A slaty-breasted rail (scientific name Lewinia striata ), a shy-natured bird that keeps away from the urban areas has been sighted by senior scientist S. Chakravarti on the beach road near Pandurangapuram here. Its foray into the city is probably because of the bare minimum human movement following the lockdown imposed as part of efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. Dr. Chakravarti, who heads the Forest Research Centre for Coastal Ecosystem here, told The Hindu on Friday that the slaty-breasted rail was earlier spotted in Tirupati. “For the first time, it has been sighted in Visakhapatnam. With this, the total count of bird species in the city has reached 359,” Dr. Chakravarti said. The species of rail are found in the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia. It has an intricately barred back and belly and grey throat and breast. It is extremely shy of hustle and bustle of the urban clusters. The Dehradun forests at the foothills of the Himalayas was found to be its breeding spot in July. Dr, Chakrabarti said it was known for its slate-coloured throat and belly and chestnut brown head and neck. The upper part of the body is covered with white barring and spotting and its tail is very short. The scientist, a bird enthusiast, said that the species was usually found in semi-aquatic vegetation, mangrove and agricultural fields of peninsular India.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pensioners face tough time at banks||Senior citizens, who went to the banks to collect their pension on Friday, had a tough time waiting in the hot sun outside in view of the social distancing norms being followed to check the spread of COVID-19. Pensioners waited in the cellar of the Kailasapuram branch of SBI Branch. The senior citizens faced difficulties in going into the branch as the entrance was steep. The queue was directed into the cellar and there were no chairs for the pensioners to sit. However, chairs were provided to senior citizens, who waited outside the SBI branch near Sri Kanya Theatre. Tokens were issued to pensioners at the SBI Main Branch at the Old Jail Road. There were no chairs. Some of them came with their children and grandchildren, who stood in queue on their behalf.
04 April 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to provide counselling||The Centre for Psychological Assessment and Counselling of Andhra University will provide counselling to help face the situation that ensued from COVID-19 pandemic, according to Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Psychology of the university and Director of the Centre M.V.R. Raju. A list of counsellors and their mobile numbers is available onhttps: //www.andhrauniversity. edu.in/ Prof. Raju said the counselling would be available from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. but for any critical need it is 24x7.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||55% of ration distributed in city||Fifty-five per cent of free rice and dal announced as COVID-19 relief have been distributed through 487 fair price shops in the city limits till Friday. The commodities under the 12 shops at Akkayyapalem and Allipuram declared red zones after COVID-19 positive cases there have been delivered at the doorstep of residents. The commodities will be available till April 15 , says a release.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for making a prank call||The Anakapalle Town Police arrested a person, who made a prank call to the control room arranged to receive calls pertaining to COVID-19 on April 2, in Visakhapatnam district. It was learnt that the accused had informed the police that a person from Chennai with COVID-19 symptoms had entered the town. Rapid response team which includes police, revenue official and a health official rushed to the spot and found that he did it for fun.
04 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Customs nodal officer nominated||Considering the prevailing situation in the country due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has nominated certain nodal officers in each zone to facilitate Customs related matters. Accordingly, J.M.Kishore, Joint Commissioner of Customs, has been nominated as the nodal officer for Customs trade facilitation in Visakhapatnam Zone, covering the entire State. He can be contacted on phone 0891-2560408,9963322322 or in office.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||telangana||
04 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||COVID suspect dies in Nirmal||An attender in the Irrigation department at Nirmal, also a resident of the same town, died on Friday while being shifted from quarantine ward to Gandhi hospital, Hyderabad. He was a Jamaat returnee and had applied for no objection certificate from the government to fly to the USA in June for attending a congregation like the Nizamuddin event. According to Nirmal District Medical and Health Officer Dr. Vasanth, the 40-year-old had returned by train from Delhi in March 18. He was put into quarantine after being identified as a COVID-19 suspect and report of the test is awaited. “We do not yet know if he was COVID-19 positive but he collapsed suddenly this morning. He died somewhere near Kamareddy,” the DMHO said. The body was buried soon after it was brought back. Among the other 83 foreign returned persons who are in isolation wards, none tested positive. In AP it was officially confirmed that a 55-year-old man who died a couple of days ago in a government hospital in Vijayawada had succumbed to the virus. This is the first coronavirus death reported in the State, where the total number of cases rose to 161, of which three had recovered. The man had contracted the disease from his son, who returned from New Delhi after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation on March 17. “He came to the government hospital at 11.30 a.m. on March 30 for a check-up. His blood swab was sent for examination but in the meantime he died around 12.30 p.m. The patient was also suffering from hypertension and cardiac problems and was diabetic. The delay in confirming the cause as coronavirus was due to his other ailments, State nodal officer Arja Srikanth said in a press release. The man’s son tested positive for COVID-19 on March 31 and was in quarantine. “We have identified 29 others who came in contact with him and they were also sent to quarantine,” Mr. Srikanth added. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A.K.K. Srinivas said over 140 of 161 coronavirus positive cases in A.P. were related to the Jamaat event. “Of the 881 blood samples of those who attended the Jamaat event, 108 turned positive. Results of another 65 are awaited.” “Also, 32 of their contacts too tested positive for coronavirus,” Mr. Srinivas told reporters after a high-level review meeting with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Deputy CM said of the 1,085 people who attended the Jamaat event from A.P., 946 had since returned and among them, only 881 had been traced so far. Cases from Delhi In Karnataka, four people, including three who attended the Jamaat meet in Delhi, tested positive for the coronavirus on Friday, taking the State total to 128, the Health department said in Bengaluru. The three men from Belagavi had attended the Jamaat meeting from March 13 to 18, while the fourth was a 75-year-old resident of Bagalkote, who died late at night. The official bulletin said as of Friday, 128 COVID-19 cases had been confirmed in Karnataka, including four deaths and 11 who were discharged. Of 114 active cases in the State, 111 (including a pregnant woman) were in isolation at designated hospitals and were stable, while three were in ICU (one on oxygen and two on ventilator). Seven of the 128 cases confirmed were transit passengers of Kerala, who landed at airports in Karnataka and were being treated in the State. Chief Minister B.S. Yediy urappa asked the labour department to deposit an additional Rs. 1,000 from the Construction Workers Welfare Fund in the accounts of 15 lakh labourers. Kerala reported nine new cases on Friday, with seven from the worst affected Kasaragod district, CM Pinarayi Vijayan said. One case each was detected from Thrissur and Idukki. ( With PTI inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram )
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rice distribution yet to take off due to technical glitches||Distribution of 12 kg rice each to the members of the 87.59 lakh white ration card holders, free of cost, in the State is faced with technical glitches. The servers that operate the e-POS machines were down on Friday resulting in obstructions to verification of the cardholders credentials and thereby, delaying the rice distribution process. Cardholders who formed long queues in front of the fair price shops were made to wait for hours together to pick up their quota of assured rice. According to reports reaching here, people in their hurry to avail of the benefit ignored the safe distancing norms in several places as long queue lines were formed right from the early hours. The impatient consumers had arguments with the dealers and with officials monitoring the distribution process in some places. According to Civil Supplies Department officials, the servers were equipped to handle around 3 lakh transactions daily. But the rush was so huge since April 1 when the distribution process started that the servers had to put up with more than 7 lakh transactions daily over the past two days. “Over 14 lakh cardholders availed of the benefit in the past two days resulting in burden on the servers. Efforts are on to enhance the capacity of the servers so that consumers are not put to any inconvenience,” an official told The Hindu . Civil Supplies Corporation chairman M. Srinivas Reddy said efforts were underway to resolve the impasse in consultation with the Information Technology department. There were no problems in the rural areas, but the server side difficulties were encountered in the urban areas where the rush was more. The department had successfully distributed 12 kg rice and Rs. 500 cash to close to 3.4 lakh migrant labour in the past two days in line with the instructions given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The supply of ration would continue for 12 hours daily — from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. — and there was no truth in the reports that April 15 had been fixed as cut-off date for supply of rice to eligible beneficiaries. There was also no truth in the reports that Rs. 1,500 cash assured to each of the cardholders’ families would be paid only on availing the 12 kg quota of rice. Distribution of the assured cash would commence in a couple of days.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for COVID-19||Bharat Biotech is all set to develop and test an intranasal vaccine for COVID-19 called ‘CoroFlu’. CoroFlu is a one-drop vaccine built on a flu vaccine ‘backbone’ that has proved to be safe and well-tolerated by humans, in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, the Hyderabad-headquartered company said on Friday. Announcing that CoroFlu is under development, a release from the company said the product is part of an international collaboration of virologists at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and vaccine firms FluGen and Bharat Biotech. CoroFlu will build on the backbone of FluGen’s flu vaccine candidate known as ‘M2SR’. Based on an invention by UW-Madison virologists and FluGen co-founders Yoshihiro Kawaoka and Gabriele Neumann, M2SR is a self-limiting version of influenza virus that induces an immune response against the flu. Kawaoka’s lab will insert gene sequences from SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19, into M2SR so that the new vaccine induces immunity against coronavirus. Head of Business Development at Bharat Biotech Raches Ella said, “Bharat Biotech will manufacture the vaccine, conduct clinical trials and prepare to produce almost 300 million doses of vaccine for global distribution. Under the collaboration, FluGen will transfer its existing manufacturing processes to Bharat Biotech to enable the company to scale up production.” Refinement of the CoroFlu vaccine concept and testing in laboratory animal models at UW–Madison is expected to take three to six months. Bharat Biotech will then begin production scale-up for safety and efficacy testing in humans. CoroFlu could be in human clinical trials by the fall of 2020. Four Phase I and Phase II clinical trials involving hundreds of subjects have shown the M2SR flu vaccine to be safe and well tolerated. This safety profile, M2SR’s ability to induce a strong immune response, and the ability of influenza viruses to carry sequences of other viruses make M2SR an attractive option for rapidly developing CoroFlu as a safe and effective SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, the release said. “We are going to modify M2SR by adding part of the coding region for the coronavirus spike protein that the virus uses to latch onto cells and begin infection. CoroFlu will also express the influenza virus hemagglutinin protein, which is the major influenza virus antigen, so we should get immune responses to both coronavirus and influenza,” said Ms. Neumann. According to the release, M2SR is a unique form of the flu virus. It lacks a gene called M2, which restricts the virus to undergoing only a single round of replication in cells. “The single replication means the virus can enter the cell, but it can’t leave,” says FluGen co-founder, president and CEO Paul Radspinner. “So, in essence it tricks the body into thinking it’s infected with flu, which triggers a full immune response. But since it can’t replicate further, you don’t get sick,” he said. M2SR was developed by FluGen and includes technology exclusively licensed through the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF), which manages patents for UW–Madison. CoroFlu, like M2SR, will be delivered intranasally. This route of administration mimics the natural route of infection by coronavirus and influenza and activates several modes of the immune system. Intranasal delivery is more effective at inducing multiple types of immune responses than the intramuscular shots that deliver most flu vaccines, the release said.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SRDP work in full swing in city||The much cursed lockdown in the city for over 10 days now, has proven to be a blessing in disguise for the GHMC’s engineering wing, which has added extra gears to its various ongoing infrastructural development projects in city. Proceeding with enhanced speed is the work pertaining to the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) aimed to facilitate signal-free traffic flow on various roads of the city. A number of flyovers, underpasses, and elevated corridors are under various stages of construction as part of the project, with quite a few having been already launched. Delayed enormously The SRDP work has been delayed enormously, partly due to lack of funds, and partly to the tedious traffic problems caused by the work. Minister K.T. Rama Rao expressed annoyance with the delay at a meeting during recent past, and issued orders for completion of the work by October this year. Despite orders, officials were sceptic about the progress, as getting traffic permissions for the work proved to be an insurmountable problem. Since March 23, however, the lockdown imposed country-wide, has proved to be a boon for the engineering officials. Private agencies While all the real estate and construction work by private agencies in the city has come to screeching halt owing to stipulation of social distance and the mandatory paid leave to the workers, they did not come in the way of the corporation’s Civil Engineering work. Durgam Cheruvu The Durgam Cheruvu cable bridge work, however, is an exception, owing to the policy decision taken by the contracting agency, L&T, to halt all the work. Electrical work, part of various projects given out to agencies having business links with China, too have been halted. Before lockdown, work on 11 projects, worth over Rs. 834 crore, was going on at various locations of the city as part of the SRDP project. They include a flyover and an underpass at LB Nagar Junction, flyovers at Nagole Junction, Kamineni Hospital junction, Bairamalguda junction, Owaisi Hospital junction, Bahadurpura Junction, and Biodiversity junction, four-lane elevated corridor on Road No. 45, flyover at OU Colony, Shaikpet, Railway under bridge at Hitech city, and a steel bridge near Punjagutta graveyard. Of these, work worth Rs. 436.5 crore is to be completed before June this year in. So far, the work with a value of Rs. 356.5 crore has been completed successfully, a statement from GHMC informed. Machinery deployed With no need for either traffic restrictions or diversions, work is being done day and night, it said. Mandatory distance among workers is being ensured, and most of the time, machinery is being deployed instead of man power. All the engineering officials, right from chief engineer R. Sreedhar, are monitoring the progress of the work on site, the statement said.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, drones to keep watch on lockdown rule violators||The Cyberabad Police on Thursday tested out drones for surveillance and to enforce the lockdown to stop the spread of COVID-19. Among the drones tested were surveillance cameras, radiometric thermal imaging sensor and sky speaker. Telangana police officials have been caught off guard by people violating the curfew norms and loitering on streets. “The radiometric thermal imaging sensor can get accurate temperature of a human body when it is 10-15 metres from the site. The other sky speaker mounted on a drone can broadcast an announcement that can be heard in a radius of one kilometre,” said G. Naveen of Cyient Technologies, which provided the technology for the police. Health officials have been using thermal scanners to find the body temperature of suspected patients affected by COVID-19. “The surveillance drone camera has a 30X optical zoom and 6X digital zoom giving it a capacity for 180X enhancement of an image,” informed Mr. Naveen. Commercially, similar drones are deployed to check the safety of wind turbines and cellphone towers. China, which was first impacted by COVID-19, has used similar drones to track people who have been quarantined in the country along with other surveillance tools like CCTV cameras, location data from cellphones and credit card transaction information. Other countries like Singapore and South Korea have also deployed similar technologies to enforce quarantine norms among their citizens. On Wednesday, Health Minister Eatala Rajendar tweeted: “Govt of Telangana to track over 25,000 people placed under home quarantine by tracking their Geo location in Realtime with the help of COVID-19 monitoring system (sic).” The Centre has also launched an app called AarogyaSetu developed by the National Informatics Centre that uses device location and bluetooth connectivity to track people.
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fire Service joins fight against COVID-19||Telangana State Disaster Response & Fire Services Department has also joined the battle against the spread of COVID-19 with its personnel being requisitioned to spray the disinfectant, sodium hypochlorite, as it has proved to be effective against various viruses in different parts of Telangana. The fire services department has procured about 500 litres of sodium hypochlorite on its own initiative and has distributed the same to all 132 units across the districts so that it can be sprayed in public places, government offices like police stations and places where people generally go, like markets coordinating with the local municipal authorities. Regional Fire Officer (Central Region) V. Papaiah has informed that the fire service personnel have been issued special protective clothing and body wear to come to the aid of the medical and health or even the municipal personnel in case of any emergency. “We have asked our personnel to wear the fire protection equipment when they spray the disinfectant. All our operational personnel of 1,500 are alert round-the-clock. We have already sensitised them about the do’s and don’ts,” he said. Collectors and SPs have been requisitioning services of the fire personnel for the spraying work and even providing supply of the sodium hypochlorite. “Our department comes under the essential services category and while our most busy summer season has begun, we have been using the morning and evening hours in assisting the local authorities. We have taken up extensive spraying of the functioning government offices as most private firms had shut,” he explained. It also helps that the lockdown in the last few days has shown a reduction of fire calls to the tune of up to 40%.
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mother-son duo held for ‘assaulting’ police||A mother-son duo were arrested by Malkajgiri police on Friday for allegedly abusing and assaulting police personnel who stopped their bike for venturing out by violating lockdown norms. Police said that Yousuf Khan (21), an electrician, along with his mother and father was going on a bike when police intercepted them near Moula Ali bridge near Lalapet around 2 p.m. “Our men questioned them for riding triple, and that too during the lockdown. Abuses constable When a constable took their photograph for issuing a challan, the woman started abusing the officers in filthy language, and suddenly started attacking them,” Malkajgiri ACP Y. Narsimha Reddy said. He said that the duo were taken to the police station, and a case was registered against them. In a video that went viral on social media, the 45-year-old woman was seen holding the collar of the police officer, who was repeatedly requesting her to move away. She caught the officer’s collar because he held her. Later, they were bundled into a police vehicle, and taken to the police station for questioning.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Snooker champ from city on a different mission||Mohammed Khizar Raoof, who represented India at the World Snooker Q School championship from 2006-17 in United Kingdom, is now on a different mission. This 34-year-old Hyderabadi, who is a qualified doctor and working at Olive Hospital in Mehdipatnam, is doing his bit to the society by treating patients. “We are treating roughly over 50 emergency cases and if we suspect any coronavirus cases, they will be immediately referred to Gandhi Hospital after duly alerting the police, so that patients don’t avoid reporting for further treatment,” Dr. Khizar told The Hindu . But, how does it help him to be a sportsperson and a doctor? “I think it is a huge advantage, for we are used to doing well under pressure in sports. Somehow I am enjoying my job,” he said. “Honestly, we Indians are reacting better than others across the world, we seem to have a better immunity. But, the bigger threat will be if this virus persists till monsoon, when it will spread really fast. So, the public have to be guarded for the next one month and cannot afford to relax,” he said. “And, the biggest task now is to ensure there is no shortage of personal protection equipment. We are taking precautions but we need to have the support system,” he added. Dr. Khizar also condemned the attack on medical staff at Gandhi Hospital recently. “These are the things that reflect badly on the community and prove to be a deterrent. Every responsible citizen should voluntarily report for any suspected symptoms and get treated,” he felt. On the Nizamuddin episode and the subsequent flare-up, the former India cueist failed to understand as to what stopped those who attended it from reporting to hospitals. “If you hide and continue to be aggressive, it is disrespectful not only to your community but also to humanity,” he said. “Yes, we (doctors) are like soldiers in wartime, trying our best to control the situation. Praying to God that the situation improves with public support. It is in their hands to stay indoors and be safe and report to doctors immediately in case of any symptoms to curb it from spreading across,” the doctor signed off.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL modifies salary deferment order||In providing some relief to about 13,650 of its employees, the management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has modified its decision of paying only half of the salary this month so that they could get a minimum of Rs. 15,000 take-home amount. According to the company officials, the SCCL management has decided to pay only half the salary to its employees this month (for March) following a decision made by the State government to prune the expenditure in the wake of coronavirus epidemic impacting the earnings/revenue, including in the State pubic sector undertakings. However, the decision would end up in about 13,650 of the company employees getting less than Rs. 15,000 take-home salary after 50% deduction. The company management has already issued a circular postponing the deductions in lieu of the festival advance and cooperative loans taken by the employees as also the recoveries by clubs in view of the 50% salary deferment decision. The officials said of the 43,000 employees under the National Coal Wage Agreement about 27,000 would get more than Rs. 15,000 take home salary even after the 50% salary deferment. Of the remaining employees, about 12,000 would get over Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 per month and another 1,650 would get less than Rs. 10,000 after 50% reduction in their salary. Following a representation made by the trade unions, the company management has decided to ensure that these employees get at least Rs. 15,000 take home amount. Same principle would also be applied for ‘badili’ workers. Salary to the employees would be credited into their bank account on Saturday (April 4) and the amount cut from the salary in view of the government decision would be paid to the employees once the normalcy was restored. The company is continuing coal production from all its opencast mines and mechanised sections of five underground mines to meet the needs of power stations having coal linkage from Singareni.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||16 test positive in Nizamabad||The spike in number of COVID-19 cases in the last few days have led to some sort of panic among people in many districts of Telangana. In Nizamabad district 16 people tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, taking the total number of virus affected persons to 18 in the district. Reports of 16 persons out of the 42 whose samples were sent to the virology laboratory in Pune were made available on Friday . Of them, reports of 26 persons were negative. Reports of 15 others who have been put in isolation wards are yet to come. They all either participated in Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi or were primary and secondary contacts of the Delhi returnees. The tally of COVID-19 positive cases in Karimnagar district touched 17 with three more persons testing positive on Thursday night. Among the three persons who tested positive, one person is from Karimnagar town and two others from Huzurabad and all the three had attended the Markaz prayers in Delhi. Among the 19 Delhi-returnees, three tested positive, 11 negative and the results of the remaining five are awaited. The authorities have quarantined 26 persons and pasted posters near their houses telling loclas to alert medical department and police in case these people violated the home-quarantine norms. The officials have decided to continue the barricading of the Mukarampura, Kashmirgadda and other localities of three municipal divisions in Karimnagar town following the movement of Indonesian preachers and persons who attended Markaz prayers tested positive. Fear has gripped the people in erstwhile Medak district with the reporting of 11 COVID-19 cases. The district administrations of Sangareddy, Medak and Siddiept have imposed serious restrictions on the movement of people in areas from where coronavirus cases have been reported. The administration has shifted primary contacts of people who tested positive to government-run quarantine facilities. All the persons who reported positive had participated in the Delhi religious congregation. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao and Superintendent of Police S. Chandrasekhar Reddy visited all the areas from where positive cases were reported and supervised the arrangements. Strict lockdown is being implemented in those area sand people were warned against violating the restrictions imposed on the areas. “No one from this areas will be allowed to come out openly. If you have any work please call the local public representative and inform them. They will address your problem. If not make a call to the offcials,” Mr Hanumantha Rao and Mr Channdrasekhar Reddy told residents.  (With inputs from our correspondents in Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Sangareddy)
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Passenger plane lifts cargo||With the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) permitting cargo operations using existing passenger category aircraft, the GMR-led Hyderabad Air Cargo handled its first international shipment of essential supplies on Thursday. Qatar Cargo QR 8311 landed at 1.35 a.m. on April 2 with medical and other essential supplies bound for Hyderabad. It also uplifted 28 tons of essential supplies and departed at around 3 a.m. on the same day to Doha and connected the shipments from thereon to other corners of the globe. “Allowing cargo operations using passenger aircraft has opened a window of opportunity for the aviation community to leverage the fleet of idled passenger aircraft to carry medicines and other supplies across the globe during this moment of global crisis,” said CEO SGK Kishore on Friday. The DGCA order also will encourage more airlines to use their grounded passenger aircraft for cargo-only operations, including loading cargo boxed on seats inside passenger cabins for movement of cargo, including essential pharmaceuticals and food supplies, he pointed out. RGIA is one of the six national hubs under ‘Lifeline Udan’ arrangement for operating medical cargo lifelines and the air cargo unit has been working round the clock in coordination with the customs, police, CISF, ground handlers, airlines and others to transport vaccines, medical equipment, pharma raw material, defence goods, banking documents etc. Around 200 dedicated personnel are working in shifts for their timely clearance with 10 freighters being handled weekly as also some special cargo charters to destinations in US, Europe, Middle-East, Far East and so on, said an official spokesman. He also reiterated the utmost safety precautions like temperature checks, personnel protective gear, masks, sanitisers, fumigation and social distancing being maintained during operations.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC proposes to coordinate private food distribution||The GHMC has on Friday imposed strictures against direct distribution of food and dry rice by private persons and NGOs to the homeless and distressed in the city, and warned of serious action against whoever violates the order. The corporation has established a special wing to collect food and supplies from donors and distribute it to the homeless, and said distribution should be only thorough this wing. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, through a press statement, said that physical distance is crucial at this juncture, but it was observed that the public are not maintaining it during food distribution.  In order to avoid unwarranted public gathering at any particular place, the GHMC has established a centralised special wing monitored by Additional Commissioner Priyanka Ala to directly receive food and other items such as masks, and distribute them to the needy. About 10 mobile vans have been arranged for this purpose, the statement said. Donors may contact the numbers 94931 20244 or 70939 06449 to contribute their share, or send their offer on Twitter to the handle @PDUCD_GHMC. The State government is providing food and shelter to the homeless, particularly to the migrant labourers at construction sites, hotels and petty vendors.   Free meals are being served twice daily, through Annapurna scheme, and essential items are being distributed by sourcing from NGOs. Through another statement, GHMC has informed that Annapurna meals are being served also at places other than the canteens, at function halls, community halls, temples, stadiums and shelter homes, where the homeless have been sheltered. As of now, a total of 45,000 persons are being served lunch through the scheme, and 15,000 persons, their night meals at 68 locations. Twelve more municipalities in the State are implementing the Annapurna scheme, taking the example of GHMC, the statement said.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown curbs hit seed processing||The farm sector across India, as also elsewhere across the world, is likely to suffer a huge impact of the coronavirus pandemic next agricultural year, with the functioning of the seed industry and its ancillaries being affected badly by the lockdown imposed to check the spread of COVID-19. Telangana, which is known as the seed hub of the country for housing the processing and storage facilities of over 400 private and multi-national seed companies, serves about 70% of the country’s seed needs as well as that of several South East Asian and African countries. Apart from growing quality seed of several food crops, the State also gets seed produced in other States in the country for processing and storage here for its suitable climatic conditions. “With the coronavirus affecting China, the USA, Germany, France, the Netherlands, France, Italy, Spain, Brazil, India and other major countries involved in seed production, the import and export of seed is likely to be affected badly in the next planting/sowing season as there is the possibility of huge gap between the demand and supply,” vice president of International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) K. Keshavulu told The Hindu . “TSSDC has engaged 5,400 farmers in 200 villages this rabi season to produce 5 lakh quintals of seed in 32,000 acres,” Mr. Keshavulu said adding that several ancillary industries such as those producing material for processing and packaging of seed also exist in the State. However, the lockdown has impacted both the seed and ancillary industries including the delays in transport of seed produced in other States. Besides, certification of seed produced in other States is certified here for exports under the OECD programme, Mr. Keshavulu explained.   No seed now, no crop next season Seed testing, processing, packaging and storage operations in Telangana take place from March to June. Processing and packing of groundnut and pulses seed is done in February-March and the packaged seed is shifted to cold storages by the end of March third week. Arrival of unprocessed paddy seed starts from March third week and the exercise goes on till the end of May second week. Processing and packing of seed produced in Telangana as well as other States is done here in April and May to make it available for the next kharif season. Plans of TSSOCA to export 3,000 tonnes of seed under OECD already hit due to lockdown. Food and Agriculture Organisation in association with World Health Organisation and World Trade Organisation has already warned of food crisis starting with problems in seed availability
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Orders issued on full salary for police and health staff||The Finance Department issued fresh orders, GO No 28, on Friday in modification of the earlier order for payment of full eligible salary to the employees of the Medical and Health and Police departments. The Friday’s order however did not mention about the additional incentive. Meanwhile the Telangana Village Revenue Officers Association, Sangareddy District committee, has represented to the District Collector that all the employees of Revenue department from village revenue assistant, village revenue officer to the deputy collector be exempted from the GO 27 for deferring the salaries of the staff by 50%. The Association representatives, welcoming the decision of the government to give full salary to the employees of Medical and Health and Police departments keeping in view their role in curbing the spread of COVID-19, said that the revenue employees were also working as point persons for implementation of government decisions to supply essential commodities to the poor. They are part of village, mandal and district surveillance teams to conduct door-to-door verification for identification of people with COVID symptoms and coordination of people to ensure home quarantine. The revenue employees also enumerated migrant labour to provide them with food and accommodation, distributing relief sanctioned by the government and supply of commodities under the Public Distribution System.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Modi’s is a ‘tubelight’ idea: MP||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking countrymen to light candles, lamps and torches for nine minutes on Sunday from 9 p.m. as a ‘tube-light’ idea. Mr Owaisi took to Twitter and said that instead of informing the country about aid to States and relief to the poor, India ‘got some new drama’. “This country is not an event management company. The people of India are humans who too have dreams & hopes. Don’t reduce our lives to gimmicks of 9 mins,@PMOIndia. We wanted to know what aid states will get & what relief the poor will receive Instead we got some new drama (sic),” he tweeted. Quoting media reports, Mr. Owaisi said that the lockdown was unplanned and that it is the poorest who are suffering the most. “You have left them to the charity of the rich & limited economic abilities of states. When CMs asked you for relief, you ask them to switch off their lights?” he tweeted In a separate development, and touching upon the burial and cremation guidelines, Mr Owaisi said that at the time of burials no more than five persons should gather and that the larger responsibility is to not put others at risk. The guidelines include giving the body a shower with water mixed with disinfectant. Thanking Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for taking into account the input of Muslim clerics like All India Muslim Personal Law Board office-bearer Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani and Mufti Khalil Ahmed from the Jamia Nizamia, Mr. Owaisi reiterated: “It is incumbent on all Muslims to ensure that namaz-e-janazah is not a crowded affair. Ideally 2 people should participate in the tadfeen & offer namaz-e-janazah at the graveyard itself.”
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Wanaparthy SP uses soft power to win boy’s heart||It is a lot for a 12-year old to see - his father being beaten up by the police for allegedly violating the lockdown norms. But the child’s bruised psyche got a healing touch the very next day when Wanaparthy Superintendent of Police (SP) Apoorva Rao had a very friendly talk with him, which had a transformative effect. Humane approach Now, the 12-year-old wants to become a police officer when he grows up. Call it the effect of soft power with a humane approach from the police. Speaking to The Hindu , Kalvoju Nikrosh, a Class VIII student said he was “damn scared” and was apprehensive when policemen came to his house and asked him to come and meet Ms. Rao at her office. Master Nikrosh gathered courage and went to the SP’s office in Wanaparthy with his mother and uncle. Chocolates break silence After meeting her, all his apprehensions have gone. Now, he thinks police too are humane. “The silence was broken when she offered me a packet of almond chocolates and made me feel relaxed,” the young boy said. “SP madam asked me what had really happened. I narrated the entire sequence of events. She told me that all policemen are not like that constable in question. There are several police officers who are good and humanistic in their approach,” Master Nikrosh said, recalling his meeting with the SP. “She assured me that action will be taken against all policemen who assaulted my father,” Master Nikrosh said.  On Thursday night, IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted Ms. Rao’s photo with the boy, saying, “Many thanks @SpWanaparthy Apoorva Garu on meeting the young boy Nikrosh on my advice. I am sure he is in a much better space mentally after your meeting.” To this the SP replied: “Sir, Thank you for the advice. Nikrosh is a very aspirational young boy and wants to become a police officer one day. It was very heartwarming to meet him.”
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Road maintenance work gains pace||The government is aiming to take full advantage of the lock down to expedite the road maintenance and re-laying work in the city, handed over to private agencies under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP). A total of 709 kilometres of road length in the city, has been handed over through bids, to five private agencies across six zones. Work has already begun, and a few roads are being re-carpeted too as part of the five-year contract. Despite lockdown, work by these agencies are proceeding with increased speed at several locations in the city. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar is learnt to have recently instructed the GHMC officials to expedite the road laying work in the city, taking advantage of the lockdown. As people mostly stayed indoors, the roads devoid of traffic could present the most ideal situation for all repair work, Mr. Somesh Kumar reportedly said. He issued instructions to the zonal commissioners to form teams with deputy commissioners and executive engineers, and police department designates, to ensure traffic free roads wherever the work is progressing. Promising all the required assistance, Mr. Somesh Kumar has asked the agencies to mobilise all their resources and carry out the work 24x7, to ensure their completion within the next 10 to 15 days.
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rangareddy villagers ‘quarantined’||Panic gripped Chegur village of Nandigama mandal of Rangareddy district after a 55-year-old woman who died on Wednesday was tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The government officials directed the villagers to undergo home-quarantine for 14 days. Cyberabad police in a late-night press release said the victim ran a kirana shop in the village, and her family members on Friday were shifted to a local government hospital and put under isolation. People who attended her funeral were taken to Gandhi Hospital here to undergo medical examinations. According to police, on March 31, the 55-year-old victim developed throat pain and was taken to a private hospital, from where she was shifted to Osmania General Hospital. She died while undergoing treatment on Wednesday. “Her tenants returned from Delhi by AP Sampark Kranthi Express and we suspect that the Nizamuddin Markaz prayer participants from the State too travelled by the same train,” police said.
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chaitanya’s JEE, NEET coaching via TV channels||Sri Chaitanya Educational Institutions will offer classes for JEE and NEET students through Vissa TV and Raj News channels from April 4 onwards. Students of both Telangana and AP can avail this opportunity. The institutions has already started online classes for its students across the country and all subject experts are assisting them constantly to ensure that they keep in touch with subjects and don’t lose the momentum of preparation for national exams during this lockdown period. A statement from the institutions said that the director himself is monitoring teachers tutoring different subjects. “Millions of students are accessing the Institute’s portal through mobiles, tabs, and PCs, and are able to keep a constant tab on their progress. Through error-analysis, students are correcting themselves. They are also getting inspired through talks by specialists,” the statement added.
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police book 2 cases against shopkeepers||The COVID-19 Control Room in Rachakonda Commissionerate on Thursday received 90 calls, of which 25 calls were directed to respective police stations for taking necessary action, 10 calls redirected to other departments, while 55 queries have been resolved by the control room staff. In a release issued on Friday, officials said that 49 calls were related passes, 12 seeking help about food, health or medical reasons, six were corona-related and four inter-State travel and others, while seven people called to offer volunteer service. They said that two lockdown violations cases were booked against a meat and a kirana shop owner for keeping their outlets open beyond relaxation period. As on Thursday, the Rachakonda police verified 2,136 foreign returnees out of 2,486 people, of whom six are positive cases, and the rest 2,136 are under home quarantine. “So far, 1,183 passports have been seized and handed over to district authorities,” the release said. It also stated that 14 violation cases, 179 e-petty cases were booked against 218 people who were found violating the lockdown regulations. They also seized 54 two-wheelers, six auto-rickshaws and 12 four-wheelers.
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SHRC tells SP to submit report||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Friday sought a report on the incident in which police were found to be attacking a motorist in front of his son in Wanaparthy town. The Commission asked Wanaparthy Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao to submit a detailed report on the incident by June 8, 2020, following a complaint lodged by a city-based advocate M Ramachandra Reddy through email. “Now, therefore take that the above-mentioned matter will be listed for further consideration before the Commission on June 8 and will be taken up on that day at 11 a.m. before which you are required to submit the requisite information/report,” the copy of the notice issued to Ms. Rao read. Further, it stated that in the event of any default, the Commission may proceed to take such action as it “deems proper.”
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CPI hits out at Prime Minister||The Communist Party of India has criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not giving any concrete assurances to the States on tackling the spread of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) during his address to the nation on Friday morning. CPI national secretariat member K. Narayana said the Prime Minister made a ‘sentimental’ speech with ‘hidden agenda’ rather than announcing any specific measures. The government could have announced a package on the lines of Kerala allowing the departments and States to take up relief measures more effectively. “Kerala, being small State, announced Rs. 20,000 crore making specific allocations to different departments. The Centre should announce similar package which will require Rs. 7.5 lakh crore or at least half of it so that the State governments can take up the relief measures,” he said.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Why charge for COVID 19 tests’||Telangana High Court on Friday sought to know from the State government if private laboratories can conduct diagnostic tests for COVID-19 free of cost. Hearing a PIL plea over private laboratories being allowed to charge Rs. 4,500 to conduct diagnostic tests for coronavirus, a bench of Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice K. Lakshman asked the government to explain its stand on the matter. A lawyer P. Thirumala Rao wrote a letter to HC Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan through email three days ago stating that in the backdrop of complete lockdown it would be difficult for people to spend Rs. 4,500 for diagnostic tests at private hospitals. The letter was taken up suo motu as PIL petition by the HC. The lawyer said that the guidelines issued by Indian Council for Medical Research and the Centre stated private laboratories can charge Rs. 1,500 for screening test and an additional sum of Rs. 3,000 for confirmation tests. Though the Centre, through ICMR guidelines, made an appeal that private laboratories should conduct these test free of cost, the latter are gearing up to charge money from people, the lawyer said. He submitted copies of some brochures being distributed by private laboratories about the charges for coronavirus diagnostic tests. In these circumstances, pooling up Rs. 4,500 for diagnostic tests would be impossible for them. Compelling people to shell out such amount during lockdown period was not fair. Assistant Solicitor General N. Rajeshwara Rao said the Centre had granted Rs. 1.7 lakh crore to tackle coronavirus. The bench sought to know how much money was released to the State. Mr. Rao told the bench that he did not have the figures hand and would present the details during next hearing. The plea was posted to Wednesday.
04 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Light lamps||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has in a release requested people to light lamps at 9 p.m. on Sunday on a call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to express solidarity with people world over in the fight against coronavirus.
04 April 2020||HYDERBABAD,TELANGANA||Feeding the underprivileged in testing times||Arcesium, a New York headquartered post-trade technology and professional services firm, which has its office here, has come forward to support the Hare Krishna Movement Charitable Foundation (HKMCF) to feed the underprivileged during the COVID-19 crisis situation. Daily meals are being provided to 40,000 of those in need in last 17 days during the lockdown period with even the nominal Rs. 5 not being collected to alleviate the financial burden and avoid possible contamination through exchange of currency notes. Regional president of Hare Krishna Movement Charitable Foundation Satya Gaura Chandra Dasa Prabhuji said, “Arcesium India’s support will directly help in providing food to the vulnerable sections of the society in these tough times.” “We are taking all the precautions during cooking, transportation, and distribution of food, to ensure adherence to social distance norms,” he added. All the people involved in the process are tested and monitored on a daily basis for any symptoms. The food is completely untouched with strict adherence to ISO: 22000 standards. The chief hailed the confidence shown by the TS government and the municipal administration department in the organisation for providing the meals.
04 April 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Trade unions serve strike notice in Singareni||Five national trade unions — INTUC, AITUC, BMS, CITU and HMS — have decided to go on indefinite strike from April 15 in protest against the management of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited for its unilateral decisions. The SCCL central trade unions joint forum leaders served the strike notice as per the ID (industrial dispute) Act to the Singareni management and submitted a copy to Regional Labour Commissioner in Hyderabad on Thursday. The leaders opposed the deduction of one-day salary of the coal miners for the COVID-19 relief without the consent and authorisation letters from the workers. Flaying the illegal deduction of 50 % of salaries of the coal miners, they demanded that the management provide total salary to the coal miners. They also demanded that the management announce a lockdown of all underground mines as per the Union and State government instructions to avoid the spread of the deadly virus. In the meantime, the Regional Labour Commissioner is reported to have instructed the SCCL management to hold bilateral talks with the trade union leaders to settle the issues amicably. The Labour Department said that they cannot hold talks due to lockdown and no transportation facilities.
04 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IIT-H start-up develops portable ventilator||The Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad’s Center for Healthcare Entrepreneurship (CfHE) incubated start-up, Aerobiosys Innovations, has developed a low-cost and portable ventilator. Called ‘Jeevan Lite’, this device is Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled and can be operated through a phone app. It can also be battery-operated, enabling its deployment in areas without assured power supply. The ‘Minimal Viable Product’ with the required functionality of this ventilator has already been developed. Aerobiosys Innovations aims to produce at least 50 to 70 units per day through collaboration with an industrial partner. “Elderly people affected by COVID-19 will need ventilators for life support,” said IIT-Hyderabad director B.S. Murty. Jeevan Lite can provide both invasive and non-invasive ventilation across a comprehensive set of modes and settings. It can work on rechargeable lithium-ion batteries for five hours without power supply. “Jeevan Lite solution from Aerobiosys, unlike other low-cost models, is loaded with features, including wireless connectivity and remote monitoring, which makes it unique and equipped to meet the demands of a pandemic situation like COVID-19. I strongly urge industry partners and the government to come up and hand hold the start-up towards a large scale-up,” said faculty and co-head of CfHE and head of the Department of Biomedical Engineering Renu John. Aerobiosys co-founders Rajesh Thangavel and Cyril Antony are confident that the device can be delivered by the first week of April. “We hope to serve about 1 lakh people in the first three months. We plan to produce at least 50-70 units per day,” said Mr. Thangavel. The design and features of Jeevan Lite are in compliance with the requirements mentioned by the Ministry of Health, Director General Life Sciences, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Chairman Technical Committee and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).
04 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Inmates at Gurugram relief camp bored, homesick and restless||It has been only five days since Lala Ram, 25, found shelter at a makeshift relief camp at a community centre in Sector 15 Part-II here. He already feels ‘homesick’ and ‘bored’. “We need not worry about food at the camp, but we also have no work to do. We are not allowed to step outside on the road because of lockdown. It makes us feel bored and homesick. Every time we call our families, we feel more miserable,” he lamented. Dinesh echoed similar sentiments. He added that since it was a harvest season for Rabi crop, the government should have made better arrangements for their stay in villages. “It will help us get some work. The local farmers will also benefit,” he said. However, most of them at the Kadipur night shelter are happy. Mostly daily-wagers and regulars for decades now, they need not worry about two square meals a day anymore. “It is comfortable here, but the food served is not inadequate. Also, the quality of the food has deteriorated over the past couple of days,” complained Bablu. Ashish, another inmate, said they would sit outside the shelter for a few hours daily maintaining a proper distance. Staying at Manesar relief camp, Vijay, a migrant worker at a textile unit in Panipat, feared a further extension of the lockdown. Neelam’s worry was different. “It is very uncomfortable for me as a woman to stay at the camp with the males all around. It is all the more difficult with a two-year-old child. The government should at least consider sending [those with] families to their native places. There are very few women and children at this centre,” said Neelam. Support for govt. Despite the hardships, many at the Sukhrali relief camp supported the government’s decision for lockdown. Having left his home to stay at a relief camp, Rajesh, a tailor, said the decision had hit everyone hard and more so the poor, but the government had little choice. “I have read in newspapers that countries like Italy and China are struggling, so our government had little choice. But a little planning could have eased the pain of the poor,” argued Rajesh. He said that he would flash the light from his mobile phone to support the Prime Minister’s call for lighting on April 5. “We should support our government,” another inmate, Ajeet, chipped in. Counselling planned Meanwhile, Haryana AIDS Control Society’s project director, Dr. Veena Singh, visited the camp on Thursday and interacted with the inmates. She directed the health authorities to counsel the migrants staying in camps on a routine basis to clear their fear and anxiety, besides initiating recreational activities for the inmates. Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran’s Estate Officer-II, Vivek Kalia, said the administration would look into Dr. Singh’s suggestions. He added that mostly daily-wagers and a few migrant workers comprised the centres. He claimed the administration supplied food to around 75,000 people every day within the municipal limits, including those in the slums. Meanwhile, RTI activist Ramesh Yadav felt the government should arrange transport for those in the camps to return home instead of counselling them. He reckoned that many could also be employed as labourers for harvesting.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Youth walks 5 km with torn intestine; son misses funeral||It was a painful five-kilometre walk for 19-year-old Gautam Prasad from his house in congested Mayapuri to ESI Hospital in Bali Nagar on Tuesday. His intestines were ruptured, but denied even an ambulance, he ended up walking the entire stretch. Gautam had a bout of fever for two-three days. But on Tuesday morning, he complained of excessive pain and was taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, accompanied by his father Radhey Shyam, a factory worker, and neighbour Ram Kirpal Prajapati. Here again, there was no option but to walk. At DDU hospital, the staff allegedly told the family that they will give him pain-relief medicine. But as his pain aggravated, they decided to get an ultrasound scan at a nearby private hospital. “We were informed that his small intestine has ruptured and he needs to be operated upon. They said it would cost around Rs. 60,000,” said Ram, adding that the family decided to take him to ESI Hospital for monetary reasons. When walking back home, his pain increased and he gave up. Ram dialled an ambulance, but no one picked up. After persistent buzz, someone did, but bluntly refused to send one. “The hospital said they don’t have any,” Ram alleged. Fear factor Helpless, they started walking. Though Ram owned an e-rickshaw, he didn’t offer the vehicle for fear of getting impounded. “They don’t even let us go out on the street. They will take the vehicle if we use it,” said Ram. Worse still, they had to keep off the police, as they feared getting stopped. Finally, they reached the hospital, where he was operated on an emergency basis. On Wednesday, Ram and Gautam’s father Shyam were stopped by the police on their way to the hospital. After several pleas, they allowed the father to go. Gautam’s sister Vandana too had to walk. Faraway funeral In another jhuggi in the same locale, Anita and her brother Annu Prasad, both employees of a private company, got a phone call on Thursday morning, informing the death of their father Kailash Prasad in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh. With no mode of transportation, they told relatives back home that they wouldn’t be able to attend the funeral. “The last rites were performed by my sister’s son,” said Annu, the only son of Kailash. The father, he said, was diagnosed with blood infection on March 23. “We spoke to a police officet and a local leader. They said they couldn’t help. We didn’t know about e-pass. Above all, we were told that even if we reach U.P., we will be put in separate shelters and won’t be allowed to go home,” said Annu, adding that he didn’t get a chance to speak to his father or see him one last time.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rickshaw-puller in city helps people fight lockdown crisis||A rickshaw-puller outside Moti Nagar metro station here, on spotting an old woman with stooped shoulders walking towards the station with a bag in her hand, asked her: “ Kahin chhor doon mataji ? [Can I drop you somewhere?].” “I don’t have money,” the woman responded. The rickshaw-puller took the bag from her hand while saying: “It’s okay. Come sit.” The woman, who had to reach her residence in Raghubir Nagar, was on her way back from Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital. The rickshaw-puller, later identified as Uttam Kumar Singh, dropped the woman at Rajouri Garden, a few metres away from the police barricades there as he was gripped in the fear of getting stopped. Mr. Singh also gave the woman water to drink. He said he did not charge money keeping in mind the situation due to the ongoing lockdown. Only a few rickshaws are available outside metro stations and hospitals owing to the lockdown and the rickshaw-pullers said that they have not been riding more than a kilometre or two at a stretch because police officers stop them and use batons, “especially after 6 p.m.”. Mr. Singh, a resident of Kirti Nagar, who has a family of seven to feed, said he had to ride his rickshaw to make ends meet. “I manage to make about Rs. 100 these days, but I don’t charge people who cannot afford,” he said. The rickshaw-pullers added that those who don’t own their rickshaws and have taken them on rent are not being asked by the owners for money. “They [owners] know that we are hardly earning anything. They have said that we don’t have to pay the rent during the lockdown,” said Sikandar Bhagat (35), a resident of Moti Nagar.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown blues: no transport to reach hospitals||Five-year-old Laxmi, along with her brother Subhash (17), mother Rekha and sister Vandana came to Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital on Friday afternoon on a bicycle. She was suffering from high fever. Subhash, who rode the bicycle about 3.5 km from Uttam Nagar to Moti Nagar, said that they got scared after Laxmi got a bout of high fever, which is a COVID-19 symptom. “We don’t have a vehicle and people in the area refused to help so I took the bicycle. Thankfully, the police did not stop us,” he said, adding that he brought Vandana and his mother along because he was unsure of the diagnosis. But at the hospital, a staff told them that the doctor would come only after lunch and they should either come back the next day or wait. They decided to leave, as they reckoned it was not safe to hang around, said Subhash. Deserted hospital Inside the largely deserted hospital, announcements were being made, instructing people to visit hospitals only if it is absolutely necessary. Sitting on the pavement outside the hospital was 20-year-old Priyanka with her six-year-old brother-in-law Hari Om, who had suffered a fracture on his left hand. They had walked three kilometres from their house in the jhuggis of Punjabi Bagh to reach the hospital. “He got the plaster on his hand about a month ago and it had to be cut today, so I had to bring him. There was an e-rickshaw, but the driver was asking for Rs. 50-60 which I could not afford,” she said, adding that buses did not stop. “If they wanted to impose a lockdown, they should have at least kept open options for us to reach hospitals,” she said Standing at the bus stop near the hospital, a 45-year-old man, who did not wish to be identified, said he had to show his office ID card to board a bus. Ambulance woes At the Deen Dayal Updhayay Hospital, which also wore a deserted look, Heera Devi stood with her son Ravi outside the emergency ward waiting for a vehicle to go home. Ravi was suffering from typhoid and she had brought him to the hospital in an ambulance. “I don’t have any money. My husband is a construction worker and is not able to earn a penny these days. In the morning, I had called for ambulance on 102. The operator denied once. I called again and said I was poor and had no other option, after which they sent an ambulance. Now, I am calling them again, but no one is picking up,” she said.
04 April 2020||new delhi,||‘Not possible to evacuate Indians from Bangladesh or any other countries’||The Central government on Friday informed the Delhi High Court that due to the lockdown in the wake of COVID-19, it was “not possible” to organise any evacuation of Indians from Bangladesh or any other countries. The Centre’s response before the court came on a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking direction to the authorities to take steps for safe return of Indians, who are stuck in Bangladesh. The MEA said the Bangladesh government too has announced a similar lockdown from March 26 to April 4.  In such a situation both in India as well as in Bangladesh, it is not possible for the Ministry to organise any evacuation of Indians from Bangladesh or any other countries Ministry of External Affairs
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep - online||The Delhi government has kick-started its online learning activities for students of Class KG to Class VIII with assignments sent via SMS, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said. He said that the daily activities will involve tasks on memorising new things, brushing up their speaking skills and improving their writing skills. “After the schools reopen, these assignments will be checked by their respective teachers. These activities will be a part of the students’ internal assessment,” Mr. Sisodia said.
04 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. reports record 1,169 virus fatalities||The U.S. recorded 1,169 COVID-19 fatalities in the past 24 hours, the Johns Hopkins University tracker showed on Thursday, the highest one-day death toll recorded in any country since the global pandemic began. The toll reflected figures reported by the university between 8:30 p.m. local time on Wednesday and the same time on Thursday. The grim record was previously held by Italy, where 969 people died on March 27. The U.S. has now recorded 6,069 coronavirus deaths since the start of the pandemic. Globally, Italy has the highest total death toll, with 13,915 dying of the disease there, followed by Spain at 10,003. The U.S. also recorded more than 30,000 new cases of COVID-19 in the same 24-hour period, bringing the total number of officially reported cases in the country to more than 2,43,000, according to Johns Hopkins. The outbreak has snapped the U.S.’ record-breaking hiring streak of nearly 10 years, while U.S. and European medical workers struggling to save ailing patients on Friday watched supplies of medicine, protective equipment and breathing machines dwindle by the hour. Swift end Jobs numbers released in the U.S. showed the virus dealt a swift end to the nation’s 50-year-low unemployment rate, with employers reporting hundreds of thousands of job cuts in March. The true picture, though, is far worse, because the government figures do not include the last two weeks, when nearly 10 million thrown-out-of-work Americans applied for unemployment benefits. Worldwide, confirmed infections surged past 1 million and deaths topped 55,500, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. Europe’s three worst-hit countries — Italy, Spain and France — surpassed 30,000 dead, or over half of the global toll. From those countries, the view remained almost unrelentingly grim, a frightening portent for places like New York, the epicentre of the U.S. outbreak, where bodies are being loaded by forklift into refrigerated trucks outside overwhelmed hospitals. Shortages of critical equipment led to fierce competition among buyers from Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere. A regional leader in Paris described the scramble to find masks a “worldwide treasure hunt.” Governor Andrew Cuomo warned that New York could run out of ventilators in six days. With infections spreading, the Federal Emergency Management Agency has asked the Pentagon for 1,00,000 more body bags. In Florida, hundreds of passengers on a cruise ship where four people died were finally being allowed to disembark after a days-long stand-off. More than a dozen critically ill patients were taken to hospitals, while people healthy enough to travel were taken to the airport for chartered flights home. One Spanish hospital turned its library into an intensive care unit. In France, space was set aside for bodies in a vast food market. The French prime minister said he is “fighting hour by hour” to ward off shortages of essential drugs used to keep COVID-19 patients alive. France cancelled its high-school exit exam known as the Baccalaureat, a first in the 212-year history of the test. Some glimmers of hope emerged that Italy, as well as Spain and France might be flattening their infection curves and nearing or even passing their peaks in daily deaths. Elsewhere in Europe, officials began talking tentatively about how to lift lockdowns that have staved off the total collapse of strained health systems but also battered economies. Austria said it will set out a timetable next week for what could be “a slow start-up” of closed parts of the economy. The head of Germany’s national disease control centre said he expects that any easing of the lockdown, which this week was extended to April 19, will be staggered.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Cuban doctors fighting virus around world||Labelling the doctors and nurses as both exploited workers and agents of communist indoctrination, the U.S. has notched a series of victories as Brazil, Ecuador and Bolivia sent home thousands after leftist governments allied with Havana were replaced with ones friendlier to Washington. The coronavirus pandemic has brought a reversal of fortune for Cuban medical diplomacy, as doctors have flown off on new missions to battle COVID-19 in at least 14 countries, including Italy and the tiny principality of Andorra on the Spanish-French border, burnishing the island’s international image in the middle of a global crisis. “I am aware of the position of the United States, but we are a sovereign country and we can choose the partners with which we are going to have cooperation,” Andorran Foreign Minister Marţa Ubach said. In the city of Crema in the hard-hit Lombardy region of northern Italy, 52 Cuban doctors and nurses set up a field hospital with 32 beds equipped with oxygen and three ICU beds. Symbolic moment “This is a strongly symbolic moment because the Crema hospital has been going through an extremely complicated situation from the start,” Lombardy’s top social welfare official, Giulio Gallera, said at the inauguration last week. “The number of patients who have filled and continue to fill the emergency room and departments has truly put the medical personnel to a hard test.” The U.S. has sought to cut off income to Cuba as part of a tightening of sanctions. And it continues to discourage countries from contracting Cuban medical workers despite the pandemic. “The government of Cuba keeps most of the salary its doctors and nurses earn while serving in its international medical missions while exposing them to egregious labour conditions,” the State Department said on Twitter last week. “Host countries seeking Cuba’s help for COVID-19 should scrutinize agreements and end labour abuses.” Cuba currently has about 37,000 medical workers in 67 countries, most in longstanding missions. The most recent deployments of at least 593 doctors have also been to Suriname, Jamaica, Dominica, Belize, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, St. Kitts and Nevis, Venezuela and Nicaragua, some of them reinforcing existing medical missions. All have been billed as tied to the coronavirus epidemic, even though some of the countries have few confirmed cases so far. None of the agreements or financial terms have been made public.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Democrats postpone convention||The Democratic National Committee on Thursday postponed its presidential convention because of the COVID-19 outbreak, moving it from mid-July to mid-August, and making it the largest political event to be upended by the public health crisis sweeping the country. The convention will still be held in Milwaukee, as planned, the week of August 17, officials said, a week before Republicans plan to gather in Charlotte, North Carolina, to renominate President Donald Trump. The adjacent dates mean that both parties will be using expert health data from the same time frame to assess the safety of bringing together thousands of people at one event — and, ultimately, deciding whether the benefit of staging the conventions outweighs the medical risks. The timing sets the stage for a high-stakes test of wills and judgment over the next four months between Mr. Trump and former Vice-President Joe Biden, the likely Democratic nominee, as the public health crisis paralyses the country through the summer. Neither will want to be the first to cancel his convention. The decision to postpone the Democratic convention was made over the previous two days, officials involved in the planning said, but the issue was amplified on Wednesday night by Mr. Biden, who called for rescheduling the convention during an appearance on “The Tonight Show.” Tom Perez, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said he did not consider moving the event to September, after the Republicans’, and was averse to conducting a virtual convention that would be less likely to attract hours of television coverage. Safe convention “We’re going to hold a very exciting and safe convention in Wisconsin to highlight our nominee and to make sure that people know the values of the Democratic Party and what we’re fighting for,” he said in a telephone interview. “There are things you can do online, but there is something about the communal spirit that is important and people feed off of,” said David Axelrod, a senior official in Barack Obama’s presidential campaigns. “From a TV standpoint it’s hard to have the same impact if you’re cobbling together a series of remotes.”NY Times
04 April 2020||Paris,||Google publishes data on people’s movements||Alphabet Inc’s Google has published charts showing how the coronavirus has brought hard-hit Italy to a standstill, led to runs on grocery stores around the world and prompted a stark drop in movement of people. The analysis of location data from billions of Google users’ phones is the largest public dataset available to help health authoroities assess if people are abiding with government orders issued to rein in the virus. The reports on users’ movements in 131 countries will be made available on a special website and will “chart movement trends over time by geography”, according to a post on one of Google’s blogs. Trends will display “a percentage point increase or decrease in visits” to locations like parks, shops, homes and places of work, not “the absolute number of visits,” said the post, signed by Jen Fitzpatrick, who leads Google Maps, and the company’s chief health officer Karen DeSalvo. For example, in France, visits to restaurants, cafes, shopping centres, museums or theme parks have plunged by 88% from their normal levels, the data showed. Italy and Spain, two of the hardest-hit countries, both saw visits to retail and recreation locations such as restaurants and movie theaters plunge 94%. The U.K. had declines of more than 80% while India, which went into a sudden 21-day lockdown on March 25, was also notable at 77%. “We hope these reports will help support decisions about how to manage the COVID-19 pandemic,” the Google execs said. Like the detection of traffic jams or traffic measurement Google Maps, the new reports will use “aggregated, anonymised” data from users who have activated their location history. ‘No identifiable data’ No “personally identifiable information,” such as an individual’s location, contacts or movements, will be made available, the post said. The reports will also employ a statistical technique that adds “artificial noise” to raw data, making it harder for users to be identified.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Bill Withers, who sang Ain’t No Sunshine, dies at 81||Bill Withers, the legendary soul singer behind 1970s hits like Lean on Me , Lovely Day and Ain’t No Sunshine, died on Monday in Los Angeles, his family said. He was 81. The soulful singer and three-time Grammy winner died from heart complications, his family said. “We are devastated by the loss of our beloved, devoted husband and father,” the family’s statement said. “A solitary man with a heart driven to connect to the world at large, with his poetry and music, he spoke honestly to people and connected them to each other,” it added. The family added, “in this difficult time, we pray his music offers comfort and entertainment as fans hold tight to loved ones.” Mr. Withers was well into his 30s when he began recording music, after growing up in a segregated coal-mining town in West Virginia, serving in the Navy and working as an aircraft mechanic. But during his 14-year recording career, starting with the album Just As I Am in 1971, he wrote and performed songs that have become anthems around the word, drawn from gritty blues, R&B and the era’s confessional style of lyrics. Long after his de facto retirement from recording — he released his last album in 1985, after many battles with music industry executives — Withers entered the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2015 by Stevie Wonder.NY Times
04 April 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. mosques remain open as cases rise to nearly 2,500||Several mosques remained opened on Friday across Pakistan and people offered prayers there despite a government ban on big congregational gatherings in order to curb the spread of SARS-CoV-19 that has killed 37 people and infected nearly 2,500 others in the country. The Sindh government had announced curfew like restriction from 12 noon to 3 p.m. to stop people from visiting mosques, while the Punjab government had issued fatwa for people to offer prayer in their homes. The mosques made announcement urging people to pray at home, but some people defied the instruction and visited mosques, according to reports. Some clerics also encouraged people to attend prayers in mosques. “The government and police are making statements to create a sense of fear. Nothing will happen. Karachi is a city of 20 million, the government cannot implement its decision in every nook and cranny, the prayer leader of the Jamia Mosque Quba told The Express Tribune .  Majority of mosques in Karachi followed government orders. However, some continued to hold regular prayers.
04 April 2020||New York,||President’s family firm faces financial woes||U.S. President Donald Trump’s family company is asking creditors such as Deutsche Bank if it can delay loan payments as the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic deepens, The New York Times reported on Thursday. The Trump Organization — the conglomerate of companies created by Mr. Trump and now run by his sons — is, like many others, losing money as the restrictions put in place to lessen the spread of the deadly COVID-19 bring the U.S. to a grinding halt. The NYT said the company contacted Deutsche Bank, seen as the only major lender willing to do business with the company, at March-end for extension of some repayment deadlines. “These days, everybody is working together,” Mr. Trump’s son Eric, the Organization’s executive vice- president, said. The Trump Organization still owes Deutsche Bank several hundred million dollars, according to theTimes. The group also contacted Palm Beach County to see if it could suspend rent payments on the Trump International Golf Club, a 27-hole course and clubhouse on more than 120 hectares.
04 April 2020||Beijing,||China releases $56 bn to banks||China’s central bank said on Friday it would cut the reserve requirements for smaller banks to release around 400 billion yuan ($56.3 billion) in liquidity, a move to counter the COVID-19’s impact on enterprises. The People’s Bank of China said it will also slash the interest it pays on financial institutions’ excess reserves to encourage them to use the cash rather than store it with the central bank.
04 April 2020||PRAGUE,||Statue of Soviet Gen. removed in Prague||A district in the Czech capital, Prague, went on Friday ahead with a plan to remove the statue of a Soviet Second World War commander. The Russian Embassy in Prague condemned the move, saying it sent a protest note to the Czech Foreign Ministry about the “demolition.” General Ivan Stepanovic Konev led the Red Army forces that liberated Prague and large parts of Czechoslovakia from the Nazi occupation in 1945. His monument, unveiled in the Prague 6 district in 1980 when the country was occupied by Soviet troops, has been a source of controversy. On Friday morning, a crane at the site lifted the statue from its place.
04 April 2020||Berlin,||‘German curbs are working’||Measures taken by German officials to slow the spread of the coronavirus are starting to show effect, Lothar Wieler, the president of Robert Koch Institute for disease control said on Friday. He stressed that restrictions on public life “need to be maintained.” He explained that each person who had caught the virus was now infecting only one person on average, where previously that number had been as high as seven.
04 April 2020||Mexico City,||Mexico City, April 3, 2020 (AFP) -||The Mexican brewer of Corona beer said on Thursday it was suspending production because of the health emergency in the country over the COVID-19 pandemic. The Mexican government has ordered the suspension of all non-essential activities until April 30 to slow the spread of coronavirus.AFP
04 April 2020||JERUSALEM,||Israel arrests Palestinian official in east Jerusalem||Israeli police arrested the Palestinian minister for Jerusalem affairs on Friday for allegedly violating an Israeli ban on Palestinian political activities in east Jerusalem. Fadi al-Hidmi’s office circulated surveillance camera footage showing police searching his home with dogs.AP
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The long march to uncertainty||“In my 20 years in Mumbai, I have never seen such a sight,” said Gopal Das as he recounted his ordeal on March 21 at the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus. Gopal was among the sea of people who had attempted to board what would be the last few trains out of the city to their homes hundreds of kilometres away. Gopal, a construction worker, did not manage to board the train. And nothing had prepared him for what was to follow. Gopal is from Bhagalpur, Bihar. He said he and his friends spent nearly four hours trying to get tickets. “A few people who had clambered on to the trains fell on the platform. A little later, we heard that all the trains had been cancelled. Since there was no public transport, we walked for three hours to our room in Bandra (East) with Rs. 250 in our pockets. We were still hoping they would start the trains. We didn’t think it would last this long,” he said. Visuals of hundreds of workers wearing gamchas, carrying heavy backpacks and wailing children, and walking on national highways, boarding tractors, and jostling for space atop multi-coloured buses became defining images for days to come in India. To fight the novel coronavirus, States began imposing restrictions on the movement of people. Then the Prime Minister announced a nationwide 21-day lockdown. This tough measure was met with fear, anger and frustration in many parts of the country, including Mumbai. No transport, no jobs, no food In its own capacity to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Maharashtra government put in place a series of restrictions in the days leading up to the March 24 nationwide lockdown. On March 20, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray imposed a lockdown in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nagpur until March 31. Suddenly, in just a few hours, lakhs of migrant workers living in the city found themselves without work. To make matters worse, there was little or no guarantee that they would get basic amenities such as food and water. This forced thousands of migrant labourers to flock to the city’s major train termini — the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus — as well as train and bus terminals in other cities. Following the Chief Minister’s announcement, the Railways operated 14 special trains on March 20 and 21, eight of them from Mumbai, to various destinations such as Patna, Howrah, Danapur, Gorakhpur, Manduadih and Balharshah. Long-distance passenger services were initially shut only on March 22 on account of the Janata Curfew. However, the suspension of services was extended to March 31 and then to April 14 after the Prime Minister announced the lockdown. Shahrukh Malik, a driver of Ola and Uber cabs, said: “Had we known this was going to last this long, we would have gone home much earlier and returned after two-three months.” Worse was to follow. City-based civic organisations were flooded with distress calls from workers across the city, who were in dire need of food. Sadrul Sheikh’s phone has been ringing constantly for a week. He and his team, spread across the city, are part of the Jharkhandi Ekta Sangh. “We have managed to give ration to only 1,200 people. This is a fraction of the number of people who need help at the moment. With each passing day, the calls increase. I am now getting around 1,000 calls every day,” he said. According to the 2011 Census, Maharashtra has the highest number of migrants in the country (2.3 million). But activists say that the Census fails to capture seasonal migration that occurs for around four to five months. For 20-year-old Digambar Rai, the last week has been a nightmare. He arrived in Mumbai from Jharkhand on March 21 in the hope of earning for a few months before returning home. He had no idea about the lockdown; he was told that he could earn around Rs. 400 a day as a construction worker. “I have not even worked a day, so I have no money. I am struggling to get ration. I am relying on other workers from Jharkhand to help me,” he said. According to Raghav Mehrotra, a researcher at Aajeevika Bureau, an organisation that works with migrant labourers, what connects all the migrant workers in the region now is that they have all lost their jobs and wages. “In the communities that we work in, migrant workers typically work in small garment workshops. They stay at the site of work and rely on local dhabas for their daily food. We have managed to get them basic ration by transferring money to their nearest grocer, but cooking the food is a real challenge,” he said. Many migrant workers have banded together to ask for help. Manas Raut from Odisha lives and works in Rabale on the outskirts of the city. Raut said he and 70 other workers from his State were provided aid after they sent a distress call on the Internet. Many set up their own helpline numbers. “None of our employers have been in touch with us. We are struggling to make both ends meet during this lockdown,” he said. The lockdown has also exposed the lack of a safety net for migrant workers. For instance, many construction workers found that they were not eligible to receive funds under the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Fund. Gopal said several contractors he knew had left for their homes after realising that there was going to be no business. “None of them have picked up my phone in the last one week,” he said. A shelter for nobody In Uttar Pradesh, 10 days after the Prime Minister’s announcement, facilities such as the Jaypee Sports Complex on the Yamuna Expressway, the largest of its kind created by the U.P. government in Gautam Buddh Nagar to provide shelter to migrant workers possibly stranded in the sprawling district, lay vacant. The complex has the capacity to accommodate 2,000 people. Sprawled over approximately 12 acres en route to Agra, the camp consists of an estimated 57 large tin sheds, some designated ‘family sheds’, all lined with wooden panels to protect occupants from the sweltering summer. The sheds have mats with clean white sheets, bedding, sanitation and potable water facilities. There are separate toilets for men and women. What the complex lacks since it became ready on March 30 is something very significant: the very people for whom it exists. “No one is coming here. What can be done about it? It looks like all of them have left. But when the administration decided to set up this camp it must have done so based on some logic,” said an official associated with the upkeep of the camp, the largest among the 28 created over 60 kilometres between the U.P border, which commences at Noida, and Jewar, where India’s largest airport is scheduled to come up. The State administration had sought to put arrangements in place to provide shelter to 6,050 migrant workers according to an order issued on March 29 evening. These measures, in addition to appeals made by the Chief Ministers of U.P. and Delhi and the Prime Minister himself, seemed to have been too little too late. Most such shelters in the Gautam Buddh Nagar district, sources in the U.P government familiar with developments in this regard said, were either vacant or had “very thin occupancy”. In the capital, though there was significant occupancy at such shelters, food arrangements could only be made incrementally over several days. A trickle and then a deluge On the night the Indian Railways announced that all passenger trains would be suspended, there was a trickle of migrant workers — most of them daily wage earners who no longer had the means to sustain themselves and the family members accompanying them. The trickle turned into a deluge at certain points by March 28 — places in Anand Vihar in Delhi bordering U.P.’s Ghaziabad; in Manesar, Faridabad and Gurugram in Haryana; and in Noida and Greater Noida in U.P.   While a majority of the migrants were seen boarding buses already overflowing with passengers, hoping against hope to reach their homes hundreds of kilometres away, others, sources in the government said, had walked endlessly on highways linking States before the borders were sealed. They walked along the banks of the Yamuna river, through the wilderness of U.P., and through unused railway tunnels before being told that the borders were shut. Those who had tried and failed, over two consecutive days when the lockdown was eased in U.P., to find any means of travelling home returned to their rented accommodations to live a life of uncertainty. Some from States such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal, located far away from the NCR, decided to stay back. “We first thought of going. Even if the trains were not operational we thought we would take buses. We packed our bags and went to Zero Point because our family begged us to try and travel somehow as things seemed to be getting worse. But there were no buses except to Agra and they were mostly full. It would have taken us weeks to get to Kolkata. So we came back,” said Pradeep Haldar, employed as a security guard in Greater Noida. “Did you see what they (the police) are doing to people looking for buses? I shudder to think how many times they will beat my husband and me if we try going to Ranchi. And what for anyway — getting on those crowded buses will expose us to the risk of contracting the infection,” said Manju Kumari, a resident of Jharkhand, employed as a house help in Greater Noida’s Omega-I. On March 28 morning, a Saturday, Zero Point on the Yamuna Expressway was packed with migrant workers who chose to put their urge to reach home above the need to practise social distancing lest they contract SARS-CoV-2. They were there as the district administration had announced that 200 State-run buses had been arranged to ferry commuters to various locations in the rural parts of U.P. every two hours from the area. Bound mainly to Agra, Aligarh and Lucknow, migrant workers and their families thronged to the location to try their luck at boarding any vehicle, en route home, till midnight. Manish Kumar, who was employed at a factory in Kasna and was among the hundreds seeking to inch closer home, in his case to Kanpur, said: “Any form of transport which takes me anywhere close to my destination from here will do at this point. I’m going to die soon anyway. If I stay here it will be of hunger; there is no one here to even beg for food. Everyone’s pockets are empty. If I contract the infection I can at least die on my own soil.” Families carrying whatever they could get their hands on before undertaking their journey lined the boundary wall of the highway as small groups of civil society volunteers offered them vegetable biryani, sealed cups of water and hand sanitiser. Animesh Kumar, an out-of-work factory hand who sought to travel to his home in Bihar’s Munger, was among them. “Things are really bad here. You know what is happening; then why do you keep asking? I’ve told you I’m on my way. I have nowhere else to go, I will come home soon, trust me,” he assured his mother over the phone as he broke down. “They should have allowed us to come here two days ago,” he complained when asked what was wrong and if he needed any assistance. “For two days — first in the morning and then in the evening — I tried to come here so I could catch a bus or use any other means to go home. The police beat me every time I tried to reach the expressway on both days. I will get on any bus, any vehicle; I’ll start walking from wherever it drops me,” he said. After many hours, having realised the futility of their efforts, many decided to return to their rented accommodation. Anand Kumar, who operates a pan shop in the Alpha-I area near the transit hub of Pari Chowk, was engaged in an animated discussion with his roommates Sunil Kumar Gupta and Gupta’s sibling, Anil. “They are charging Rs. 1,000-Rs. 2,000 per passenger and the buses themselves are jam-packed. Where will you people sit? What if you get infected,” he asked the Gupta siblings. At the end of a four-hour-long wait, Sunil and Anil decided to abandon their effort to find a ride. According to a police official deployed on duty near the point, they were not among the “fortunate” ones who had been able to find transport till midnight on Saturday. “What’s the point of being stuck with nothing on either side of Zero Point,” Sunil asked. “Let’s go back home,” he told Anil and Anand as they began their five-km-long walk back “home”. On Monday morning, as strict enforcement of the lockdown returned to the area, the same police personnel who were trying their best to assist migrant workers board the buses used their batons and sticks to “persuade” hapless migrant workers to go to shelter homes. As those like Ram Kumar and his family of seven, who had travelled from Manesar and could reach Zero Point in Greater Noida only on Monday morning, sought to try their luck, Sunil and Anil were busy persuading their landlord against throwing them out since they would be late with the rent this month. “We were able to convince him; both of us pooled in some money. It looks like it will be enough to tide us through the lockdown till April 14,” Sunil said on Thursday, almost a week after he tried — and failed — to keep his promise to his mother that he would return home. Not quarantined U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials to prepare a list of migrants who had started moving into the State last week. He said they must be identified, medically inspected and put under home quarantine if they were suspected of having the virus. However, officials on the ground find it difficult to contain the people in these quarantine homes. In districts like Sultanpur, Rae Bareli, Hapur, Hathras and Azamgarh, the police have lodged cases against people for jumping quarantine. In Sultanpur, 26 persons of a 115-capacity quarantine home fled after jumping from the second floor of the building using a bedsheet. All of them were later located. In Lakhimpur Kheri, a Dalit man who had returned from Gurugram was found hanging in the field after the police allegedly beat him up for jumping quarantine. The matter is under probe. In Hathras, the quarantined persons gave the panchayat secretary the slip when he left the premises after dinner. While a number of migrants said they underwent thermal screening at the bus station of their native district when they deboarded, many slipped under the radar. A group of migrants from Sitapur district returning from Gurugram on March 29 said they went straight to their homes without getting screened as they arrived in the wee hours. “Our bus arrived at 3:30 a.m. There was nobody there,” said Shivpal Singh. No official approached him either, he said. Another migrant in Gorakhpur district narrated a different story, however. After reaching his village, the locals forced him to get a medical test done before allowing him entry, even though he didn’t show any symptoms, he said. As a bargain, he later decided to stay under quarantine in his house and not at the primary school built outside the village. As efforts to control the pandemic continue, U.P. has witnessed a sharp rise in figures over the past week, coinciding with the entry of migrants and the revelation of the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi.  Meanwhile, in Mumbai, apart from the pandemic and the economic situation it is a bleak future that worries people. For the construction workers of Mumbai, the peak season consists of the months of March, April and May as construction activity stops once monsoon starts to set in. With most of the season lost in the crisis, several workers will have to head back home. Digambar, who had come to the city in hopes of earning some extra money, said that he would be taking the first train back. Gopal agreed with him. “There is no question of staying back. The city will be half empty once the trains start,” he said.  For two days — first in the morning and then in the evening — I tried to come here so I could catch a bus or use any other means to go home. The police beat me every time I tried to reach the expressway on both days. Animesh Kumar Factory worker   Any form of transport which takes me anywhere close to my destination (Kanpur) from here will do at this point. I’m going to die soon anyway. If I stay here it will be of hunger. If I contract the infection I can at least die on my own soil. Manish Kumar Factory worker
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The spectre of a post-COVID-19 world||As COVID-19 spreads exponentially across the world, and the figures of those testing positive as also the numbers of deaths keep increasing in near-geometrical progression, profound uncertainty and extreme volatility are wreaking havoc of a kind seldom encountered previously. It might, hence, be wise to start thinking of what next, if at least to try and handle a situation created by the most serious pandemic in recent centuries.  China’s pivotal role The problem with the novel coronavirus is that with the exception of China, which battled another coronavirus epidemic in 2003 — the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic — there is little available for most nations on which to base their assessment of what next. What is known is that China’s growth rate has further plummeted, even as it was confronting an economic slowdown which had been in the works for some time. The consequences for the global economy of China ceasing to be the world’s biggest exporter of manufactured goods are considerable, and with no country in a position to replace it, this development will precipitate a further economic downturn internationally. It is not the intention here to minimise the human costs of the tragedy that has unfolded, and which is still unfolding, consequent on COVID-19. If China was the worst affected nation initially, the United States, Spain, Germany and Italy have since eclipsed China. Many other countries are today facing a serious plight, and few, if any, remedies are as yet available even as the human costs keep mounting. Still, it is important to think of what lies ahead.  The COVID-19 pandemic could not have come at a more difficult time. The world was already having to contend with an uncertain economic environment, with industries in turn facing newer challenges such as having to adjust to a shift from cost efficiencies to innovation and breakthrough improvements. Added to this were: a global slowdown, increasing political and policy uncertainties, alterations in social behaviour, new environmental norms, etc. Newly emerging economies, such as India, were even more affected by all this, than some of the older established ones.  Prognosis for India At one point, India was estimated to be among the 15 most affected economies by the COVID-19 epidemic, but as the pandemic has raged unchecked, all bets are off. An early estimate by the Asian Development Bank, soon after the epidemic was declared, was that it would cost the Indian economy $29.9 billion. A recent industry estimate pegs the cost of the lockdown at around $120 billion or 4% of India’s GDP. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) had at one point warned that the COVID-19 impact, and the existing stress in the financial sector, meant that India would require up to six months even after the entire course of the COVID-19 epidemic is over to restore normalcy and business continuity.  India has, no doubt, acted with speed in the wake of the pandemic and declared a lockdown early on. Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared the pandemic as a serious global crisis, and in the course of two national broadcasts in mid-March, announced a series of steps such as a one day ‘peoples curfew’ (on March 22) ‘social distancing’, the setting up of a COVID-19 Taskforce under the Finance Minister to come up with measures to mitigate the economic hardship engendered by the pandemic, and finally a three-week-long lockdown. Several precautionary measures based on guidelines in vogue elsewhere in the world for preventing pandemics of this kind, have also been introduced including ‘home isolation’, ‘home quarantine’, etc.  The prognosis as to what lies ahead is indeed bleak. On the economic plane, according to most experts, a global recession seems inevitable. Uncertainty, panic and lockdown policies are expected to cause demand worldwide to decline in a precipitous way. This will inevitably lead to a vicious downward cycle, where companies close down, resulting in more lay-offs and a further drop in consumption. A precipitous decline in GDP would follow. To compensate for this loss, massive inflows of government funds would be needed, but most governments, India included, might find it difficult to find adequate resources for this purpose. Equally important, if not more so, is that such massive inflows of funds (if they are to be effective) should be here and now, and not later, by which time the situation may well have spiralled out of control. Global coordination was a must in the extant situation. Pandemic as disrupter COVID-19 is, in turn, expected to bring about major changes in the global order. Some of these changes have, no doubt, been in the making for some time, but would get accelerated. As of now, though the U.S. is no longer the global power that it once was, it is hardly in retreat. It is, without doubt, increasingly disinclined to act as the world’s gendarme, as instanced by its retreat from Afghanistan after a dubious accord with the Afghan Taliban, but this was not the end of the road as far as U.S. power was concerned.  Post COVID-19, however, and given that the U.S. is among the countries badly affected by this pandemic, together with existing uncertainties affecting its financial markets, the U.S. can be expected to step back even further — from one of assertion to neutrality in global affairs.  Already, U.S. command of the global commons has weakened. Meantime, China and Russia have strengthened their relationship, and improved their asymmetric capabilities. The challenge from China is becoming more obvious by the day — measured by purchasing power parity, the U.S. is not the largest economy in the world as of now. Even more daunting from a U.S. standpoint, and also representing a sea-change from the recent past, Russia has become far more economically and politically stable and an important power broker in West Asia. These shifts cannot but, and are likely to, have a direct impact on the liberal international order. It could, in turn, give a boost to authoritarian regimes and authoritarian trends.  Social concerns Moving away from the political and economic consequences of COVID-19 are other concerns arising from an extended lockdown, social distancing and isolation. Psychologists are even talking of an ‘epidemic of despair’ arising from a fear of unknown causes, resulting in serious anxiety and mental problems. Extended isolation, according to psychologists, can trigger a different kind of pandemic even leading to possible suicidal tendencies, fits of anger, depression, alcoholism and eccentric behavioural patterns.  Another fallout from the current epidemic might well be the extent to which inequality in incomes impact segments of the population, facing a common malaise. Countries lacking a comprehensive nationwide health system would find this an even more difficult situation to handle. Meantime, as the economy weakens, accompanied by job losses, those without high levels of skills would fall further behind. This is evident to some extent already given recent reports of mass migration across the Indian landmass. Out of work migrant labour, unable to find new jobs since they lack the necessary skills, are attempting to return to their normal habitat, bringing in their wake untold suffering and, perhaps even the spread of the virus. This has all the makings of a huge human tragedy. Existing curbs on their movement would further exacerbate the problem, and could even lead to a major law and order situation.  Digital factor One possible, and unexpected, aspect of the COVID-19 epidemic could be the thrust it could provide to ‘digital authoritarianism’. China’s authoritarian methods seem to have helped it to contain the spread of the virus — at least for the time being. Somewhat similar tactics are being employed by some other countries as well. In turn, leaders across many nations may find China’s methods, and the embracing of technology to refashion authoritarianism for the modern age irresistible, and a standard to be adapted, even if they profess to be democratic. The rise of digital autocracies could lead to digital repression, and in the age of AI-powered surveillance, create a capacity for predictive control, or what is often referred to as ‘social management’. M.K. Narayanan, is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Only through the prism of science||On Friday, April 3, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made his third COVID-19 address to the nation. To raise the people’s morale, Mr. Modi asked them to light up candles, diyas (lamps), torchlights and mobile flashlights for 9 minutes at 9 p.m. this Sunday. Soon after his address, the citizens outreach portal of the Government of India tweeted a video explaining the ‘science’ behind the Prime Minister’s request. The video had a former president of the Indian Medical Association claiming that the request was based on a yogic ‘principle of collective consciousness’. The doctor said that if the people collectively thought that they would not be afflicted by the coronavirus, then their collective consciousness would ensure that this happens. This, he said, was based on a ‘quantum principle’. The tweet was soon deleted. But the incident shows how pseudoscience may be endangering India’s public health policy at this critical moment. Need for scientific temper At no point in its modern history has India needed its people as now to urgently understand how microbiology impacts public health. The Central and State governments are making huge efforts to give us a crash course on the spread and arrest of COVID-19. But in our country, the Prime Minister’s voice on national issues carries the most weight. In this hour of national crisis, India needs its top leader to make the people realise why science has no substitute in battling the virus. How has Mr. Modi fared as a promoter of scientific temper? In October 2014, the Prime Minister made two claims linking cutting-edge life sciences to Indian myths, including the Mahabharata . In a speech delivered in Hindi, he said that Karna’s birth was a result of stem cell science and technology. He also said that the world’s first plastic surgery was performed on Ganesha, giving the deity his elephant head. And, he made these remarks while inaugurating a hospital in Mumbai. Invoking ‘Mahabharata’ On March 25 this year, a day after announcing the national lockdown, Mr. Modi interacted with the residents of Varanasi. Invoking the Mahabharata again, he told them that the Mahabharata war was won in 18 days and India would win its war against the virus in 21. In his English translation of the epic, Bibek Debroy, the Chair of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, doubts that the war of the scale described in the epic took place. Or that “miraculous weapons and chariots were the norm”. The Prime Minister’s 2014 remarks mixed up science and mythology, and sent out the following public message: our epics are historical truths; the fantasies within them are records of our ancient accomplishments in cutting-edge science and technology; and since the ‘knowledge’ they contain has come down to us as part of our unbroken tradition, our indigenous wisdom can solve the problems that the life sciences currently face. One wonders how those who believed his 2014 remarks would have responded to his projection of winning the war against the pandemic in 2020. Since Mr. Modi’s 2014 remarks, a number of Central and State leaders as well as lawmakers belonging to his party have peddled pseudoscience and untenable claims that fracture the backbone of the life sciences. For instance, in 2017-18, the then Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Satyapal Singh, called the theory of evolution ‘scientifically wrong’ and demanded its removal from the school curricula. Such views are illustrative of a thriving ecosystem of opinions masquerading as ‘indigenous’ science. Although this ecosystem has been around for long, it has strengthened in recent years. Chief Ministers, Union and State Ministers, lawmakers, film personalities, businesspersons, gurus and other notables with large public following have repeatedly made pseudoscientific statements. Science gatherings have been used to peddle such ideas. And public defenders of science have been marginalised. Dispelling the darkness It is not surprising therefore that a ‘theory’ that sound vibrations kill the virus recently found a large number of takers. Nothing but the acceptance of this myth masquerading as science explains the outrageous interpretation of the Prime Minister’s call to thank the nation’s essential service providers with applause, bell-ringing and banging of metal thali s (plates). Several groups of people hit the streets on the evening of March 22 to ‘celebrate’ the ‘Janata Curfew’. They practised intense social proximity and banged metal utensils merrily and mercilessly. Did these actions increase the danger of the community spread of the virus? If they did not, then why did the Prime Minister tweet the next day that many people had not taken the lockdown seriously? Mr. Modi did not ask people to erupt on the streets and endanger public health. However, it is not implausible that it happened because his message was interpreted by groups of people influenced by the present anti-science ecosystem. Dozens of pseudoscientific solutions to the pandemic are floating within this ecosystem. After Mr. Modi’s Friday morning address, claims about the prowess of light to fight the virus have begun circulating on social media. The Prime Minister has for years had the authority to crack down on this ecosystem. We would have been better placed in the fight against COVID-19 had he done so. And thus, the challenge: we are confronting a pandemic that only science and technology can fight in an ecosystem rife with belief in pseudoscience. The 20th century philosophers of science, Karl Popper and Imre Lakatos, argued that pseudoscience was a great danger to liberal societies. We can only hope that it is not irreversibly damaging India’s public health in this moment of crisis. Atul Mishra is an associate professor of International Relations at Shiv Nadar University. The views expressed are personal
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A million and counting||On April 2, the number of novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) infections in 181 countries/regions crossed one million, and deaths passed 50,000. On April 3, the total number of cases and deaths stood at 10,39,166 and 55,092, respectively. With 2,45,646 cases, the U.S. accounts for 24% of the global total, while Italy, with 13,915 deaths, has over 26% of total mortality. Four countries — the U.S., Italy, Spain and Germany — have more cases reported than China. The exponential increase becomes striking considering that the time taken to report 1,00,000 more cases has been reducing. If it took 12 days to double to 2,00,000, it took just three days each to cross 0.3 and 0.4 million. Thereafter, 0.1 million more cases have been reported every two days except on two occasions — the increase from 0.6 million to 0.7 million and 0.9 million to 1 million happened in a single day. Yet, the cases reported so far might be a small percentage of the actual numbers in most countries. The main limiting factor in knowing the true spread has been the restricted number of tests done in most countries, India included. In about a month after restrictions on testing were loosened, the number of tests in the U.S. crossed one million on March 30. While this may be a huge number, there is still a bottleneck in the number of people being tested. According to The Washington Post , as on March 28, only 2,250 tests per million were performed, which is two-thirds of what South Korea did three weeks earlier. Besides missing out those exhibiting mild symptoms and under-reporting by countries, the actual number of infections might be manifold higher as most countries have not made attempts to test those who do not show symptoms. There is accumulating evidence suggesting that a “substantial fraction” of people infected with the virus are asymptomatic. For instance, in South Korea, more than 20% of asymptomatic cases did not develop symptoms during hospitalisation. If in Italy the virus was spreading silently for about 50 days before the first case was reported on February 20, in Iceland, nearly half of the 20% who tested positive for the virus were either asymptomatic or showed only mild symptoms. The South China Morning Post said more than 43,000 people in China who tested positive by end-February were asymptomatic and unreported. Since April 1, China has been reporting new cases that are asymptomatic. China’s National Health Commission reports that as on March 31 there have been 1,541 asymptomatic cases. The World Health Organization maintains that the virus mainly spreads through droplets and contact with contaminated surfaces, and the risk of getting infected by an asymptomatic person is “very low”. In India, it is important to test travellers and trace and monitor their contacts. Otherwise, there remains the risk of continued spread once the lockdown is withdrawn.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Light and sound||Full of sound and piety but signifying little, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s third and latest address to the nation on the COVID-19 pandemic hardly calmed frayed nerves. Anxieties triggered by the pandemic are on the rise among all sections of society. The lockdown enforced on March 24 has brought the economy to a halt: small businesses are bleeding, and companies are scurrying to keep their heads above water. Migrant labourers are stranded and hungry; health workers and security personnel are already stretched. The extent of the pandemic itself remains uncertain, meanwhile. It is only natural that 130 crore Indians, the audience that the Prime Minister calls out to in all his speeches, have a lot of angst regarding all this. They did expect a reassuring action plan from the Prime Minister and a clear picture of the challenge ahead. They expected some clarity on the post-lockdown course for the country. They hoped for more mitigation measures, beyond those announced by the Finance Minister and the Reserve Bank of India Governor. Chief executives of many democracies have personally addressed the people with detailed and material plans of action since the outbreak. They have also kept the interaction alive, and two-way. The political leadership at the Centre has largely remained aloof. Mr. Modi himself continues with his monologues, shunning all questions. Rhetoric to rally the nation in a moment of crisis can actually do good. Unifying and galvanising the country is very critical in combating the pandemic. To the extent that it sought to achieve those goals, the Prime Minister’s message was purposeful. But gong and cymbals that drown out substantive conversations can be counterproductive. If the pandemic itself was not mind-boggling enough, now the country has a unique puzzle to resolve — which is about the nine-minute light ceremony at 9 p.m. on Sunday, April 5, that the Prime Minister has called for. Unsurprisingly, an industry has instantly sprung up online interpreting the choice of number nine as a stroke of celestial genius, forcing the Press Information Bureau to issue a clarification. “Don’t fall for the rumours and unscientific reasoning on the appeal for lighting diya…,” it said. The Prime Minister himself has repeatedly asked people to stay away from rumours and misinformation about the pandemic, and rely only on trusted media platforms. Mr. Modi has a formidable following among the Indian public and his words carry weight. But no country can talk its way out of a pandemic and an economic collapse. If words are all one has, the virus is not going to be kind. Nor is an economy going to stop its free fall at the sight of candles. Symbolism is infused with meaning only through corresponding action.
04 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Life turns turtle for MSMEs as lockdown chokes||The lockdown ordered to stem the spread of COVID-19 has swept over millions of small and medium enterprises in tier-2 and -3 cities and across India like a tsunami. Moving people and machines to facilitate work- from-home (WFH) options became a daunting task for many, as per industry executives of some mid-tier firms who narrate their harrowing experience. In some cases, attempts to prove something as ‘essential’ turned into debates between business owners and local administrators. Consequently, many enterprises and their employees, across places such as Mysore, Hassan, Udupi, Kochi, Pune, Ahmedabad, Surat, Nagpur, Goa, Jaipur, Coimbatore and Salem suffered in terms of lack of businesses continuity and clarity, physical hardship and mental stress. “It was nightmarish for many companies operating in Coimbatore and Salem. We were running [around] for permissions to move people and computers. We could easily move people and systems between Bengaluru and Chennai, but in Salem, the rules were different. And eventually, we lost several days of productivity and our employees suffered a lot,” explained Chocko Valliappa, CEO of IT services firm, Vee Technologies that employs 5,000 people across Bengaluru, Chennai and Salem. The situation was in stark contrast with the promises of many State governments that vie with each other to attract investments to small cities in their regions. Not enough time Certain mid-tier firms are of the opinion that the lockdown came upon them all of a sudden though the government would have been contemplating it at least a few days before it’s introduction. “Over 300 of our employees in Bengaluru and Chennai were thrown out of their respective hostels soon after the lockdown. We arranged some stay for them in Salem and tried to bring them to Chennai. But authorities made us send them back,” said Mr. Valliappa, whose company supports hospitals in the U.S. and in India by providing clinical documentation services. Udupi-based Robosoft Technologies, a UX and UI application development and digital advisory firm, too, said small firms had suffered huge disruptions after the lockdown. Robosoft and its arm, 99Games, together employ 600 people across Mangaluru, Mumbai and Bengaluru. Rohith Bhat, founder- CEO at the company said, “Fortunately, we anticipated the trouble slightly in advance. Some of our customers in Japan [gently] alerted us; therefore, three days before the first lockdown call, we started moving our men and machines. But we went through a very tough time. “Had we waited until the complete lockdown announcement, we surely would have faced huge downtime issues like many others.’’ CII acts Realising the gravity of the situation, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) sprang into action. It met the respective State governments and industries departments to chalk out ways to ensure business continuity for the entire MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) community in the country. ”We discussed a wide array of key topics with the Karnataka government and movement of people, material and machines was one of them,’’ said Ramesh Ramadurai, vice chairman, CII-Karnataka. The CII has urged all enterprises, which are still suffering connectivity or business continuity issues, to reach out to the industry association for assistance. Pradeep Bhargava, president of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) said most IT/ITeS firms in Pune were able to shift to WFH mode with relative ease; however, other firms, including manufacturing companies, big and small, struggled as the task involved touchpoints with facilities, staff, vendors and customers.
04 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Skies clearing for airlines||The dark shadow cast by the COVID-19 pandemic on the global aviation industry seems to be gradually wearing away, with some international carriers gearing up either to start limited operations to select destinations to ferry stranded passengers or to commence regular schedules. While Emirates has announced resumption of flights from its Dubai hub to London Heathrow, Frankfurt, Paris, Zurich and Brussels effective April 6, 2020, to carry only outbound passengers from UAE, Etihad Airways, from April 5, 2020, will operate a regular services starting with Seoul Incheon, followed by Melbourne, Singapore, Manila, Bangkok, Jakarta and Amsterdam. “These destinations are subject to government approvals,” the carrier said. “To date, these services have covered a number of destinations, including the U.S., Australia, and Sri Lanka. Etihad will continue to offer such services,” it said.Emirates said it would operate four flights a week to London Heathrow, and three flights a week to Frankfurt, Zurich, Brussels and Paris. Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, chairman and CEO, Emirates Airline and Group said, “These initial passenger services, although limited to travellers who meet the entry requirements set by the destination countries, will be welcomed by our customers seeking to return home to their countries and families.” “Our network can only be restored with the easing of travel restrictions,” he said. Singapore Airlines resumed limited flights to London, Frankfurt and Zurich. In April, a dozen flights each way will be operated to each of these destinations. Now it is operating flights to Los Angeles, Seoul and Sydney.
04 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Bajaj Auto March sales drop 38%||Bajaj Auto Ltd. has reported a 38% decline in sales of two-wheelers and commercial vehicles at 2,42,575 units for March 2020 compared with 3,93,351 units sold in the same period last year. The lockdown due to COVID-19 spread had impacted sales. Two-wheeler sales in the domestic market were down 55% at 98,412 units as compared with 2,20,213 units sold in the same period last year. However, the company exported more two-wheelers during this month at 1,12,564 units against 1,03,325 units in the same period last year, up 9%. Including domestic and exports, two wheeler sales were down 35% at 2,10,976 units against 3,23,538 units sold in the same period last year. Domestic commercial vehicle (CV) sales were down 53% at 18,129 units as compared to 38,972 units sold in the same period last year. CV exports were down 56% at 13,470 units as compared to 30,841 units sold in the same period last year. In total, CV sales were down 55% at 31,599 units as compared to 69,813 units sold in the year-earlier period last year. For FY20, the firm sold a total of 46,15,212 units compared to 50,19,503 units sold in the previous year, a decline of 8%.
04 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Foreign investors sell over Rs. 1 lakh-cr. securities in a month, for first time in history||For the first time in the history of the Indian capital markets, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have sold securities worth over Rs. 1 lakh crore in a single month. As per data from the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL), the cumulative net outflow from the debt and equity segments was pegged at Rs. 1.18 lakh crore in March — more than double the previous high of Rs. 44,000 crore witnessed in June 2013. Further, both the equity and debt segments have individually registered new highs in terms of monthly outflows of Rs. 61,973 crore and Rs. 60,376 crore, respectively. COVID-19 concerns According to market participants, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic that has affected stocks worldwide is the primary reason for such record outflows as foreign investors shy away from riskier assets and also, emerging markets. The global death toll of the pandemic had crossed the 50,000-mark with more than 10 lakh confirmed cases. In India, the last few days have seen a greater rise in the number of new cases thereby adding to investor concerns. Incidentally, the impact of the record sales by overseas investors has been clearly visible in the stock markets with the benchmark Sensex registering its worst monthly fall in over 11 years. In March, the 30-share barometer lost a little over 23% (23.05% to be precise) which was the highest since October 2008 when it plunged 23.89%. Currently, the Sensex, which closed at 27,590.95 on Friday after falling 674.36 points, or 2.39%, is trading over 53% lower than its intraday record high of 42,273.87 touched in January. Interestingly, buying by domestic institutional investors (DIIs), which include banks, insurance companies, mutual funds and domestic financial institutions, has been acting as a strong counter force to the selling by foreign investors. As per BSE data, March also saw the highest-ever monthly net purchases by DIIs who bought equities worth Rs. 55,595.18 crore. This was again double that of the previous high of Rs. 26,033.9 crore registered in October 2018. In the current calendar year, while FPIs have sold equities worth Rs. 51,832 crore — they were net buyers in January and February — DIIs have bought shares worth Rs. 74,554 crore. Meanwhile, the voluntary retention route, or VRR, in debt securities, which was opened up for FPI investments in January, has seen an inflow of Rs. 4,165 crore in March while hybrid securities saw a marginal outflow of Rs. 19 crore, according to NSDL data.  Currently, the Sensex is trading over 53% lower than the intraday record high of 42,274 in January
04 April 2020||Chennai,||TAFE gesture to farmers of U.P., Rajasthan||Tractors and Farm Equipment Ltd. (TAFE) has unveiled a free tractor rental scheme for small and marginal farmers of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh for a period of 90 days from April 1 as they are facing distress following the COVID-19 pandemic. The scheme will be available across 20 districts of Rajasthan and 25 districts of Uttar Pradesh, said Mallika Srinivasan, CMD, TAFE. On offer are 11,000 Massey Ferguson and Eicher tractors along with 50,000 implements in Rajasthan and 3,000 tractors and 15,000 implements in U.P.
04 April 2020||MUMBAI,||M&M drops plan to fund Korean arm||The board of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. on Friday rejected a proposal to infuse any fresh equity in SsangYong Motor Company (SYMC) to help the Korean auto company tide over a difficult phase. M&M’s board of directors held a special meeting to review investment in SYMC and to discuss capital allocation in the light of the COVID-19 impact. The management and labour union of SsangYong had requested fresh injection of equity from M&M to help the company fund 500 billion KRW ($406 million) of requirements over the next three years.
04 April 2020||Mumbai,||Third TLTRO for Rs. 25,000 cr. on April 7||To ensure adequate liquidity in the system, especially in the corporate bond market, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday announced the third targeted long-term repo operation (TLTRO) on April 7 for Rs. 25,000 crore. The central bank announced the LTROs on February 6 and has pumped in Rs. 1 lakh crore since then. The TLTRO was announced on March 27. It has so far done two tranches worth Rs. 50,000 crore and the initial target is Rs. 1 lakh crore. The second tranche was conducted for Rs. 25,000 crore on Friday. The new issue coming up on April 7 is for a three-year tenor, the central bank said.
04 April 2020||Mumbai,||RBI halves trading hours for markets||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has reduced market hours between April 7 and April 17 in view of the lockdown. The call money market, government securities market, currency market, commercial paper market and others that typically open at 9 a.m. and close at 5 p.m. will now be open between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. The central bank said the ‘unprecedented’ situation created by the COVID-19 outbreak has necessitated lockdowns, social distancing and restrictions on movement of people. “The dislocations have adversely impacted the functioning of financial markets,” it said. “To minimise risks and ensure market participants maintain adequate checks and supervisory controls while optimising thin resources and ensuring safety of personnel, it has been decided to revise trading hours for various markets,” it added.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Need to monetise deficit with RBI subscribing to primary issue of g-secs: SBI Report||At a time when market appetite is low due to COVID-19 pandemic, there is a need to monetise deficit with the Reserve Bank subscribing to the primary issues of dated central government securities, a SBI report has suggested.PTI
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IOC revises qualification deadlines||The International Olympic Committee has revised its qualification deadline for the Tokyo Games to June 29, 2021. Many yet to complete The 2020 Olympics, postponed by a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, has forced the IOC and International Federations to rework their qualification and tournament calendar. While some of the events, like hockey, have already completed their qualification processes and will not be affected, several, including badminton and track & field were yet to complete the same. In a communiqué to National Olympic Associations, the IOC has now confirmed the new dates. “The new qualification period deadline is 29 June 2021, and IFs can define their own qualification period deadlines, should the deadline be prior to this date. The revised final sport entries deadline has now been set for 5 July 2021,” it said. The IOC also reiterated its efforts to revise an overall final qualification system at the earliest, even as soon as mid-April, but admitted that specifics would only come later. “We understand that at this time these are unlikely to include the full details on the dates and locations of the specified events, recognising that these will follow later as the impacts of COVID-19 and its related restrictions become clearer. “We aim to finalise the adapted qualification systems by mid-April, with the details on specific events to follow when available. The priority remains to reflect, where possible, the allocation method/pathway of the original qualification systems for each sport,” it added. The IOC, while allowing international federations the discretion to tweak their rankings system accordingly, sought to ensure sport-specific balance between protecting those close to qualifying in 2020 and giving the top performers of 2021 a chance to qualify. It also authorised IFs to decide on the age-eligibility of athletes who may not make the cut in 2020 but do so in 2021. While there is no upper age limit, sports like gymnastics (16 years), football (under-23) and boxing (17) have a minimum age.
04 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Ashish Kumar learning from Vijender’s game||Middleweight boxer Ashish Kumar has not yet met Vijender Singh, but the 25-year-old from Himachal Pradesh draws inspiration from the Olympic bronze medallist. For Ashish, who booked an Olympic quota place at the Asia/Oceania qualifying event in Amman last month, watching Vijender box is a learning process. “I have never met Vijender bhai sahib , but I like his counterattacks and long-range game,” Ashish told The Hindu . Special weight category Ashish knows the importance of representing the country in the middleweight category, in which Indian boxers have given fine performances in the last three Olympics. Vijender bagged the bronze medal in 2008 and made it to the quarterfinals in 2012, Vikash Krishan, a World championships medallist, reached the last eight in 2016. “My seniors have done well. Our middleweight boxers have set a high standard and I want to maintain this,” said Ashish, who has been fighting in this weight category since 2012. Ashish, who claimed silver at the Asian championships and gold at the Thailand Open, gained his quota place after overcoming some tough times. “I sustained a leg injury. Then, I lost my father. I am happy that, despite this, I could bring cheer to my family with success at the Olympic qualifying event. “My family, which has some boxers and wrestlers, always supported me. My brother Johnny Chaudhary, an international wrestler, has backed me right from the start. “After my father’s death, he did not let me stay at home as the situation could have distracted me. He motivated me saying my father had always wanted me to compete in the Olympics and win a medal,” said Ashish. Thanking JSW for its support, Ashish said, “When I badly needed a sponsor, they came forward.” Having achieved his first target of qualifying for the Olympics, Ashish wants to make the most of the additional time following the postponement of the Tokyo Games. “I now have more time to make myself stronger and better prepared.” Keeping in touch In the time of lockdown, Ashish is doing his best to stay in touch with boxing. “We get inputs from our coaches through video conferencing. I stay indoors and do strength exercises and follow the training schedule given by the coaches,” said Ashish.  I now have more time to make myself stronger and better prepared
04 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Numbers reveal that women’s cricket is fast gaining in popularity||Biju George was following the recent women’s T20 World Cup closely. That wasn’t surprising as he had been the fielding coach of the Indian team till recently. Biju, though, was stunned to know that all his friends in his hometown of Thiruvananthapuram, too, had watched the mega event held in Australia. He was in for a bigger ‘shock’ when the ICC released the viewership figures of the tournament: it was the most watched ICC event after the 2019 men’s ODI World Cup. Across the digital channels, there were 5.4 billion viewing minutes in India alone. The Indian fans were in for a disappointment in the final, though, as the Women in Blue were comprehensively beaten by the host. That match was watched by 86,174 fans. Among them was former India seamer Snehal Pradhan. “Both Cricket Australia and ICC deserve credit for making the World Cup such a big success,” she told The Hindu . “Though I wasn’t surprised that it became such a big hit on television, I didn’t expect it would become the ICC's second-most watched event.” Snehal said Cricket Australia had done a lot of work on the ground, while the ICC promoted the World Cup through its digital platforms well. “This World Cup was further proof that women’s cricket is fast rising in popularity,” she said. Biju could not have agreed more. “When I joined the support staff of the Indian team, many of my friends did not even know that we had a national team,” he said. “India reaching the final of the 2017 World Cup, riding on Harmanpreet Kaur’s astonishing innings against Australia in the semifinal is, of course, the main reason for the change in fortune for women’s cricket here. “We should also give credit to the huge improvement in quality across the international teams.” Just curious! Snehal said there was a time when people used to come to a watch a match in India just out of curiosity. “Years ago, I had played a game in front of a full house at Rajkot, but most spectators were there just to see how the girls played cricket,” she said. “That is no longer the case.”
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM Modi tells Indian sportspersons to ‘boost morale’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged current and former Indian sportspersons on Friday to help “boost morale” and encourage people to adhere to a nationwide lockdown aimed at containing the coronavirus. Modi held a video conference with 40 stars across various sports, including Sachin Tendulkar, Viswanathan Anand, P.V. Sindhu and Hima Das, his office said. They have a “very important role to play in boosting the morale of the nation as well as spreading the message of social distancing along with asking people to continuously follow advisories given during lockdown,” said Modi. Face challenges He said traits learned in sport such as the “ability to face challenges, self-discipline, positivity and self-belief are the essential tools to combat the spread of the virus.” The athletes also “praised the leadership of the Prime Minister in this challenging times,” according to the statement.
04 April 2020||Sydney,||Everyone keen for IPL to go ahead: Cummins||Pat Cummins, the costliest foreign player in the Indian Premier League, said everyone, including his team Kolkata Knight Riders, was still hopeful of the 13th edition of the T20 event to go ahead sometime later. The Australian, however, conceded that the priority now was to minimise the risk of spreading the coronavirus. The IPL was originally scheduled to start on March 29 in Mumbai but it was postponed to April 15 due to the worsening COVID-19 pandemic which has killed more than 53,000 people worldwide. “Everyone is still really keen for it (IPL) to go ahead, but the priority is to minimise risk of it spreading,” Cummins was quoted as saying by the Australian Associated Press. India is currently under a lockdown until April 14, which has cast serious doubts over the future of the cash-rich event’s 13th edition. The 26-year-old Australian has been in constant touch with the KKR team which bought him for a whopping Rs. 15.5 crore.
04 April 2020||COIMBATORE,||Mixed feelings for Ramanathan Krishnan||When The Championships was called off a couple of days ago due to COVID-19, many former champions expressed disappointment. Ramanathan Krishnan, who made the world take notice of India with his exploits at the prestigious event in the sixties, shared his views too. “My immediate feeling about the cancellation was one of joy and sorrow,” he told The Hindu from Chennai. “It’s sort of joy to me as it’s going to save the players, the spectators and the others involved, from this virus threat. At the same time, it’s one of sorrow as the players may have to miss the event for a year,” he added. Huge loss Krishnan, a semifinalist in 1960 & ’61 and who reached a world-ranking of No. 6, said that in a tennis player’s career, losing one year of Wimbledon is a huge loss. “It’s so precious not only for the international stars but also for the Indian players. I feel sad for them because we do not know whether they would carry the same form or confidence next year.” He was quick to add that one must not take a chance with corona. “Good luck to the players,” he signed off. His son, Ramesh Krishnan, who had reached the Wimbledon quarterfinals (1986), said these were quite extraordinary times. “Sorry this has to happen and, in the present scenario, we have plenty on our mind. Also, things are so uncertain that playing the sport is not a priority at the moment,” said Ramesh. The Wimbledon and French Open junior title-winner in 1979, Ramesh said it’s going to be tough for all players. “The main thing is to remain fit so that when things return to normalcy you can get going. For the older players such as Federer and Serena Williams, it’s a year lost, which is a lot for them.” Ramesh, a regular visitor to Wimbledon, said, “I was looking forward to my travel this year, but that will have to wait for another year.”
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sinha lends coaching a tech touch||In Sunny Days, his best-selling autobiography, Sunil Gavaskar credits his mother for giving him lessons in batting in the balcony of his house in Mumbai. Many cricketers share similar experiences of one of their family members chipping in as a volunteer. In the current times of lockdown, noted coach Tarak Sinha has kept his wards engaged by using technology to reach out to his students, especially those in the under-15 section. “I give them lessons through video messages and we interact constantly to ensure the process is maintained in this critical phase for all us,” Sinha told The Hindu . The idea, as Sinha explained, was to keep the youngsters in a state of positive mindset. “Most youngsters, who are kind of outdoor individuals, find it tough to be locked inside the house. They can get restless and also there is this fear of losing focus. This is the best way to stay connected with them,” he added.  Sinha’s day begins with planning coaching lessons for batsmen and bowlers; even fielders too. How? “What I do is I ask them to record a particular action. For batsmen, it can be forward and backfoot defence, execution of shots like cover drive and sweep, which have to be strictly by the book. “For bowlers, it can be the loading and delivery, and the short follow-through. Obviously much depends on the space available for these kids to record their videos.” Sinha has a big pool of internationals players from Delhi’s iconic Sonnet Club such as Surender Khanna, Randhir Singh, K.P. Bhaskar, Raman Lamba, Manoj Prabhakar, Atul Wassan, Sanjeev Sharma, Aakash Chopra, Ajay Sharma, Ashish Nehra, Shikhar Dhawan and Rishabh Pant.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ayushi steps it up in tough rifle event||It is the toughest event in rifle and pistol. The rifle 3-position event demands 120 shots during qualification, 40 each in kneeling, prone and standing positions. Thereafter, it is a 45-shot final. Unlike air events, in which youngsters shoot from 10 metres to strike world class scores very early in their career, the 50m event requires considerable experience and expertise. Remarkable progress Given this backdrop, the 19-year-old Ayushi Podder has done remarkably well to be among the six shortlisted for the Tokyo Olympics. Ayushi has had impressive scores of 1174 and 1168 in the Olympic trials. From shooting 1121 in the junior section of the 2018 World championship in Korea, to scores of 1137 and 1154 in the junior World Cups in Suhl, Ayushi has come a long way in a short time. “Ayushi is one of the most promising and consistent juniors,” says the high performance coach of the Indian rifle team, Olympian Deepali Deshpande. Ayushi’s father Pankaj Podder, who works with the Railways, is himself a national-level shooter, and internationally qualified coach. It was Pankaj who initiated Mehuli Ghosh, Commonwealth Games air rifle silver medallist, into shooting, along with his daughter, when he set up the Bull’s Eye Academy in 2014. Groomed for 2024 Having done well at the Khelo India Youth Games, Ayushi was recently inducted into TOPS and is part of the development group being groomed for the 2024 Games. Ayushi, a brilliant pencil-sketch artist, has also trained in Odissi under Dona Ganguly, wife of former India captain Sourav Ganguly. Now, during the lockdown, she relaxes with Western dance and music, and keeps fit through yoga.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu lauds PM’s efforts||World champion P.V. Sindhu, who was among the sports personalities engaged in a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday morning, lauded the efforts of the Government of India in handling the coronavirus crisis. In a two-minute video call with the PM from her residence, Sindhu said: “We all should thank you sir for taking the measures [that you have]. We appreciate the 21-day lockdown. It is important to maintain social distance and stay safe,” said the 2016 Rio Olympics silver medallist. Sindhu and her father P.V. Ramana have been in self-quarantine after returning from the All England championship in the middle of March. World championship bronze medallist B. Sai Praneeth told The Hindu: “For want of time, not all of us could speak [to the PM]. “Only a few like Sachin [Tendulkar], [Sourav] Ganguly and Sindhu did. We were told to create massive awareness about the precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said.
04 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Key is to use this time effectively: Haridas||For the elite sportspersons, especially those aspiring to make it to the Olympics, this period is very crucial, according to Ajith Haridas, former National-level badminton player and chief mentor of Hatsun Badminton Centre, an exclusive residential badminton facility (Thiruthangal, Virudhunagar District), How well they make use of the available resources and time during this period of lockdown and curfew will be the key to how they reach peak fitness during the Games, according to Ajit. “The situation is unprecedented. If they use the time better during the lockdown, they might be able to get better results. What they do at home will make a huge difference. It is not difficult to maintain fitness. If you want to, there are always ways,” said Ajith, who was a former National junior doubles champion. The 45-year-old said for an intensive sport like badminton, fitness routine is a bit complicated given the situation, but players can still remain active. “If you haven’t done much in the 3-4 weeks, it will take time, probably 2-3 months to get back to peak form,” he said.  Ajith said the sport requires “endurance like a marathoner but not at the same level. For each rally is different and there are ups and downs in every point. “One needs to have tremendous leg strength, but not like a weightlifter, a bit supple. You have to be like a gymnast being able to get up [when you have slipped] and keep playing. You require strength, endurance, speed, agility and reflex,” he observed. At his home in Chennai, Ajith is planning new coaching ideas and strategies for each of his wards (personally) of which Rithvik Sanjeevi and Siddhanth Gupta are the most prominent junior players. “Two-and-a-half years of our hard work are beginning to show. Now we are planning to send our players to more International tournaments,” he said.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||TCS 10K to be run on Sept. 13||The 13th edition of the TCS World 10K run will be held on September 13, the organisers announced on Friday. The IAAF gold label event was initially scheduled for May 17.  The organisers mentioned that the new date was announced with “a prayer on our lips” in the hope that COVID-19 subsides to allow the run to take place. The online registrations for the rescheduled event will commence on July 2 on https://tcsworld10k.procam.in  The entries for runners who have already registered will be transferred to the new race date at no additional charge. Registered runners who choose not to take part on the rescheduled date can surrender their entry between May 12 and 29 on the above website. The application fees will be refunded, with a deduction of Rs. 150 as processing charge.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Life more important than IPL: Raina||The IPL can wait till millions of lives which are at risk due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic are saved, felt veteran India batsman Suresh Raina. Raina has already done his bit in the fight against the deadly virus by donating Rs. 52 lakh, one of the highest donations among elite sportspersons. Asked about the IPL, which has been postponed to April 15 but is unlikely to take place in the near future, Raina said “it is all about life” at the moment. “Life is most important at this point of time. IPL can surely wait. When life gets better, we can think about IPL. Now, we need to save lives,” Raina said.
04 April 2020||Chennai,||Joshna moves to 11th spot||Joshna Chinappa moved to 11 from 12 in the women’s category as per the latest PSA world squash rankings released on Thursday. In the men’s section, Saurav Ghosal remained on 13. Vikram Malhotra jumped three places to 47, while Mahesh Mangaonkar moved into the top 50. He is ranked 49, a jump of two places from 51. Closing in on him was Ramit Tandon at the 53rd spot.
04 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||A moral obligation to help, says Narasimha Rao||M.V. Narasimha Rao has been putting his time to good use. The former India cricketer, who moved to Ireland in 1989, helps take care of the elders in his community with his daughter Kamini, the coordinator of the Strabane Ethnic Community. “In Ireland and the UK, senior citizens live alone. In the wake of the Coronavirus, we felt it is our moral obligation to help them,” said Rao, popularly known as ‘Bobjee’, in a chat with The Hindu on Friday. Conscious effort The 65-year-old said, with reports suggesting the situation will worsen, it is a conscious effort to assist those unable to manage alone. “Since we know most of them, they call us and we drop necessities like groceries and medicines at their doorstep,” said the former leg-spinner. “Having been involved in the past with community service through cricket in my adopted country — during testing times experienced by the ethnic communities in Northern Ireland — I am accustomed to contributing in my own little way,” he said. Bobjee, who captained Hyderabad when it won the Ranji Trophy for only the second time (in 1987; the first was in 1932) and later the Irani Trophy, said it is difficult to be out of action. “But there is no option. For any athlete, it is time to give back to the community in terms of serving the needy,” he said.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 10:20 IST,||Sudoku - April 4, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||A Tokyo zombie flick done right||The real and reel come together fortuitously in Shinichiro Ueda’s Japanese zombie comedy, One Cut of the Dead . The little known film, made at almost zero budget, with a relatively unheard of cast and crew, went on to become a blockbuster in its own right. The ingenuity of the cult hit of 2018, is in how cleverly self-referential it is. It is about the goings-on at the shoot of a low budget zombie film in an abandoned water filtration plant. The film revels in its own home video feel but also doffs its hat to the grungy aesthetics of film that it’s about — a perennially on-the-move camera — among the many improvisations on the set. One Cut of the Dead demystifies cinema to a great humorous and humane effect. Freaks, undead corpses, butcherings, blood, gore, screams and shouts — all the conventions of a zombie film are there. But with a twist. Of course there’s a 37-minute single-take opening shot. But the biggest strength is the eccentric but likeable characters. The perfectionist director who, despite the limitation of resources, wants the 43rd take to get the “real fear” and “true shiver” out of his actress. And the emotional side-story of him and his daughter, the one who truly believes in him and is a true inheritor of his filmmaking legacy. Telling readers, anything more would be giving the film away. Suffice to say that the chills, thrills, laughter, and cries make the film just what the doctor has ordered to fight the moody blues in the COVID-19 times. But this is also a film whose joy has to be shared in the best of company. If only you could have a viewing party. One Cut of the Dead is currently streaming on Mubi India
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Meditative mysteries||With my limited knowledge of the world of arts, before embarking on the new Amazon series, I had to educate myself on Swedish artiste Simon Stalenhag’s phantasmagoric works. The characteristic juxtaposition of giant robots, massive machines, mammoth structures and humongous flying saucers against an everyday landscape — cars careening on expressways, kids playing in the field or walking in the meadow with their parents. Stalenhag’s work is exquisite, intriguing and enigmatic, a combination of the real and the surreal that enchants even as it confounds. In that sense the three episodes of Tales from the Loop that one got to preview can also best be described as poetic puzzles. The beautifully shot series approximates Stalenhag’s visuality. The retro-futuristic scenery is omnipresent in each of the episodes even as human, emotional tales play out at the core. The bizarre backdrop itself may have a remote, distancing effect but the people, their relationships, dilemmas, and feelings are relatable and universal. Based on Simon Stalenhag’s narrative book by the same name, the series is an assortment of stories involving townspeople (Sweden relocated to small town America) living above the “Loop”, a machine that is supposed to unlock and explain the mysteries of the universe. The episodes I saw were all to do with reconciliation and underlined with melancholia and also a hope for continuities. The first, about abandonment and coming to terms with it, has young Loretta (Abby Ryder Fortson) wondering about the nature of her mother’s work in the Loop and going on a search herself. One that makes her realise that people and things disappear and get lost and one has to give oneself time to heal from loss. Episode four, has another kid Cole (Duncan Joiner) understanding the meaning of life and death, of the unfairness of sudden absences of people, all through a mysterious structure called Echo Sphere. And episode six, a new take on an age-old doppelgänger tale, has the security person at the Loop, Gaddis (Ato Essandoh) coming to terms with his own unresolved loneliness and craving for irrational love and fulfilment, by landing into an unknown parallel world. Will this new plane of existence be the answer? Will it lead him to the start of something new? Like all good sci-fi it’s the human aspect that makes an impact, but plenty of the elements of technological fantasy feel more facile than profound. The scientific design and human drama feels at a disjunct at points. The open-endedness makes science feel almost spiritual and haunting at points and at others annoyingly inane. The element of the unknown have a touch of The Twilight Zone but I thought the eeriness lingered there more chillingly, or perhaps I am another generation of viewer altogether. The cast is led by the ever-dependable Jonathan Pryce, as the force behind the Loop, an actor who cannot put a wrong foot forward, but it’s the two children — Fortson and Joiner — and Essandoh who steal the show. The narrative moves slowly, and at points the stillness gets immovable. It’s an aspect that you feel more intently in these socially distanced days when time seems to be stuck. The calmness, however, is that it also makes you notice the tiniest of details. The poster of Swedish filmmaker Ingmar Bergman’s Summer With Monika in the local cinema, in the first episode for instance. A nod to flighty women as well as the series’ Swedish origins? But how would the film have got released there is still perplexing me. On a more serious note, the contemplative mood will either make you feel more invested in the stories or may just make you want to get off the ride even as The Tales from the Loop tries hard to balance between the bleak and the beautiful. The Tales from the Loop is now streaming on Amazon Prime
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||In seeds we trust||When we started our seed saving efforts in 2012, I remember travelling to local seed markets across cities to look for traditional varieties — only to find most seeds chemically coated (for pest control). My search then took me to my aunt’s village, Vedireswaram in Andhra Pradesh, where I picked up pumpkin, lablab and eggplant seeds. While visits to Hyderabad’s Good Seeds Organic Market, seed saving exchanges and local farmers in Karnataka widened my network, they also made me realise that there was no open market for seeds. This is what prompted Kabir and I to spread the story of seeds, without getting into the economic and socio-political drivers that control the markets today. As seed companies are centralised, we can’t rely on them because they don’t take into consideration the micro environmental and soil conditions. Whether you buy seeds from a company or a farmer, the risk the same, but saving your own seeds will guarantee the same crop — exactly what we are pushing for. World on your plate People often question us about eating what’s native to the region, but did you know that most of the edible food crops and vegetables we grow in India today have been brought in by explorers, traders, invaders, and travellers? So think before you say foods like aloo bhaji , makki di roti and sesame-jaggery chikki are India’s traditional food. A few months ago, we did a story on Instagram exploring vegetable varieties and their origins and it was quite an eye opener for everyone. For instance, plantains are a staple in West and Central Africa, the Caribbean islands, Central America, among other regions, the snake gourd is regarded a native species in Northern Australia, pumpkins originated in the Americas, and tomatoes and chillies came from Mexico, Central and South America. We illustrated several examples like these and received many queries on the myths associated with growing patterns. Many argued that corn is native to India, whereas all varieties came from Mexico. It is important to embrace all foods that grow in our sub-continent no matter where they originated. As long as they grow well in our conditions and in the right season, they will not fail in giving us nutrition. Native or not, food that is grown in a healthy manner will keep us healthy. Shifting patterns We, along with Kabir’s parents, are the only farmers in the region who grow specific diverse crops, such as dry land rice. We hunted down tribal villages in Kabini three years ago and managed to find a lone seed saver there who was kind enough to share a few seeds with us. We have had many people approach us for them and we pass them on only on the condition that they double them and share it among the community. Seed saving is something close to our hearts, and instances like these have proved that someone has to save seeds or else they will be lost over time. In villages today, the younger generations don’t eat millets and ragi, and instead opt for polished white rice. They can grow dry rice, but choose to work in cities. These changing value systems affect us, especially Kabir, who has been a farmer all his life. We hope things change with our work, although I am aware it won’t happen soon; perhaps we can see some changes in a decade. At the farm It is approximated that an average of 3-5 growing seasons are required for a seed to stabilise in a certain environment, so patience is key. At Yarroway Farm, we grow a healthy mix of annual and perennial crops. We start our seed saving work every year between December and March. This is when the moisture levels are low in the air during the day and the dry season starts settling in. We hand-harvest our vegetable and fruit seeds from the most vigorous plants from each crop that did not struggle with any stress or disease, and carefully sun dry them. For root crops such as ginger and turmeric, we select the best rhizomes as seed material and store them in soil in a corner in the farm. With large field crops such as wheat, rice, flax, sesame, etc. we let the seed dry on the plant itself. While we set our field crop seeds such as oil seeds, millets, grains and pulses aside for consumption and sales, we need to already plan how much area we are planting next year. We also keep some extra seeds as a backup in case of floods or unexpected crop damage, or simply barter them with a fellow farmer. Let’s say this is our emergency savings account to keep the farm going. Buying seeds every year is not a cost-effective method for any farmer or gardener because seed costs can account up to 20-40% of farm inputs depending on the crop variety. How to save them Harvesting the seed at the right time does not need a science lab. It can be achieved with common sense and the power of observation alone. Preserving seeds and keeping them viable is an important task to maintain the continuity of the cycle. The key is not to over-dry them after harvesting. Then starts the process of extraction from their pods, cleaning, sorting away the lighter seeds that didn’t fully mature and finally getting them sun dried and prepared for the next season. Most seeds need a resting period before they can be sowed. Maybe this is Nature’s way of showing us the right season to sow them. Preserving them in a cool, dry place and not exposing them to air or light improves their shelf life. Some seed varieties such as chillies/peppers and onions survive for only a year, while others such as beans, carrots and spinach manage to survive for decades and centuries if stored well.  Anjali Rudraraju and Kabir Cariappa of Karnataka’s Yarroway Farm join us with a series that explores what it takes to keep a farm running.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus: not a marketing hook||Recently, while cruising the world on my handheld from the comfort of my wingback, I was almost thrown right off it! I had just read that Patek Philippe, the holy grail of the watch world, would be selling online. In the larger scheme, I know the internet hasn’t been around too long. But for an industry (and certain brands) that has long outlived and survived the French revolution, two World Wars and an Economic Depression, the fact that the most coveted of manufactures in the field would be succumbing to the clime of the times and acquiescing to online sales is a sign of just how bad things are. For many watch collectors and even nifty businessfolk, if they weren’t taking the Covid-19 threat seriously earlier, this has come as the undeniable reckoner. Buying a Patek is not an off-hand purchase that you do while pottering about on your phone in the middle of the night like, say, some rubbish fitness belt or a home massage kit. It is an occasion, one that is marked by many a praise that the store folk will shower on you for your fine taste (and fat wallet) and oft accompanied by a bottle of sparkler going pop somewhere in the background. To simply make a PayPal transaction to acquire such a celebrated timepiece, you’d have to be stinking rich and absolutely spartan at the same time. A growing tide But they aren’t the only ones. Rolex, people are now debating, might joint the fray. Hodinkee, the online portal and marketplace for luxury watches, is hiring people who may have lost jobs in the real space, providing online space for brands to sell their ware, as also putting the works of various writers in the spotlight, all in a bid to ‘keep things moving along’. There are discounts but there is also a contribution from all sales towards funds to fight against coronavirus. Many other brands are already gearing up to reach their consumers in unprecedented ways. Luxury always has it tough because when budgets get tightened, the first thing to go is spending power and the list of wants gets relegated. I may desire to own a flashy watch or a pen, but right now I need to ensure that I have medical emergency funds ready for the days ahead. Indulgences therefore need to be monitored. Time to build brands In the last month, two great international watch events got canned, the Olympics stands postponed, the fashion seasons have been derailed, even Apple and Google are debating when and how to launch their next models. The virus has certainly hit us where it hurts worst and in a manner that no-one predicted. Since no business or industry can afford to be blasé about the state of things, this is where brand building comes in. Even if it doesn’t have the ring of a Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel, the indomitable human spirit will find ways to conjure up marketing in the time of Covid-19, because inasmuch as this pandemic is bad for sales and profits, in the long run, it is a great time to earn some brand cred through socially woke campaigns. The time, thus, is rife for creating equity through contributions to noble causes — from liquor brands manufacturing sanitisers (Diageo, Goa Brewing and Paul John are doing it) to cooking meals for the stranded (ITC hotels and Cafe Lota come to mind), from making online courses free or discounting them heavily (BarSmart, Fondation de Haute Horlogerie), to creating virtual classrooms for everything from guitar lessons to fitness sessions. Even a sector like travel is finding ways to connect. Portuguese tourism is pushing on with their #CantSkipHope campaign (to replace #CantSkipPortugal) and Maldives has #VisitMaldivesLater. Alcohol brands, notwithstanding the non-availability of their product, which does put a damper on everybody’s never-ending weekend, are using this time to generate traction — like the #AloneTogether posts on the pages of brews like Beeyoung and Kati Patang. Bira91 went a step further and managed to send out ‘Stay-home’ hampers just before the lockdown was enforced. The escape route Meanwhile, most online stores — from sneakers to luxury goods — are offering huge discounts to keep buyers spending. The marketing messages have been one constant emphatic barrage. And there are other more generic trends, which will surely get picked up by brands to cash in on, from Dalgona coffee to home recipes from famous chefs, or working into a fitness routine (where Myntra will advise you what to buy, from a yoga mat to noise-isolating headphones).  The online space and all its apps have never had a more captive audience. Online engagements are fine-tuning themselves to become the chasm of escape, to give someone a chance to virtually get away momentarily and distract themselves from the ennui of their immediate confines, to be able to live and think freely even when the walls are closing in. Zoom, the video-conferencing app, has seen more downloads in a month than TikTok and WhatsApp will, combined!  Of course, money certainly makes the whole episode easier and it is a position of privilege to be able to even contemplate all such ‘getaways’ as the lesser fortunate are being doused like cattle by the roadside with pool cleaning agents. Life is anything but fair.  For example, Ethos watches has announced one of the most tempting online sales ever with discounts as high as 50% on some very exquisite and rare timepieces. They have managed to reach me through personal calls, messages, emails and even online adverts. They know their target client and they understand the urgency of the moment. And inasmuch as I know a fabulous deal when I see one, I also know that I shouldn’t (and can’t) splurge right at this moment, but I am enjoying the warm gratitude that at least I am in a position to be tortured with such ephemeral first world issues rather than anything that’s remotely immediate and threatening.    In the meantime, brands have little else to do but sit and wait this pandemic out, a curious case where our helplessness and inaction are the most effective tools in combatting this menace, even as it sends the economy and society into free fall.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Diets in times of disequilibrium||For the first time in years we have been stirred by images of migrant workers attempting to cross borders within our country, hungry and powerless. Perhaps it is because we have finally had the time to feel. In our comfortable homes, we have experienced empathy, some guilt, a great deal of thankfulness, and a sense of responsibility in the way we procure food and eat. We are finally measuring our lives in coffee spoons — not a bad thing in times like these. “It is a good time to reflect on what we are eating,” says Manjari Chandra, a functional nutritionist in Delhi. She talks of minimalism when it comes to food, looking at fasting (for 14 to 16 hours) instead of feasting, and building responsible food practices like stopping before we are full or cutting down the number of meals we have in a day. Here is how you can buy and eat more mindfully — taking into account our own nutrition, the health of our community, and our environment, because in the end, everything is connected. Building immunity Your only innate guard is immunity, and because we have a long way to go, it is best to try and get this strengthened, says Chandra. It is not like popping a pill though — a couple of bone broths and salads may not immediately get you a more robust immune system. “Look at it as working on the terrain.” She means when every part of the body is strengthened, and all your systems are working like they should, it is likely you will have good immunity. “The immunity function lies in the gut, so those who have constipation, acidity, or any other gut malfunction, could strengthen it with vitamins (especially vitamin C) and minerals (zinc, magnesium, selenium),” adds Chandra. Again, people who are immune-compromised are those who have hormonal imbalances, endocrine-related disorders like diabetes, and autoimmune conditions. It is important to know that everyone can gradually build immunity. Onion, ginger, garlic, tulsi , pomegranate, and eucalyptus are all anti-viral foods that can reduce the chance of you contracting a viral infection. However, there are no definitive studies on how much of each is good to consume. It is safe to put these in the traditional foods we eat. Star anise can be had in a tea with mint: it has shikimic acid that is used in the medicine Tamiflu to treat the H1N1 virus. Black pepper, asafoetida, and carom ( ajwain/oman ) are also helpful. Cutting inflammation Internal inflammation makes you susceptible to disease. Highly processed foods, and a diet rich in refined oils, high carbohydrate, high protein, and simple sugars cause inflammation. Cut down on sucrose-rich fruits that cause insulin spikes. Dietician Sheela Krishnaswamy says we need to use this time as an opportunity to eat healthy. “Cooking fresh, not ordering in, and not buying processed-packaged food are valuable practices we can take into the days ahead.” In Goa, where she is based, and fruits are a currently a rarity, (while vegetables are not regularly supplied in the market), she says it is possible to work with what is at home — cereals and dals , changing these up if possible, millets- dal , brown-rice- dal , wholewheat- dal . These give the macronutrients and some micronutrients. She says it is a good idea to add ghee and/or coconut oil and simple spices and herbs to the food for antioxidant protection. If you can set some curd at home, nothing like it, for beneficial bacteria. The availability of minerals and vitamins in whole sprouted grains, like ragi, green gram, chana , goes up and their digestibility increases as starch is partially broken down. Time to innovate It is also a time to look around the house and consume all the little bottles of ingredients that we have put on the backshelf. Finish the raw peanuts and the leftover nuts and seeds — do soak them overnight to get rid of the anti-nutrients, which are plant compounds like phytates that reduce the absorption of minerals. And while you are drinking manjal , have it with milk — it needs a fat medium to be better absorbed, says Lovneet Batra, a sports nutritionist in Delhi.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||India gets its fashion rescue fund||Covid-19 is the biggest crisis to date for the apparel and fashion industry globally. In India, where the textile industry is the second largest employer, its health is critical to the country’s welfare. Will the fashion design industry, important to the sector’s ecosystem, be another casualty? Earlier this week, Dastkar (a society for crafts and craftspeople) re-opened its Artisan Support Fund. Crafts are a part of India’s aesthetic and culture, said chairperson Laila Tyabji in her letter to the media, adding that they are also a vital part of our economy. Her fund will help craftspeople who are homebound and without markets, buyers or orders. Last week, she had spoken out on how this community is the most vulnerable during lockdown and will continue to be so after the pandemic subsides. Sandeep Khosla of prominent label Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla (AJSK), known for reviving crafts such aschikankari,had agreed with her but also pointed out, “If we go bust as designers, we lose the ability to be employers and safeguard our workforce.”  Trickle-down effect  Fashion designers are trying to do their best for their employees — for example, AJSK are paying full salaries to staff despite the lockdown and hope to be able to do this for as long as they can. But what about the Rs. 1.7 lakh crore Gareeb Kalyan Yojana announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, to help the poor tide over the coronavirus lockdown? Fashion designer Tarun Tahiliani has this to say: “…[it seems] a series of paltry measures that don't address industry and job creation. Collateral-free loans mean there is no security and may add to bad debts. And EPF is a minimal thing. Frankly, it sounds better than it is.” While a few labels are encouraging pre-orders to ostensibly help their artisans earn and stay occupied at their homes, the situation is grim. “With no cash inflow in the markets, buying will be hugely hurt, especially in this niche segment,” observes Sunil Sethi, president of the industry’s apex body, The Fashion and Design Council of India (FDCI).  Fund for emerging designers  So what has been done to help the fraternity in these uncertain times? Over the weekend, the Fashion Design Council of India announced the Covid-19 Support Fund (CSF by FDCI) to “provide financial assistance to small businesses and young designers in need”. According to Sethi, the fund would be “a relief fund for greenhorns who most likely will be struggling with production and loss of revenue as they don’t possess a consortium of funds”. It is supported by the who's who of the industry, the latest being the Lakme Fashion Week (LFW). “Currently, it means that there is no intent to be counter-productive by having multiple similar actions in the industry,’’ says Jaspreet Chandok, Head of lifestyle business, IMG Reliance that jointly organises LFW with Lakme. The differences between the rival bodies are well documented. “It is a time for unity… As the structure of the fund and the usage of it is finalised and shared, we will contribute as well,” Chandok concludes.  The writer is a former editor, luxury consultant and author.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Literary icons on film||After a friend and I watched Manto on the large screen a couple of years ago, we were talking about how literary documentaries were difficult to come by in India. Now, thanks to Netflix and company, this has changed significantly. Given the current lockdown, here are five literary documentaries you can watch online.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Mind your language when WFH||WFH — and not WTF as you were heard calling the 10 pm con call — requires Strategic Restructuring of your Ecosystem . Of course, Interesting Times , which is what your boss says 21 times an hour, have interesting Takeouts . Pulling the Plug is what you need to do to the electric kettle when it starts whistling as the HR lady speaks. 360 Degree Reviews include accidental camera angles on video calls that show Mission-Critical tasks like clipping toenails, raiding fridges, flushing loos, and occasionally someone Peeling It Down to the Basics without realising the video is on. Your Core Competency soon becomes watching TV on mute with your laptop in front of it; Multi-tasking your way through Netflix, news and serials. Anything that requires you to move even a toe is a Paradigm Shift you cannot afford. Every time you see a slide with a Pie Chart , you go eat a slice. To avoid too much Disruption , you stock a few Mars Bars near you, so you can Raise the Bar every once in a while. Exemplary employee that you are!  Moving the Needle is what you do best now. In fact, that needle on your weighing scale moves on its own. All because… the Low-hanging Fruit is something you never touch… When there are chips and murruku around. So that Downsizing has become impossible now. You’re upsizing so fast, your trousers and you won’t agree on a Strategic Fit once you start attending office again.  Pencil In is what your toddler does to his nose, while locked into a room his bigger sister has performed a Key Takeaway on. And lost the key. When Crisis Management 101 is over, you gain Traction on separating the kids from their Daily Kick-Off , and suggest a Game-Changer . You Incentivise them to Synergise with the other Senior Stakeholder , their mother, who of course is conducting her WFH role alongside cooking, cleaning and Throwing the Rulebook (and other heavy items) at you. The kids Circle Back every few minutes to complain about Resource Allocation of jam biscuits, alleging gross Competitive Malpractices . They then Escalate into Cutting-Edge practices involving chasing each other around with paper scissors. You in turn, with your Helicopter View , raise a Red Flag to a colleague that her kid, visible behind her, is drinking up the water from the fishbowl, the fish being Achievable Targets . A crash later, another colleague has to rush to her kid’s bottleneck crisis, involving Bleeding-edge Technology . Meanwhile, your own Strategic Alliance is rapidly breaking down, following the lockdown your wife is on, after reminding you six times to... um... what was it now? This leads to her Radio Silence ending in a Hostile Takeover of the quilt. And you being Off-Sited to the sofa. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||City exchange||Terrace and home gardeners are having their time in the sun, literally. With the ongoing lockdown making access to basic essentials tough, especially in smaller cities, these individuals are not only enjoying their summer bounty, but also sharing them within their neighbourhood. So keep an eye out for gardening enthusiasts in your cities who are willing to share seeds, cuttings and saplings. Our favourites:
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Between Art and Quarantine: Inspired by a Dutch Instagram account and the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, the Getty Museum in Los Angeles is inviting followers to recreate famous artwork from their online galleries. The challenge? They have to use household items. People rose to the occasion by incorporating even children and pets to the mix. Follow @gettymuseum and #betweenartandquarantine.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Kid lit central||The wizarding world is as active as ever during the lockdown, albeit with online activities.Harry Potter at Home, a new hub on the official website, is aimed at first-time readers, and features quizzes, puzzles and more. For Potterheads of all ages. On wizardingworld.com. Popular children's author David Walliams (The Boy in the DressandGangsta Granny), will be sharing an audio story a day for the next 30 days from his best-sellingThe World's Worst Childrenshort story collections. At worldofdavidwalliams.com/elevenses.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Happiness and learning||What do we think will make us happy? Yale University’s most popular course, The Science of Well-Being, is now available online for free. In these anxious times, it will engage you in a series of challenges designed to increase your own happiness and build more productive habits. On coursera.org. For the IT executives, software giant Oracle is now offering free access to its online courses and cloud certification. Topics covered include cloud infrastructure and autonomous databases. Available till May 15 on oracle.com.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Movie nights||There has never been a better time to watch movies —Parasiteis now on Amazon Prime Video, whileThe Platformon Netflix is getting rave reviews. The American Film Institute has launched the AFI Movie Club, a daily virtual gathering, which kicked off with a video from director Steven Spielberg. Each day, AFI will choose an iconic movie for the world to watch together. So far, the list has featuredThe Wizard of OzandMoulin Rouge, among others. You can also work your way down their ‘100 Years, 100 Movies’ list at your own pace.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Brave New World: Diggi Palace is replaced by the World Wide Web, as Jaipur Literature Festival presents ‘Brave New World’. The virtual initiative celebrates books, their power and positivity. Watch sessions with author and advocate Abhinav Chandrachud, journalist Pragya Tiwari, former politician Bruno Maçães, writer and broadcaster Bee Rowlatt and Baroness Helena Kennedy. Details: jaipurliteraturefestival.org
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||The VR life||Discover the most magical place on Earth, from the comfort of your couch. Head to YouTube for a treasure trove of 360-degree and virtual reality rides. Get off Splash Mountain without a drop of water on you. Ride the most expensive roller coaster for free. And if the Twilight Zone Tower of Terror gets too scary, simply close your eyes. If you are missing the great outdoors, check out Everest VR, which gives you a series of first-person challenges to reach the top of the world. VR headset required. Details: solfar.com/everest-vr
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Music from the couch||The iHeart Concert, hosted by Elton John earlier this week, had a star-studded list of celebrity musicians including Billie Eilish, Shawn Mendes and Lizzo. But it was the Backstreet Boys who went viral with their performance of the hit song, ‘I want it that way’. In other music news, Michael C Hall, who played Dexter Morgan in the TV series,Dexter, is now fronting an indie rock band called The Princess Goes to the Butterfly Museum. Their first single, 'Come Talk To Me', and their debut EP are now available on all music streaming platforms.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Art rules||Bengaluru-based creative event space, Bloom and Grow, has moved their roster of events online. Join them for yoga sessions, DIY crafts and more, via Zoom. Details are updated on their Facebook page. For more information and the schedule, send a WhatsApp message to 7259280949. RainbowFish Studio from Chennai is offering new courses starting every Monday for a variety of age groups. At Rs. 3,000 per child. Details and registration on rainbowfishstudio.com. 9952018542
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Weekend goes live||The HinduWeekendis hosting a series of live, interactive sessions on our Instagram handle. Today at 11 am, we will host filmmaker, fashion designer, poet and artist Muzaffar Ali. The 75-year-old will talk about finding hope in art, design and creativity during these trying times. At 9 pm, columnist Vasudha Rai will conduct a white light meditation and yoga nidra — with schedules going haywire and insomnia a common complaint, she will address ways to get a good night’s sleep.@thehinduweekend
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus: not a marketing hook||Recently, while cruising the world on my handheld from the comfort of my wingback, I was almost thrown right off it! I had just read that Patek Philippe, the holy grail of the watch world, would be selling online. In the larger scheme, I know the internet hasn’t been around too long. But for an industry (and certain brands) that has long outlived and survived the French revolution, two World Wars and an Great Depression, the fact that the most coveted of manufactures in the field would be succumbing to the clime of the times and acquiescing to online sales is a sign of just how bad things are. For many watch collectors and even for nifty businessfolk, if they weren’t taking the COVID-19 threat seriously earlier, this has come as the undeniable reckoner. Buying a Patek is not an off-hand purchase that you do while pottering about on your phone in the middle of the night like, say, some rubbish fitness belt or a home massage kit. It is an occasion, one that is marked by many a praise that the store folk will shower on you for your fine taste (and fat wallet) and oft accompanied by a bottle of sparkler going pop somewhere in the background. To simply make a PayPal transaction to acquire such a celebrated timepiece, you’d have to be stinking rich and absolutely spartan at the same time. But they aren’t the only ones. Rolex, people are now debating, might joint the fray. Hodinkee, the online portal and marketplace for luxury watches, is hiring people who may have lost jobs in the real space, providing online space for brands to sell their ware, as also putting the works of various writers in the spotlight, all in a bid to ‘keep things moving along’. There are discounts but there is also a contribution from all sales towards funds to fight against coronavirus. Many other brands are already gearing up to reach their consumers in unprecedented ways. Luxury always has it tough because when budgets get tightened, the first thing to go is spending power and the list of wants gets relegated. I may desire to own a flashy watch or a pen, but right now I need to ensure that I have medical emergency funds ready for the days ahead — and we’re unsure of the duration of this beast. Indulgences therefore need to be monitored. Time to build brands In the last month, two great international watch events got canned, the Olympics stands postponed, the fashion seasons have been derailed, even Apple and Google are debating when and how to launch their next models. The virus has certainly hit us where it hurts worst and in a manner that no-one predicted. Since no business or industry can afford to be blasé about the state of things, this is where brand building comes in. Even if it doesn’t have the ring of a Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel, the indomitable human spirit will find ways to conjure up marketing in the time of COVID-19, because inasmuch as this pandemic is bad for sales and profits, in the long run, it is a great time to earn some brand cred through socially woke campaigns. The time, thus, is rife for creating equity through contributions to noble causes — from liquor brands manufacturing sanitisers (Diageo, Goa Brewing and Paul John are doing it) to cooking meals for the stranded (ITC hotels and Cafe Lota come to mind), from making online courses free or discounting them heavily (BarSmart, Fondation de Haute Horlogerie), to creating virtual classrooms for everything from guitar lessons to fitness sessions. Even a sector like travel is finding ways to connect. Portuguese tourism is pushing on with their #CantSkipHope campaign (to replace #CantSkipPortugal) and Maldives has #VisitMaldivesLater. Alcohol brands, notwithstanding the non-availability of their product, which does put a damper on everybody’s never-ending weekend, are using this time to generate traction — like the #AloneTogether posts on the pages of brews like Beeyoung and Kati Patang. Bira91 went a step further and managed to send out ‘Stay-home’ hampers just before the lockdown was enforced. The escape route Meanwhile, most online stores — from sneakers to luxury goods — are offering huge discounts to keep buyers spending. The marketing messages have been one constant emphatic barrage. And there are other more generic trends, which will surely get picked up by brands to cash in on, from Dalgona coffee to home recipes from famous chefs, or working into a fitness routine (where Myntra will advise you what to buy, from a yoga mat to noise-isolating headphones). The online space and all its apps have never had a more captive audience. Online engagements are fine-tuning themselves to become the chasm of escape, to give someone a chance to virtually get away momentarily and distract themselves from the ennui of their immediate confines, to be able to live and think freely even when the walls are closing in. Zoom, the video-conferencing app, has seen more downloads in a month than TikTok and WhatsApp will, combined! Of course, money certainly makes the whole episode easier and it is a position of privilege to be able to even contemplate all such ‘getaways’. For example, Ethos watches has announced one of the most tempting online sales ever with discounts as high as 50% on some very exquisite and rare timepieces. They have managed to reach me through personal calls, messages, emails, and even online adverts. They know their target client and they understand the urgency of the moment. And inasmuch as I know a fabulous deal when I see one, I also know that I shouldn’t (and can’t) splurge right at this moment, but I am enjoying the warm gratitude that at least I am in a position to be tortured with such ephemeral first world issues rather than anything that’s remotely immediate and threatening. In the meantime, brands have little else to do but sit and wait this pandemic out, a curious case where our helplessness and inaction are the most effective tools in combatting this menace, even as it sends the economy and society into free fall.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Diets in times of disequilibrium||For the first time in years we have been stirred by images of migrant workers attempting to cross borders within our country, hungry and powerless. Perhaps it is because we have finally had the time to feel. In our comfortable homes, we have experienced empathy, some guilt, a great deal of thankfulness, and a sense of responsibility in the way we procure food and eat. We are finally measuring our lives in coffee spoons — not a bad thing in times like these. “It is a good time to reflect on what we are eating,” says Manjari Chandra, a functional nutritionist in Delhi. She talks of minimalism when it comes to food, looking at fasting (for 14 to 16 hours) instead of feasting, and building responsible food practices like stopping before we are full or cutting down the number of meals we have in a day. Here is how you can buy and eat more mindfully — taking into account our own nutrition, the health of our community, and our environment, because in the end, everything is connected. Building immunity Your only innate guard is immunity, and because we have a long way to go, it is best to try and get this strengthened, says Chandra. It is not like popping a pill though — a couple of bone broths and salads may not immediately get you a more robust immune system. “Look at it as working on the terrain.” She means when every part of the body is strengthened, and all your systems are working like they should, it is likely you will have good immunity. “The immunity function lies in the gut, so those who have constipation, acidity, or any other gut malfunction, could strengthen it with vitamins (especially vitamin C) and minerals (zinc, magnesium, selenium),” adds Chandra. Again, people who are immune-compromised are those who have hormonal imbalances, endocrine-related disorders like diabetes, and autoimmune conditions. It is important to know that everyone can gradually build immunity. Onion, ginger, garlic, tulsi , pomegranate, and eucalyptus are all anti-viral foods that can reduce the chance of you contracting a viral infection. However, there are no definitive studies on how much of each is good to consume. It is safe to put these in the traditional foods we eat. Star anise can be had in a tea with mint: it has shikimic acid that is used in the medicine Tamiflu to treat the H1N1 virus. Black pepper, asafoetida, and carom ( ajwain/oman ) are also helpful. Cutting inflammation Internal inflammation makes you susceptible to disease. Highly processed foods, and a diet rich in refined oils, high carbohydrate, high protein, and simple sugars cause inflammation. Cut down on sucrose-rich fruits that cause insulin spikes. Dietician Sheela Krishnaswamy says we need to use this time as an opportunity to eat healthy. “Cooking fresh, not ordering in, and not buying processed-packaged food are valuable practices we can take into the days ahead.” In Goa, where she is based, and fruits are a currently a rarity, (while vegetables are not regularly supplied in the market), she says it is possible to work with what is at home — cereals and dals , changing these up if possible, millets- dal , brown-rice- dal , wholewheat- dal . These give the macronutrients and some micronutrients. She says it is a good idea to add ghee and/or coconut oil and simple spices and herbs to the food for antioxidant protection. If you can set some curd at home, nothing like it, for beneficial bacteria. The availability of minerals and vitamins in whole sprouted grains, like ragi, green gram, chana , goes up and their digestibility increases as starch is partially broken down. Time to innovate It is also a time to look around the house and consume all the little bottles of ingredients that we have put on the backshelf. Finish the raw peanuts and the leftover nuts and seeds — do soak them overnight to get rid of the anti-nutrients, which are plant compounds like phytates that reduce the absorption of minerals. And while you are drinking manjal , have it with milk — it needs a fat medium to be better absorbed, says Lovneet Batra, a sports nutritionist in Delhi.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Literary icons on fiLm||After a friend and I watched Manto on the large screen a couple of years ago, we were talking about how literary documentaries were difficult to come by in India. Now, thanks to Netflix and company, this has changed significantly. Given the current lockdown, here are five literary documentaries you can watch online.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two more deaths, 93 fresh COVID -19 cases in the Capital||The Capital on Friday reported two deaths and 93 new COVID-19 cases. The toll now stands at six with the total number of cases jumping to 386. Of the 93 new cases, 77 are people from a centre run by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, which has been evacuated by the authorities. A total of 259 people from the centre have tested positive for COVID-19 so far just in Delhi alone, said officials, adding that this is 67.1% of the total cases reported in the city. Till Thursday, Delhi had 293 COVID-19 cases. “Of the two people who died, one was a 36-year-old man from Tamil Nadu who was connected to the markaz [centre] event. He died on March 31 and his test came back positive on Friday,” an official said. The second death was of a 70-year-old man from Delhi. “We are still tracing how he got infected,” the official added.  ‘79% positive’ “All the people from the markaz (centre) who have been taken to hospitals (536) have been tested and many of the results are still awaited. Till now, 79% of them have tested positive, but many of the results are still awaited,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The official said that they have been checking and evacuating people from other mosques in the city who had visited the Tablighi centre in March. Till now, around 400 people have been evacuated. “The ones with symptoms have been moved to hospitals and others have been moved to quarantine facilities. They will be tested from Saturday onwards,” the official said. Earlier in the day, the Delhi government launched a COVID-19 helpline to provide updated information on the virus. “Information on centres where food is available for the needy, COVID-19 symptoms, measures taken by the Delhi government to deal with the pandemic and all other information can be gathered by calling up 8800007722,” said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during a digital press conference. He added that of the total number of COVID-19 cases 58 had a history of foreign travel and 38 cases were from local transmission through foreign travel patients. “The figure for cases that have arisen through local contact and transmission is constant and stable, which gives us hope that there is no spreading of COVID-19 in Delhi,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “I am holding regular meetings with the Health Department of Delhi and the doctors. If there is an outbreak of COVID-19, we are fully prepared to handle the situation,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal added that the government had taken several measures to provide relief to the marginalised sections of society who have been affected by the lockdown, which includes provisions of 7.5 kg of ration to 72 lakh people. “We have also devised a scheme to provide ration to those who do not have ration cards, and in a few days, we will start providing ration to them as well,” he said, adding that as many as 1,780 centres are providing food to the needy. Shelter and food On Thursday, these centres provided lunch for 6,52,850 people and dinner for 6,30,000 people, said the CM. “A total of 328 shelters have also been opened in Delhi for migrant workers and people from outside Delhi. These shelters can accommodate 57,270 people; 11,443 people are living in these shelters right now,” he added.  Mr. Kejriwal also instructed all MLAs to ensure that citizens in their respective constituencies got the benefits of all ongoing government schemes. While reviewing the enforcement of the ongoing lockdown, Raj Niwas said that Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal had asked officials to ensure proper social distancing during food and ration distribution in addition to strict vigil of quarantine cases. Mr. Kejriwal also spoke to Opposition BJP MLAs via video conference to seek their suggestions on tackling COVID-19.
04 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘Give us lamps, we will light them’||“ Diya de dena, jala lenge (Give us the lamps, we will light them),” said Phoolwanti Devi, smile writ large on her face, as she walked up the Mohan Nagar flyover with wooden sticks to light up her hearth. She knows of the Prime Minister’s appeal to the people on Friday but right now she has bigger concerns. She is one of the 30-odd daily wagers from Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh who decided to stay on during the lockdown. “We are running out of food. People come and offer small portions of khichdi. It doesn’t quench our hunger. It would be better if we are given rice and dal separately. We will cook ourselves. Kids of the poor are also difficult to convince when it comes to taste,” she said. Ms. Devi said the administration took them to a shelter home on Meerut road but they returned as they found the place too crowded. Here near the railway line, beneath the flyover, they felt better placed.  ‘We need food’ Guddu, a construction worker, chipped in. “When I work, I eat 10 chapatis in one meal. My appetite can’t change overnight. I need at least two-three. We believe in the PM, but we need food as well.” Speaking to a cross-section of daily wagers in Ghaziabad revealed that Narendra Modi’s appeal was intact. Almost all the workers The Hindu spoke to knew about what the PM asked them to do on Sunday, right up to the duration. It is just a minor adventure in their arduous lives. After the exodus, they are getting used to the attention of the administration. Jag Pravesh, a construction worker residing in a Vasundhara slum, said the lockdown has turned the focus on the poor. “I guess the rich feel that we might bring the disease to them. I see scared faces around. That’s why the police want to keep us inside. In the last 10 days, we have once received 5 kg flour, a packet of tea and sugar. I didn’t expect it.” As for lighting the diya , Mr. Pravesh, who hails from Sitamarhi in Bihar, said what was the harm in it. “This man (PM Modi) knows how to bring people together,” he said. A few blocks ahead, at another cluster of the slum of construction workers from Mahoba, Mahesh said for the first time he had seen residents and police taking note of their presence. “A few days back, locals came with puris but the police stopped them as they came with their own supply. We voted for Modi and we would do whatever he asks us to do. But I fear that even he is running out of options.”
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||India gets its fashion rescue fund||In India, where the textile industry is the second largest employer, the health of the fashion industry is critical to the country’s welfare. Earlier this week, Dastkar (a society for crafts and craftspeople) re-opened its Artisan Support Fund. Crafts are a part of India’s aesthetic and culture, said chairperson Laila Tyabji in her letter to the media, adding that they are also a vital part of our economy. Her fund will help craftspeople who are homebound and without markets, buyers or orders. Last week, she had spoken out on how this community is the most vulnerable during lockdown and will continue to be so after the pandemic subsides. Sandeep Khosla of prominent label Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla (AJSK), known for reviving crafts such aschikankari,had agreed with her but also pointed out, “If we go bust as designers, we lose the ability to be employers and safeguard our workforce.” AJSK are paying full salaries to staff despite the lockdown and hope to be able to do this for as long as they can. But what about the Rs. 1.7 lakh crore Gareeb Kalyan Yojana announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, to help the poor tide over the coronavirus lockdown? Fashion designer Tarun Tahiliani says that it is, “…a series of paltry measures that don’t address industry and job creation. Collateral-free loans mean there is no security and may add to bad debts. And EPF is a minimal thing. Frankly, it sounds better than it is.” While a few labels are encouraging pre-orders to ostensibly help their artisans earn and stay occupied at their homes, the situation is grim. “With no cash inflow in the markets, buying will be hugely hurt, especially in this niche segment,” observes Sunil Sethi, president of the industry’s apex body, The Fashion and Design Council of India.  Fund for emerging designers  The FDCI announced the COVID-19 Support Fund (CSF by FDCI) to “provide financial assistance to small businesses and young designers in need”. According to Sethi, the fund is “a relief fund for greenhorns who most likely will be struggling with production and loss of revenue as they don’t possess a consortium of funds”. It is supported by the who’s who of the industry, the latest being the L Lakme Fashion Week. “Currently, it means that there is no intent to...have multiple similar actions in the industry,” says Jaspreet Chandok, Head of lifestyle business, IMG Reliance that jointly organises LFW with Lakme. The differences between the rival bodies are well documented. “It is a time for unity…. As the structure of the fund and the usage of it is finalised and shared, we will contribute as well,” Chandok concludes.  The writer is a former editor, luxury consultant and author
04 April 2020||Srinagar,||Hungry labourers appeal to PM||Around 30 stranded migrant workers from Bihar uploaded a video appeal online on Friday here, asking the local administration and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for help in providing them with daily ration. Motilal Kushwaha, 35, a painter by profession from Bihar's Bettiah district in West Champaran, said around 30 migrant labourers have run out money and food items due to the ongoing lockdown, forcing them to make the video appeal. “We are having biscuits in our meals. We have no cash to return home. We are unable to buy daily food items. I appeal to the PM to intervene and help us in shifting to Bihar or in providing food items. It's getting difficult for all of us here,” Mr. Kushwaha told The Hindu.  These 30 labourers arrived in Srinagar in the first week of March and are staying in a two-room accommodation, run by Shakeel Ahmad, in Shalimar area, 14 km away from Srinagar's main commercial hub.  ‘Not allowed to move’ “We have been coming to Kashmir for over a decade now. We could fetch good money here. However, since we arrived here we just worked for a couple of days and it suddenly stopped due to the lockdown. We are not allowed to move around nor have access to food,” said Manoj Kumar, 42, from Bihar's Bettiah district. These workers earlier managed to get in touch with Member of Parliament Kedar Nath Singh of the RJD from Baniapur constituency. “The MP's intervention did help in the third week of March. We were provided with around 30 kg of rice and some vegetables by the local administration. However, it's a prolonged lockdown and we are again running out of essentials,” said Moti Lal, another labourer. Kashmir hosts over four lakh non-local labourers annually.
04 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||1,305 Tablighi Jamaat workers traced in Haryana, says DGP||More than 1,300 Tablighi Jamaat workers have been traced by the Haryana Police in 15 districts of the State over the past 48 hours. Eight of them have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava on Friday said that 1,305 workers of the religious body have been traced after the police were alerted by Central agencies about the situation. He said that about 500 of them admitted to having visited the Banglewali Masjid located in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi. Eight persons, three each from Palwal and Nuh and two from Ambala, have tested positive for the virus so far. The DGP further said that 106 Tabligh workers were foreign nationals, tracked down in Faridabad, Ambala, Panipat, Palwal and Nuh. They mostly belonged to Indonesia, the Philippines, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Thailand. “All of them have been placed under quarantine and their passports taken into possession. Five FIRs have been registered under the IPC and Foreigner’s Act,” said Mr. Yadava.  Samples taken Besides, 933 Tabligh workers from Maharashra, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Bihar, who were in Haryana for Tabligh work, have also been tracked and placed in quarantine centres or in the mosques. Their samples have been taken. The Haryana Police also tracked 266 Tabligh workers belonging to Haryana who had visited different States and had returned over the past ten days to their villages. They have also been placed under quarantine. Most of them belong to Gurugram, Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Panipat, Nuh, Sonipat, Jind and Palwal.  ‘Many traced in Nuh’ Around half of the Tabligh workers tracked throughout Haryana were found in the district Nuh, said Mr. Yadava. “In fact, 636 Tabligh Jamaat workers, including 57 foreigners and 528 from other States, have been tracked to Nuh,” he said. Also, 948 FIRs have been registered and 1,374 people arrested for violation of the lockdown in the State since March 25.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Crime Branch sends notice to head of Tablighi Jamaat||The Crime Branch of Delhi Police has issued a notice to Maulana Muhammad Saad Kandhlawi, head of Tablighi Jamaat, for violating lockdown orders, said a police officer on Friday. They have also posed 26 questions with the notice, sent on April 1. In the questionnaire, the police have sought financial details and the number of gatherings organised since January 1 this year among others. “We have asked details of foreign nationals [who have] stayed in the centre from March 12 onwards and whether any written guidelines were issued to the organisation by any authority to hold religious events. Was there any other correspondence between the management and government authorities? Was there any audio or video recording of the persons who participated in the event?” the officer detailed. In the notice, they have asked the original record register to get details of people who attended the event after March 12, besides details of those who fell sick and their correspondence with the police and authorities. “We have also asked if they obtained any curfew pass or details of passes they had applied for. We also demanded banks statements of the last one year and income tax returns of the last three years,” the officer said. The Crime Branch has not specified a deadline for the notice. Massive drive Meanwhile, the police said that they have launched a massive drive across the city to identify people who attended the event at the Nizamuddin centre. “We have asked all district heads to check hotels, lodges, hospitals and guest houses to get details of people staying over there and verify their identity and journey details . If any person is found to have attended the event after March 12, then he would be shifted to the quarantine with the help of health department,” said the officer.
04 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Activists decry Akhil Gogoi’s serial rearrest in Assam||A group of 28 social activists and professions across India have decried the serial rearrest of peasant leader Akhil Gogoi in Assam and questioned his detention in view of the Supreme Court’s directive to decongest jails for preventing the COVID-19 contagion. In a joint statement, the activists deplored the “deliberate circumvention of the norms of natural justice” in detaining Mr. Gogoi in case after case to make the bail orders ineffective. They said his continuous detention by the Assam government through repeated arrests in various cases despite being granted bail by the courts could have worrying consequences for the democracy in India. Mr. Gogoi was arrested in eastern Assam’s Jorhat on December 12, 2019, for alleged links with CPI(Maoist) and role in instigating violence during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Assam. He was handed over to the National Investigation Agency, which failed to charge-sheet him within the mandatory 90 days. The NIA’s special court granted him bail but he was rearrested in connection with a year-old case and taken to eastern Assam’s Sivasagar on March 19. A week later, he was granted bail in a case registered in January at a police station in Guwahati. Before he could be released, he was “shown arrested” on March 28 in a case registered with the Chabua police station in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district. This coincided with the granting of bail in the Sivasagar police station-related case.  ‘Liberty violated’ “By repeatedly re-arresting him in old cases, the police violated his personal liberty. Keeping him in detention by digging up old cases is an attempt at circumventing the judicial scrutiny of executive actions,” said Apurba Kumar Baruah, former professor of North Eastern Hill University and one of the signatories of the statement.
04 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Lockdown halts harvesting season in forests||Lakhs of tribals in Odisha, who have pinned their hopes on sale of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFP) being collected during March-June, are staring at a grim future as the COVID-19 lockdown has coincided with the harvesting season. The lockdown has badly impacted livelihood of forest-dependent communities. Forest products are seasonal in nature with major incomes of tribal accruing in the months of March to June. The hard cash earned during these months are critical for their sustenance during the monsoon season when employments dry up. Wild honey, tamarind, mango, tendu leaves, sal leaves, sal seeds, mahua seeds, neem seeds, karanj (pongamia) seeds, mahua flowers and tejpatta (bay leaf) are major NTFPs collected during the summer season. The labour-intensive NTFP collection employs millions of tribals. “Unfortunately, the lockdown phase has coincided with the NTFP collection period during which 10 million people in Odisha and nearly 275 million people across the country collect NTFPs like tendu leaves, tree-borne oil seeds, mohua flowers, siali and sal leaves,” said Chittaranjan Pani, a leading expert on NTFP economy in the country. From mid-March when the issue of COVID-19 and its likely impact started to hog headlines of all local and national newspapers, the middlemen (buyers) had stopped coming to villages. Since March 22 when the ‘Janata curfew’ was imposed, the weekly markets in tribal-dominated regions also started to fall apart. Thus the NTFPs collected by tribals could not be disposed of. Mr. Pani said, “in Odisha, majority of population are landless in tribal region. The earnings from forest products in 3-4 months period contribute to 60 to 80% of their annual income. As per conservative estimate, Odisha’s NTFP market pegs at Rs. 5000 crore.”  Collection centres The State government should immediately establish and ensure collection centres function under the Van Dhan Vikash Kendra scheme, he pointed out, adding that forest dependent communities must be assured of minimum support price and total procurement of minor forest produces collected by them. Of the 156 VDVKs proposed in Odisha, only one centre at Kuchinda in Sambalpur district has been made functional. As the confusion is prevailing on ground, Tribal Development Co-operative Corporation of Odisha Limited, which facilitate the marketing of tribal produces, said it would intervene after lockdown. “We have instructed primary procurement agencies to start procuring minor forest produces once lock-down is over,” said Sanat Mohanty, Managing Director of TDCC. According to ground reports, forest dependent communities have not fully started collection of NTFPs, because they cannot dispose produces immediately. Chandan Gupta, Marketing Manager of TDCC, however, said, “if the lockdown is stretched further or sector is not opened for free trade, primary gatherers would have uncertainty in their mind. The government through a clear announcement should clarify the issue.” Like exemption accorded to agricultural operations through a recent Home Ministry guideline, the market of minor forest produce should be recognized as critical for tribal community’s sustenance, feel experts.
04 April 2020||Bhopal,||36 primary contacts quarantined in Indore||Residents of Indore’s Tatpatti Bakhal locality, who chased away a team of doctors and health workers tracing contacts of a patient on Wednesday, have been more responsive since, not panicking at the possibility of isolation. The team had quarantined 36 primary contacts of three patients in different localities until 5 p.m. on Friday. “Although we are working more today, mentally we are more relaxed,” said Dr. Trupti Katdare, who works at a Primary Healthcare Centre in Kshipra and was among those heckled and pelted with stones. The incident had sent across a clear message, believes Dr. Zakiya Sayyed — who was also with Dr. Katdare on Wednesday — resulting in a positive change in attitudes. “A tenant from a building where a patient was found positive insisted on isolation for himself, although he had not had any contact. The country has received the message of not fearing isolation.”  People’s support “If doctors can work in such adverse conditions, those who had contact with positive cases can come forward and help society too,” said Dr. Sayyed, who works at a Primary Healthcare Centre at Kampel. “If people follow this, within one week we can have control over the spurt in the city.” The cause for distrust, said Dr. Katdare, stemmed mainly from rumours being spread on the social media. For instance, one message advised residents to resist quarantine at a different location as they would be huddled into a bus, taken to an undisclosed location and hideously be injected with the virus. “It’s not about the lack of awareness, but a wrong message being spread around, people being misguided,” she said. To dispel this uncertainty, good counselling it the only key, believe the doctors. “If you counsel them well, there will be no issues. People are afraid of being quarantined, as it is shrouded in uncertainty. If you tell them the government is working for their own good, a positive message is sent across. Doctors, just do your duty!” said Dr. Katdare. The misgiving about economic costs of a quarantine drives people away too. “They need to be assured all arrangements will be taken care of by the government,” said Dr. Sayyed, who admitted it is a challenge to trace contacts in the city’s congested clusters where the outbreak happened. With most patients having no contact or travel history, doctors are yet to trace the source in Indore.
04 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital records wettest March in history, says Met||According to data released by the Meteorological Department, last month was the wettest March on record, with the Capital receiving 109.6 mm of rainfall, which was 589% above normal. The normal rainfall for March is 15.8 mm, said Met department officials. The wettest March before this was in 2015, when the Capital received 97.4 mm of rainfall. It was also a colder month with the mean maximum temperature settling at 28.2 degrees Celsius, which is 1.4 degrees below normal.  The mean minimum temperature was 15 degrees Celsius, which is 0.6 notches below average.  Strong winds, rain and the ongoing shutdown of non-essential services to contain the spread of COVID- 19 have led to considerably cleaner air in the Capital. Contributing sources According to a report by the Central Pollution Control Board on the effect of the lockdown on Delhi’s air, there was a substantial improvement in air quality of Delhi-NCR. “The major contributing sources to particulate matter and NOx emissions [prominent pollutants in Delhi-NCR] have been restricted. On March 23, the air quality index [Air Quality Index] in Delhi-NCR was ‘moderate’, with an exception in Gurugram which had a ‘satisfactory’ AQI. As the lockdown progressed, the air quality improved to ‘satisfactory’ across the board under the cumulated effect of restricted vehicle movement and commercial activities,” the report said. Ghaziabad and Noida “Between March 28 and 29, the AQI improved to ‘good’ in Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida due to higher wind speed and increase in mixing height [height at which pollutants are spread out in the atmosphere. Higher mixing height leads to lower pollution],” it added.
04 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Locals resist cremation of virus victim||The cremation of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, a Padma Shri awardee, who died of COVID-19 was delayed as residents of his native town in Punjab feared it would spread the deadly virus in the locality. Soon after the information spread that Mr. Khalsa would be cremated at a local crematorium in Verka town, several residents of the vicinity reached the cremation ground and surrounded it. They were opposing the cremation out of fear that it could result in outbreak of COVID-19 in the area. “Out of some misplaced sense of fear that the cremation could result in outbreak of the virus, few people resisted the cremation. After negotiations with locals, who offered a secluded village common land a little distance from the cremation ground, the last rites were held in the evening,” Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon, Deputy Commissioner Amritsar told The Hindu . Mr. Dhillon said the residents also announced that they will build a memorial for Mr. Khalsa at the site of the cremation.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Labourers, migrant workers complain of overpriced essentials||Daily-wage labourers and migrant workers living in and around Nizamuddin have complained of overpriced essential goods and vegetables in the area. Meanwhile, police have beefed up security in the region after it emerged as the biggest hotspot for the spread of coronavirus in India. In Sarai Kale Khan, which is less than five kilometres from Nizamuddin West, onion is retailing at Rs. 60/kg, tomato at Rs. 50/kg, potato at Rs. 40/kg, while other seasonal vegetables are selling at not less than Rs. 100-120/kg. Even dry ration supplies are being sold at higher prices. For instance, rice is being retailed at Rs. 850 per 25kg as against Rs. 770 a week back. Similarly, rate of wheat flour has risen to Rs. 350 per 5 kg pack from Rs. 270, while masoor dal (pulses) rates have gone up to Rs. 80/kg from Rs. 60/kg. There has been an increase of Rs. 1-6 per pack of biscuits. Sarai Kale Khan houses a large number of migrant workers who work in Ashram, Nizamuddin, Bhogal, Jangpura, Lajpat Nagar and Okhla Mandi. Many work as labourers in local kirana shops, which are exempted from the ongoing lockdown enforced to combat coronavirus. “Everything has become expensive in Sarai Kale Khan after the Nizamuddin incident. There is more police security now. With no job and less money, survival has become difficult. On top of it, kirana shops in the area are selling essentials at prices higher than MRP,” Sabeen, a migrant worker from Bihar, said.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Two nurses test positive for COVID-19||Two nurses of the Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) have tested positive for COVID-19, the Delhi government said on Friday. The DSCI was shutdown on Wednesday and was sanitised after a doctor working at the institute tested positive for COVID-19. “A senior resident from DSCI tested positive. His brother had come back from the U.K. a few days back and had met him. We are looking into the reason behind his case,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said. Meanwhile, the government has announced that OPD services at LNJP Hospital and GB Pant Hospital will be closed from Saturday, but emergency services of both hospitals will function. Both these hospitals are among the five facilities in Delhi designated for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The Trauma Centre at RML Hospital will function as a dedicated COVID-19 isolation ward while the Safdarjung Hospital’s super specialty block has been converted into a state-of-the-art isolation management centre, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday.  A senior resident from DSCI tested positive. His brother had come back from the U.K. a few days back and had met him. Satyendar Jain Health Minister
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Man arrested after son complains about him violating lockdown orders||A 59-year-old man from south-west Delhi’s Vasant Kunj was arrested after his son lodged a complaint that his father was allegedly violating lockdown orders by going for evening walks, an officer said on Friday. He was later released on bail. The complainant said he wanted the help of police to make his father understand the situation “but they took us to a police station and registered an FIR against my father”. The police said they received a call on April 1 about a man violating lockdown orders in Rajokri. A team then reached there and found a man requesting his father to not step out of the house. “My father has a habit of going for a walk everyday at 8 p.m. to meet his friends. He is old and is therefore vulnerable to COVID-19.When he insisted on continuing his routine, I made a PCR call in order to convince him with the help of policemen,” said the son. An officer said an FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobeying rules and endangering life, health and safety of another person). The officer added that going out for walks is prohibited during the lockdown period. Beat constables are taking rounds in various parks across the city to take action against walkers and joggers. On Friday, the police said a total of 35 FIRs have been registered against people for flouting home quarantine rules so far. The violators have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC and under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. In Dwarka, which has strictly enforced quarantine guidelines, , a total of 21 FIRs have been registered so far against people who were found to be violating the rules, a senior officer said. Home quarantine is ensured through regular surveillance by way of physical verification and technical monitoring, he added. Meanwhile, the police on Friday detained 3,195 people under Section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) of the IPC for violating lockdown norms. They also registered 156 FIRs under Section 188, and impounded 365 vehicles.
04 April 2020||April 04 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghost town||
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘100 workers found fit after disinfecting Nizamuddin’||Nearly 100 municipal workers, engaged in disinfecting the Nizamuddin area from where several COVID-19 cases have been reported, were found to be fit after screening by a panel of doctors, said the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said on Friday. Among 95 public health workers, including 59 sanitation workers, did not show any symptoms of Covid-19, the civic body said. They have been told to keep a check on their health and consult a doctor immediately if they have a cold or cough or fever. The SDMC said Personal Protection Equipment was being distributed to field workers deployed in high-risk areas. An intensive sanitation drive was carried out in Kasturba Niketan, Lajpat Nagar, Bakkarwala Quarantine Center, Kapashera Extn. and Kalkaji by deploying tankers for spraying 1% sodium hypochlorite solution. Regular action plans have been chalked out and are being followed to disinfect and sanitise the major hot spots of COVID-19 in all four zones, said officials, adding that special sanitization and cleaning drives are being conducted in densely populated areas specially in JJ colonies.
04 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Pay salary for COVID-19 fund donation’||A member of a tribal council in Meghalaya has sought part-payment of her salary, pending for two years, to enable her to contribute to the State’s fund for combating the COVID-19 pandemic. Sadhiarani M. Sangma, a Congress member representing the Dengnakpara constituency of the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council (GHADC), said it was her duty as an elected representative to donate for mitigating the problem. “I can only do so if I get my salary which has been pending for 24 months,” she told The Hindu from Tura, the main urban centre of Meghalaya’s western half comprising the Garo Hills. “The worth of 10 months’ salary out of the 24 moths pending salary may be released immediately so that I can contribute to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund... to fight against the dreaded virus collectively,” Ms. Sangma wrote in her letter to GHADC’s Chief Executive Member Dipul R. Marak on Thursday.
04 April 2020||Bhopal,||IAS officer tests positive for COVID-19||The Madhya Pradesh Ayushman Bharat Yojana CEO and Managing Director tasked with procuring drugs and equipment for public healthcare institutions in the State tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday night, said sources in the Health Department. “It's true that an official of the Health Department has tested positive. However, his fever went away on Friday, but he remains admitted to a hospital” said Pallavi Jain Govil, Principal Secretary, State Public Health & Family Welfare. An official, requesting anonymity, confirmed to The Hindu the 2011-batch Indian Administrative Service officer, who was the MD of the Madhya Pradesh Public Health Services Corporation Limited, had contracted the illness.
04 April 2020||JAIPUR,||WHO team visits Tonk to study situation||A team from the World Health Organisation is visiting Rajasthan’s Tonk district, where the COVID-19 positive cases registered a sharp increase from 4 to 12 in a day, to conduct a survey and study the situation. The total number of confirmed cases in the State soared to 147 on Friday. Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot said the State government would strictly adhere to the report and guidelines to be issued by the WHO. “Prevention and containment of the virus spread is the our utmost priority,” he tweeted.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||7 policemen who were part of team to evacuate Nizamuddin sent on leave||Seven policemen, who were part of the team that went to evacuate the Tablighi Jamaat Nizamuddin Markaz have been sent on leaves, said officers on Friday. A senior officer said it is a routine rotation process after the lockdown in Delhi. “Seven police personnel of Nizamuddin police station have been sent on rest from Thursday for 10 days. A total of 24 staff are on rest from Nizamuddin,” the officer said.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi violence: Court sends Jamia student to 3-day police custody (TAKE AS BRIEF)||A Delhi court has sent a student of Jamia Millia Islamia, arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots in north-east Delhi, to three days police custody, said a lawyer. Meeran Haider, a PhD student, is the president of RJD youth wing’s Delhi unit. Metropolitan Magistrate sent Mr. Haider for custodial interrogation after the police said it was required to unearth larger conspiracy.
04 April 2020||New Delhi,||Authorities defer turning Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium into quarantine facility (TAKE AS BRIEF)||The Delhi government has deferred using the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium as a quarantine facility as the authorities believe the spread of COVID-19 infection is under control here, said sources on Friday. On March 30, south-east District Magistrate had issued an order asking the Sports Authority of India to hand over the stadium to the district administration for setting up of a quarantine facility.
