05 July 2020||New Delhi,||India set for more talks on LAC||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise visit to the Union Territory of Ladakh, the government is preparing for the next round of the meeting of the ‘Special Representatives of India and China on the Boundary Question,’ as it looks for military and diplomatic measures to ease the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, according to a senior Home Ministry official.  The Hindu has not been able to confirm the date of the meeting. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who is India’s Special Representative, met his Chinese counterpart last on December 21, 2019, in New Delhi. It was agreed then “that an early settlement of the boundary question serves the fundamental interests of both countries”. Mr. Modi, who spent the day in Ladakh on Friday, a first after the June 15 Galwan incident that killed 20 soldiers, had a “one-on-one” with Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, GOC XIV ‘Fire and Fury’ Corps. Lt. Gen. Singh is leading the Corps Commander level talks with the Chinese. He has had three meetings — on June 6, 22 and 30 — with his Chinese counterpart, Maj. Gen. Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang Military region, since the build-up and the violent face-offs began in April-May. D
05 July 2020||Kolkata,||Political violence, bomb blast leave 5 dead in State||At least five people were killed in two separate incidents of political violence and a bomb blast in the past 24 hours in West Bengal. While two people died and three others were injured in a crude bomb explosion in Murshidabad district on Friday night, political violence in three districts of south Bengal on Friday night and Saturday morning left three people dead. According to police sources, a group of people were making crude bombs in Ahiran area under Suti police station when the blast occurred. The deceased have been identified as Situ Sheikh and Maharul Sheikh, residents of the district. The blast was so powerful that the building in which the bombs were being assembled came crashing down. Kaizuddin, in whose house the bomb went off, is absconding. Locals said he was involved in a land dispute. Over the past few days with the easing of lockdown rules, crude bomb blasts have been reported in Malda and Birbhum districts. Opposition parties in the State have demanded investigations into all these incidents. TMC worker killed Violence among political rivals broke out in Maipith gram panchayat under Kultali police station in South 24 Parganas on Friday night.  On Saturday morning, a group of assailants killed Ashwini Manna, a supporter of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The local TMC leadership said the workers of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) were behind the murder. Later, the body of an SUCI supporter, Sudhanshu Jana, was found in his home in the same gram panchayat. According to reports, a dispute broke out over the distribution of tarpaulin sheets as part of the Cyclone Amphan relief efforts. The police said they are conducting raids to apprehend those involved in the violence. At Birbhum in south central Bengal, TMC supporter Sisir Bauri was killed under Khairasole police station limits. Bauri’s wife said he was killed for maintaining “good ties” with the Bharatiya Janta party leadership. The TMC district leadership said Bauri’s death was the result of family dispute. Over the past few months, instances of political violence had seen a dip owing to strict lockdown measures, but the spate of violence has increased with the easing of restrictions.
05 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State crosses 5,000 mark with 240 new cases||The cumulative number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 5,000 mark on Saturday and stood at 5,204 with the State reporting 240 new cases, setting yet another new high in single-day spike so far. With 209 persons recovering and leaving hospitals on Saturday, the State seems to be maintaining the trend of balancing the new cases with almost as many cases of recovery. The number of active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals now is 2,129. The number of recoveries reached 3,048 so far. However, cases of local transmission seem to be on a steady high with new and expanding clusters and random cases without any epidemiological link springing up in many parts There were 36 cases of local transmission, which included 11 members of the Defence Security Corps and four Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel in Kannur and four Border Security Force jawans in Thrissur. The rest of the 204 new cases are all imported cases of infection. Almost all of these scattered cases wherein the source of infection remains untraced have been reported in people for whom interactions with a large number of people on a daily basis seems to be an occupational hazard. They include lottery sellers, fish vendors, food delivery staff, medical representatives and drivers of public transport vehicles. This drives in the point that physical distancing and avoiding crowded environs are key COVID-19 prevention strategies. Of the new cases, Malappuram has 37, Kannur 35, Palakkad 29, Pathanamthitta 22, Alappuzha and Thrissur 20 each, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam 16 each, Kasaragod 14, Ernakulam 13, Kozhikode 8, Kottayam 6, and Idukki and Wayanad 2 each. Malappuram with 278 patients and Kannur with 246 are the districts with the highest caseload. Ernakulam with 191 patients, Thrissur with 189 and Kollam and Pathanamthitta with 183 patients each have also added significantly to their caseload in recent days. The number of persons under surveillance is 1,77,759, of whom, 2,915 persons with mild COVID-like symptoms are isolated in hospitals. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 7,219. The number of hotspots is 135.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine deadline meant to ‘cut red tape’, ICMR clarifies||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in a statement on Saturday that a letter sent earlier this week by its Director General Balram Bhargava on a vaccine for COVID-19, was meant to “cut unnecessary red tape” and “speed up recruitment of participants”. Dr. Bhargava’s letter sent on Thursday to clinicians at 12 hospital sites selected to test a potential vaccine sparked controversy after it was seen as exhorting scientists to speed up the processes and enable the vaccine to be made available for “public health use by August 15”. This not only presumes that Covaxin, the candidate vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech Ltd and set to enter clinical trials, will be successful but also that trials, which ordinarily take several months, can be compressed to a little over a month. Government scientists and independent experts have said this is an impossibly short time-frame to test it on people. D
05 July 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. anti-CAA cases: man rearrested for not paying up||An autorickshaw driver accused of arson and vandalism in last year’s protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act here has become the first person to be rearrested for failing to pay up the fine — in his case Rs. 21.76 lakh — as recovery for the damage to private and public property. Mohammad Kaleem, who was first arrested on December 19, 2019 for alleged violence in the Khadra area of Lucknow and released on bail on January 15, 2020, was arrested again on Friday. “He was sent to jail for 14 days,” Shambhu Sharan, Tehsildar of Lucknow, told The Hindu . The Lucknow administration had earlier this year issued recovery notices to 57 persons, including Mr. Kale-em, amounting to Rs. 1.56 crore. The names, photos and addresses of the accused were displayed on hoardings erected across the city in a bid to “name and shame” them. Picked up from home Mr. Kaleem’s wife Nargis said he was picked up while he was at their home-run kiosk, selling biscuits and other edible items. “How would we be able to pay? We don’t even have a proper house. We have always lived in a jhopadpatti (shanty),” she said. The couple have four children. Ashma Izzat, Mr. Kaleem’s lawyer, said the administration’s action was “illegal” and argued that proper procedure was not followed. “What example are they trying to set through this at a time when the Epidemic Diseases Act is in force and courts are yet to resume normal functioning?” said the lawyer. Mr. Kaleem had challenged the recovery notice issued to him in the Allahabad High Court, which on June 16 granted time to the government lawyers to seek instructions and fixed the next hearing for July 13. Mr. Sharan said his teams had also gone to the residences of Congress activist Sadaf Jafar and retired IPS officer S.R. Darapuri, who are both accused in the violence case, to recover fines from them. “We can arrest them or seal their property. We have all options open,” he said. Ms. Jafar confirmed that around 15 officials had come to her residence and informed her children that she would have to pay the fine. “They intimidated my [minor] children,” she alleged. Mr. Darapuri’s family also said that officials had come to their house and allegedly threatened to confiscate their property by Sunday.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,850 samples test positive in a day in Telangana||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 22,312 as 1,850 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. This is the second highest number of cases recorded in a day. The highest of 1,892 was reported on Friday. Five more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 288. The new 1,850 cases includes 1,572 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 92 from Rangareddy district, 53 from Medchal district and 31 from Warangal Urban district. Highest positivity rate The cumulative Test Positivity Rate (TPR) — percentage of samples which test positive — in the State is 20.1%. This is the highest when compared to other States in the country. The Positivity Rate has been on an upward trajectory after the State government decided to conduct more tests from June 15. While 43,180 tests were conducted from March 2 to June 15 (105 days), a total of 67,365 tests were conducted from June 16 to July 4 (19 days). Till date, 1,10,545 tests have been conducted. The number of tests will increase as at least four more private labs in Hyderabad were permitted to conduct tests. Besides, the State government too is ramping up testing capacity. So the Positivity Rate is likely to increase further. A total of 22,312 cases were detected in the State till date making it the seventh highest across the country. Of the total, 10,487 are active cases, 11,537 were discharged and 288 patients have died.
05 July 2020||MADURAI,||HC imposes cost on petitioner||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has imposed a cost of Rs. 25,000 on a petitioner from Dindigul district for filing a vexatious petition that, to an extent, stalled the progress of the Oddanchatram-Tiruppur State Highway project. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Chinnasamy, who sought a direction to restrain the State from allotting a piece of land, which he claimed to be a waterbody, to those who had lost their dwelling due to land acquisition for the project. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi said the land in Thangachiyammapatti was government poramboke land that was classified as ‘salai.’ It was never classified as a water course. The government wanted to allocate the land for resettlement of those who had lost their house due to land acquisition. The land was selected only after due verification, the court said. The State submitted that due to the vexatious petition, the highway project was stalled to some extent. The court directed the petitioner to pay the amount to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund within eight weeks and dismissed the petition.
05 July 2020||MUMBAI,||7,074 more COVID-19 cases take Maharashtra tally past 2 lakh||COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra zoomed past the two lakh mark on Saturday, with the State recording a staggering 7,074 new cases, the highest so far in a single day. Less than half of the 2,00,064 recorded cases in the State are currently active — 83,295 to be precise, as per State’s public health department. The State also recorded 295 deaths from the pandemic on Saturday, of which 124 had occurred in the previous 48 hours and 171 were from an earlier period. 163 of these 171 deaths had occurred in Thane district between the months of April and June, the department said. The total death toll in Maharashtra has now touched 8,671, with a case fatality rate of 4.33%. “The war is not over yet,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said as he stressed on the need to lower the fatality rate at a review meeting with top officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Mumbai, with its high population density, has accounted for a bulk of the COVID-19 cases in the State so far, but in recent days, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) comprising of adjoining districts has seen a far sharper spurt in cases. Thane district now accounts for nearly a quarter of the State’s COVID-19 infections, with 45,833 cases, in comparison to 83,237 cases in Mumbai city. 1,163 new cases in Mumbai Mumbai accounted for 1,163 of the new cases on Saturday, while Pune city accounted for 1,120. Within the MMR, the Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation reported the highest cases after Mumbai – with 633 new patients — taking its tally close to the 10,000 mark. At the review meeting, the CM called for greater co-ordination among municipal authorities and a ramping up of tracing and testing of likely COVID-19 patients. He also mooted a further enhancement of institutional quarantine facilities in the State. Currently, 5.96 lakh people are in home quarantine while 41,566 people are in institutional quarantine facilities as per the State public health department’s COVID-19 updates bulletin . On Saturday, 3,395 patients were discharged, taking the total patients discharged after full recovery to little over 1.08 lakh, giving the State a recovery rate of 54.02%. The State has so far tested 10,80,975 samples for COVID-19, of which 18.51% or 2,00,064 have tested positive for the virus. Pune district accounts for the third highest number of cases (26,956), followed by Palghar (7,173), Aurangabad (6,271) and Raigad, which has 5,585 cases.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Now, ‘108’ ambulances to shift patients to hospitals||With several complaints on the delay in shifting COVID-19 patients and others suspected to have the virus, the State government on Saturday made the 108 Arogya Kavacha service responsible for shifting patients to hospitals. The government has also established a round-the-clock call centre [1912] to redress grievances on the denial of beds. According to the guidelines issued on Saturday, the 108 service, which normally deals with medical emergencies and shifts patients, will now also shift COVID-19 patients across treatment facilities in Bengaluru, including COVID-19 care centres (CCC) and hospitals. The 108 call centre will also receive distress calls with respect to COVID-19 or Severe Acute Respiratory Illness [breathlessness] and allot ambulances for shifting. “All the government facility heads will call 108 whenever they need to shift patients from the CCC to hospitals [higher medical need] or vice-versa [if a patient has improved and does not need a bed in hospital],” stated the guidelines. Patients with breathing distress can also call 108 directly.  “On receiving the call, 108 will quickly ascertain if the patient is a COVID-19 positive or a suspected case, and then move them to a nearby treatment facility in consultation with the BBMP’s bed allocation team. The 108 ambulance should shift such patients using an Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulance with adequate manpower and personal protective equipment,” the guidelines stated. However if the patient is breathless but has not undergone a test, he/she should be immediately shifted to a COVID-19 hospital assuming that it can be a COVID-19 case and treated after doing a test. If an asymptomatic patient with no underlying medical condition calls 108, all such calls can be transferred to the BBMP’s bed allocation team for necessary transportation and bed allocation. The 1912 call centre will have officials from the Health and the Medical Education Departments, the Suvarna Arogva Suraksha Trust (SAST), the BBMP and BESCOM. This call centre, which is also being used by BESCOM and located on its premises, will be supervised by the BESCOM MD. After collecting the details from the caller, the centre will pass on the information to the relevant department, which will, in turn, call the nodal officer appointed by the hospital for ensuring admission. lf beds are not available, the team will ensure shifting to other nearby facility, the guidelines stated.
05 July 2020||MANGALURU/UDUPI,||Coastal Karnataka receives moderate to heavy rain||Moderate to heavy rain lashed several parts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada on Saturday partially damaging some houses in Kundapur taluk in Udupi district. Waterlogging was also noticed in Sajipa in Bantwal taluk. U.T. Khader, MLA, under whose constituency the area falls, visited the place and spoke to the residents. He asked officials to address problems of residents. The water level in Netravathi at Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada stood at 3.8m. Water was released from the AMR hydel power project near Bantwal. According to the the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the average rainfall recorded in the city was 86mm in the last 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. It rained heavily in Mulki which recorded 150 mm, followed by 90 mm in Moodbidri Panambur and Mangaluru Airport, 80 mm in Puttur and Sullia, 60 mm in Uppinangady, 50 mm in Kukke Subrahmanya, and 30 mm in Dharmasthala. Udupi district received an average rainfall of 81.5 mm during the same period. Udupi taluk recorded 103.4 mm, followed by 90.9 mm in Karkala taluk, and 62 mm in Kundapur taluk, according to an official release by the Udupi district administration. The IMD has forecast rain and thundershowers in coastal Karnataka in the next 48 hours. As wind speeds, between 45-55 kmph, are likely to prevail over the Arabian Sea and along and off the Karnataka coast, fishermen have been advised not to sail out.
05 July 2020||LUCKNOw,||As Dubey evades arrest, U.P. police demolish his house||The Station House Officer (SHO) of the Chaubeypur station in Kanpur was suspended on Saturday over his suspect actions during the attack on a police team, leading to the death of eight policemen, during an operation to arrest wanted criminal Vikas Dubey. However, more than 24 hours after the brazen attack, Dubey remained at large. Twelve teams, comprising personnel from 40 stations, have been formed to nab Dubey and his men. Meanwhile, in Bikru village, where the attack took place, police teams used bulldozers to demolish a large house belonging to Dubey. Cars owned by him were also crushed in the process. The police did not explain why and under what authority the property had been demolished.
05 July 2020||Staff REporter MACHILIPATNAM,||Kollu Ravindra plotted YSRCP leader’s murder, says Krishna SP||Former Telugu Desam Party Minister Kollu Ravindra allegedly plotted the killing of YSRCP leader Moka Bhaskar Rao (57), along with a few others, and monitored the execution of the crime with his henchmen over the mobile phones of his followers and personal assistants, claim the police. “Mr. Ravindra guided the accused to stab the victim on his chest to ensure his death,” Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu said, adding that the former Minister was produced in court which remanded him in judicial custody. Explaining the role of the former Minister, Mr. Babu claimed the accused Chinni, Nancharayya and others, who were arrested in the case, were in touch with Ravindra before and after the crime. The TDP leader allegedly discussed about the murder plan several times before June 29, he said. “Based on the confession of the arrested persons, police visited Ravindra’s house on Friday to serve notices, but the latter escaped from backside of his house by scaling the compound wall. One of the special teams tracked him and arrested him at Tuni, while he was on the run,” Mr. Babu told at a press conference here on Saturday. The gang reportedly attempted to kill the former Market Yard Committee chairman in 2013 and again on June 28. Finally, they executed their plan the next day. The former Minister was tracking the crime from time-to-time through the mobile phones of his personal assistants, Rizwan and K. Ramu, whose call data has been collected, the police official said. “This is a political murder. The gang was planning to eliminate Bhaskar Rao for the last few years, as he was rising in the ranks in their rival party and obstructing their growth. Ravindra assured to give all support to the accused, but urged them not to reveal his name,” the SP said. After attacking Bhaskar Rao at the fish market, near Koneru Centre on June 29, Nancharayya spoke to Ravindra through his PA’s mobile phone before fleeing and reportedly said: “Anna, work is over”, to which the former minister allegedly replied “OK”, the SP said. “As per the confession of the other gang members, the murder occurred with full knowledge and guidance of the former Minister. Police are trying to apprehend the remaining accused in the case,” Mr. Babu added.
05 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala CM questions Centre’s handling of Italian marines case||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has expressed strong feelings over the Centre’s handling of the proceedings in the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS), which culminated in the ruling that the Italian marines accused of killing two Indian fishermen at sea in February 2012 could not be tried in Indian courts. The marines had said that they shot the two fishermen “mistaking them for pirates”. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, he said the matter deserved a more sensitive and cautious handling from the beginning and during the proceedings in the ITLOS, as it involved the loss of life of two innocent Indians. “It is quite shocking that such a grave crime committed against our citizens is not being brought to justice in our country. Whatever be the technicalities of international conventions, the decision of the ITLOS has resulted in added grief for the bereaved families and the people of Kerala,” he said. Mr. Vijayan urged the Union government to make earnest efforts to build international pressure for a fair trial in Italy. “We need to bargain for an exemplary amount as compensation. We should also keep our option of approaching the ITLOS within the stipulated time of one year if getting adequate compensation is not possible thr-ough negotiations,” he said.
05 July 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai Police tweak 2-km rule, permit travel ‘closer to home’||The Mumbai police on Saturday altered its 2-kilometre radius rule imposed to curb needless travel during the lockdown and allowed people to move around in their neighbourhood. In a tweet, the police said people were “permitted shopping closer to home” from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. and asked them to carry IDs and other documents while travelling for work. The police also said night curfew was in force between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. with exemptions only for essential work, including medical emergencies. The order to not travel beyond 2 km during the lockdown was issued by the police on Sunday, while prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were imposed on Wednesday. Women and Child Welfare Minister Yashomati Thakur on Saturday urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to allow women staffers who are pregnant or above the age of 50 and with aliments like diabetes and blood pressure to work from home. In a letter to Mr. Thackeray, she said pregnant staffers had left for their native places to shield themselves from the infection, while those above 50 were unable to report to work due to transport restrictions. “Women with co-morbidities are at a higher risk from the infection, and must be allowed to work from home,” Ms. Thakur said.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Curbs will be eased in Chennai from Monday||While Tamil Nadu will witness a complete lockdown on Sunday, with the closure of all shops and the suspension of all services barring medical services and milk supply, Chennai will see a partial relaxation of curbs from Monday. The ongoing total lockdown in Madurai city and its surrounding areas will be extended till July 12. The rules governing the functioning of industries have been eased, and the relaxations will come into effect from Monday. Last week, the government had said that once the complete lockdown ends in the Greater Chennai Police limits (on July 5), the relaxations that were in place before June 19 would kick in outside COVID-19 containment areas. However, on Saturday, in a partial modification of the announcement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that restaurants and tea shops would be allowed to offer only parcel and delivery services in the State capital, until further orders. Dine-in services will not be allowed. Restaurants would be allowed to operate from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m., and delivery agents must carry the identity cards issued by their respective organisations. Tea stalls would be allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., just like vegetable and provision shops. Except malls, all showrooms and big textile and jewellery shops can function from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. “As far as other activities are concerned, what was allowed prior to June 19 will be in place, with regulations,” the Chief Minister said. Industrial areas The government has also relaxed the restrictions in industrial areas from Monday. An official press release said IT firms, IT services sector, private companies, industries and export firms can function with 50% staff in areas falling under the Chennai Metropolitan Police limits. Similar relaxations would apply to the Tiruvallur municipality, the Gummidipoondi, Ponneri and Minjur town panchayats, the village panchayats in Poonamallee, the Eekaadu and Cholavaram panchayat unions, the Chengalpattu and Maraimalainagar municipalities, the Nandivaram-Guduvancheri town panchayat, the village panchayats in Kattankulathur panchayat union, and in Kancheepuram district. The firms in other areas could function with 100% staff strength. The government said that while an e-pass was necessary for workers who travel between districts, it was not needed for intra-district movement. Companies could use the passes issued by the District Collectors before June 19. No new passes were required, it said. While the government had earlier said that the complete lockdown in Madurai would end on July 5, it has now extended the shutdown by a week. Mr. Palaniswami said the total lockdown would remain in place in the Madurai Municipal Corporation areas, the Paravi panchayat, Madurai-East, Madurai-West and the village panchayats in the Tirupparankundram panchayat union. “Though the infection rate has come down in these areas, the total lockdown has been extended under the Disaster Management Act to bring the disease under total control,” he said. The essential services already allowed would continue to be permitted during the extended lockdown period. The Chief Minister said no activities would be allowed in containment zones, and monitoring work would be stepped up during the lockdown. “The local bodies would ensure the provision of essential supplies to isolation houses and containment zones. Disinfection would be carried out twice a day,” he explained. Mr. Palaniswami reiterated that the disease cannot be brought under control without the people’s cooperation. “People should compulsorily wear masks, wash their hands and maintain physical distance. They should avoid going outside unnecessarily, and should visit a hospital if they develop symptoms,” he said. CM submits report to Governor  Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday met Governor Banwarilal Purohit and submitted a report on the measures taken to fight COVID-19 to him. The CM was accompanied by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, among others
05 July 2020||IDUKKI,||Five weddings and a bridge in the village of Marayur||Weddings have lately been considerably simplified in the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border village of Marayur, where a number of people of Tamil origin have been settled for generations. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, when a woman from a village here married someone settled in Tamil Nadu, she would travel to her marital home with her family and relatives the day before the wedding. There, the marriage would be solemnised with fanfare in a town hall or a temple. “However, when COVID-19 struck, many marriages had to be postponed. When the pandemic continued, weddings were conducted but they became more symbolic, with only the bridegroom accompanied by two or three persons crossing the border at Chinnar. The bride and groom exchange garlands on this side of the bridge and with that, the ceremony is completed,” said Jayan Variath, a local journalist and a resident of Marayur. After the first such wedding was held nearly a month ago, in all five such marriages have been solemnised in the same way at the same spot. Permission from the Tamil Nadu government, and a medical certificate issued by the Kerala Health Department to the bride, is a prerequisite. Mr. Jayan said marriages involved a great deal of pomp before, and expensive weddings were the norm for both well-to-do and less privileged families. Munnar Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Remesh Kumar said that all the marriages had followed COVID-19 protocol. Five persons were allowed from each side. The ceremony ended in a few minutes, with much less traffic than the main road normally sees. “It is slowly evolving into a unique style, and the marriage without a religious function has been endorsed by people of different religions here,” Mr. Jayan said.
05 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Dream Kerala banks on novel ideas||The Dream Kerala project, envisaged to rehabilitate expatriates, will have ingredients such as crowdsourcing of ideas, mentorship by young IAS officers, and guidance of professionals well-versed with the international job market. The public can come up with creative proposals and out-of-the-box ideas on the future of Kerala and to suggest amendments to the policies of the government on social media. The 100-day project, which will be executed under the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA), will be completed by November 15. The government took the initiative after it was found that 52% of the NoRKs who had returned in the wake of the pandemic had lost jobs. Meeting on Monday The steering committee, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and comprising Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, Ministers, and officials will meet on Monday to chalk out the way forward, sources said. The government has notified the project approved by the Cabinet and has constituted an eight-member expert committee headed by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board CEO K.M. Abraham and a technical committee headed by IAS officer Dinesh Arora and NoRKA Roots CEO K. Harikrishnan Namboothiri as the convener. The notification issued by Principal Secretary, NoRKA, K. Elangovan says a separate notification will be issued on sourcing the funds. Virtual meeting The public can take part in the Dream Kerala campaign ideathon that will be held from July 15 to 30 and sectorial hackathon from August 1 to 10. The selected proposals will be presented at a virtual meeting on August 14.
05 July 2020||Kolkata,||Woman killed, body dumped in canal||A woman in her mid-40s was allegedly killed inside a moving taxi and the body dumped in a canal off the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass in Kolkata, the police said on Saturday. A driver of a mobile application-based taxi service has been arrested and the woman’s body recovered from the canal, the police added. During interrogation, the accused reportedly said he knew the victim and had taken a loan from her, a police officer said. On Friday afternoon, the accused picked up the woman, who worked as a domestic help, from Mudiyali in the Tollygunge police station area, in his car. Following a heated argument between the two, the woman demanded repayment of the loan amount, the officer said. “Prima facie, it seems that the man killed the woman by slitting her throat. He then went around the city in the car to find a suitable place to dump the body. He found a secluded place off the bypass and dumped the body in the canal,” he said.
05 July 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi records just two new cases||Dharavi reported only two new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, its lowest spike since the first week of April, taking its total case tally to 2,311. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) did not reveal if fresh deaths had been reported in the area. For the past few days, the BMC has stopped releasing the data on the number of deaths in the area. On June 23, Dharavi reported only five new COVID-19 cases. The area has now 519 active cases and 1,704 recovered patients have been discharged so far. As of Friday, the average weekly doubling rate of cases in the area improved to 140 days, and the average growth rate of cases stood at 0.55%.
05 July 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata suspends flights from 6 virus hotspots||Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai are among the six cities from where flights have been suspended by the Kolkata airport authorities from July 6 till 19. The other blacklisted cities are Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad. The decision came even as the number of COVID-19 cases in West Bengal crossed the 20,000 mark on July 3, with the death toll touching 717. Kolkata has recorded over 50% of all deaths and 30% of all cases of infection.  However, speaking to The Hindu, director of the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport Kaushik Bhattacharya said there were no restrictions on outbound flights from Kolkata to these six cities. The decision to operate outbound flights rests with the airlines.  West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha on June 30 wrote to Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation P.S. Kharola urging him to stop flights to Kolkata from cities with a high prevalence of COVID-19 cases. “West Bengal is witnessing a steep rise in cases... Accordingly, I approach you with request not to schedule any flight to West Bengal from high prevalence places viz. Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai, Indore, Ahmedabad and Surat, and to stop movement of flights from these cities to Kolkata or Bagdogra for two weeks starting July 2020,” Mr. Sinha said in the letter. Most airlines that fly point to point will find it unfeasible to operate empty flights into the city so as to be able to fly out with passengers. “Following government orders, a total of 56 of our flights to/from Kolkata are being cancelled between July 6 and 19. We continue to follow DGCA guidelines, and are offering passengers refunds on flights cancelled within 14 days of departure,” a Vistara spokesperson said. Mr. Bhattacharya said the airport has been operating more than 65 flights on a daily basis. “Today the airport recorded 67 arrivals and departures. From these six destinations, about 24 flights were arriving every day,” the airport director said. Mr. Bhattacharya said the airport would still be operating more than 40 flights a day despite the suspensions. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has also been raising the issue of stopping flights from COVID-19 hotspots. She had also insisted that international flights should be allowed only once in 15 days.  “The flight ban to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad between July 6 and 19 is senseless because most people flying from other places fly via these cities, and what if people from these cities fly via Bengaluru or Hyderabad,” Aloke Bajpai, CEO and co-founder of ixigo, wrote on Twitter.  From these six destinations, about 24 flights were arriving every day. There are no restrictions on outbound flights Kaushik Bhattacharya Director of Kolkata airport
05 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State COVID-19 tally mounts to 17,699||The State has reported 12 deaths and 765 fresh cases of COVID-19 during the past 24 hours taking the toll to 218 and tally to 17,699. There are 9,473 active cases and 8,008 have recovered so far. Kurnool and Srikakulam districts reported three deaths each, while two deaths each occurred in Visakhapatnam and Chittoor. Kadapa and Vizianagaram reported one death each. A majority of the new cases were reported in Anantapur (127 cases), Kurnool (118) and East Godavari (102). They are followed by Kadapa (73), Krishna (70), Chittoor (67), Guntur (60), Prakasam (57), Nellore (27), Vizianagaram (13), West Godavari (4). No new case was reported in Srikakulam. However, the death rate in Srikakulam which is the only district with less than 100 cases has gone up to 6.45% following new deaths in the past day. Next to it is Krishna district with a death rate of 4.05 and 68 deaths so far. The district has been witnessing the highest death rate for a long time. The State’s COVID death rate is 1.23%. Of the total cases, 15,141 are of locals and of the ‘imported’ cases 2,143 are of people from other States and 415 are of people from other countries. Testing Meanwhile, the State has inched close to completed 10 lakh tests. Including the 24, 962 tests conducted in the past 24 hours so far 9.96 lakh tests were conducted in the State.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||60% patients had at least one co-morbidity, survey finds||In India, 60% of COVID-19 patients had at least one co-morbidity such as hypertension and diabetes, and nearly 78% of them were under 50, says data from the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), a Health Ministry body. Fever was the dominant symptom repor-ted by hospitals.page 10
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi inches towards 1 lakh COVID cases||The national capital reported 2,505 fresh COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 97,200 cases, said a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Saturday. With 55 deaths in the last 24 hours and 26 deaths on earlier days being added to the tally, the toll touched 3,004. As many as 2,632 people recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 68,256.
05 July 2020||KOCHI,||Man held for impersonation||A man who moved around Kochi impersonating as a naval officer was arrested by the police on Wednesday. A defence communication said Raja Nath, 23, was travelling to various places in uniform and uploaded videos on TikTok posing as a Lieutenant in the Navy. This is the second such incident reported from Kochi, said a Navy spokesperson. The Navy has approached the State government with a request that unauthorised sale of armed forces’ uniform may be outlawed in the State.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Raging waters||
05 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal’s unemployment rate better than India’s: CM||West Bengal’s unemployment rate of 6.5% in June was “far better” than the national average of 11%, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday, citing a report by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). This is an outcome of the economic strategy adopted by the State to tackle the COVID-19 crisis and the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan, Ms. Banerjee said. “We’ve implemented a robust economic strategy to tackle #COVID19 and the devastation caused by Amphan. Proof lies in West Bengal’s unemployment rate for the month of June 2020 which stands at 6.5%, far better than that of India at 11 per cent, UP at 9.6 per cent and Haryana at 33.6 per cent, as per CMIE,” she said in a tweet. The CMIE report said the country’s unemployment rate fell to 11% in June, as economic activities resumed. West Bengal allowed 100% deployment of workforce in tea gardens and jute mills from June 1. Business establishments, manufacturing units and traders were given the green signal to resume their activities with strict adherence to physical distancing and safety norms, while shopping malls and restaurants had resumed operations on June 8 after a gap of over two months. Lockdown has been extended till July 31 with a slew of relaxations.
05 July 2020||Mumbai,||CINTAA plea to Governor: allow senior actors to resume work||The Cine and TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA) met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Saturday to seek a review of the State government norms that restrict senior actors from working. The production of TV shows, web series and films, which were stopped mid-March in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, were allowed to restart in May in non-containment zones with stringent safety guidelines. Artistes and crew above 65 years of age are, however, not allowed to work, as per the government’s norms. CINTAA senior vice-president Manoj Joshi said he briefed the Governor about senior citizens, who have families dependent on them for livelihood, and apprised him that they already have had no work for the past three months. He also said that there are continuity issues and producers cannot replace them. “The Governor gave us a patient ear… (and) was very positive and assured that he would help us in the best way possible. He had received the letter from CINTAA that we had sent him,” Mr. Joshi said. CINTAA had also written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Industries Minister Subash Desai and former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, on the issue of easing rules restricting senior actors from working.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||China, Pakistan discuss Kashmir||The “deteriorating” situation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir was among the issues discussed by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his Pakistan counter-part Shah Mehmood Qureshi during their phone call on Friday.page 7
05 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Man suffers burns after setting himself on fire||A 31-year-old man was hospitalised with burns on Saturday after he set himself on fire during a protest organised at Neyyar in connection with a dispute over land earmarked for the Neyyar water supply project. The man, who had doused himself with petrol, was rushed to the hospital in a police vehicle. He suffered 35% burns, the police said. He said his father's grave was situated on the premises. Suicide Prevention helpline: Disha Ph: 1056, 0471- 2552056.
05 July 2020||Noida,||51 people booked for organising cricket match||Fifty-one people have been booked for organising a cricket match in Greater Noida in violation of the COVID-19 guidelines, the police said on Saturday. Challans have also been issued to owners of 17 cars used by the participants.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||Glitches mar Day 1 of DU online mock exams||The first day of Delhi University’s online mock examination saw hundreds of students complain about the website crashing, difficulty in registration, uploading of documents and answers, and incorrect question papers.
05 July 2020||Kolkata,||Five dead in violence, blast in West Bengal||At least five persons were killed in two separate incidents of political violence and a bomb blast in south Bengal in the past 24 hours. Two persons died and three were injured in a crude bomb explosion in Murshidabad on Friday. Political violence caused three more deaths.
05 July 2020||SrinagAR,||Two militants killed in Kashmir encounter||Two militants were killed and three soldiers, including a Junior Commissioned Officer, were injured in a day-long encounter in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Saturday. The district witnessed sporadic incidents of protests.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,||04-Nearby-3||TSSPDCL and TSNPDCL are set to improve their liquidity position with the State government by borrowing Rs. 6,300 crore each from PFC and REC as part of the stimulus announced by the Centre after COVID-19.
05 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||04-Nearby-2||The 72-hour strike by the coal workers of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) against the Centre’s move to allow private sector in commercial coal mining ended on Saturday. The strike was spearheaded by the central trade unions of the Coal India Limited (CIL).
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,||04-Nearby-1||Construction of public toilets, as promised by the government, is progressing in the city, informed a GHMC statement on Saturday. GHMC has undertaken construction of a total of 3,000 public toilets on BOT basis across various locations in city. It is proposed to complete construction of 500 public toilets in each zone by August 15 this year.
05 July 2020||MADURAI,||3,030 beds available at care centres||As many as 3,030 beds were available at the 22 COVID-19 care centres in the district, said Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar. The Minister, along with Collector T.G. Vinay, inspected Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), a COVID-19 care centre, on Saturday.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,||BSY divides responsibility among three Ministers||In a bid to clear the recent confusion and heartburn among his Cabinet colleagues, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday divided the responsibility of the government’s response to COVID-19 in Bengaluru among three Ministers.
05 July 2020||Hubballi,||11 deaths in NK||North Karnataka recorded 11 deaths owing to COVID-19 on Saturday. Bidar recorded six fatalities, Kalaburagi three, and Dharwad two. The region continued to see a rise in the number of positive cases. Ballari saw 75 cases on Saturday. There were 51 in Bidar, 45 in Dharwad, 41 in Raichur, and 37 each in Kalaburagi and Vijayapura.
05 July 2020||Chennai,||T.N. records 4,280 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 4,280 new cases of COVID-19 were reported across 37 districts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday, taking its tally to 1,07,001. Chennai, after recording 2,000-plus cases a day for five days, saw a marginal dip, with 1,842 new cases.
05 July 2020||Chennai,||Stage set for valuation of Jayalalithaa's house||With revenue authorities holding an inquiry for the acquisition of Veda Nilayam, the residence of former CM Jayalalithaa, the stage is set for the government to approve valuation of the property and award of compensation to her kin.
05 July 2020||Chennai,||Plasma therapy helped 18 patients: Minister||Convalescent plasma therapy was successful in 18 patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar.
05 July 2020||Thoothukudi,||Prisoners attack Sattankulam policemen||A group of inmates in the Thoothukudi district prison assaulted police personnel from the Sattankulam station, arrested for the twin custodial deaths. Following this, authorities shifted them to the Madurai Central Prison on Saturday.Though the prison has a capacity to house 300 prisoners, only 80 have been kept in the facility in view of the pandemic.
05 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||42 dead in Karnataka as cases rise steadily||Karnataka reported 42 deaths, taking the toll to 339, and 1,839 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh reported 12 deaths and 765 fresh cases. In Telangana 1,850 more tested positive, while five people died of the disease. Kerala’s cumulative COVID-19 cases touched 5,204 on Saturday, with 240 new cases, a new high for a single-day. With 209 persons reported to have recovered on the same day, the State was maintaining the trend of balancing new cases with almost as many cases of recovery. Active cases under treatment in hospitals were 2,129. There were 3,048 recoveries in all. Cases of local transmission seemed to be rising with new and expanding clusters, and random cases with no epidemiological link. On Saturday, 36 cases of local transmission were reported, including 11 members of the Defence Security Corps and four CISF personnel in Kannur and four Border Security Force jawans in Thrissur. The rest of the 204 new cases were imported. Almost all of these scattered cases, in which the source of infection was not traced, were reported in people for whom interactions with a large number of people was a daily occupational hazard. They included lottery sellers, fish vendors, food delivery staff, medical representatives and drivers of public transport vehicles. Public health experts said this underscored the value of physical distancing and avoiding crowds. Andhra Pradesh reported 12 deaths and 765 fresh cases in 24 hours, taking the toll to 218 and the tally to 17,699. Three new deaths each occurred in Kurnool and Srikakulam districts, two deaths each in Visakhapatnam and Chittoor, and one each in Kadapa and Vizianagaram. Karnataka’s total positive cases touched 21,549 on Saturday with 1,839 new ones. Of the new cases, 1,172 were from Bengaluru Urban. The toll of 42 was a new daily high. Telangana’s case total was 22,312 and the five new deaths took the toll to 288. The new cases included 1,572 from Greater Hyderabad, 92 in Rangareddy district, 53 in Medchal district and 31 in Warangal Urban. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate — percentage of samples positive — was 20.1%, said to be the highest among States. Chennai toll crosses 1,000 On Saturday, 4,280 new cases of COVID-19 were reported across 37 districts of Tamil Nadu, taking the overall tally to 1,06,998. Chennai, after recording 2,000-plus cases a day for five days, saw a marginal dip with 1,842 cases, while its toll crossed 1,000 with 37 more fatalities. With 2,214 more patients discharged, 1,198 of them in Chennai, a total of 60,592 persons had been discharged till date. As on date, the number of active cases stood at 44,956. The State’s toll rose to 1,450 with 65 more deaths in the last four days. Chennai’s overall case tally stood at 66,538 of which 24,195 persons were under treatment including home isolation. The city alone accounted for 1,033 deaths.          (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai bureaus)
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid Ladakh standoff, China, Pak. hold talks||The “deteriorating” situation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir came up for discussion between Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi on Friday, according to statements from Islamabad and Beijing. The phone call between them comes amid speculation that China and Pakistan are presenting a common front in the stand-off between the Indian Army and PLA troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, which may require India to prepare for a “two-front war” if action increases at the LoC as well. India’s charge On Friday, India issued a demarche to Pakistan over growing incidents of ceasefire violations by Pakistan forces along the LoC and the International Boundary (IB). “Foreign Minister Qureshi underscored that regional security situation was deteriorating and underlined that India’s belligerent posture and expansionist policies were imperilling peace in the region,” said a release from the Pakistan Foreign Ministry, which also referred to the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. “[Mr. Qureshi] also briefed [Mr. Wang] about the repeated violations committed by India across the LoC,” the statement said. China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said the two Ministers exchanged views on “the situation in Kashmir, Afghanistan and South Asia.” “[Mr. Wang said] both China and Pakistan must work together to meet the risks and challenges and safeguard the common interests of the two countries and regional peace and stability” said the statement issued in Beijing. The conversation took place on a day when Mr. Qureshi announced that he had tested positive for COVID-19. Countering Pakistan’s allegations on the LoC, sources in the Government of India said New Delhi had registered a “strong protest at the continued unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistan forces along the LoC and the IB which are in contravention to the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding.” “This year, till June 2020, 14 Indians have been killed and 88 Indians injured in more than 2,432 unprovoked ceasefire violations carried out by Pakistan forces,” said the sources, adding that Pakistan’s firing was meant to provide cover for cross-border infiltration of terrorists. “Despite these concerns having been shared, including through the channel of Director Generals of Military Operations,the Pakistan forces have not ceased such activities,” the sources said. Pak. posting in China When asked if India’s concerns of a two-front war were growing, President of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy Jayadeva Ranade told The Hindu that it was a “possibility”, and pointed to the recent posting of a Pakistani military officer to China’s Central Military Commission's Joint Staff Department. “China has major strategic and financial investments in Aksai Chin-PoK and Gilgit-Baltistan wider area as represented by the CPEC [China–Pakistan Economic Corridor]. But I feel Islamabad might hesitate to get directly involved because they would anticipate a massive retaliation by India before it switches its entire attention to China,” he said. India has fought with Pakistan at the LoC on several occasions and with China at the LAC in 1965. However, it has not so far had to deal with a “two-front” situation. Last month, Army Chief General Naravane said India “must remain alive” to the threat of a two-front war, and in January 2020 referred to “dual task formations” as a countervailing strategy.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nearly 78% of COVID-19 patients in India are under 50: IDSP data||In India, 60% of COVID-19 patients had at least one co-morbidity and nearly 78% were under 50, says data from the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), a Health Ministry body that’s tasked with monitoring disease outbreaks across the country. The data is only a fraction — less than 1,00,000 — of the confirmed positive cases that today exceeds over 6,50,000, but is based on hospital data and offers glimpses into the unique characteristics of the spread of the disease. Limited role For instance, while co-morbidities are known to be a major risk factor for death, well-known risk factors — hypertension and diabetes — appeared to play a limited role as far as testing positive for the disease is concerned. Only 8% of the 16,155, whose data was publicised by the IDSP, were diabetic and 9% were hypertensive. Previous studies have shown that the overall prevalence of hypertension was 29% and of diabetes around 11%. Nearly 30% of those whose co-morbidities were publicised were categorised as ‘others’. Experts say there were a wide range of co-morbidities among those who tested positive and frequently it was difficult to tease out the contribution of the virus in worsening health. “Cancers, a history of a bypass, hepatic disorders, kidney ailments come in the category of others,” said Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control. The IDSP is a unit of NCDC. “We now have enough cases to call for a deeper analysis of the peculiar characteristics of the pandemic. It isn’t enough to rely on Western or international data alone to understand Indian disease peculiarities.” Laying out the symptoms recorded by hospitals of 19,813 patients, fever was the dominant symptom but noted only in 26% of the cases; cough in 19%. A significant 21% were slotted as “other symptoms”, meaning they displayed conditions beyond sore throat, diarrhoea, pain, headache and vomiting. “This is surveillance data from hospitals. Many times they lack necessary detail but going ahead we hope that at least in major clinical centres, more detailed case histories are presented.” The virus would affect populations differently and “differences in strains” did play a major role in explaining the severity and spread, Mr. Singh said. Previous studies have found that as of early June, there were at least 11 sub-types of SARS-CoV-2, six of which were identified in India. Patient demography When the demographics of nearly 83,000 patients were analysed, 37% were identified as urban and only 13% as rural. The rest were categorised as “not specified”. Mr. Singh said migration and different definitions of classification by the authorities of a person’s residence status were a reason for the large number of ‘unspecified’.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,||HC overturns official’s order in Mysuru land case||In a relief to hundreds of property owners, including the erstwhile Mysore royal family member Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, the Karnataka High Court has set aside the May 26, 2015 order of the Mysuru Deputy Commissioner declaring that around 2,000 acres of private land, held and alienated by the then Maharaja of Mysore, are government’s ‘B kharab’ land reserved for public purposes. Land sold A large portion of the land in Kurubarahalli, Aalanahalli, and Chowdahalli villages, at the foot of Chamundi Hills, was sold to several private individuals during 1960s and 1970s through sale deeds from amongst the private land vested with him through the agreement of 1950 signed with the Government of India as per the instrument of accession. Development While some portion was retained by the then Maharaja, the alienated land was developed by the purchasers with the approval of statutory authorities, and the land changed many hands. On finding entries in some old revenue records that the land belongs to the government, the Deputy Commissioner in 2011-12 held an inquiry on the status of the land under the Karnataka Land Reforms (KLR) Act, 1964. On June 20, 2012, the Deputy Commissioner declared that the land was part of the private land held by the then Maharaja and ordered removal of entries treating some of the land as “government B kharab.” However, the Deputy Commissioner on May 26, 2015 cancelled the June 20, 2012 order while acting on a letter by the Principal Secretary (Revenue) based on an endorsement by the then Deputy Chief Minister on a representation made by an MLC for holding an inquiry under the KLR Act. Ms. Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, who owns some land as per the family settlement, and more than 150 others, who presently own the land sold decades ago by the then Maharaja challenged the May 26, 2015 order of the Deputy Commissioner in the High Court in 2015. Justice S. Sunil Dutt Yadav, citing several illegalities in the Deputy Commissioner’s order, said that the power to hold an inquiry under the KRL Act and cancellation of entries in revenue record entries could not have have been exercised decades after transfer of titles. As the State claimed rights over the land by contending that it, classified as ‘B kharab’ could not have been given to the Maharaja as per the 1950 agreement, the court said that any dispute on the agreement could be resolved only by way of an arbitration process prescribed in the agreement and interference by the Deputy Commissioner was impermissible when Article 363 bars even the courts from interfering in such agreements/treaties. Also, the court said that the DChad no power to decide the dispute over title under the KLR Act, as such a power is vested only with civil courts. The court also directed the revenue and municipal authorities to delete entry of ‘B kharab’ land made in revenue records of petitioners and enter their names as per the law.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Leh military facility used to treat soldiers: Army||The military hospital visited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Leh on Friday was a part of the crisis expansion capacity of 100 beds due to the COVID-19 pandemic and was very much a part of the general hospital complex, the Army said on Saturday in response to queries on the facility. Questions were raised on social media over the facility as pictures released by the Press Information Bureau showed a projector, while there was no medical equipment visible. The Army said, “The COVID-19 protocol had necessitated some wards of the General Hospital to be converted into isolation facilities. Hence, this hall, which otherwise was normally used as a training audio-video hall, was converted into a ward ever since the hospital was designated as COVID-19 treatment hospital.” The injured soldiers have been kept there since their arrival from the Galwan Valley to ensure quarantine from COVID-19 areas and Army Chief Gen. Manoj Naravane and the Army Commander have also visited the injured braves in the same location, the Army said. “It is unfortunate that aspersions are being cast on how our brave Armed Forces are treated”, the statement said. The armed forces give the best possible treatment to their personnel, it added. On a surprise visit to Ladakh on Friday, Mr. Modi addressed troops at Nimu outside Leh and later visited the hospital and met the soldiers injured in the Galwan Valley clash on June 15. Mr. Modi told the soldiers that the whole world was analysing their bravery. The bravery and the blood they had shed would inspire the youth and countrymen for generations, he said.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi lauds BJP workers for pandemic relief work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday lauded Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members for the relief work they had undertaken during the lockdown period due to COVID-19, but cautioned that the danger wasn’t past and that they should spread awareness, especially in the upcoming festive season. Mr. Modi was addressing a countrywide video link with the national and State units of the party and its leadership. “Be aware and spread awareness,” he said, terming the work done by the BJP the biggest “ seva yagya ” (religious observance of service) in history. “At a time when everyone was busy protecting himself, BJP workers dedicated themselves to the service of the poor and the needy. BJP workers took risks to carry out welfare work during the COVID-19 pandemic and some even lost their lives,” he said, paying tributes to them. Serving the poor Mr. Modi emphasised that the party had empowered poor and backwards and its 53 Dalit, 43 tribal and more than 113 OBC MPs, were a testimony of this. Serving people was a part of the BJP’s nationalistic approach. For its workers, nation was first and it came before anything, he pointed out. Speaking on the party’s Bihar unit’s presentation on relief work, Mr. Modi said some believed that COVID-19 would spread more in east India due to high poverty, but people proved it wrong. Praising the work of the BJP’s Rajasthan unit during the lockdown, he said this showed as to how a party could play a “constructive role” whether it was in power or in Opposition during a crisis. The Congress is in power in Rajasthan.
05 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Army raising 3 porter companies in Arunachal||Days after the stand-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, the Indian Army has begun the process of employing 1,800 porters temporarily in Arunachal Pradesh. Officials said three companies would be raised in coordination with the State’s Labour Department. One of these companies is for Tawang region that has been central to China’s claim over the State since the 1962 aggression. The Army periodically takes in porters for about six months to carry essentials and equipment to and from forward posts in the high altitudes across the Himalayan belt. Each porter is “treated like a soldier” during his tenure, renewable depending upon the need for their services. Timing of drive What has made the raising of the porter companies significant is the timing of the “recruitment drive” — from July 1 to 12 — and the element of patriotism thrown in by Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu. Such rallies are usually held in August or September. “This is a great time for our unemployed youths to showcase their unflinching patriotism by working alongside the brave Indian Army. This opportunity offers you not only employment but also the best chance to serve the nation,” he said, addressing the porter-raising ceremony organised by the Army’s 22 Mahar Regiment in West Kameng district on July 3. A local NGO named Yuva Arunachal had campaigned to mobilise the youth across the State to avail of the opportunity to join the Army indirectly. The response, State government officials said, has been overwhelming, unlike the last time “when a few hundred” turned up. A senior Army officer, who had been on the board for selecting porters said the porters are paid according to the wage for unskilled labourers fixed by the Labour Department of the State concerned from time to time. Army and Labour officers make up the board. “Although we have mules, porters are indispensable for logistic support in areas where vehicles cannot go. Fit locals acquainted with terrain and climatic conditions are assets, and their services are renewed on requirement particularly during the winter season,” the officer said, seeking anonymity.
05 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam flood toll rises to 61||A person each drowned in Morigaon and Tinsukia districts of Assam, taking the death toll in the flood-hit State to 61. However, the overall flood situation in the State improved on July 4. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said 1,412 villages and localities across 18 of the State’s 33 districts are currently affected by the deluge. However, the number of people affected declined overnight from over 16 lakh to 10.75 lakh. At least 24 people have died in landslides triggered by the monsoon rains since May 22. Standing crop in 53,348 hectares of farmlands remains under floodwater. Above danger level Three major rivers, including the Brahmaputra, were flowing above danger level in some areas. Altogether, 6,531 have taken shelter in 171 relief camps. Officials of Kaziranga National Park said the water level receded significantly during the last 24 hours, with 32 of the 223 anti-poaching camps still inundated. Two more animals died on July 4, one of them being an Asiatic water buffalo. So far, 35 animals have died due to the flood.
05 July 2020||NALGONDA,||Ram Gopal Varma’s project Murder lands in trouble||Film-maker Ram Gopal Varma and producer Natti Karuna were booked for promoting enmity between groups and under various provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act in connection with their upcoming movie, Murder , at the Miryalaguda Town-I police station in Telangana on Saturday. The cases were filed after P. Balaswamy, father of Dalit youth Perumalla Pranay Kumar, victim of a inter-caste marriage killing in September 2018, complained to the SC/ST special court. “The film will severely affect the ongoing trial of my son’s murder case,” Mr. Balaswamy submitted. Mr. Varma, on June 21, posted pictures of Pranay and Amruthavarshini, and T. Maruthi Rao alongside, on his Twitter page and announced the launch of the proposed film poster. The same day, he released the poster and wrote: “This is going to be a heart wrenching story based on Amrutha and Maruthi Rao saga of the DANGERS of a father LOVING a daughter too much..Launching the poster of a SAD FATHER’S film on HAPPY FATHER’S DAY” According to the complainant’s lawyer D. Narasimha, “The film will create prejudice among people while the trial is in progress.” “Objections are also that the film indicates that there was no caste issue. The film-makers did not take any consent from the family, and the offensive content arising out of the whole episode is re-victimising Pranay’s family, which amounts to violations under the SC/ST Act,” he said. Mr. Narasimha added that the family wanted the film to be stalled. Tirunagaru Maruthi Rao, prime accused in the murder conspiracy of Pranay, was found dead at Arvya Vaishya Bhavan in Hyderabad on March 8.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana govt. sends notice to 13 private labs on discrepancies||Top health officials of Telangana said notices were given to 13 laboratories where discrepancies had shown up in COVID-19 test results. The names of the labs were not disclosed. At a press conference on Saturday, the State’s Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said, “Most of them have rectified their mistakes and the remaining are in the process of rectifying.” A few of the discrepancies reported were violations in quality control, high Test Positivity Rate of around 72% in some labs, violations in the way pool sampling was conducted and variations in data — on number of samples tested and cases detected — submitted to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), State portals and the lab registers. The senior health official said that they would not hesitate to shut down the labs if the issues or abnormalities in the reporting were not rectified. The State’s Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said an expert committee was evaluating the issue which will help in deciding which data is accurate. Four teams have inspected 16 private labs in Hyderabad. Around 10 days after the State government officials permitted private labs in the State to conduct coronavirus tests, the DPH stated in the daily medical bulletin on June 25 that they have observed serious abnormalities in COVID-19 test results uploaded by private labs. Four teams of microbiologists and senior officials inspected 16 private labs in Hyderabad where they checked various aspects such as infection control measures, infrastructure, human resources, and others such as general hygiene. A report on the inspections was submitted which was examined by an Expert Committee of Microbiology professors along with senior officials from the Health department. Major findings of the report was published in medical bulletin on June 26. Pooled sample The Committee suspected that a few labs did not follow correct procedure in conducting pooled samples tests. To augment the number of samples tested for the purpose of surveillance, ICMR issued an advisory according to which five samples can be pooled for tests when prevalence rate of infection is low. The pool will be considered as one sample. If the pool tests negative, all 5 samples are regarded as negative. If the pool tests positive, then all 5 samples have to be tested individually to know how many of them are positive. The Expert Committee who examined the inspection report suspected that some labs conducted pool testing and when a pool tested positive, all samples were declared as positive without doing individual testing leading to some negatives also being declared as positive. Staff training Some more ‘major findings’ are that there was clear evidence that staff conducting tests in some labs have not been trained properly in RTPCR testing for COVID-19. An expert committee was supposed to conduct further inspections. On Saturday, Dr. Rao said that a private laboratory in Himayatnagar reported a Positivity Rate of around 72%, which is high while it is not more than 25% in government labs. The data from the lab is kept under abeyance.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||New Delhi-Islamabad tussle looms as Hurriyat implodes||The resignation of Syed Ali Shah Geelani from the All Party Hurriyat Conference last weeks set off ripples of speculation over the outfit’s future and its role in the politics of the Kashmir Valley. In his reasons for quitting, Mr. Geelani had warned about internal feuds and corruption among the ranks of the Hurriyat; what was left unsaid was just where this feud would leave the outfit. Why the resignation? Mr. Geelani’s resignation was preceded by a series of cases registered against him and his close associates by central agencies, especially since 2017, and the almost deafening silence of the Hurriyat leadership after the August 5, 2019 abrogation of Article 370 and the change in status of Jammu and Kashmir to a Union territory sans Ladakh. “He was gradually losing favour with Pakistan and was being sidelined. The situation was further complicated as he wanted his son to succeed him. This did not cut ice with Pakistani authorities,” said a senior government official. In May 2017, Zakir Musa split from the Hizbul Mujahideen and pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda and had threatened to “decapitate and hand Hurriyat leaders”, warning against terming Kashmir a “political issue” — a departure from his predecessor Burhan Wani who had been killed in 2016, and whom Mr. Geelani had credited with reviving the “Kashmiri Freedom Struggle”. All of this raises questions on Mr. Geelani’s clout in the separatist movement. There is a search on for younger, more credible leaders for the Hurriyat on the part of Pakistan, especially after the events of August 5 last year, a role that the 90-year-old Mr. Geelani was unable to fulfil anymore. In the lull following Mr. Geelani’s resignation, government sources maintain that the internal feud within the Hurriyat is going to grow. The leadership tussle “will go into a street by street battle” and leave the field open for security agencies of India and Pakistan to manoeuvre in the interstices, says one senior source. While some officials say that it could lead to a more a dominant intervention by Pakistan in choosing the new leadership, two other officials said the Indian government was in a better position than before in terms of influencing decisions.
05 July 2020||Bhopal,||Infant mortality rate surged in M.P. in 2018||The infant mortality rate (IMR) in Madhya Pradesh, recording the country’s worst rate for years now, surged by a single point over the previous year to 48 in 2018, stymying an improving annual trend for at least six years, according to the Office of the Registrar General India. Assam pulled down the next highest rate of 44 a year before to 41, Odisha by one count to 40 and Kerala by three points to seven, the lowest among the bigger States. Even the country’s average rate has dropped single-point to 32 but the rate climbed to 43 in Uttar Pradesh, making it the second highest. Rural M.P. In rural Madhya Pradesh, 52 children below one died per 1,000 live births (Infant mortality rate) and 36 in urban area. The country’s average stands at 36 deaths for rural and 23 for urban areas. The IMR for boys in the State stood at 51, while for girls it was 46 in 2018, according to the Sample Registration System bulletin issued by the office. As many as 26 infants of 1,000 live births in Madhya Pradesh died within the first seven days constituting more than half the infant deaths, explained Manish Singh, Deputy Director, State-unit of National Health Mission. “Early neo-natal deaths form the largest chunk,” he said. Increasing premature deliveries, infections, birth asphyxiation and delay in securing treatment leading to complicated deliveries were the major causes, he said. Major concern “A major concern is birth spacing as in most cases two children were born within one-one and a half years against the advised gap of around three years. This may result in premature deliveries of low birth weight babies,” he said. Sagar, Jabalpur and Rewa divisions witnessed higher infant mortality as did Jhabua, Alirajpur and Barwani districts where high malnutrition levels was a major cause, said Dr. Singh. Maternal health also had a bearing on the IMR, he said. In 2015-2017, Madhya Pradesh registered a maternal mortality ratio of 188 per 1 lakh live births, against the country’s average of 122. “Antenatal and postnatal care were important aspects in bringing down infant mortalities,” said Sachin Jain, who works for child rights. “Further, the primary health system needs to be ramped up. The entire focus, despite paucity of specialists, is on big cities like Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur.” Mr. Jain said only 11.4% mothers received full antenatal care, according to the National Family Health Survey -4 (2015-16). “Antenatal check-ups for pregnant women are very minimal. So, despite a high claimed institutional deliveries, when pregnancy is not monitored properly that may lead to complicated deliveries,” he said. To bring down the IMR, Mr. Singh said, “We are setting up paediatric intensive care units in 26 districts, available only in five districts until 2018. We are also enhancing our manpower.” As for encouraging community referrals and ensuring timely treatment, the NHM was training workers at health and wellness centres, he said.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Take patients to govt hospitals’||From the past a few days, distress calls from people who are not able to find a bed in corporate hospitals for their family member with COVID-19 or suspected of it, has increased. Officials from the Telangana Health department said that adequate number of beds are available in government COVID designated hospitals. They have urged people to opt for government hospitals and not to waste money, more importantly, crucial time in running from one corporate hospital to another. Doctors at Osmania General Hospital said that a lot of suspects are brought in critical condition after spending considerable time waiting for a bed in corporate hospital, leaving them less time to save the patients. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that of the 2501 beds available at four COVID designated health facilities — Gandhi Hospital, Fever Hospital, Government General and Chest Hospital, and District Hospital-King Koti — 1,034 were occupied. “So 1,467 beds are vacant,” Dr. Rao said. He said that they will ramp up tests too by using CBNAAT and TrueNat in erstwhile districts. Where to go There have been situations where patients and suspects were clueless about which government hospital to go for admission. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said that COVID-19 patients with mild to severe symptoms have to go to Gandhi Hospital. People suspected of COVID-19 and who have respiratory distress have to go to Osmania General Hospital. The suspects with mild respiratory distress or other COVID symptoms can opt for District Hospital in King Koti. These directions might be displayed at the hospitals in coming days. Besides the four COVID designated hospitals in the city, Dr. Reddy said that Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) will become fully operational from next week. The Director of Public Health said that the cases are set to increase. He said that after lockdown is lifted, movement of people increased for livelihood which led to increase in cases as coronavirus cannot be stopped. As oxygen is crucial for treatment of COVID-19 patients, nearly 3,000 beds in government hospitals are provided with oxygen ports. Only a few patients need ventilators, they explained.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||Modi was 230 km away from LAC: Cong.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was 230 km away from any forward post on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on Friday, while many of his predecessors, including Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shashtri, had visited the border outposts, the Congress said on Saturday. “Did former Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri not visit the forward locations to boost the morale of our soldiers? Did Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru also not visit our soldiers in forward locations in NEFA in 1962 to boost their morale? But it appears that our Prime Minister stayed 230 km away in ‘Nimu, Leh’,” Congress Rajya Sabha memver Kapil Sibal said in a press conference. Indira Gandhi in fact, he added, visited the Galwan Valley. Citing a report in The Guardian, titled “Our pastures have been taken: Indians rue China’s Himalayan land grab”, Mr. Sibal also questioned the government on the border row. The report carries two satellite images, from May 22 and June 23, of Pangsong Tso. The report says it “clearly shows substantial Chinese military structures, including a radar tower, that have been built close to a ridge known as Finger Four”.
05 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. farmers start online campaign over prices||Young farmers and social workers in Seoni district of Madhya Pradesh have launched an online campaign called ‘Kisan Satyagrah’ demanding their produce be bought above the minimum support price and make an attempt to educate the urban population about agriculture. “Issues plaguing farmers shouldn’t be just about them,” said Navendu Mishra, 37, a social worker. “Although young farmers are not vocal about their problems, they are equipped with mobile phones and the internet. Whereas, the urban population has a voice. By connecting the two, their demands can be amplified.” The campaign kicked off with the demand that kharif maize in Seoni and Chhindwara districts be bought above the MSP of Rs. 1,760 per quintal set by the Centre. Reduced demand for poultry owing to the pandemic, but more significantly imports from Ukraine, Myanmar and Russia, have crashed prices locally. While prices hovered around Rs. 1,900-Rs. 2,100 per quintal in December in local mandis, they fell to Rs. 900-Rs. 1,000 starting May, said Sateesh Rai, a farmer in Seoni where maize was grown in 4,35,000 acre. “We suffered a loss of Rs. 200-Rs. 300 per quintal on the input cost, and Rs. 800-Rs. 900 per quintal on the MSP,” he said. Farmers and supporters from cities are sharing their videos and photographs while holding placards on the platform’s handles on Facebook and Twitter. Many Facebook users have attached the campaign’s logo along with their display pictures to support the cause. On June 11, nearly 1,000 persons heeded the call for a day-long hunger strike. The campaign demands a commodity should not be imported if enough is grown domestically. Second, the MSP should be declared for all commodities grown.
05 July 2020||KOCHI,||Infant assaulted by father discharged||The State Women’s Commission has arranged protection and accommodation for a two-month-old infant from Angamaly who sustained brain injury after being assaulted by her father. The infant was discharged from Medical Mission Hospital, Kolenchery, on Saturday after a month-long treatment, which included surgery to prevent bleeding in the brain. The child and her mother will be accommodated at Snehajyoti, an institution to protect children and mothers, in Perumbavoor. The accommodation was facilitated by the Child Welfare Council. The mother has expressed her desire to return to Nepal, her home country, as she did not want to reside with her husband who often attacked the child. The council members have asked her to stay here till the case is disposed of. They promised to meet all medical expenses. Father held The child’s father, a native of a Kannur, had been arrested. He came into contact with the woman from Nepal online and they subsequently got married. According to the police, the infant used to sleep through the day and remain awake at night. On the fateful day, when the infant started crying incessantly, the accused, who was already into a quarrel with his wife, slapped the infant and threw her on to the bed.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Kolkata suspends flights from 6 virus hotspots||West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha had on June 30 written to Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation P.S. Kharola urging him to stop flights to Kolkata from cities with a high prevalence of COVID-19 cases. “West Bengal is witnessing a steep rise in cases... Accordingly, I approach you with request not to schedule any flight to West Bengal from high prevalence places viz..Delhi, Mumba, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai, Indore, Ahmedabad and Surat and to stop movement of flights from these cities to Kolkata or Bagdogra for two weeks starting July 2020,” Mr. Sinha had said in the letter.  While there is no restriction on outbound flights from Kolkata to these six cities, most airlines that fly point to point will find it unfeasible to operate empty flights into the city so as to be able to fly out with passengers. “Following government orders, a total of 56 of our flights to/from Kolkata are being cancelled between 6 and 19 July 2020. We continue to follow DGCA guidelines, and are offering passengers refunds on flights cancelled within 14 days of departure," a Vistara spokesperson said.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||India set for more talks on LAC||Mr. Modi spent a considerable time with Lt. Gen. Singh and was given a detailed briefing on the ongoing military level talks, the official said. Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen. M.M. Narawane, who accompanied Mr. Modi from Delhi, were not part of the meeting. “There are too many voices in Delhi. The Lt. Gen. is flooded with suggestions before and after the talks with the Chinese. What is required now is clear cogent directions,” said the official. Verification to begin A second official said that beginning Sunday (July 5), the verification process of whether the Chinese have removed structures, as agreed, at Galwan Valley would start. In the June 30 meeting, the two sides decided to verify the de-escalation at all the friction points. The official said, “After the June 15 incident, the Chinese built stone walls or semi bunkers within India’s perception of the LAC at the very same point where the clashes occured. Indian troops also have a matching bunker and structure there, primarily used as a protection from hurling of stones. On July 5, we will carry out a survey to verify if China has removed the structure or not.” As per the June 30 disengagement plan, the two military commanders indicated that at first de-escalation would take place at all the friction points and then “depth areas” such as the Depsang plains in the north, where China has amassed troops, would be looked into.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccine deadline meant to ‘cut red tape’: ICMR||However, the ICMR’s letter of Saturday has still no explanation why August 15 was mentioned. The latest letter notes that the ICMR’s process is “exactly in accordance” with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials continue in parallel. “Red tape,” the letter notes, was not allowed to become a hindrance in the fast-track approval of testing kits or introducing potential drugs. Similarly, the vaccine development process also had to be “insulated from slow file movement”. The ICMR was exhorting scientists at trial site locations to complete early testing phases (Phase 1 and 2) at the earliest so that “population-based trials for efficacy could be initiated without delay,” the letter notes. Phase-1 and Phase-2 are trials done on groups of people and meant to test if the vaccine is safe in people and produces protective antibodies. The potential vaccine in question is a SARS-CoV-2 strain sourced from the ICMR-National Institute of Virology. The aim is to test if the weakened form of the virus can stimulate enough immunity to protect healthy people from infections. In clinical trial parlance, ‘efficacy’ refers to testing if the potential vaccine appears to be working in ideal conditions. Based on this, investigators proceed to test the ‘effectiveness’ in real world conditions.  There are several candidates for a vaccine in the pipeline and the most promising of them have begun Phase-3 trials, where the vaccine is tested in a large population of thousands of individuals, to determine if it can reduce disease spread. The letter said the ICMR with top medical scientists “should not be second guessed” for their professionalism.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,||2 more die in Bengaluru as hospitals turn them away||Saturday saw two more instances of patients passing away, with hospitals turning them away citing various reasons, ranging from lack of beds to they not having COVID test results. A 50-year-old woman, who developed breathing problems, had to run between 12 hospitals across the city seeking admission. Turned away by all, the family finally took her to K.C. General Hospital, where she breathed her last. Vasantha, a resident of Binnypet, was turned away from hospitals either for want of a COVID-19 test report or citing shortage of beds. She lost the golden hour and her condition became critical when she was finally taken to K.C. General Hospital. “All four of our ventilators were occupied. She was brought in a critical condition and went into respiratory distress,” said B.R. Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent of the hospital. Her husband, R. Babu, said he first rushed her to St. Martha’s Hospital and then to numerous private hospitals. “Finally, while K.C. General admitted her, they informed us that she needed ventilator support and that their ventilators were occupied. My wife would have survived if she had got timely treatment,” Mr. Babu said. In another case, the family of a senior citizen who passed away on the evening of June 3 learnt on Saturday that he had tested positive for COVID-19. Until then for more than 12 hours, the body remained at home, creating a scare among neighbours. The family had sought medical help for his underlying conditions, but in vain. The deceased was over 60 years old. “He was suffering from diabetes and kidney-related ailments and was undergoing dialysis at a private hospital,” said local councillor Prathiba Dhanraj. According to officials, the private hospital where he was being treated, had advised him to take a COVID-19 test. “They asked him not to visit the hospital for dialysis,” said an official. A BBMP health official said that the family members of the deceased patient came to the hospital on Friday evening seeking help. “Since we did not know the history of the patient, we alerted the officials concerned and provided them with the PPE kit to be on the safer side,” the official said. Meanwhile, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar on Saturday visited the family of the 63- year-old who died on the road on Friday, waiting for the ambulance in Gavipuram and offered an “unconditional apology” to the family on behalf of the civic body.
05 July 2020||SrinagAR,||2 militants killed, JCO among 3 injured in Kashmir encounter||Two militants were killed and three soldiers, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were injured in a day-long encounter in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Saturday. One militant was killed in the initial exchange of fire with the security forces, as a cordon was being thrown around the Arrah area of Kulgam, a police official said. Vijay Kumar, IGP, Kashmir, said, “We brought the second holed up militant’s family to the encounter site. The family tried to persuade him to surrender. However, the trapped militant refused to surrender.” Later, the holed up militant was also killed. Kulgam witnessed sporadic incidents of protests. Internet services were stopped in the district “as a precautionary measure”.
05 July 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Surat emerges as second largest hotspot in Gujarat||Diamond city Surat has emerged as the second largest COVID-19 hotspot in Gujarat after Ahmedabad, prompting Chief Minister Vijay Rupani’s government to put in place a comprehensive combat strategy to deal with surging cases and deaths. Mr. Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel and top officials on Saturday rushed to Surat to take stock of the escalating situation in the city. As per official records, 200 people have died and there are over 5,500 COVID-19 cases in the city. However, according to local sources, almost 625 bodies have been cremated or buried in accordance with COVID-19 protocols, raising doubts over the official data on fatalities. After meetings with the civic and district administration, Mr. Rupani said that a comprehensive strategy is being worked out to contain the pandemic in the city. “The government is equipped to handle an increase in the number of cases. Additional beds will be created in hospitals and 200 extra ventilators are being provided,” Mr. Rupani told presspersons. He added that the administration will take a call in next few days on whether to shut down diamond cutting and polishing units in the wake of rising infections in those pockets. Meanwhile, Gujarat on Saturday recorded 712 new infections, taking its case load to 35,398, while 21 new deaths have increased the fatality count to 1,927.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||PM launches Atmanirbhar Bharat app challenge||Days after the Central government banned 59 Chinese apps, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday invited India’s tech community to participate in the ‘Digital India Atmanirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge’. Mr. Modi said that it would help create an “Atmanirbhar App Ecosystem”. “Who knows, I may also use some of these apps made by you,” he said in a post on LinkedIn. The challenge will run in two tracks, which are promotion of existing apps and the development of new apps.
05 July 2020||Lucknow,||Rickshaw driver arrested again in CAA protest case||A rickshaw driver accused of arson and vandalism in last year’s protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) here has become the first person to be re-arrested for failing to pay up the fine — in his case, Rs. 21.76 lakh — as recovery for the damage to private and public property. Mohammad Kaleem is one of the persons accused of violence in the Khadra area of Lucknow on December 19, 2019. Out on bail, he was arrested again on Friday for failing to pay the fine asked of him in a demand notice. “He was sent to jail yesterday for 14 days,” Shambhu Sharan, Tehsildar of Lucknow, said. The Lucknow administration had earlier this year issued recovery notices to 57 persons, spread over four police stations, amounting to Rs. 1.56 crore. Mr. Kaleem’s wife, Nargis, said he was picked up on Friday while he was at their home-run kiosk. He usually drove a rickshaw for a living before shifting to a rented cart to transport refrigerators and coolers, but that work also ran dry recently after the cart developed some faults, his wife said. The couple have four children. “How will we able to pay? We don’t even have a proper house,” she said. Ashma Izzat, Mr. Kaleem’s lawyer, says the administration’s action was “illegal” and argued that the proper procedure was not followed. Mr. Kaleem had challenged the recovery notice issued to him in the Allahabad High Court, which on June 16 granted time to the government lawyers to seek instructions and fixed the next hearing on July 13. Meanwhile, Tehsildar Mr. Sharan said his teams had also gone to the residences of Congress activist Sadaf Jafar and retired IPS officer S.R. Darapuri, who are both accused in the violence, to recover fines from them.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||As Dubey evades arrest, U.P. police demolish house||However, while talking to a television channel, IG Range Kanpur Mohit Agarwal said the priority of the police was to wipe out Vikas Dubey’s gang and to “seize” all the property that he had “illegally” acquired. A police source said the house was demolished during a search for any hidden cache of weapons or possible hideouts or bunkers. The police are also probing how the assailants led by Vikas Dubey were tipped-off about the raid that took place in the intervening night of July 2 and 3. “It is certain that he had got information from somewhere that [the police] force is reaching to arrest him,” said Mr. Agarwal, adding that all aspects of the incident were being probed. Even if the person who allegedly provided inputs to the assailants — who were well-prepared and used an earth mover to set up the ambush — belongs to the police department, that person would be booked, sent to jail and dismissed from service, said the officer. SHO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari was part of the police team that went to arrest Dubey but it was found that he allegedly did not fire a single shot and even escaped from the spot when his colleagues were trapped. “Had he stood his ground and led the other policemen to challenge the assailants, such a big incident would not have taken place,” he said. “The criminals would have been either killed or arrested,” added Mr. Agarwal. The SHO displayed a “cowardly conduct” during the incident, the officer said.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Congress petitions Water Resources Minister||Krishna river water protection committee of Telangana unit of Congress has urged the Central Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat to protect the rights of Telangana by cancelling the government order issued by Andhra Pradesh government enhancing drawal of water from Krishna river. In a letter to the Union Minister, committee chairman Nagam Janardhan Reddy, convenor T. Rammohan Reddy, Telangana Congress committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and former Member of Parliament Mallu Ravi asked him to direct the Andhra Pradesh government to close the old Pothireddipadu head regulator immediately and also to account the water drawn for power generation. The letter said that utilisation of Krishna river water for the projects outside basin - Penna and other basins except to those permitted before bifurcation of State, should be stopped as per the water laws as lakhs of acres of cultivable lands of Telangana are not getting water for irrigation in Krishna Basin. As per the existing laws and Bachawat Tribunal Award Final Order, Andhra Pradesh has no right to transfer the surplus water outside Krishna Basin for either irrigation or for any other purpose, the Congress leaders said, and requested immediate technical clearance for Palamuru Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme (LIS), Kalwakurthy LIS, Nettempadu, Dindi LIS and SLBC, which are all in Krishna Basin of Telangana.
05 July 2020||Guwahati,||Assam allows relaxations in lockdown||The Assam government has allowed certain relaxations during the ongoing lockdown in Kamrup district, under which Guwahati city falls, from July 5 to 12, Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said on Saturday. A complete lockdown has been imposed in the district for 14 days since June 28 following a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in Guwahati city. Guwahati city has reported 2,114 active COVID-19 cases. The relaxations will allow grocery shops to operate between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. on July 6 and 8 with the deputy commissioner issuing requisite directives to ensure that only 20% shops are open on any day, he said. Shopkeepers and customers shall have to wear masks, and maintain physical distancing.
05 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Lockdown in Arunachal’s capital region||The Arunachal Pradesh government has followed its Assam counterpart in imposing total lockdown in the capital region. Frontier State Chief Minister Pema Khandu on July 4 said the Itanagar Capital Complex would be under lockdown for a week from July 6. Pressure from the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union, which had threatened to impose lockdown on its own if the government did not act, is one of the factors behind the decision. The capital complex comprises Itanagar, twin town Naharlagun and other urban spaces in close proximity. “Detailed guidelines and standard operating procedure for compliance will be issued shortly,” Mr. Khandu said. Officials said the decision was taken in view of the sudden rise in the COVID-19 cases in the capital complex. It reported 81 of the 252 cases.
05 July 2020||Kolkata,||Five dead in violence, blast in West Bengal||At least five persons were killed in two separate incidents of political violence and a bomb blast in three districts of the south Bengal in the past 24 hours. Two people died and three were injured in a crude bomb explosion in Murshidabad on Friday. The deceased were identified as Situ Sheikh and Maharul Shiekh. Political violence reported from south Bengal on Friday and Saturday had caused three more deaths. The situation in Maipith in the South 24 Parganas had turned volatile since Friday. On Saturday Ashwini Manna, a Trinamool Congress supporter was killed by a group. The body of an SUCI supporter Sudhanshu Jana was found in his home in the same gram panchayat. At Birbhum, a Trinamool Congress supporter Sisir Bauri was killed.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ex-DD official arrested in cheating case||Former deputy director of Doordarshan in Jodhpur has been arrested for allegedly duping a spiritual preacher of Rs. 5 crore on the pretext of establishing a TV channel for him. Officials identified the accused as Sunil Kumar Jha. Police said Vaidyacharya Pandit Laxman Das Bhardwaj came in contact with Mr. Jha, who introduced himself as the channel head of Katyani Devotional TV channel. The accused lured Mr. Bhardwaj into establishing his own TV channel by purchasing shares in M/S Express Broadcasting Pvt Ltd. Mr. Bhardwaj gave around Rs. 5 crore to buy the TV channel. “Later, the complainant came to know that the accused bought the channel, Sanskriti, in the name of his wife”. Police said Mr. Jha was arrested on Friday.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,||city briefs||Talenterz, an online talent showcasing platform and brainchild of three professionals from diverse backgrounds of education, branding and performing arts domains, is hosting the biggest online talent hunt in India. The platform provides an opportunity to budding talents to charm the world with their sheer imagination and originality, according to founder of Talenterz Ramya Gangadharan. Participants can register on www.talenterz.com.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘TS ramped up testing facilities’||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Saturday informed Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba that the State government has ramped up facilities to test people for coronavirus after the recent visit of a Central team to Hyderabad. The government is working on enforcing surveillance in containment zones at the same time, Mr. Somesh Kumar said during a video conference organised by Mr. Gauba from New Delhi with Chief Secretaries of all the States on the COVID-19 situation across the country. The conference discussed issues pertaining to strict enforcement of lockdown measures in containment zones, increasing testing capacities and utilisation of technology for tracing, testing and other measures. A release said Mr. Gauba underlined the need for keeping the number of deaths as low as possible. The Chief Secretaries should review availability of personal protection equipment and masks, clinical management and other infrastructural issues.
05 July 2020||Palakkad,||Juvenile tusker dies in Attappady||A juvenile tusker found stranded in a gooseberry orchard at Veettikkundu near Agali in Attappady on Thursday evening died on Friday night. The five-year-old wild tusker breathed its last around 10.15 p.m. even as forest officials tried their best to save it. The carcass was buried at the same spot considering the difficulty in collecting enough firewood for its cremation. In the post-mortem, it was found that the animal had a wound in the lower jaw. Veterinary surgeons said the wound was the sign of a possible tumour. Forest officials ruled out any human intervention behind the wound. However, they suspect that the elephant might have suffered the injury in a fight with another animal. The tusks protruded 15 cm from the animal’s mouth. The elephant was apparently part of a herd that used to stray into the area. It got stranded on top of a hill and came down to the gooseberry orchard near the road after a group of tribespeople went to investigate. Till Friday afternoon, the elephant reportedly scared people away when they attempted to help it. Officials were uncertain about tranquillising the animal as it was too weak. By around 5 p.m., it collapsed and did not rise again. The animal died at 10.15 p.m. on Friday. “It was too painful to watch the animal die miserably. This was the second elephant death I witnessed in the same manner in my career,” said Agali Forest Range Officer K.T. Udayan. The elephant had not eaten for a few days. The starvation it suffered was evident on its body. “This was exactly what worried us for going for a tranquilliser,” said a forest official.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Man booked for using parlour as quarantine centre||A beauty parlour owner was booked for allegedly using it as a COVID quarantine centre at Jubilee Hills. According to Jubilee Hills inspector K. Sattaiah, Sampath, is a resident of Jubilee Hills and owns ‘Colours’ beauty parlour at Road No. 5. “Without permission, he was using the parlour as a quarantine centre for COVID-19 patients. Four persons were staying there when they could not find a bed anywhere else,” he said.
05 July 2020||Patna,||Rs. 50 fine for not wearing mask in public places, offices in Bihar||The Bihar government is imposing a fine of Rs. 50 on people who do not wear masks in public places or in offices. But those paying the penalty will also be given two free masks to motivate them. District Magistrates across the State have been asked to implement the order. The State Health Department on July 3 issued the notification under the ‘Bihar Epidemic Diseases COVID-19 Regulation, 2020’. “A fine of Rs. 50 will be imposed on those found flouting the order,” said officials. The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Bihar has gone up to 11,457, with 88 deaths caused by the coronavirus. Recoveries in the State stand at 8,488.
05 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Fine of Rs. 50,000 imposed on a marriage party in Odisha’s Ganjam district||The Ganjam district administration in Odisha imposed a penalty of Rs. 50,000 on both the bride and the groom’s families conducting a marriage procession while violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks. “A fine of Rs. 50,000 has been collected and a police complaint has also been lodged against both the bride and the groom’s families for holding the marriage in violation of COVID-19 rules,” Ganjam District Collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amma Canteens register a 30% increase in beneficiaries||Amma Canteens of the Greater Chennai Corporation have registered a 30% increase in the number of beneficiaries of the free food supply scheme in the first few days of July. Since July 1, at least 4.7 lakh residents have been visiting Amma Canteens every day. Before the lockdown, these canteens registered a dip in the number of beneficiaries, with less than 2 lakh visitors daily. Supply on Sunday too Civic officials said the first few days of July had registered the highest number of visitors so far, and the number was expected to increase during the pandemic. Officials said food would be supplied in the canteens on Sunday, the last day of the scheme announced by the government. The staff members have made arrangements to meet the demand on Sunday, when most other food business operators will remain shut. Residents in various parts of the city have demanded extension of the scheme beyond July 5. According to officials, the canteens have reported an increase in food supply owing to the demand for free food by residents who are unable to afford vegetables sold at very high prices in their neighbourhoods during the lockdown. Many residents have also reported to Amma Canteen staff members, who did a survey in July, that they were getting free food in the canteens for the first time. Originally meant to help daily-wage labourers, the canteens have emerged as a source of food supply for salaried professionals and traders in many residential areas. “We find new people visiting the canteen for free food. The residents have been permitted to take food to their homes from the canteens only during the pandemic. Earlier, residents were not permitted to take food out,” said an employee. Funding a challenge Funding for free food remains a challenge: it costs Rs. 30 to provide food to each, said officials. The canteens provide idli and pongal in the morning; curd rice and sambar rice in the afternoon; and chappati at night. Also, the canteen staff members have started requesting higher wages because of the difficulty in providing services during the pandemic. But officials have refused to increase their wages, sources said.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 4,280 fresh infections||A total of 4,280 new cases of COVID-19 were reported across 37 districts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday, taking its tally to 1,07,001*. Chennai, after recording 2,000-plus cases a day for five days, saw a marginal dip with 1,842 new cases, while the toll crossed 1,000 with 37 more fatalities. With 2,214 more patients discharged across the State, of which 1,198 were in Chennai, a total of 60,592 persons have been discharged till date. As on date, the number of active cases in the State stood at 44,956. The State’s toll rose to 1,450 with 65 more deaths recorded in the last four days. Chennai’s tally touched 66,538, with 24,195 persons under treatment, including under home isolation. The city alone accounts for 1,033 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu (111), Tiruvallur (84), Madurai (57) and Kancheepuram (30). All 37 districts reported new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Madurai saw a new high with 350 new cases (indigenous), taking its tally to 3,776. There were 251 cases in Tiruvallur, followed by 215 in Chengalpattu. The two districts cumulatively had 4,596 and 6,355 patients, respectively. Five districts recorded over 100 cases each — Tiruvannamalai (177), Kancheepuram (134), Ramanathapuram (111), Ranipet (102) and Virudhunagar (100). Tiruchi and Vellore had 81 cases each, while Kanniyakumari had 69 cases and Coimbatore 66. Ranipet became the 14th district in the State to have more than 1,000 cases in total.  As many as 100 persons, who had returned from abroad and other States, tested positive for COVID-19. Of this, 33 were from Kerala and 23 from Karnataka. Of the 65 persons who died, 59 had co-morbidities. This included a 29-year-old man who had diabetes and had tested positive for COVID-19 on June 30, according to the health bulletin. He died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on July 3 due to cardiopulmonary arrest, diabetic ketoacidosis, COVID-19 pneumonia, sepsis and septic shock. A total of 36,164 samples were tested during the last 24 hours in the State. With this, the total number of samples tested so far rose to 13,06,884. Three more testing facilities — the Government District Headquarters Hospital in Karaikudi, Sivaganga district; and two private laboratories, Aara Clinical Laboratories on Anna Salai, Chennai, and Bharathi Diagnostics on Alagar Kovil Road, Madurai — were approved in the State. There are now a total of 94 testing facilities — 49 in the government and 45 in the private sector.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State to absorb burden if Centre cuts share in crop cover premium||The State government will absorb the anticipated additional burden in the payment of premium for the Prime Minister’s crop insurance scheme (Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana — PMFBY) in the light of the Centre’s move to reduce its share of premium payment, according to senior officials of the Agriculture department. This year, the State government may have to shell out up to Rs. 150 crore so that farmers are not taxed in any way. Till now, after giving allowance for farmers’ share of 2% generally, the Union and the State governments shared the premium amount equally. Effective this year, the Centre introduced the element of the status of irrigation in a given district for determining the premium amount and sought to restrict its assistance. Consequently, it divided each State into two broad categories — irrigated and non-irrigated districts. In respect of the irrigated districts, the Centre has decided to limit subsidy in premium to 25% of the sum insured and in non-irrigated districts to 30%. The hitch will arise if insurance companies charge higher premium rates than the Centre’s stipulation. For example, if an insurance company fixes the premium rate of 33% for a crop in a non-irrigated district, the Centre and the State government would bear only 14% each, with farmers taking the load of 2%. In such a case, the State government has to take care of the balance 3%, the officials said. Irrigated districts are those having 50% or more irrigated areas and non-irrigated ones are those having less than 50%. Going by this definition, Tamil Nadu has nine non-irrigated districts of Salem, Virudhunagar, Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Ariyalur, Krishnagiri, Perambalur, Thoothukudi and the Nilgiris. The other change in the guidelines is that enrolment has been made voluntary. Earlier, all those who wanted to take loans had to have insurance cover. But this will have no impact on Tamil Nadu as farmers who did not take crop loans constituted 70% to 80% of those covered by insurance. In another development, farmers, who insured their crops during samba season last year, may start receiving the claim amount later this month. The compensation for 2019-20 is expected to be less than that of the previous year in view of a bumper harvest during the samba season. With kuruvai cultivation under way, the authorities are taking steps to intensify enrolment of farmers. The cut-off dates for coverage of paddy in the delta are July 31, and in Madurai and Krishnagiri August 15.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Special COVID-19 care centres needed for the disabled’||Dilshad Begum, a resident of Tondiarpet, tested positive for COVID-19 in May and was taken to a quarantine centre in Nandambakkam. Being a person with a physical disability, she found the next 10 days under quarantine quite challenging. “I cannot walk very well, and need support. But in the absence of a caregiver, I was forced to walk across a large hall, where we were all housed, every time I had to consult a doctor or use the bathroom,” she said. The bathrooms too, Ms. Dilshad said, were not disabled-friendly, and the layout of the quarantine centre was such that she had to walk a significant distance without support, at a time when she was already very weak. With Tamil Nadu having recorded over one lakh COVID-19 cases, disability rights activists are urging the State government to establish accessible quarantine and healthcare facilities and make available the data on the number of persons with disabilities who have tested positive. T.M.N. Deepak, State president, December 3 Movement, said no such data had been made available by the government so far. “Ensuring that quarantine facilities are accessible to persons with all types of disabilities should be prioritised. Apart from infrastructural access, other facilities — interpreters for the hearing-impaired, for instance — should be available,” he said. The State Commissionerate for the Persons with Disabilities is working on collating data on the number of persons who have tested positive for COVID-19. While the Commissionerate has written to district administrations, asking them to set up special COVID-19 care facilities for persons with disabilities, activists say this is yet to be implemented. Caregivers test positive S. Namburajan, State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-abled and Caregivers, recalled a recent incident where a 22-year-old person with an intellectual disability was left to fend for himself after his parents tested positive for COVID-19. “Accessible facilities should also make a separate provision for persons with disabilities whose caregivers test positive since many of them are highly dependent on caregivers and struggle during an emergency like this,” he said.  P. Simmachandran of the Tamil Nadu Differently Abled Federation Charitable Trust said many were scared of being tested and quarantined.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Humanities and social sciences are relevant in every field’||Students who opt for social sciences or humanities today have a number of options available. This was the message from ‘Challenges Facing Humanities and Social Sciences in a Changing Academic Environment,’ the second in The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling webinar series, presented by SRMIST, held on July 4. The speakers were Dr. R. Balasubramanian, Pro Vice-Chancellor (External Affairs), SRMIST; Dr. P. Duraisamy, former Vice-Chancellor, University of Madras; Dr. Sridhar Krishnaswami, deputy dean and professor, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication Faculty of Science and Humanities, SRMIST, and Dr. Mathangi Krishnamurthy, assistant professor of Anthropology at the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT-Madras. The session was moderated by Radhika Santhanam, Assistant Editor, The Hindu . Talking about the diversity of choices, Dr. Krishnaswami explained that a student wanting to study economics could opt for econometrics, macroeconomics or development economics. In psychology, the options ranged from criminal psychology and clinical psychology to counselling psychology, he added. Prof. Krishnamurthy stressed the importance of anthropology in the current situation. “Anthropology is essentially the study of people, culture and societies. With the media constantly reporting on the pandemic, some of the questions that are sure to strike us are: what happens to people, who don’t have homes, during a lockdown? Anthropology is at the heart of the pandemic.” Prof. Duraisamy said one of the challenges was the need to introduce courses to meet the demands of Industrial Revolution 4.0. He explained how universities offered five-year integrated programmes with a comprehensive curriculum. Dr. Balasubramanian stressed the relevance of humanities and social sciences in every field. “If we consider Tamil Nadu during the pandemic, medical practitioners know how to treat the diseases but it is policy-making and effective governance that decide how necessary measures are implemented,” he said.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID registers case against website||The CB-CID has registered a case against a website for publishing morphed pictures of Jeyaraj and Benicks, who allegedly died of police excesses in Sattankulam. The CB-CID will be issuing summons to the editor of the website for inquiry. In connection with the Sattankulam custodial deaths, a case has been registered by the CB-CID and five police personnel have been arrested. Meanwhile, a website published photographs of the bodies of the victims with cut injuries on the neck, chest and other parts of the bodies. When the injuries in the pictures published by the website were compared with those noted down by the doctor who performed the post-mortem, they did not match, said the CB-CID in a press note. Hence, the police suspect that the photographs were morphed and published by the website to create social unrest and alarm among the public. Terming that such posts with distorted facts, circulated with vested interests and ulterior motive would hamper the investigation, the CB-CID warned of strict action against all those circulating false information on social media. The CB-CID has also warned people to take down such posts or face legal action.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PG doctors’ body seeks clarity on examinations||The Interns’ and Postgraduates’ Association of Tamil Nadu has expressed concerns over the lack of clarity on the conduct of the final examinations for MD/MS/Diploma candidates. They were unable to appear for the entrance examinations for DM/M.Ch courses as the final exams were not held in Tamil Nadu. The association said that all postgraduate resident doctors were involved in COVID-19 management, and most of them had not met their families since the beginning of the pandemic. They were working in COVID-19 isolation wards and staying in institutional quarantine facilities. Many of them had acquired the infection at work and had rejoined duty after making a recovery. Residents with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension continued to work in isolation wards. MD/MS/Diploma candidates, who had completed their courses from government medical colleges across the State, were also put to work in Chennai, in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. But their final exams, which should have been held in May, had not been conducted. There was no clarity on when they would be held, the association said. Entrance exams for DM/M.Ch courses at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences and PGI had been completed, and no candidate from the State was able to appear for them as their final examinations had not been held. They were unable to prepare for the NEET-Super Specialty courses, the association said. Most resident doctors were already under stress as they were working in COVID-19 wards, staying alone in quarantine facilities and were unable to take care of their elderly parents. The lack of clarity on examinations was adding to their mental agony, the association said. It sought the government’s intervention on the issue and urged the State to take necessary steps to help doctors working in COVID-19 wards.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Convalescent plasma therapy successful in 18 patients’||Convalescent plasma therapy has been successful in 18 persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said. In a tweet on Saturday, the Minister said that as per the Indian Council of Medical Research’s guidelines, a trial of convalescent plasma therapy was being carried out since May. It was successful in 18 of the 20 COVID-19 patients at RGGGH. He appealed to the persons who had recovered to donate plasma for saving lives. The Minister held a discussion with the blood bank team on further steps regarding plasma therapy. Officials said that recently, convalescent plasma by plasmapheresis was indicated as “Off Label”, i.e., a drug specified for a disease can be used for another disease too. ‘Clinical Management Protocol: COVID-19’, issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, had indicated certain therapies for use as investigational therapies. Of these, convalescent plasma by plasmapheresis was indicated as ‘Off Label’ in COVID-19 patients. A Health Department official explained: “A drug that is used for a specific disease can be given for [treating] another disease. In this context, Off Label means that COVID-19 is also included for plasma therapy. It can be given to patients with moderate disease, as per the guidelines issued by the Drug Controller.” Moderate disease Accordingly, “convalescent plasma can be considered in patients with moderate disease who are not improving (oxygen requirement is progressively increasing) despite the use of steroids”. Special pre-requisites were outlined while considering convalescent plasma, including ABO compatibility and cross-matching of donor plasma, the Director General of Health Services (DGHS), Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, said in a communication. According to DGHS, a blood bank with a licence for plasmapheresis can process and give plasma to patients with moderate disease, the official added.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flood mitigation measures under way at Varadharajapuram||Residents of Varadharajapuram and Mudichur have demanded the implementation of various measures to prevent flooding in residential areas during the upcoming northeast monsoon. The Water Resources Department (WRD) has started constructing a check dam across the Adyar at Varadharajapuram to alleviate inundation and also supply water to Chennai. However, members of the Federation of Varadharajapuram Welfare Associations said they wanted the river near the locality to be widened and the minor water channels crossing the Outer Ring Road to be improved so that they could carry more flood water. The federation’s president V. Rajasekaran said a canal that was built at Royappa Nagar and linked to a stormwater drain along the State Highway should be made into a cut-and-cover water channel. Moreover, portions of the channel had been closed by people to build houses, which would affect the water flow during monsoon. Government agencies should take measures to reduce inundation and also widen the stormwater drains along the Outer Ring Road, Mr. Rajasekaran said. Residents also wanted sewage treatment plants to be built at Mahalakshmi Nagar and Royappa Nagar to prevent pollution in the river. Excessive runoff WRD officials said the portion of the river near the localities has the capacity to carry about 7,000 cusecs (cubic feet of water per second). But, it gets nearly 11,000 cusecs during peak monsoon as tributaries join the waterway. A few sections near Mahalakshmi Nagar and Bhuvaneswari Nagar were yet to be widened due to encroachments. Moreover, about 40% of work on the check dam at Varadharajapuram has been completed. Besides groundwater recharge and mitigating floods, the Rs. 11 crore structure will store up to 80 million cubic feet of water.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marginal increase in enrolment in technical programmes||The 2019-20 academic year has seen a marginal rise in the number of students enrolling in technical programmes when compared to the previous year, according to the All-India Council for Technical Education. In 2018-19, the enrolment figure was 18,40,507 as against the approved intake of 32,87,094, which is equivalent to almost 56% of the seats being filled. In the previous year, enrolment was a little over 54%. In 2016-17, only 52% of the seats were filled. This academic year, 75.47 lakh students have been enrolled in various programmes falling under the AICTE’s purview. The AICTE gives approval to institutions offering programmes in applied arts and craft, architecture, engineering and technology, management, MCA and pharmacy. The number of institutions in the country increased from 10,426 in 2018-19 to 11,000 in 2019-20. In absolute numbers though, 1,05,671 fewer candidates had enrolled when compared to last year. AICTE Chairman Anil D. Sahasrabudhe said the final picture would change slightly once the institutions complete the required formalities. Anna University must complete the affiliation process by July 15, and the first round of counselling for admissions must be completed by August 30, as per the AICTE’s revised schedule.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 200 motorists caught using fake stickers||More than 200 motorists were caught by police while they were travelling using fake stickers, including “COVID-19 Duty”, “Chennai Corporation”, “Police”, “Press” or claiming to be essential service providers. A senior police officer said, “Along with regular vehicle checks, we conducted a special drive to check motorists who are in the exempted category. As many as 239 motorists were rounded up as they were using such stickers without relevant identity cards. We have seized those vehicles and booked cases.” Since the complete lockdown began on June 19, the police have prohibited the gathering of over five persons in public places and restricted the movement of vehicles, except for those under the exempted categories. From June 19, the police installed checkpoints at over 280 places and seized vehicles from people loitering on roads. As of Saturday, the police have booked 1,05,432 cases for violation of prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 and seized 85,998 vehicles in the city. Other violations They booked 37,040 persons for failing to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. Meanwhile, 7,28,693 instances of violation were reported across the State since March 24 when the lockdown was first announced, according to a police release. As many as 7,98,570 were arrested for violation and released immediately and 6,09,816 vehicles were seized from the violators and a fine of Rs. 16.96 crore was collected from them.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands free rice till November||Opposition leader and DMK chief M.K. Stalin on Saturday wanted to know why Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who claimed to have followed the Centre on disaster management, had announced free rice for the poor for just one month. “When the Centre has announced that 5 kg rice and 1kg dhal would be given free to the poor till November, the act of the AIADMK government [restricting it to July] is inhuman,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that the Tamil Nadu government should also distribute free rice and other provisions till November. He also urged the Chief Minister to come out with a report on the purchase of medical equipment since Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had claimed that her government had allotted Rs. 6,600 crore to Tamil Nadu. Mr. Stalin said that there was no clarity on the purchase of medical equipment since the Chief Minister demanded Rs. 3,000 crore from the Centre while Ms. Sitharaman had announced the release of Rs. 6,600 crore. “A section of the media, quoting the Health Department officials, say the Centre has sanctioned only Rs. 1,500 crore. Let the Chief Minister clarify,” he said.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film producers allege govt. impropriety||Former office-bearers of the Tamil Film Producers Council (TFPC) on Friday accused the State government of wanting to administer their association for eternity through a Special Officer appointed in April last due to a factional dispute between the members. Appearing before Justice N. Sathish Kumar, advocate Krishna Ravindran said he was actually representing the council until the government appointed the Special Officer and hence, he was now appearing for the former office-bearers, who included actor-producer Vishal Krishna. End of tenure The counsel said the government had appointed N. Sekar, District Registrar (Administration), Central Chennai, as the Special Officer at the first instance for a period of one year. Though his tenure had ended long back, the officer was continuing to administer the body on one pretext or the other, he added. Justice Kumar remarked that it would not be possible to conduct elections when the threat of COVID-19 loomed large. He also took note that Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy had extended the time limit for conduct of elections from June 30 to September 30. Further, the judge ordered the filing of a counter affidavit to an application preferred by some members seeking a direction to the Special Officer to pay the premium for an insurance policy that had been taken for the members through a welfare trust managed by the Council. Opposing the plea, Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian told the court that the Council as well as the Trust were two independent bodies, and the former had no authority to transfer its funds to the Trust.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Autos, cabs can operate from tomorrow: police||Autorickshaws, call taxis and other vehicles can be operated from Monday onwards in the Greater Chennai City Police limits. E-passes are not necessary for vehicles to travel within city limits. Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, N. Kannan held a meeting with officials on the steps to be taken from July 6, since the State government has decided to relax restrictions. He said all signals would function from Monday, and autorickshaws and call taxis would be permitted to travel within the city. He said action would be taken against those using fake e-passes to travel outside the city limits.
05 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM lays foundation for medical college||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday laid the foundation stone for the Kallakurichi Government Medical College through video conference. The institution will come up at Siruvangur village in Kallakurichi taluk. The cost of the project is Rs. 381.76 crore. The college will be built on 8.328 hectares, an official press release said. It will have 150 medical seats. The press release said the Central government would meet 60% of the project cost, and the rest would come from the State. In the first phase, Tamil Nadu had released Rs. 110 crore, and the Centre Rs. 50 crore. The college buildings would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 132.50 crore and the hospital buildings at a cost of Rs. 182.79 crore.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stage set for valuation of Veda Nilayam||With the revenue authorities holding an inquiry on Friday for the acquisition of Veda Nilayam, the residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in Chennai, the stage is set for the State government to approve valuation of the property and award of compensation. During the inquiry, J. Deepa and Deepak, declared by the Madras High Court in May as legal heirs of the former Chief Minister, reiterated their opposition to the process and demanded that one more round of inquiry be held, according to sources in the government. The two were represented by their advocates. It is learnt that as the Veda Nilayam is one of the properties attached by the Income Tax department for recovery of dues, the department has submitted its response. A senior official says that at the time of disbursal of compensation, the I-T department is likely to be given precedence over others and the balance, if any, will go to the legal heirs. The government set apart Rs. 67 crore for acquisition of the property. An Ordinance was promulgated in May to take over Veda Nilayam “temporarily” and establish a foundation with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami as its chief. On getting the government’s nod, the authorities would go ahead with the disbursal of the compensation amount.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to decide on holding semester exams||With uncertainty looming over the conduct of semester examinations in colleges and universities amid the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, the Higher Education Department has constituted an 11-member committee to decide on the same. A government order issued on Saturday said that the committee would work out modalities for adopting guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The Principal Secretary of the Department would be the chairperson of the committee. Principal Secretary of the Youth Welfare and Sports Development Department, Secretary of the Tamil Development and Information Department, and vice-chancellors of Anna, Bharathidasan, Annamalai, Alagappa, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports, and Tamil universities will be part of the committee. The government said the UGC had issued guidelines enabling State universities to decide on conduct of the exams.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stipend rules framed for junior lawyers||The State government has made it clear that junior lawyers who do not own a four-wheeler and whose family income is below Rs. 2.5 lakh per annum alone would be eligible for themonthly stipend of Rs. 3,000 to be given to newly enrolled lawyers for two years. According to a government order dated June 30, the applicants must be below 30 years of age on the date of application and must possess an Aadhaar card or some other identity proof, apart from being a resident of the State. It was made mandatory that their degree must be from a Government Law College and they must be enrolled with the Bar Council. BCTNP chairman P.S. Amalraj said applications open online (http://ams.bctnpy.com) from Monday.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM launches website to help the needy||Tamil film music composer and actor G.V. Prakash Kumar unveiled naametheervu.org, the website for an initiative started by Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan, to co-ordinate volunteer efforts to help those in need during the COVID-19 crisis and the resulting lockdown. In a statement, MNM vice-president R. Mahendran said the website would contain information about the number of volunteers who have registered and the number of requests for help that have been attended to by the volunteers. “The number of people affected due to the lockdown is more than the number of people affected by COVID-19,” he said. Dr. Mahendran said that around 5,700 volunteers had registered with Naame Theervu, and around 54,000 calls had been attended to.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. sanctions Rs. 256.9 crore for free rations||The Tamil Nadu government has earmarked about Rs. 256.9 crore for the free supply of ‘tur dal’, palm oil and sugar to ration cardholders through the public distribution system in July. As supplied during the period from April to June to mitigate the hardship caused by the lockdown, ration cardholders will receive free rice according to their entitlement, besides one kg each of ‘tur dal’ and sugar and one litre of palm oil. The Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department issued the order on Saturday. The government set apart Rs. 28 crore for free additional entitlement of 5 kg to every beneficiary covered under 85.99 lakh non-priority household ration cards. Though the original expenditure was put at Rs. 146 crore, the government hoped to save Rs. 118 crore by getting pulses free from the Centre.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC warns staff against hiding test results||The Madras High Court has warned staff of departmental action if they attend work despite being tested positive for COVID-19 or if any of their family members residing in the same household had been tested positive. In a circular issued on Saturday, Registrar General C. Kumarappan said all officers in the cadre of Sub Assistant Registrar and above should attend court on all working days while only 50% of staff were expected to attend office.
05 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No rush in Coimbatore ahead of Sunday lockdown||With the State government declaring complete lockdown on Sundays, all shops and markets in Coimbatore district will remain closed on July 5. Hotels will also be closed on Sundays and take away services will not be available, according to the Coimbatore District Hoteliers’ Association. The vegetable markets and supermarkets saw a slightly larger crowd than usual on Saturday. While there was no rush at meat shops or neighbourhood grocery outlets in the morning hours, several meat shops and grocery shops saw a rush in the evening. Coimbatore city and rural police made special deployment of personnel in market areas and public places for crowd management. The police also issued advisories through public addressing system at busy market places and containment zones. Coimbatore city police distributed 50 body worn cameras to personnels to be used during crowd management, vehicle checks and patrols. Apart from containment zone special squad introduced in each of the four sub-divisions, watch towers and drones were also arranged for surveillance and enforcement of restrictions on Sunday. There was no panic buying or excessive crowding in Tiruppur Corporation limits, Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar said on Saturday. “The public were informed about [the complete lockdown] a week ago,” he noted, which did not induce last-minute purchases this time. Instructions have been provided to all the zone-level officials regarding the lockdown, Mr. Sivakumar said. Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Badri Narayanan said that about 700 police personnel will be deployed in the Tiruppur City Police limits on Sunday to monitor the complete lockdown. “People have understood that this lockdown is only for one day and they are willing to cooperate very responsibly,” he said while highlighting that no complaints of overcrowding were received on Saturday. As only milk shops and pharmacies will be allowed to open during the complete lockdown, those venturing outside unnecessarily on Sundays will be fined and their vehicles will be seized, Mr. Narayanan warned.
05 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Expert committee formed to study elephant deaths in Coimbatore||Following thedeaths of many elephantswithin the Coimbatore Forest Division, including one that was gunned down on Thursday, the Forest Department has formed a seven-member expert committee to study the elephant deaths in the division over the last three years. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, S. Yuvaraj, has asked the expert committee, which has Sheker Kumar Niraj, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), as chairperson, to submit the evaluation report in six months. Elephant experts Aiay Desai from Bengaluru, Sivaganesan from Chennai, C. Arivazhagan, managing trustee of the Indo American Wildlife Society in Chennai, veterinarians M. Kalaivanan, from Theni and A. Predeep from Chennai and D. Boominathan of World Wide Fund, Coimbatore, are the members of the committee. Debasis Jana, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Coimbatore Circle, and D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, will facilitate the special committee in field inspections and by providing information required by the experts. The committee will study elephant deaths reported in the forest division from January 1, 2017 to July 2, 2020. The order on the constitution of the committee was issued on Thursday, after oneelephant was gunned downnear Mettupalayam and another one was found dead near Sirumugai forest ranges of the division, on the same day. One more elephant died on Friday, taking this year’s toll in the forest division to 15, of which eight are from Sirumugai range alone. The committee has been tasked to investigate the cause of the death of the elephants, to study individual incidents with reference to location, to evaluate the circumstances of the death, and to evaluate the deaths with reference to habitation, diseases, natural causes and any other reasons. The committee has been tasked to go through reports of the field officials with reference to the causes of the deaths of the elephants, and the autopsies. It should also look into the issues regarding the measures taken by the field staff to minimise the causes of deaths. It should look into elephant habitat, habitat degradation and human-wildlife conflict in the region and should also bring out the facts clearly, said the order of the Chief Wildlife Warden. The experts should come out with a proposal to minimise or prevent the deaths of elephants with suitable preventive measures, according to the order.
05 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No increasing trend in elephant deaths: Forest Dept.||The Forest Department on Saturday claimed that there was no increasing trend in the death of elephants in Coimbatore Forest Division. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden S. Yuvaraj said in a statement that natural causes such as diseases and in-fight between elephants were reasons for the death of 13 out of 14 elephants in the forest division since January, up to Thursday last. Releasing details of the causes of the elephant deaths, Mr. Jayaraj said that posts in social media exaggerating the elephant deaths were not based on facts. Another elephant died on Friday taking the toll to 15. According to Mr. Jayaraj, the Department’s further action on elephant deaths would be based on the report of the expert committee that had been appointed to study various factors linked to the deaths. Citing records of elephant deaths from the past, Debasis Jana, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, told journalists on Saturday that the 15 elephant deaths reported in the division were not overly high. “Except the female elephant that was found gunned down near Mettupalayam on Thursday, other 14 elephants died of natural causes. As per the trend in the past, more elephant deaths occur in the first half of the year,” he said. According to him, 22 elephants died in 2016, 19 elephants in 2017 and 17 elephants in 2014. Since 2006, 187 elephants died in the forest division as of Friday of which one third were from Sirumugai forest range. He added that the majority of the elephant deaths reported in Tamil Nadu were from divisions such as Coimbatore, Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, Erode, Tiruppur, Hananur, Mudumalai, Gudalur, Pollachi and parts of Kodaikanal. When asked about the delay caused in registering a case under the Arms Act against the two farmers who were held for shooting a female elephant near Mettuapalayam on Thursday, a senior forest official said that efforts were on for the same. A police case was not registered against them till Saturday evening.
05 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable traders seek reopening of MGR market||Wholesale vegetable traders at MGR market have appealed to the authorities concerned to reopen the market. The market was closed last Saturday following a positive COVID case at the market. “The person, who tested positive, is only involved in collecting toll. He is not a trader or a labourer at the shops. He was treated for COVID and has returned home. It is seven days since the market was closed. The authorities should consider re-opening it on Monday,” said an office-bearer of the vegetable traders' association at the market. The market has 112 shops. The quantity of vegetables arriving at the market has reduced drastically though many of the traders have set shop in different locations - agriculture lands and private godowns. The city will face shortage of vegetable supply if the market remains closed, the office-bearer added. The traders cannot stop the vegetables from coming to the market regularly as the farmers cannot store the vegetables for long. However, the traders cannot divert the vegetables to other cities or districts too as there will be a supply there already. This leads to several challenges for the traders. The office-bearer added that there are indications that the market may be re-opened on Tuesday. It is learnt that the market will be prepared on Monday for re-opening and shops can start functioning from Tuesday.
05 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Visitors to Ganesha Textiles asked to undergo COVID-19 test||Collector K. Rajamani has appealed to people who had visited Ganesha Textiles at Masakalipalayam to come forward to undergo test for COVID-19. In his appeal, made through a release issued here on Saturday, he said when the administration tested a few employees of the textile shop a few weeks ago, one of them tested positive. Though the administration ordered closure of the shop, quarantine the area and also that of the employees’ residence, 45 people had contracted the virus and they were now under treatment. Likewise, sometime ago, the illegal entry from Chennai into Chinniampalayam of a person who was not aware of his COVID-19 status, led to several persons in the area contracting the virus. The person later died at a hospital. Therefore, the administration appealed to all those who had visited Ganesha Textiles since its reopening in June to undergo test or stay indoors for 14 days. They should rush to the nearest government health centre if they had fever, cough, breathlessness or phlegm, the Collector said.
05 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Not an increasing trend’||The forest department on Saturday claimed that there is no increasing trend in the death of elephants in Coimbatore forest division. Principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden S. Yuvaraj said in a statement that natural causes such as diseases and in-fight between elephants were reasons for the death of 13 out of 14 elephants that died in the forest division since January, up to Thursday last.
05 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Border with Karnataka closed to check movement of people||To prevent people from both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka from crossing the inter-State border in Ramapuram village, Talavadi Hills, Revenue officials, along with the Police Department, have installed a gate at the checkpost, and have locked it. Chamarajanagar in Karnataka is located 20 km from Talavadi in Tamil Nadu. Coconut tree climbers and farmers from villages in Chamarajanagar district come to Talavadi for work and to sell their produce. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, security has been intensified at the border, located around 2 km from Talavadi. Recently, Chamarajanagar reported its first COVID-19 case, and there has been a spike in cases there since. Hence, the gate was installed on Friday to prevent the entry of people from Karnataka. It has been kept locked. “The lock will be opened only for ambulances to enter Karnataka,” said a senior police officer. To prevent the unauthorised entry of people and vehicles, roads connecting the two States have been dug up at six places, he said. Access to treatment Apart from the upgraded primary health centre in Talavadi, emergency cases are referred to the government hospital in Sathyamangalam, located 62 km away. Hence, people usually prefer going to Chamarajanagar, which is closer, for treatment. The police said that ambulances would be allowed to cross the check-post, round-the-clock. S. Manickam, a farmer from Talavadi, said that no COVID-19 case had been reported in the Talavadi Hills so far, and fear had gripped the people as more cases were being reported in Chamarajanagar.
05 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Inquiry into laying roads in forest areas||Following complaints that trees were removed to lay mud roads inside forest areas at Hasanur Division in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, Ao. Limatoshi, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Protection, Vigilance and Forests, Wildlife Crime Bureau) inspected the spots and held inquiries with officials recently. The Forest Department had received complaints that mud roads were laid in Ulikarai (4 km), Manikal Road (4 km) and Germalam Shooting Spot (12 km), in December 2019 and January 2020 by the Hasanur Forest Division without obtaining clearance from the department. A team from the Wildlife Crime Bureau, Chennai, had last week inspected the spots and held inquiries. Later, it submitted a report to the department. When contacted, V. Naganathan, Chief Conservator of Forest and Field Director, STR, told The Hindu pathways were created in the forest areas for field monitoring and added that no trees were cleared for the purpose. Another official said that invasive parthenium weeds were cleared to create new pathways from approach roads in the forest areas as during forest fires, the roads helped the personnel reach the spot to put out the fire.
05 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Separate entrances for OP, admission section||Responding to complaints of patients coming to Government Rajaji Hospital’s COVID-19 speciality wing, the district administration has provided separate entrances for positive patients seeking admission and outpatients coming to screen themselves for COVID-19. “We have made the arrangement in such a way that positive people and symptomatic patients coming for screening do not mingle with one another at the reception. They will never meet others at the COVID wing,” said Collector T.G. Vinay. With rise in the number of outpatients and positive patients coming for admission, both of them mingled at the reception. The number of counters for registration in both areas have been increased for faster processing. “We have placed chairs for those coming for registration. The seating has been made in such a way that there is adequate physical distancing. They can be comfortably seated till their turn comes,” Dr. Vinay said. While the OP reception where patients of influenza-like illness and other symptoms such as cold and cough has six counters, the reception for positive people on the basement has three counters. The simultaneous registration will reduce the waiting time. Now, the OP reception has been set up on the ground floor and the reception for positive patients on the basement, Madurai Medical College Dean J. Sangumani said. “All the staff involved in registration of patient details have been provided with personal protective equipment,” he said. Patients are being guided to the right reception at the entrance leaving no room for confusion.
05 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘3,030 beds available in care centres’||As many as 3,030 beds were available at the 22 COVID-19 care centres in the district, said Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar. The Minister, along with Collector T.G. Vinay, inspected Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), a COVID-19 care centre, on Saturday. Addressing mediapersons, he said 247 beds were available at Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur and 530 beds each at MKU and Tamil Nadu Agricultural College. Yadava College, Lady Doak College, Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College and Arul Anandar College were some of the care centres. There is a proposal to convert the IT Park premises in Vadapalanji into a COVID-19 care centre. As many as 1,400 beds had been kept ready at COVID-19 speciality wing of Government Rajaji Hospital. Inspections were being made to increase the bed strength in other wings of the GRH. Special medical teams would come to Madurai within a day or two to assist in COVID-19 pandemic management in the district, he said. He attributed the higher number of COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai to aggressive testing. “There is no need for panic, as we are identifying positive cases early on, which is important in saving their lives,” he said.
05 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||352 test positive in Madurai district||A total of 352 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Saturday, making it the highest number of positive cases recorded in a single day. A total of 2,725 people are under treatment in the district. Six deaths were recorded on Saturday, taking the toll to 57. Three deaths each were recorded at Government Rajaji Hospital and in private hospitals. All the persons were aged 60 or above and had comorbidities. Out of the total positive cases that were recorded on Saturday, 170 cases were of people with influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory illness, 104 contacts of COVID-19 positive persons, 35 frontline workers, 11 ante-natal mothers and 26 cases were those detected before surgery, said Collector T.G. Vinay. He said that four cases have been notified to other districts and two were imported cases. A total of 27 persons were discharged on Saturday. Virudhunagar For the first time, Virudhunagar district registered 100 cases on a single day. With this, the total number of positive cases has touched 782. However, with 50 patients having got discharged on Saturday and the total number of discharge till date being 346, the number of active cases stood at 429. Collector R. Kannan attributed to sudden spike in number of cases to increased number of samples being tested in single day. “Earlier, Virudhunagar Government Medical College could only handle a maximum of 280 tests a day with limited testing facility. However, we have borrowed a RT-PCR testing equipment from Mepco Schlenk Engineering College and thereby the testing facility has been ramped up,” he said. Theni district reported 58 fresh cases, 34 people were discharged on a single day and there were five deaths so far. In Ramanathapuram district, the surge appeared to be continuing as the fresh cases rose to 149 - they were indigenous cases with symptoms of ILI and due to contacts with people who had symptoms of COVID-19. After 41 persons being discharged from the hospital today and 19 deaths, 914 people were in different stages of treatment. In Sivaganga district, the number of cases stood at 425 with 49 new cases reported on Saturday. After successful treatment, 43 people were discharged and with four deaths, 260 people were in treatment for the virus. In Dindigul, the number of fresh cases was 22 taking the total positive cases to 633, and , people were discharged today. With seven deaths, 311 were in the hospital.  Tirunelveli Thoothukudi district recorded 64 indigenous infection cases on Saturday. The total number of cases moved up to 1,120 and active cases to 301, all undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. A total of 36 positive patients, who got cured of the viral infection, were discharged from the hospital on Saturday. Of the 2,283 passengers who landed at VOC Port in Thoothukudi by Indian Navy Ships, 28 have tested positive. In Tirunelveli, 61 fresh cases were reported on Saturday including an imported case, which took the tally to 982 and the number of active cases to 338, all undergoing treatmnet in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, from where 20 patients were discharged as they tested negative for the viral infection. The day’s highest number of positive cases were reported in Kanniyakumari district that added 70 new cases, including 69 indigenous cases, to take the total number of infections to 552 and active cases to 329. Tenkasi had only 17 cases that jacked up the total number of infections to 408 and the number of active cases to 200.
05 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New set of judges for High Court Bench||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court will resume regular functioning from Monday. However, cases will be heard only through video conferencing. Justice M. Sathyanarayanan will be the administrative judge for the next three months. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam will hear public interest litigation petitions and all division bench writ and appellate side matters. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli will hear habeas corpus petitions and criminal appeals and criminal cases to be heard by a division bench, including crime against women and children. The other judges deputed to the High Court Bench for the next three months are Justice V. Bharathidasan, Justice D. Krishnakumar, Justice S. S. Sundar, Justice R. Suresh Kumar, Justice J. Nisha Banu, Justice RMT Teeka Raman, Justice N. Seshasayee, Justice G. R. Swaminathan, Justice R. Tharani, Justice R. Pongiappan and Justice B. Pugalendhi.
05 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Illegally adopted 11-month-old child rescued in Madurai village||A 11-month-old male child, who was illegally adopted by a couple aged above 50 from Eachampatti village in Chellampatti block in Madurai, was rescued on Friday. Members of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), District Child Protection Unit and police personnel questioned the couple on Friday and the rescued child was admitted to a special adoption agency at Usilampatti. CWC chairperson V. M. Vijayasarvanan said that they conducted an inquiry based on a petition received from the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “It was found that the male child was born on July 31 last year to a couple residing at Periyakulam in Theni district. A s soon as the child was born, it was handed over to this couple at Eachampatti, who are construction workers and do not have any child of their own. However, there was no legal documentation regarding the adoption of the child,” he said. The biological parents already had two children- a girl and a boy- prior to this baby. “The biological parents said that they were related to this couple from Eachampatti. As they were unable to take care of the child, they had handed the child to the couple. However, both the families belong to different castes. In addition to it there were no legal documents regarding the adoption of the child," he said. Mr. Vijayasaravanan said that the biological parents have been asked to come to Madurai on Tuesday for further inquiry. “In case people are unable to take care of their children, we request them to handover the children to us. We will ensure that education, food and shelter would be provided to the child in need. We are also ready to provide support to the mother through One Stop Center,” he added. Those in need of help can contact the District Child Welfare Committee atmaduraicwc@gmail.com
05 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Four weighing stones excavated at Keeladi||Four weighing stones of varying sizes, all spherical and black in colour, have been excavated from Keeladi as part of the sixth phase of the ongoing archaeological excavation. R. Sivanandam, Deputy Director of the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology, said that these weighing stones were found near a furnace, along with iron, copper objects and glass slag, indicating the possibility of the existence of trading activity. These stones were of various sizes — weighing 300g, 150g, 18g and 8g. They were all made out of basalt. All the stones have a flat base and a polished surface. The stones were excavated between June 20 and July 3. Mr. Sivanandam said that the stones were found near a furnace, with traces of firing activity. Charcoal was commonly found in all the levels the stones were excavated from. Copper, iron objects and beads made out of different materials, including glass, were also found.
05 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister thanks PM for AIIMS notification||Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam for notification of the establishment of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Thoppur near here, in the gazette, Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said the campaign by the Opposition parties had been put to rest. Speaking to reporters after distributing hampers to needy people at Thirumangalam near here, he said that some opposition parties were in a hurry to criticise the Centre and State governments on formation of the AIIMS. The gazette notification issued by the Centre on the AIIMS had silenced the opponents and critics of the government, who had conveniently twisted the issue in their favour. “The people are no fools to believe them”, Mr. Udayakumar said. Having earmarked 224 acres of land, the Tamil Nadu government had commenced preliminary works at the site after the Prime Minister had laid the foundation stone on January 27, 2019. The project was coming up at a cost of Rs. 1,264 crore with aid from Japan International Cooperation Agency and added that like AIIMS, other projects and programmes for the people would also be rolling as per schedule. On the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, it has been well handled by the officials in the State and he urged the people to support by remaining indoors and using face masks and sanitizers.
05 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘There is no need to transfer case to CBI’||Joint Action Against Custodial Torture-Tamil Nadu, a forum comprising Human Rights activists and members of social movements, have urged the State government to re-consider its decision to transfer the Sattankulam custodial deaths case to the CBI. In a press statement, the members said that the CB-CID has arrested the accused policemen in the case in quick succession and the investigation in the case was progressing in the right direction. With the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court closely monitoring the case, there was no need to transfer it to the CBI, they said. CB-CID investigation must be time-bound, the activists urged. Citing the example of the Thoothukudi firing incident, the members said that not much progress was achieved by the CBI in that case. With increasing cases of custodial torture, India should ratify the United Nations Convention against Torture (UNCAT), they said. They said police reforms needs to be talked about so that such instances of custodial torture do not get repeated. A State-level and district-level monitoring committees must be formed to create awareness among the public on policing and rights of the accused. The activists also demanded appropriate action to be taken against Judicial Magistrate Sattankulam, the doctors who certified traders P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks fit for remand and the jailors at the Kovilpatti Sub-jail.
05 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Panic buying in Salem||Chaotic scenes prevailed at markets and shops here on Saturday as people scrambled to stock up essentials ahead of complete lockdown in the State on Sunday. Huge crowd were seen at farmers’ market without following social distancing norms despite repeated requests from officials and farmers. K.R. Matheshwaran, a farmer at Sooramangalam uzhavar sandhai, said: “huge crowd was seen in the market as public feared that they might run out of essentials on complete lockdown day. The market got over early today (Saturday). However, despite various awareness campaigns, public continued to bring children and senior citizens to the markets which is not advisable at the moment. We had to request repeatedly with public to follow physical distancing norms.” According to officials from agriculture department, fruits and vegetables worth Rs. 63.14 lakhs were brought for sale at the market on Saturday. Physical distancing went for a toss at places like Shevapet market and Pal market. Public have been advised not to venture out for morning or evening walks on Sunday. Business as usual in Erode Business was as usual in departmental stores, groceries, vegetables and fruit shops and bakeries across Erode district. Though milk booths will remain open on Sunday, most of the people purchased additional quantities of milk packets. Reasonable crowd was seen at meat shops. Since petrol bunks will be closed on Sunday, vehicles were seen lined up at the bunks.
05 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage demonstration||Members of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (TVS), affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), staged a demonstration here on Saturday urging the Tamil Nadu government to get the State’s due share of water as per the schedule for the June and July in the Cauvery from Karnataka. The demonstrators were led by P. Senthilkumar and N.V. Kannan. Demanding that water for irrigation in delta district should be distributed without any turn system so that farmers in tail-end areas could also take up cultivation without fail, they called upon the Tamil Nadu government to announce ‘kuruvai package’ to help the farmers take up cultivation with confidence. Members from the All India Democratic Women’s Association and the Democratic Youth Federation of India also participated in the demonstration held near the Thanjavur Railway Junction.
05 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Girl sexually assaulted||The Vallam All Women Police are investigating a complaint from an aged woman of a village in Orathanadu taluk that her 19-year-old granddaughter has been sexually assaulted by a few male members of her own family. According to police, the woman preferred the complaint after her granddaughter was found to be pregnant. In her complaint, she had stated the girl studying ninth standard was staying with her family for the past one year. The girl suffered from ‘stomach ache’ and a scan of the abdomen had revealed that she was pregnant. At the instance of ChildLine, she lodged a complaint with Vallam AWP seeking to identify the culprit.
05 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Contamination source of drinking water rectified||The source for contamination of piped drinking water supply in Tholkappiar Nagar in Thanjavur has been rectified on Saturday. The Thanjavur Corporation health wing staff received information on Saturday morning that around 25 persons who have consumed the water supplied through the public taps in Tholkappiar Nagar had diarrhoea. Doctors and paramedical staff started screening the people. Engineering department personnel looked for the source of contamination. They had ascertained that the drinking water supply line passing aside the sewer network had been damaged while giving a new sewage connection to a house in the locality.
05 July 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Prisoners attack policemen held in custodial death case||A group of agitated inmates of Thoothukudi District Prison at Paeroorani allegedly assaulted the police personnel arrested in connection with the twin custodial deaths on Saturday evening forcing the authorities to shift them to Madurai Central Prison. After the CB-CID, investigating the custodial death of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks of Sattankulam, arrested Inspector of Police, Sattankulam, Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh and head-constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj, all of them were remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Thoothukudi District Prison at Paeroorani. Though the capacity of the prison is 300, only 80 prisoners have been kept in the jail in view of COVID – 19 pandemic. When the remanded policemen were reportedly discussing something this evening near the cells where they had been kept, a group of 30 prisoners, who are apparently following the case through newspapers, thrashed them, sources said. The prison warders rescued them from the assaulters with great difficulty and moved them to safety. Subsequently, the prison authorities decided to shift the suspended policemen to Madurai Central Prison instead of taking them to nearby Palayamkottai Central Jail where more than 1,000 prisoners – both convicts and remand prisoners – have been kept. “If we lodge these police personnel in Palayamkottai Central Prison, protecting them from other prisoners will be the toughest job for our colleagues everyday. Hence, they were shifted to Madurai Central Prison, which is relatively a safer place for them, we believe,” explained a prison official.
05 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Constable Muthuraj remanded in judicial custody till July 17||Constable Muthuraj of the Sattankulam police station was on Saturday remanded in judicial custody till July 17 after he was arrested by a CB-CID team near Vilaathikulam on Friday night in connection with the twin custodial deaths. He was produced before Chief Judicial Magistrate Hema after health screening in the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital around 8 a.m. Following information from a relative of Muthuraj, the police team rushed to Poosanoor, the constable’s native place, from where he was picked up, sources said. Having arrested all the key accused, the CB-CID is likely to approach the court soon for custody of the arrested police officers and policemen for interrogation. CB-CID sources said the investigators, who had already arrested the five police personnel named as accused in the First Information Report, were now focussing on the role of Friends of Police members who were alleged to have beaten up Jayaraj and Benicks in the police station on the night of June 19. Gruesome role A phone conversation thought to be between two members of Friends of Police confirmed the suspicion that they, too, had played a gruesome role in the torture. Police sources say five members of Friends of Police who were in the Sattankulam station even as the father and the son were thrashed would also be grilled. “Since they have gone underground and their mobile phones remain switched off, they cannot be reached now. Anyway, they will also be grilled soon,” an officer said.
05 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Policemen held for custodial deaths attacked in prison||A group of agitated inmates of the Thoothukudi district prison on Saturday allegedly assaulted the police personnel arrested in connection with the twin custodial deaths, forcing the authorities to shift them to Madurai Central prison. After the CB-CID, which is investigating the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, arrested Sattankulam inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj, they were remanded in judicial custody and lodged at the Thoothukudi district prison in Paeroorani. Though the prison has a capacity to house 300 prisoners, only 80 have been kept in the facility in view of the pandemic. When the remanded policemen were reportedly discussing something in the evening near their cells, a group of 30 prisoners, who were apparently following the case through newspapers, thrashed them, sources said. Prison warders rescued them from the clutches of the prisoners and moved them to safety. Subsequently, the prison authorities decided to shift the policemen to Madurai Central prison instead of taking them to the nearby Palayamkottai central jail, where more than 1,000 prisoners — both convicts and remand prisoners — have been lodged. “If we lodge these police personnel in Palayamkottai central jail, protecting them from other prisoners will be a tough job for our colleagues everyday. Hence, they were shifted to the Madurai Central prison which, we believe, is relatively a safer place for them,” said a prison official.  If we lodge them in Palayamkottai jail, protecting them from prisoners will be a tough job
05 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Huge crash in Bellary onion price||Poor demand has resulted in the price of onions, especially Bellary onions, ruling low in the Tiruchi wholesale market during the lockdown imposed in view of the COVID 19 pandemic. The price of the Bellary onions, which had sky-rocketed in the last few months of 2019 forcing the Centre to import them, is ruling at Rs. 15 a kg, that too for the top export quality ones. The price of onions start at Rs. 7 a kg at the Tiruchi All Perishables Commission Mandis Commercial Complex, which caters to Tiruchi and nearby districts. The price of Bellary onions had breached the Rs. 150 mark in December last year and as arrivals from Maharashtra and Karnataka came down to a trickle, many traders here started purchasing onions imported from Egypt and Turkey. However, the price of the onions started coming down steadily in January and came down to Rs. 25 a kg in February. “Over the past three months, the price has ruled steady in the range of Rs. 7 to 15 a kg. Sale has come down by 50% as there are no festivals and domestic functions are few and far between with restricted number of participants. Besides, people have curtailed their purchases in view of the cash crunch,” observed A. Thangaraj, general secretary, Tiruchi Onion Commission Mandi Traders’ Association. According to traders, good price commanded by onions towards the end of last year saw many farmers going in for the crop in Maharashtra and Karnataka and there has been a bumper harvest. But now farmers have been left disappointed, though the price crash is good news for consumers. “Transport cost alone works out to Rs. 4 a kg for bringing in the Bellary onions here,” Mr.Thangaraj said. The market gets about 250 to 300 tonnes of Bellary onions a day now and about 100 to 150 tonnes of small onions, which rules at Rs. 20 to 40 a kg depending on the quality.
05 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Beach volleyball complex inaugurated in Tiruchi||The beach volleyball and volleyball complexes constructed at Armed Reserve police ground and a traffic island near Anna Stadium in the city were formally inaugurated on Saturday. Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan and Backward Classes and Minority Welfare Minister S. Valarmathi inaugurated them. While the beach volleyball court was constructed at a cost of Rs. 4.55 lakh, a sum of Rs. 11.71 lakh was spent for volleyball court under the self-sufficiency scheme. Both of them were provided with floodlights. Traffic island was formed at a cost of Rs. 14 lakh. Regional Commander of Home Guard A.L. Sirajudeen had contributed 50% of the project cost. S. Sivarasu, Collector, A. Amalraj, Inspector General of Police, J. Loganathan, Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, H.M. Jayaram, Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, Annie Vijaya, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Ziaul Haq, Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, and officials participated in it. Mr. Amalraj, who took a special interest to set up the facilities, said that the new sport infrastructure would be useful for the policemen and the people to keep them fit physically and mentally. The beach volleyball court would popularise the sport in Tiruchi. The facilities should be utilised well. Tournaments should be organised frequently, said Mr. Amalraj who was transferred to Chennai from the central region recently.
05 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pudukottai man dies, 156 fresh cases reported in central region||The central region on Saturday showed a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases with 156 testing positive on a single day. The region also recorded one fatality. Tiruchi district saw a drastic increase since Friday with 83 fresh cases, while Pudukottai recorded 42. A 62-year-old man hailing from Pudukottai with comorbidity of diabetes, who was admitted to Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital on July 1, died after he suffered a cardiac arrest on July 3. He also suffered from acute respiratory failure, official sources said. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur district reported 11 new cases, Perambalur five, Nagapattinam six and Thanjavur, Karur and Ariyalur three positive cases each. Tiruchi With the addition of 83 new cases in Tiruchi, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district rose to 866. Within the city, patients tested positive in Thillai nagar, Thennur, Tiruverumbur, Chinthamani, Woraiyur, Ariyamangalam, Subramaniapuram, while some also tested positive in Manapparai, Omandur, Vellakkalpatti. Seventeen tested positive in Musiri. They were admitted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Meanwhile, 32 patients comprising 27 from Tiruchi, and one each from Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvanamalai, Tirupathur, Cuddalore were discharged from Tiruchi MGMGH. They were sent off in ‘108’ ambulances. A total of 36 patients were also discharged from the COVID Care Centre at Bharathidasan University Khajamalai campus. Pudukottai In Pudukottai, 42 patients including two girl children tested positive. All patients, including 24 women, were admitted to Government Medical College Hospital in Pudukottai. The total number of cases in the district rose to 294 on Saturday. Karur In Karur, three patients tested positive and were admitted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital. However, according to communication from the district, nine patients, including five from the same family, tested positive on Saturday. The patients included a two-year-old boy, men aged 44, 42, 54, 28, 55 and 25 and women aged 28 and 47. The patients were all admitted to KGMCH. Perambalur In Perambalur district, five patients tested positive. Among them, five had returned from Chennai, while another patient, a 22-year-old woman, was the family member of an individual who returned from Chennai. All patients were admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. Nagapattinam Of the six patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam, all were local contacts. While four were contacts of a patient who previously tested positive, the source of infection of the other two had not been ascertained. Ariyalur In Ariyalur, three patients tested positive for the virus. Among them was a patient with travel history to Tiruchi, the second an immediate contact of a patient who tested positive and the third was a sanitary worker in the district. The patients were admitted to Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital for treatment. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 466. Meanwhile, 445 recovered and were discharged from Ariyalur GH. Another 360 new samples were lifted from patients suffering from COVID-19 symptoms, immediate contacts and those in containment zones.
05 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||More hotel rooms identified for returnees||The district administration has given special permission to 36 hotels in the city to provide quarantine facilities to overseas returnees. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SoP) of the State and Central governments, the stranded Indians returning to their States have to be in quarantine for a week upon arrival. It has been made mandatory for them to subject themselves to quarantine before proceeding home. To ensure better and safe accommodation facilities, the district administration has prepared a list of 36 hotels in different parts of the city. Only a few hotels in and around Central Bus Stand were enlisted initially. With most international flights, carrying a majority of Indians belonging to Tamil Nadu, asked to land in Tiruchi, the district administration, which is under pressure to provide good accommodation to them, has reached out to more hotels in the city. Collector S. Sivarasu said  that two or three international flights used to land in Tiruchi almost every day. On an average, 400 to 500 passengers arrived daily and accommodation had to be provided for seven days. So, about 1,700 rooms were required and more hotels had been roped in for the purpose. Two thousand rooms were identified in 36 hotels in the city. As a special gesture, hoteliers offered 40% discount from their base rates. The hotels and tariff had been notified to ensure transparency. Rooms were available from Rs. 900 to Rs. 2,500. Upon arrival, swab samples were collected from passengers at the airport and sent for COVID-19 tests. Certified laboratories had set up screening tables at the airport to lift swab samples. After completing check-out formalities, passengers would be taken to hotels of their choice. On the 5th day, they would be tested again. If anyone tested positive, they would be sent to government hospital. Otherwise, on completing the seventh day of quarantine, they would be allowed to travel to their homes, where they would have to remain in quarantine for seven more days.
05 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘17,000 migrants in Tiruchi data base’||Collectors on Saturday were instructed to complete data entry of inter-State migrant workers by July 31. In a letter addressed to the Collectors, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugham asked all Collectors to check, enter and verify information and conduct door-to-door physical verification. A reliable data of inter-State migrant workers was important to the government. The district data should be downloaded using the login details already provided to the District Collectors. Due diligence should be taken to ensure correctness of data and avoid duplication, he said. Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu said a total of 17,000 entries had been made in the district database. Of them, 4,800 showed willingness to return to their hometown and were sent through special Shramik trains, buses and flights. “Excluding duplications, around 5,000 labourers currently reside in Tiruchi,” he said. Although Tiruchi district had completed its entries, the verification process would be completed before July 31. In the letter, the Chief Secretary had also instructed the Collectors to take up the next stage of enumeration of fresh, left out inter-State migrant workers after the first set was completed. “If in case the person is not available, they may be marked as inactive in the database, not deleted,” he told them.
05 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||13-year-old boy electrocuted||A 13-year-old boy was electrocuted when he was trying to remove a kite stuck on an electric line at Varaganeri on Friday. According to sources, Akthan, son of Rahamadullah, was flying a kite from the terrace of his house when it had reportedly got entangled on an electric line. Akthan subsequently made an attempt to remove the kite by an iron rod that came in contact with a live wire. He was rushed to K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College Hospital. But the doctor declared him brought dead. The Gandhi market police have filed a case.
05 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID warns troublemakers||The CB-CID team has issued stern warning against those who release or share illustrated photographs of the victims. In a statement issued on Saturday, K. Shankar, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, said a set of photos showing Jayaraj and Benicks lying on the floor with grievous injuries are being shared on social media with ulterior motive. The injuries shown in these photographs do not match with the wounds marked by the doctors who conducted the post-mortem. So, it is clear that these photographs have been released by a magazine with the ulterior motive of triggering unrest among the public and hindering the ongoing investigation, which is being done in a unbiased manner by the CB-CID. “In this connection, we’ve received a complaint against ‘Makkal Seithi Maiyam’ for having uploaded these photographs on their website and steps are on to summon the editor of the magazine to appear before CB-CID officials for interrogation,” Mr. Shankar said. The IG warned that those who release or share such photos would have to face serious legal complications.
05 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||People throng markets prior to total lockdown||As total lockdown is to be clamped in the district on all Sundays of July, all the markets here were crowded on Saturday. Since the district adminitration has decided to observe total locakdown on all Sundays of this month in the wake of surging new cases of COVID – 19. Since traders at Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai did not ensure physical distancing of customers coming to their shops, the market was closed on Saturday. “It will remain closed until further orders,” Corporation officials said. The lockdown will be in force in both Thoothukudi, and Tenkasi districts.
05 July 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Asphyxiation deaths: compensation handed over to kin||Compensation to the families of four youths, who were asphyxiated to death when they were cleaning a septic tank recently in Thoothukudi district, was handed over on Saturday. As Pandi, Esakkiraj, Balakrishnan, all from Veeravanallur in Tirunelveli district and Dinesh of Parambu near Kuththapaanjaan in Alangulam were asphyxiated to death when they cleaned a septic tank of a house on Thursday, the State had announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh each to the families. Subsequently, Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju and Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare V. M. Rajalakshmi handed over the compensation to the families here on Saturday in the presence of District Collectors Shilpa Prabhakar Satish of Tirunelveli and Sandeep Nanduri of Thoothukudi. “We’ve instructed the officials to tell the public that they should go only for mechanical cleaning of septic tanks,” Mr. Raju said.
05 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Images of child in dustbin go viral: Collector promises action||Crèches would be arranged for the children of conservancy workers, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said on Saturday after images of a child, purportedly that of a conservancy worker in Tiruppur Corporation, standing inside a dustbin, went viral on social media. He said that he had instructed Tiruppur Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar to set up facilities at the ward/zone-level for employees. “I have asked the Corporation Commissioner to inquire and report [on this incident],” he told The Hindu . Mr. Sivakumar said that temporary arrangements for crèches would be made depending on feasibility. “We will also ask the conservancy workers not to bring their children to work henceforth,” he said. Sources at Tiruppur Corporation said that the woman, around 37 years old, was a contract worker. Hence, her details were not readily available with the Corporation. She was from north India and does not speak Tamil, sources said. Her daughter, who was standing in the dustbin, was said to be three years old, according to a preliminary inquiry conducted by the officials on Saturday. The work hours of conservancy workers are between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m., during which all of them would be wearing masks, gloves and protective jackets as part of precautionary measures. The photographs that went viral were taken after work hours and she must have removed the gloves and jacket, sources claimed. There was no shortage of gloves and other protective equipment for conservancy workers, sources said.
05 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Assn. seeks ex-gratia for farmer’s family||The Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association demanded an ex-gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to the family of a farmer who allegedly died by suicide unable to repay a bank loan. The police said Rajamani (55) allegedly consumed a poisonous substance near his farmland in Kulandaipalayam on Saturday. He was taken to Palladam Government Hospital and was later referred to private hospital in Coimbatore, where he died. He had availed of a Rs. 15 lakh bank loan, which he could not repay. Besides, he recently suffered losses in his onion business. Based on a complaint from the farmer’s son, Kundadam police registered a case against the bank on Saturday. The association demanded that the loan be waived off. (Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
05 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Collector assures action after images of child in dustbin goes viral||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan assured on Saturday that crèches will be arranged for the children of conservancy workers after images of a child, purportedly that of a conservancy worker in Tiruppur Corporation, standing inside a dustbin went viral on social media. He instructed Tiruppur Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar to “set up facilities at the ward/zone level for employees,” he told The Hindu . “I have asked Corporation Commissioner to inquire and report [on this incident],” he said. Mr. Sivakumar said that temporary arrangements for crèches will be made depending on its feasibility. “We will also ask the conservancy workers to not bring their children to work henceforth,” he said. Sources at Tiruppur Corporation said that the woman, who is around 37-years-old, was a contract worker. Hence, her details were not readily available with the Corporation. She was from north India and does not speak Tamil, sources said. Her daughter, who was standing in the dustbin, was said to be around three years old, according to a preliminary inquiry conducted by the officials on Saturday. The work hours of conservancy workers are between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m., during which all of them will be wearing masks, gloves and protective jackets as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. The viral photographs were taken after the work hours and she must have removed the gloves and jacket, sources claimed. There is no shortage of gloves and other protective equipment for the conservancy workers who are working amid the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the sources.
05 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Journalist, Corpn. official test positive in Tiruppur||A journalist from a popular Tamil newspaper and an Assistant Commissioner with Tiruppur Corporation were confirmed to have tested positive in Tiruppur district Saturday. Sources close to the journalist, who is 31-years-old, said that the test results came out on Friday and that he was admitted to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. He visited the hospital on Thursday requesting to be tested as he allegedly had the symptoms, but the doctors provided him with antibiotics and deemed that a COVID-19 test is not necessary, sources alleged. He later went to Palladam Government Hospital and got himself tested. Hospital officials alleged that he did not reveal any travel history or provide sufficient details, due to which the doctors did not diagnose it as COVID-19. Samples from Palladam Government Hospital will also be tested at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, officials noted. The journalist is stable as of Saturday, according to the officials. An Assistant Commissioner of Zone –II of Tiruppur Corporation was also confirmed to have tested positive. Corporation sources said that the official, who is around 50 years old, attended a meeting at the Tiruppur Corporation headquarters on Avinashi – Tiruppur Road on Friday. Hence, the Corporation office was closed and its premises were disinfected on Saturday, sources said. The Zone-II office premises were also closed and samples of all his contacts will be lifted by Sunday, according to the Corporation sources. While officials at the Health Department confirmed these two cases, they said that the cases will be officially declared later. On Saturday, only two cases were officially declared. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Tiruppur district touched 198 on Saturday, out of which 125 patients have recovered and 72 are active cases. One patient who died on June 24 was not declared under the ‘Death ’column in the media bulletin issued by the State government.
05 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Safety first’||Food Minister, R.Kamaraj on Saturday called upon the public to take adequate precautions against the pandemic to ensure the safety of health workers He distributed face masks, gloves, sanitisers and other equipment to safeguard the health of the front line warriors comprising around 2,900 government employees attached to the health and police departments in Tiruvarur.
05 July 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Police band takes on a different duty in Vellore district||The clanging of cymbals and drums on Friday took people standing at an arterial junction in Konavattam, Vellore district, by surprise. They turned around to see a group of men, clad in red and black, playing instruments. The men were members of a police band, attached to the Vellore Armed Reserve Police unit, roped in to create awareness of COVID-19 at important junctions in the district. ‘Voluntarily test’ “Many people return from different districts and they don’t inform us. The main aim of the band is to raise awareness among such people so that they voluntarily come forward and get tested,” said Pravesh Kumar, Superintendent of Police, Vellore. Once their attention is drawn by the band, a police officer speaks on a microphone about COVID-19. At each location, they spend close to an hour. “We stress on the importance of notifying authorities about people who have recently entered the district, the importance of wearing masks and following physical distancing norms,” said R. Dhanvan Raj, a police constable who, along with his colleagues Prabhu and Radhakrishnan, plays the instruments. The band has been in existence for several years now, and there are 15 members, all policemen, who play close to 13 instruments, including drums, cymbals, trumpet and clarinet. Over the last few days, they have been going around in a police van across Vellore. A first time “When we see a crowded market or a junction with heavy vehicle movement, we get down and carry out the exercise,” he added. Till now, the band has played during passing out parades, while welcoming officers, at police programmes and at the police training college. “This is the first time we are doing something like this,” he said.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 samples tested in Tiruchi||Tiruchi district on Saturday recorded a total of 1,000 tests as the administration scaled up testing in several areas visited by people, who were later diagnosed with COVID-19. For instance, health officials of the Corporation tested vendors at Uzhavar Sandhai after three sellers at Madhuram Grounds tested positive on Friday. “When a patient told us that he visited Madhuram market, we tested vendors there and found three positive cases. This is only a precautionary measure,” Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said. The civic body was regularly disinfecting and creating awareness of personal distancing at the temporary vegetable markets. Health officials took throat swabs from 183 vendors at Uzhavar Sandhai. “A total of 1,050 tests were taken in government testing centres including those at MGMGH and villages outside city limits. It will cross nearly 1,200 with inclusion of private testing labs,” Collector S. Sivarasu said. As part of containment strategy, the number of tests was increasing. The testing centre at K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College had the capacity to test at least 900 to 1,000 samples daily. “Since we have the means to do it, we can continue to test as many samples as possible,” he said. With some mediapersons testing positive in districts like Tiruppur and a TV channel reporter testing positive in Tiruchi, health officials lifted 44 samples from reporters, photographers and camerapersons of media organisations. He said the number of cases was slowly coming down. “The complete lockdown on Sundays will ensure that those who travel outdoors on weekends to purchase things or visit others is reduced. Even though this is a difficult time, such steps are necessary to contain the spread of infection,” he added.  The number of cases in the district is slowly coming down S. Sivarasu Tiruchi Collector
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district witnesses highest single day spike||Coimbatore district on Saturday saw 74 new cases of COVID-19, the highest number of cases reported in a single day. With this, the total number of persons tested positive for the disease in the district touched 712, of which 275 persons recovered from the disease. As many as 435 patients were under care at various hospitals. Among the 74 new cases reported on Saturday, 11 were from Selvapuram cluster. Eight persons from Thondamuthur, four each from Podanur and Peelamedu and three from Nanjundapuram were also among the 74 patients. Other persons were found to have contracted COVID-19 when they approached various hospitals for treatment. Their swab samples were collected and tested by the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, private hospitals and primary health centres, results of which returned positive. In Salem, 70 cases were reported on Saturday. According to health officials, among the cases, 65 are indigenous cases and five have travelled to Salem from other states. Four positive cases were reported in Namakkal on Saturday. In Krishnagiri, four indigenous cases were reported and in Dharmapuri, six cases were reported. In Erode, 16 persons, including a frontline worker, tested positive in Erode district taking the district’s tally to 222 on Saturday. Health officials said that nine cases were reported in Gobichettipalayam, while six cases in corporation limits and one case was reported in 46 Pudur Panchayat in Modakurichi block. Currently, a total of 136 persons are undergoing treatment while one person was discharged on Saturday. A 28-year-old woman from Nadupalayam in Chithode, who tested positive, delivered a baby girl on July 2. Health officials said that caesarean was performed and both the mother and the baby are stable. Meanwhile, 17 persons, including 13 members of a family in Gobichettipalayam tested positive and were admitted to the hospital on Saturday afternoon. Officials said that their admission would be included in the district tally in the bulletin on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, five more people tested positive bringing the total number of cases registered in the district to 123. All five individuals are secondary contacts of a person employed at a factory in Yellanalli. Till date, 41 people have recovered and returned home.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Soil theft: no action taken despite Collector’s orders||Despite orders issued by District Collector K. Rajamani, the Revenue Divisional Officer (Coimbatore North) has not taken action in a case of alleged theft of red earth, the primary raw material for brick making, from the land of a farmer at 24 Veerapandi village panchayat in Coimbatore district. The Collector directed the RDO to take appropriate action taking cognisance of a report carried by The Hindu on June 8 about the theft of red earth from a land belonging to the family of farmer turned activist T.M.S. Rajendran, one of the petitioners against illegal functioning of brick kilns in Thadagam valley in Madras High Court, on June 7. Following the Collector's order, a joint inspection was carried out on June 10. The Collector directed Coimbatore North RDO on June 23 that action should be taken against two persons. On June 28, red earth was dug and smuggled from Mr. Rajendran’s family property again, based on which he lodged a complaint the next day with Mr. Rajamani. Mr. Rajamani issued a second order to the RDO, asking him to take appropriate action. According to activist S. Ganesh, Thadagam police refused to register a case or issue a community service register on Mr. Rajendan’s complaint. “When a complaint was lodged regarding the first incident, Thadagam police said that soil is a government property and hence, they were unable to register a case. The RDO, too, did not take any action despite having received an order to the effect from the Collector,” said Mr. Ganesh. “I am a complainant in the High Court against illegal functioning of brick kilns in Thadagam valley. If the police do not register a case against the soil theft from my family land, brick kiln operators may contend in the court that the petitioner himself was selling soil for brick making. We request the officials to open eyes for farmers who struggle to protect land,” said Mr. Rajendran. Complaint lodged Meanwhile, K. Jeyaraj, a resident of ‘S’ bend at 24 Veerapandi Road, lodged complaints with the Revenue Department and the District Environmental Engineer (Coimbatore North) stating that he was unable to live in the locality due to air pollution caused by mining and transportation of red earth. “My wife has wheezing which gets aggravated due to dust pollution. All the trucks are passing through this road to avoid movement through Coimbatore - Anaikatti main road,” he said. The District Environmental Engineer (Coimbatore north) replied that the TNPCB was unable to take action against brick kilns as a case against them is pending in High Court.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Curbs will be eased partially in Chennai from Monday||Non-air-conditioned hair salons, spas and beauty parlours will be allowed to function, subject to adherence to standard operating procedures. Fish and meat stalls can also function by ensuring physical distancing. In Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu, small temples with an annual income of less than Rs. 10,000 and small mosques, dargahs and churches will be allowed to reopen. Tasmac liquor outlets in these three districts can function from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tea shops, restaurants and vegetable and provision shops will be allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. The government said that while an e-pass was necessary for workers who travel between districts, it was not needed for intra-district movement. Companies could use the passes issued by the District Collectors before June 19. No new passes were required, it said. While the government had earlier said that the complete lockdown in Madurai will end on July 5, it has now extended the shutdown by a week. Mr. Palaniswami said the total lockdown will remain in place in the Madurai Municipal Corporation areas, Paravi panchayat, Madurai East, Madurai West and the village panchayats in the Tirupparankundram panchayat union. “Though the infection rate has come down in these areas, the total lockdown has been extended under the Disaster Management Act to bring the disease under total control,” he said. The essential services already allowed will continue to be permitted during the extended lockdown period, he added. The Chief Minister said no activities will be allowed in containment zones, and monitoring work will be stepped up during the lockdown. “The local bodies will ensure the provision of essential supplies to isolation houses and containment zones. Disinfection will be carried out twice a day,” he explained. Mr. Palaniswami reiterated that the disease could not be brought under control without the people’s cooperation. “People should compulsorily wear masks, wash their hands and maintain physical distance. They should avoid going outside unnecessarily, and should visit a hospital if they develop symptoms,” he said.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rapid Antigen Test is better, says MP||Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), instead of RT- PCR test, must be done in Madurai and Virudhunagar districts to cover more people, and to save money and time in the drive against COVID-19 pandemic, said Virudhunagar MP Manicka Tagore. Mr Tagore said, responding to his query, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava said he was ready to approve installation of rapid antigen testing equipment at government and private hospitals. The Congress MP said the slower rate of testing in both the districts had led to the surge in cases in the last fortnight. RT-PCR testing kits were not only costly - Rs. 3,000 per kit- but also consumed more time -six hours - for giving results. But RAT kit costs not only Rs. 400 but gave results within 30 minutes. They can be used to cover a maximum number of people in a short time, start isolation of the infected and provide treatment. Delhi government had made a tremendous improvement in testing and isolation using this kit. Delhi did not have any lockdown and economic activities were being carried out as usual there. Early detection in a cluster would help reduce mortality, he said. More number of testing, swift testing, isolation of infected either at institution or home would be the only way out to beat the pandemic, Mr. Tagore added.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman, son found dead||A woman was found hanging and her one-year-old son was found dead in their residence near Nallur in the outskirts of Tiruppur Corporation limits on Friday. Nithya, 24 and her son Darshan were found dead when the husband of the deceased woman Magudeeswaran, 34, returned to the house in Jai Nagar on Friday afternoon, the police said. Preliminary investigations revealed that Nithya committed suicide and the child might have been suffocated to death as no external injuries were found on his body. The bodies were sent to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy. The police also found a note allegedly written by Nithya and its contents were being examined. Based on the complaint from the father of the deceased woman, Tiruppur Rural police registered a case under section 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and section 174 (suicide) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and investigations are on. Revenue officials are also investigating the case, according to the police. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elephant dies after falling from cliff||A six-year-old male elephant died on the spot after it fell off a cliff at Kadambur hills on Friday. During patrol, personnel found the elephant at Anakarai East Beat at Kurumbur forest area that comes under Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) and alerted the senior officials. A team led by K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinarian at STR, carried out a postmortem on Saturday in the presence of P.G Arunlal, Divisional Forest Officer, Sathyamangalam Division, and other forest officials. The tusk was removed and the carcass was left to nature.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 4  No. of persons tested +ve so far: 712 Indigenous cases: 695 Imported cases: 17 No. of persons recovered: 275 No. of active cases: 435 No. of persons died: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala)   House quarantined: 3,701 Positive: 198 (Two fresh cases on Saturday; one case cross-notified) Discharged: 125 Active cases: 72 Death: 1 (Yet to be officially declared)
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation launches ambulance service||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday launched ambulance service to rush COVID-19 positive persons to hospitals and carry out tests at ward-level. A release said the civic body sought the city residents’ help in identifying people who violated quarantine guidelines to report on COVID-19 positive persons in their midst by dialling 1077 or 0422-2302323 or 97505-54321.
05 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three constables test positive in Belagavi||Three constables of the District Armed Reserve Police force who were on COVID-19 duty tested positive in Belagavi district on Saturday. These asymptomatic persons will be shifted to institutional quarantine in the police headquarters, as per the new guidelines issued on Friday. Two of them had served on the inter-State check-post at Kuganolli. Their primary contacts are being traced and will be advised to undergo home quarantine. “However, it may be nearly impossible to trace every vehicle that passed through the check-post when the policemen were on duty,” a senior officer said. More than 15,000 vehicles had passed through the check-post till the end of June. “Doctors are telling us that there may not be a need to quarantine all the passengers in those vehicles. In fact, the passengers were already asked to observe a 14-day quarantine from the date of passage,” the officer said. Police and health officials in the city were tasked with tracing the contacts of a bangle seller who tested positive. “The 58-year-old woman, of Mali Galli, had visited at least 200 houses since the lockdown was lifted. She would have touched the hands of women in all those houses, as she not only sold her ware, but also helped them wear the bangles. We have put 20 staff on this trail. The process should take 2-3 days,” said an officer who is a member of the district COVID-19 management committee. Death in Kudachi A senior citizen with co-morbidities died at Kudachi in Belagavi district on Saturday. The 70-year-old man had been admitted to the ICU of the district COVID-19 hospital. This is the fifth COVID-related death in the district. One person died of SARI. While the first death was in April, the others were recorded this past week. As on Saturday, 354 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi. There was some panic in Karikatti and Shedbal after multiple cases were reported from those villages on Saturday. Eight cases were reported from Karikatti while five of a family of seven tested positive in Shedbal.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Positive cases cross 20,000 in State; 42 more deaths reported||Three days after clocking 15,000 cases, Karnataka’s total number of positive cases touched 21,549 on Saturday with 1,839 new cases. Of the new cases, 1,172 are from Bengaluru Urban. The State reported 42 deaths, taking the toll to 335, apart from four non-COVID-19 deaths. This is the highest-ever number reported on a single day. While 24 deaths are from Bengaluru Urban, six are from Bidar, four from Dakshina Kannada, three each from Dharwad and Kalaburagi, and one each from Bengaluru Rural and Hassan. As many as 34 of the deaths are ILI and SARI cases.  With Saturday’s numbers, the total number of positive cases in Bengaluru Urban touched 8,345. The total number of patients discharged in he State stood at 9,244 with 439 persons walking out of hospitals on Saturday. Over 55% of the total 21,549 positive cases in the State have been reported till June. During this period, the State saw 195 deaths, which is 58.2% of the total 335 deaths. As many as 129 of the deaths are from Bengaluru alone. The State recorded the first 1,000 cases on May 15, which is two months and six days after the first case was detected on March 9. Thereafter, the cases doubled to 2,000 on May 24. And, in a month’s time, the cases crossed 10,000 on June 24. Since then, another 11,000 cases have been recorded. Karnataka now stands in 6th place in the country in terms of positive cases.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC evaluation: KSEEB steps up safety measures for teachers||After completing SSLC examination, the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) is now vested with the responsibility of conducting the evaluation process. With COVID-19 cases rising by the day, the safety of evaluators is priority. The board has decided to increase the number of evaluation centres and provided transport facilitates for staff grading papers. A total of 67,000 evaluators have been roped in to evaluate answer scripts of about 8.48 lakh students. V. Sumangala, Director of the board, said that the jurisdictional Block Education Officers have been directed to make a list of teachers who may need transport facilities to their respective centres. “Our evaluation has always been decentralised in the districts. This time, we will make arrangements for all evaluators, keeping in mind their safety,” she said, and added that the movement of teachers will be restricted. They would be asked to report for duty to centres within their district. While last year, evaluation took place at 228 centres, this year there will be another 51 centres. The evaluation has been scheduled to be conducted between July 13 to 30. K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that a standard operating procedure (SOP) for evaluation will soon be issued by the board. A maximum of 14 evaluators will be allowed to sit in one classroom. There will also be a health screening booth at the evaluation centres and teachers will have to undergo thermal screening and wear masks while grading papers. They will also be asked to sanitise their hands regularly. The board will also issue strict instructions and ask teachers who are unwell and have symptoms such as cough, fever or cold to not report to work. In addition, those who have given their swabs for a COVID-19 test should not come to the evaluation centre until they receive a negative result. Teachers above 55 years and those with serious health conditions are exempt from reporting for duty.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic snarls on roads leading out of the city||With curfew kicking in at 8 p.m. on Saturday, many who had planned to leave the city left their homes early leading to heavy traffic jams on Tumakuru Road and Mysuru Road on Saturday afternoon. A few vehicles were even seen carrying household items, as a few families were shifting out. One of them told mediapersons that he had lost his job and was unable to pay the rent and hence had to vacate his home, forcing him to return to his village. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) also reported a rise in passengers on their inter–district buses from Bengaluru. The corporation operates around 650-700 buses from Bengaluru to other districts. “Earlier, buses were running with 50 to 60 per occupancy. But on Saturday we witnessed full occupancy on most of the buses . Many people preferred to travel in day buses instead of evening buses,” said an official. To maintain social distancing norms, KSRTC is allowing only 30 passengers per bus. KSRTC officials attributed the rise to the Sunday curfew and the completion of SSLC exams. People were seen waiting at various points such as Kengeri, Jalahalli Cross, Hebbal to board a bus. However, police officials downplayed reports of an ‘exodus’ due to the fear of rising COVID-19 cases being reported from the city, as ‘exaggerated’. The city has reported over 4,500 COVID-19 cases in the past six days. Ravi D. Chennannavar, SP, Bengaluru Rural, under whose jurisdiction is the Nelamangala toll on Tumakuru Road - an exit point to the city that saw a pile up of vehicles on Saturday - said that while it was true that there was more rush than usual, it was similar to what is observed on the eve of holidays and festivals. “Since the lockdown began from 8 p.m. across the State, people who work in the city and go to their villages during the weekend seem to have left their houses early to ensure that they reach their destination before the deadline. This traffic got piled up with the evening peak hour traffic causing some snarls,” said a senior traffic cop. An ambulance was also stuck in the traffic pile-up on Mysuru Road. Meanwhile, Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao tweeted asking citizens to cooperate with the authorities to enforce the lockdown. “Respected citizens, just stay at home and don’t ask for exceptions as this [Sunday lockdown] is being done in everybody’s interest. Heavens won’t fall if you postpone by a day. Please exercise self-discipline and cooperate (sic),’ he tweeted. He told The Hindu that the enforcement of the lockdown would be strict and the police would be on the streets and would seize vehicles found travelling, unless in cases of emergency.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ICU of K.C. General Hospital to be shut for fumigation||With three ICU nurses and a doctor from the COVID-19 ward apart from two other staffers of the State-run K.C. General Hospital testing positive, the hospital’s six-bed ICU is being shut down for two days for fumigation. Hospital Medical Superintendent B.R. Venkateshaiah told The Hindu on Saturday: “Our other staff members, including nurses, are worried and are refusing to take up COVID-19 duty. We have been motivating them.” The hospital has six ICU beds and four ventilators apart from 100 beds for COVID-19 patients. “All six patients are being shifted to other facilities today. The ICU will remain closed for not more than two days as there is a high demand for ICU beds. We are overburdened with work. Some staff who are aged and have co-morbidities are reluctant to take up COVID-19 duty,” the doctor said. In fact, the situation is similar in several hospitals, including premier institutions such as Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, and NIMHANS, where several staffers have tested positive. While 26 staffers in Jayadeva have tested positive, 15 from NIMHANS, three from Kidwai, and several in Victoria hospital are under treatment. At Jayadeva, positive cases were being treated in a separate building on the institute premises. “Fifteen were discharged on Saturday, while 11 more will be discharged on Sunday. We will reopen OPD from Monday,” said C.N. Manjunath, institute director. Stating that it is natural for staff to hesitate to work, he said it is important to motivate them. “Also, if the premises is closed for fumigation, it will instil confidence in the staff,” he said.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||People still wary of booking cabs||Suraj (name changed), a resident of Kengeri, would use cabs almost every day to get to work or for last mile connectivity. Since the lockdown relaxations kicked in, he has been thinking twice before taking a taxi. “Cases in Bengaluru are going up daily, and contacts have been untraceable. How does one know who drivers have come in contact with? Often, drivers do not have the opportunity or time to sanitise the cab immediately after one commuter gets off. So there is a risk,” he said. Once one of the most popular modes of transport, cabs in the city have been dealing with apprehensions from customers. While shared rides are out of the question, customers are wary of booking a taxi even for a single trip. Drivers are faced with a volley of safety related doubts from passengers. To get around this, some companies are pushing their dedicated rental plans to convince customers to travel with them. Uber has started promoting a rental scheme which promises ‘an Uber like your own car’. Uber Rentals offers on-demand anytime cars for travel to multiple destinations, and has packages from one hour to 12 hours. Taxshe Timeshare, an exclusive women driven shared cabs for communities initiative, is promising one cab for a community of 25 families available for four hours a day. Members can use a pool of 800 km a month between them for short trips in a 5 km radius at a monthly subscription of Rs. 1,042 per month, per family. Vandana Suri, founder of Taxshe, said the initiative was launched around three days ago to counter concerns about regular taxi services. “Passengers were unsure of where the cab was coming from, who has travelled by it, and if it is sanitised. Since we announced the community specific service, we are getting quite a few enquiries,” she said. K. Radhakrisna Holla, president of the Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association, also said only around 10% of the total number of cabs were running at present. “People are still worried. In addition to this, no company has started full fledged operations. There are a few who are opting for rentals for full month usage or taking cabs on contract. We are ready for rent or contract. Customers have to come forward now,” he said. Speaking about the lack of work for drivers, he said 80% of them are still idle. “Those who haves some agricultural land have returned to their home town and are doing that for now. Even those who bought new vehicles in recent years are without work, but have to pay EMIs. Expats are the highest number of customers for rental services, but many of them have gone back. We have sought relaxations from the government to tide over the crisis,” he added.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Contact tracing: RWAs keep residents’ database||Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) have upped proactive measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, and help people who are in home quarantine. N.H. Subramanian of Pai Layout Residents’ Welfare Association (PLRWA), Old Madras Road, maintains a Google form where residents update basic information including travel history. This way, the RWA can keep track of people under home and institutional quarantine. “Recently there was a positive case in our vicinity and the family reported it. We are now helping them with their basic needs as they are confined to their home,” he said. According to Mr. Pai, residents are under no compulsion to fill the form. “However, most have volunteered to fill it,” he added. Anupama V.L., a PLRWA COVID Warrior, said monitoring was being done carefully without any stigma. “Information shared by the residents is kept confidential and shared only with officials when needed,” she said. K.G. Mohan of Sobha Garnet Apartment Owners’ Association, near Iblur, said there was an increase in cleaning and sanitation drives in their vicinity, especially of high touch surfaces. “We now have a pre-ordered and prepaid market system. Around 35 farmers have been supplying produce to us. We also have a database of basic information of residents and household workers,” he said.  Video tutorials While these measures have been lauded, operators and managers of Dry Waste Collection Centres (DWCCs) say that masks are still not being disposed of safely, posing a health risk to workers. Many are sending videos to RWAs to explain how to responsibly throw away used masks. According to Kumuda, who manages a DWCC, at least 200-250 disposable masks land up at the centre daily. “These masks should be disposed of along with sanitary waste. They should be wrapped in paper and marked in red,” she explains in a video.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Actor alleges rape, blackmail||A 30-year-old Kannada television actor has a complaint against the CEO of a private firm where she was brand ambassador, for rape and blackmail. The J.J. Nagar Police have registered a case and are searching for the accused, Karthik, who is still at large. In her complaint, the actor alleged that she befriended Karthik in 2018. He had roped her in to be his consultancy’s brand ambassador. The alleged incident took place on June 22, 2019, at a birthday celebration in the complainant’s house. The actor alleged she was drugged and raped, and two days later, Karthik began blackmailing her with a video. She said in her statement that he had threatened to upload the clip, and that she has given him Rs. 20 lakh to date.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug peddler arrested||Acting on a tip-off, CCB sleuths nabbed a drug peddler who was selling ganja in front of Yeshwanthpur police station on Friday. He has been identified as Gopinath, 32, from Odisha. A raid on his house led to the seizure of 8 kg of ganja.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Archbishop Emeritus tests positive||Archbishop Emeritus of Bengaluru Archdiocese Bernard Moras has tested positive for COVID-19 and is at St. John’s Medical College. “His condition is stable,” said Peter Machado, Archbishopñ.
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Inquiry into ‘faulty’ masks||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has instituted an inquiry into the alleged harassment of a woman doctor in a medical college in Bengaluru after she complained about faulty masks and PPE kits. In a tweet, the Minister said: “I have taken note of supply of defective masks and PPE kits to KIMS doctors.”
05 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nurse succumbs to infection||The ICU nurse from Santosh Hospital, who was shifted on Friday night to Victoria Hospital as most of Santosh Hospital ICU staff and a few others were infected, leaving no one to attend to her, passed away at Victoria Hospital on Saturday. “She had several co-morbidities and was shifted in a critical condition,” said a senior doctor from Victoria. Santosh Hospital director Santosh Saklecha condoled her death.
05 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||SUCI(C) members stage protest over hike in fuel prices||Condemning the continued hike in fuel prices and the “failure” of the Union government to check this, members of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Saturday. Burning an effigy, the protesters alleged that instead of mitigating the sufferings of citizens during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre had increased fuel prices. Addressing the protesters, Dharwad district committee member of SUCI(C) Laxman Jadagannavar stated that while on one hand the COVID-19-induced lockdown had crippled the economy and affected the common man badly, the Centre was putting additional burden on them. “What is even worse is that the BJP-led Union government is using the lockdown to fleece citizens and is enforcing anti-labour policies to help the corporate sector,” he said. Mr. Laxman said that in the international market, the price of crude oil has gone down to $41 per barrel, which would mean Indians should get one litre of petrol for Rs. 20. But adding the cess, taxes and profit margin for oil companies, the Centre could fix the price at Rs. 28, he said. But instead, it has allowed petrol prices to go beyond Rs. 83, which is three times more than the actual cost. In rural areas too, the price of kerosene has been increased by 55%, he said. However, instead of helping the commoners, the Centre has written off bad loans to the tune of Rs. 68,000 crore in nationalised banks, he said. The protesters raised slogans saying that privatisation was going on unabated in the fields of agriculture, insurance, railways and mining.
05 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Voluntary lockdown||The residents of Channarayapatna taluk have resolved to observe lockdown for the next 14 days as the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 has been on the rise. The public will have time to purchase essential commodities between 7 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. three days a week. This was decided at a meeting attended by shopkeepers, businessmen, and elected representatives on Saturday. The lockdown will be relaxed in the morning hours on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Except for agriculture-related activities, all other activities will be shut down in the taluk. MLA for Shravanabelagola C.N.Balakrishna, addressing the meeting, appealed to the public to cooperate with the taluk administration in making the voluntary lockdown effective in the taluk.
05 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Night curfew advanced in Shivamogga||The Shivamogga district administration decided to introduce night curfew from 6 p.m. to curb the spread of COVID-19 with effect from Saturday. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, who is also the Minister in charge of the district. Earlier, the State government had introduced night curfew between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m. In Shivamogga, the curfew will be in effect from 6 p.m. now. Mr. Eshwarappa told reporters that barring essential services, all shops and business establishments would be closed at 6 p.m. and people should not venture out of their homes. He said the public has been cooperative till now with the measures taken by the district administration, but in recent days the number of confirmed cases has been on the rise. “Now we have to take some more measures to bring down the number of cases,” the Minister said. He also appealed to the public to wear masks and maintain social distance in public spaces. Those violating the rule will be penalised. Mayor Suvarna Shankar, Superintendent of Police K.M. Shantharaju, zilla panchayat CEO M.L. Vyshali and other officials attended the meeting. The district administration had also invited representatives of various non-government organisations to provide suggestions.
05 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||One more death in Hassan||The number of deaths due to COVID-19 has increased to seven in Hassan district. A 38-year-old man who died at his residence in Belur has been found to be positive. The man, who ran a bakery at Holenarsipur, died at home after complaining of chest pain on Friday. His throat swab sample was collected for testing and the positive result came back only on Saturday, said K.H. Sathish Kumar, the District Health Officer. The officer said the final rites of the dead were conducted as per the protocol issued by the State government. Meanwhile, as many as 25 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan district on Saturday. With this, the number of confirmed cases reported rose to 479. Among the fresh cases, nine each were reported from Arsikere and Hassan taluks, five from Channarayapatna, and one each from Belur and Sakleshpur. They include two healthcare workers, a policeman, and four KSRTC staff members. The DHO appealed to the public to stay at home and wear masks whenever they step out.
05 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Woman and child hospital sealed in Gadag||As a pregnant woman, who subsequently tested positive for COVID-19, had visited the Government Woman and Child Hospital in Gadag on Thursday, the hospital has been sealed as a precautionary measure. According to a press release issued by Deputy Commissioner of Gadag Sundareshbabu M., a 22-year-old pregnant woman, a resident of Harti village in the district, had visited the hospital for consultation, and during her visit her nasal and throat swabs were collected for testing. On Friday, the swabs tested positive and she has now been admitted to the designated COVID-19 hospital.. After the hospital was sealed, sanitisation was taken up. Eleven primary contacts of the pregnant woman and 15 secondary contacts have been identified, the press release said. Meanwhile, a 23-year woman (P-18282) with COVID-19 from Gojanaur village gave birth to a baby girl. As the infant was experiencing respiratory problems, it was shifted to the ICU. The nasal and throat swabs of the infant have been sent for testing.
05 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Complete lockdown on Sundays||Following the Sunday lockdown decision taken by the State government, the Dharwad district administration has taken steps to ensure the order, which will be in force for five Sundays starting from July 5 (till August 2). The authorities have made it clear that following the Sunday lockdown, curfew orders would be in force from 8 p.m. on Saturday to 5 a.m. on Monday. It may be recalled that already, curfew orders are in place from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. daily. Consequently, movement of people barring in cases of medical emergencies and services is strictly banned. All kinds of shops barring those engaged in essential commodities such as medical stores, provision stores, vegetable and fruit stalls, milk parlours, and meat shops will remain closed.  However, the government has allowed the holding of weddings that were fixed well in advance. But participation should not exceed 50, and only 20 persons can attend funerals, the authorities said. Parks and playgrounds too shall remain closed on Sunday.  Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has issued orders against the sale and transport of liquor on all five Sundays (July 5, 12, 19, 26, and August 2) under Section 144 of the IPC and Section 21 of Karnataka Excise Act, 1965. The ban order will be in force from 8 p.m. on Saturday to 9 a.m. on Monday. No bus service The Hubballi division of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) has announced that no buses will be operated on Sunday. According to NWKRTC Divisional Controller H. Ramanagoudar, the Hubballi division operated 419 inter-district and inter-State buses before the lockdown. But after the lockdown and subsequent relaxation, the division has been running around 200 inter- and intra-district buses.
05 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Disinfectant sprayed in hospital after 19 personnel test positive||Taking note of COVID-19 alarmingly spreading among the staff at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), a COVID-19 designated hospital in Ballari, Deputy Commissioner and chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority S.S. Nakul on Saturday directed the authorities to spray disinfectant on the entire premises. As per the information provided by the Department of Information and Public Relations, as many as 19 health personnel, including doctors, staff nurses, lab technicians and postgraduate medical students, have tested for COVID-19 as on Saturday. Following the Deputy Commissioner’s directions, VIMS premises were disinfected. “Nineteen health workers at VIMS have been tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3-4 days. As many as 60 people, the primary contacts of the infected persons, have been isolated. The spraying of disinfectant inside and outside VIMS is under way to minimise the risk of the disease spreading to others,” Devanand, Director of VIMS, told The Hindu . According to sources at VIMS, a majority of the staff that caught the virus were engaged in attending and treating the common patients that visited the institution with Acute Respiratory Illness and Influenza-like Illness. Considering the alarming rise in COVID-19 cases in the district and the resultant shortage of beds at the designated hospitals, Mr. Nakul visited the Trauma Care centre in the city and directed the officials concerned to get it ready before July 10 for accommodating COVID-19 patients.
05 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||HKCCI seeks separate industrial policy for KK||As the State government gears up for unveiling the new Karnataka Industrial Policy 2019-24, the Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI), a body of industrialists and traders from the region, put a set of Kalyana Karnataka-centric demands to be incorporated in the new policy. In a letter to Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Saturday, Amarnath C. Patil and Shashikanth B. Patil, president and secretary of HKCCI, demanded that the government classify the weaker Kalyana Karnataka as a separate zone and not to be clubbed with any other stronger region like Mumbai Karnataka in the new policy. They have argued that clubbing Kalyana Karnataka with the Bombay Karnataka would simply defeat the very mandate of the Dr. Nanjundappa Committee report on the removal of regional imbalances and also the special status granted to Kalyana Karnataka. “Kalyana Karnataka has continued to remain backward even more than 63 years after integration. Out of the 39 most backward taluks, 21 are in the region. 18% of the State’s population lives here. The region's dropout rate is 5.77% as compared to the State average of dropouts rate of 2.96%. Despite the region getting special status, it has seen little progress due to the apathy and lack of political will of the successive governments,” HKCCI office-bearers told the government. Among the other demands include the introduction of a separate area-specific industrial policy for Kalyana Karnataka and the establishment of Kalyana Karnataka Industrial Corridor at Kalaburagi district for taking up the industrialisation of this region on a massive scale.
05 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada reports three more COVID-19 deaths||Dakshina Kannada district reported three more COVID-19 deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 20. A 60-year-old woman from Sullia taluk, who suffered from high blood pressure, pneumonia and cardiac problems, was undergoing treatment at the government hospital in Sullia. She was brought to the Government Wenlock Hospital on Thursday and died on Friday night before her test report confirmed her positive. A 67-year-old man from Mangaluru, who also suffered from diabetes, high blood pressure and pneumonia, was brought from a private hospital to Wenlock Hospital on Thursday and died the same day. His swab tested positive on Saturday. A 65-year-old woman from Mangaluru with diabetes, high blood pressure and pneumonia was brought from a private hospital to Wenlock Hospital on Saturday, and she also died on the same day. Her result also came back positive. The total number of active cases in the district rose to 557, with 75 persons testing positive on Saturday. Of the new cases, 29 persons had Influenza-like Illness, while 24 were primary contacts. There were 11 persons with international travel history, six with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness, one case each related to random sample collection in Ullal, pre-surgery, secondary contact, and post child delivery. Contact tracing of one patient was on, said a release from the district administration. As many as 13 people were discharged from Wenlock Hospital. In Udupi As many as 19 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 160.
05 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MESCOM to launch consumer app||The Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (MESCOM) will launch a multi-purpose app for its consumers in the coming months, according to its managing director, Snehal Rayamane. Speaking at a press meet organised by Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists at the Patrika Bhavan here, she said that its design is being worked out. Bids to develop the app will be called within two months. It will take four to six months to launch it. She said that consumers can pay their monthly electricity bills through the app.
05 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative (CAMPCO) Ltd. has restricted entry of member-farmers and other members of the public into its head office on Mission Street from Monday. It is in order to prevent further spread of COVID-19 cases. People can call up the administrative section on 0824-2888212 with queries.
05 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rayadurga-Talaku track inspection completed||A significant milestone has been achieved with completion of the rail safety inspection along the 48-km electrified track between Rayadurga and Talaku in the Mysuru division of South Western Railway. This section is part of the 184-km stretch between Ballari and Chikjajur and the electrification work is being executed by Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) A.K. Rai completed the inspection and the authorities expect clearance for opening up the section for rail traffic. Three line crossings During the inspection earlier this week, three power line crossings — two between Talaku and Bommagundanakere and one between Bommagundanakere and Molakalmuru), four LC gates on the section and four stations (Talaku, Bommagundanakere, Molakalmuru and Rayadurga) were covered. The electrification of the section between Ballari and Rayadurga (53 km) was completed in December 2019 and the stretch between Thornagallu and Hosapete was completed in February this year. A release said it is envisaged to achieve full electrification across Indian Railways in the next few years as envisaged by the Government of India. On the South Western Railway, 802 route km of track is targeted for electrification during the current financial year (2020-21). Last year, 147 route km of SWR was electrified and the sections included Ballari-Rayadurga (53 km), Toranagallu-Ranjithpura (23 km) Baiyappanahalli-Anekal (37 km), and Toranagallu-Kariganur (34 km). “After completion of speed trial and inspection of the section and safety equipment at stations on this section, CRS will consider the proposal for authorisation of electrification of this line for passenger traffic,” the release added.
05 July 2020||RAICHUR/YADGIR,KARNATAKA||41 cases in Raichur||As many as 41 fresh cases of COVID-19 were recorded in Raichur district on Saturday. With this, the total number of positive cases rose to 559. Of these, 422 patients, including 18 on Saturday, have been discharged. In Yadgir, one person tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 971. So far, 855 patients have been discharged while 115 cases are active.
05 July 2020||Udupi,KARNATAKA||‘Book those breaking rules of quarantine’||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Saturday expressed unhappiness over officials not registering cases against those who violate quarantine rules in the district. At a meeting, he said that of the 1,547 persons who have violated quarantine rules, cases had been registered only against eight. The officials had let off as many as 1,236 persons with a warning. Some of those who were under quarantine violated the rules more than once, but no cases were registered against them, he said. He directed the tahsildars and flying squad officials to take violations seriously and file cases against the culprits. If not, cases will be registered against the officials responsible, the Deputy Commissioner said. Mr. Jagadeesha also asked the officials to furnish to him daily reports on the violations and cases field. He asked them to book cases against those who organise programmes without maintaining social distancing as well. The lockdown will be strictly implemented in the district on Sunday, he said, adding that only essential services would be permitted. Weddings for which permission has been given will be allowed withlimited participation of people, he said.
05 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Five held for attack on ZP Opposition leader||The police have partially cracked the case of the attack on Marlingappa Karnal, Opposition leader of the Yadgir Zilla Panchayat, by miscreants near Buddha Basava Nagar on Yadgir-Chittapur road in Yadgir city on June 24. Five persons who hired supari killers to attack him have been arrested. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that the five hired the supari killers to attack Mr. Karnal with lethal weapons. We are now on the lookout for those who attacked Mr. Karnal, he said. The arrested are Honnappa Manashappa Desai of Karnal village, Gururaj aka Gurappa Ganganna Namali, Devaraj aka Devappa Guranna Namali, Tirupathi Ganganna Namali, from Hemanur village, and Anjeneya aka Anji Shivanna Doddi from Karnal village. “Mr. Karnal was brutally attacked by four supari killers allegedly engaged by Gururaj, an arrested, who had previous enmity with Mr. Karnal. Presently, all four attackers are absconding,” Mr. Sonawane said. A Tata Sumo vehicle KA-29 A-938 was seized from the accused. Th police had registered the case under sections 323,324 and 307 of IPC.
05 July 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Padayatra cancelled||On account of the COVID-19 pandemic, the annual padayatra by Gangadhar Swami, Peethadhipathi of Sri Vishwaradhy Mutt in Abbetumkur village of Yadgir taluk, during Nagara Amavasye every year has been cancelled. In a release, Subhashachandra Koulagi, spokesperson of mutt, urged devotees not to come to mutt to meet the swamiji and said that everyone should follow the guidelines being issued by the government.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMRCL plans two semi-underground metro stations inside KIA campus||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) will be building two semi-underground metro stations inside the campus of Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The first station will provide access to cargo and operations areas while the second will provide access to terminal areas. Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) will be undertaking the civil works so that the stations fit into the airport’s architectural designs, said BMRCL Managing Director Ajay Seth. “These two stations will be different from other stations. The systems will be provided by the BMRCL,” he said, adding that the corporation will get a share of the User Development Fee (UDF) for its part of the assets. According to another senior BMRCL official, the platforms of the two stations at KIA will be below ground level. “Infrastructure required for air passengers, including access to the terminal area and cafeteria, will be provided,” the official said. Approval awaited The BMRCL is waiting for the Union government’s nod to build a metro link to KIA. Mr. Seth told The Hindu that the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) will shortly circulate the Public Investment Board’s draft note on the project for inter-ministerial consultation. “The fact-finding mission of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) is over, and formal loan negotiations will take place in September. Approval is likely to be received by November,” said Mr. Seth, and added that the Japan International Cooperation Agency’s loan preparatory mission is currently in progress. A metro line to KIA has been a long-pending demand. In 2016, the BMRCL had approached the public to identify a suitable route for the metro link. Initially, nine potential routes were identified. The Congress government had finalised the Nagwara-Hegdenagar line. Later, the route was dropped on the ground that it was not feasible. Last year, the State government approved extending the metro line from K.R. Puram to KIA via Nagawara and Hebbal. Under Phase II A and Phase II, the BMRCL plans to construct a 55-km line from Silk Board to KIA via K.R. Puram, Nagawara and Hebbal. The BMRCL has invited tender for civil works between Silk Board and K.R. Puram for a distance of 17 km (Phase II A). An official said, “We expect to get ADB’s nod for opening of financial bids for civil works packages from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram, and for inviting tenders for the K.R. Puram to KIA stretch in July.” Mr. Seth maintained that “100% land is available” to build an elevated line from Silk Board to K.R. Puram (Outer Ring Road). “Utilities coming in the way of the project are being removed,” he said. For the line from K.R. Puram to KIA, the BMRCL has identified land to be acquired and compensation is being paid to the owners. The NHAI has already handed over the land required to build an elevated corridor from Hebbal to trumpet interchange.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka High Court overturns DC’s order in Mysuru land case||However, the Deputy Commissioner on May 26, 2015 cancelled the June 20, 2012 order while acting on a letter by the Principal Secretary (Revenue) based on an endorsement by the then Deputy Chief Minister on a representation made by an MLC for holding an inquiry under the KLR Act. Ms. Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, who owns some land as per the family settlement, and more than 150 others, who presently own the land sold decades ago by the then Maharaja challenged the May 26, 2015 order of the Deputy Commissioner in the High Court in 2015. Justice S. Sunil Dutt Yadav, citing several illegalities in the Deputy Commissioner’s order, said that the power to hold an inquiry under the KRL Act and cancellation of entries in revenue record entries could not have have been exercised decades after transfer of titles.  As the State claimed rights over the land by contending that it, classified as ‘B kharab’ could not have been given to the Maharaja as per the 1950 agreement, the court said that any dispute on the agreement could be resolved only by way of an arbitration process prescribed in the agreement and interference by the Deputy Commissioner was impermissible when Article 363 bars even the courts from interfering in such agreements/treaties. Also, the court said that the DChad no power to decide the dispute over title under the KLR Act, as such a power is vested only with civil courts. The court also directed the revenue and municipal authorities to delete entry of ‘B kharab’ land made in revenue records of petitioners and enter their names as per the law.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa divides responsibility among three Ministers||In a bid to clear the recent confusion and heartburn among his Cabinet colleagues, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday divided the responsibility of the government’s response to COVID-19 in Bengaluru among three Ministers. While Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar will be overall incharge and will specifically look into strategy, guidelines, war room, and media briefing, Deputy Chief Minister C. N. Ashwath Narayan will be in charge of setting up and overseeing COVID-19 care centres. Revenue Minister R. Ashok will be in charge of treatment at private hospitals, sources said. Recently when Dr. Sudhakar was in home quarantine after his family members tested positive, the Chief Minister appointed Mr. Ashok to lead the government’s response to the pandemic in the city. This caused heartburn among several Ministers, mainly Dr. Sudhakar and Mr. Narayan, it is learnt. The return of Dr. Sudhakar to work a few days ago after he completed home quarantine and tested negative, led to confusion as both Mr. Ashok and Dr. Sudhakar were overseeing COVID-19 affairs in the city. “Mr. Ashok was given charge only in the absence of Dr. Sudhakar, but he refused to give up even after the Minister who led the charge from day one returned,” sources in the party said. “Mr. Yediyurappa has divided responsibilities and asked all of us to work in coordination to ensure patients get the best care at the right time,” Dr. Sudhakar told media persons after the meeting with the Chief Minister on Saturday. He said the task force meeting chaired by Mr. Yediyurappa deliberated on whether lockdown was necessary in the city. “Dr. Narayan and I argued that a lockdown was not needed at this stage. The Chief Minister will take a final call on the issue. He directed us to ensure strict sealing of areas that have been reporting surge in cases,” he said.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Safety hazard||
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Real-time bed allocation software||The BBMP’s bed allocation team for COVID-19 led by Cooperation Secretary Tushar Girinath will have real-time bed allocation and availability software with hotlines to 108 ambulance service and 1912. The team will get the list of positive patients from ICMR portal on real-time basis and call them to ascertain address and location. A vehicle will be sent to the residence with paramedics to ascertain the medical condition and shift to the treatment facility or recommend home isolation.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drenched||
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. negligence leading to deaths: H.K. Patil||Congress senior leader and PAC chairman H.K. Patil on Saturday alleged that COVID-19 patients have been dying owing to the State government’s negligence and shortage of hospital beds, ambulances and poor handling of the pandemic. Addressing presspersons, Mr. Patil said shortage of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff in government-run hospitals had affected service and treatment of patients. He suggested to the government to utilise KSRTC buses as ambulances temporarily. Mr. Patil said he had sought information from the Health and Family Welfare Department on complaints related to equipment procured for COVID-19. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday challenged Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar to release documents pertaining to transparency maintained by the government in the purchase of equipment. On Friday, Mr. Sudhakar had claimed that all medical purchases have been made under the supervision of the Chief Secretary.
05 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Cases with unknown sources of infection a concern in Alappuzha||The rising number of COVID-19 cases with unknown sources of infection is a cause for concern in Alappuzha. The source of infection of at least five persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the last one week remains unidentified. Among them are a 65-year-old man from Kayamkulam, a fish vendor from Kuruthikkad, three pregnant women hailing from Arattupuzha, Thuravoor, and Ezhupunna. While some experts fear a silent spread of the virus going undetected in parts of Alappuzha, others, including the Health Department, ruled out community transmission in the district. “Cases with unknown sources of infection are clear evidence of community spread. It is important to increase the number of tests to identify asymptomatic people and understand the extent of the disease transmission within the community,” said a health expert on condition of anonymity. No indications However, A.P. Sugunan, epidemiologist and officer-in-charge, National Institute of Virology, Kerala, says there are no indications yet of community transmission in Alappuzha or in other parts of the State. “If community transmission is happening, the test positivity rate should go up. In Kerala, wider populations are being screened and the test positivity rate remains low. Cases outside the risk estimated group remain a small fraction. There is no indicator to say the epidemiology of the disease has changed,” Dr. Sugunan says. While the Kayamkulam native’s source of infection is yet to be traced, 15 of his immediate family members and relations contracted the virus through contact, resulting in a small cluster in Kayamkulam. Likewise, the fish vendor’s wife and son-in-law too tested positive. According to District Medical Officer L. Anithakumari, the reporting of cases with unidentifiable sources may not be a sign of community transmission but she urges people to maintain utmost caution to avoid community spread.
05 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||20 more test positive, majority imported||Twenty more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. Officials said 14 were expatriates and four were from other States. Two persons contracted the disease through contact. Of the cases from foreign countries, six each had come from Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. Among the Kuwait returnees, two men, a 59-year-old and his relative from Cheriyanad reached the district on June 18. A young man hailing from Krishnapuram came on June 26. A 52-year-old man, native of Neelamperoor, and a young man from Mulakuzha came on June 13. Another young man, hailing from Ambalappuzha reached the district on June 18. Of the cases from the UAE, two youths from Mararikulam and Chingoli came on June 18. A 48-year-old man, native of Alappuzha, reached on June 19. Two young men from Palamel and Thamarakulam came on June 22. Another, a 52-year-old man from Thottappally came on June 23. A young man hailing from Mulakuzha had come from Saudi Arabia on June 30. Another man from Devikulangara came from Oman on June 19. Of the cases from other States, a couple from Ambalappuzha came from Bengaluru on June 30. A boy, native of Kuthiathode, came from Coimbatore on June 16. A youth hailing from West Bengal came on June 19. Two pregnant women from Ezhupunna and Thuravoor contracted the disease through contact. Meanwhile, 36 people tested negative for the disease. The number of active cases stands at 186. Containment zones All wards in Arattupuzha; ward 16 in Pattanakkad; ward 1, 16 and 18 in Thuravoor; ward 1 and 16 in Kuthiathode; and Pandi Anari residential area in ward 3 in Cheruthana grama panchayat were declared as cluster quarantine/ containment zones.
05 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Police interrogate Thushar Vellappally||The police team probing the death of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam leader K.K. Mahesan on Saturday questioned SNDP Yogam vice president and Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) president Thushar Vellappally. Mahesan, a former aide to Thushar’s father and SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan, allegedly ended his life. His body was found hanging inside the union office at Kanichukulangara on June 24. After Mahesan’s death, Thushar had accused him of misappropriating funds in the SNDP Cherthala and Kanichukulangara unions. The probe team had interrogated Mr. Natesan and his close aide K.L. Ashokan in the last few days. Mahesan was the State coordinator of SNDP Yogam’s controversial microfinance scheme. A note allegedly written by Mahesan contained the names of Mr. Natesan and Mr. Ashokan. Sanoo’s demand Meanwhile, representatives of the Sree Narayana institutions have urged the State government to order an independent probe into the functioning of SNDP Yogam and incidents that led to the suicide of Mahesan. At a meeting at SN Seva Sangam in Kochi, literary critic M.K. Sanoo expressed deep angst at the functioning of the Yogam. “Never in its history has the Yogam functioning been so autocratic. Key office-bearers, led by its secretary Vellapally Natesan, are flouting, with impunity, all dharmic norms that Sree Narayana Guru stood for. The two notes left behind by Mahesan are a clear pointer to the ills that plague the organisation,” he said.
05 July 2020||G. Krishnakumar,KERALA||Pandemic crisis to push release calendar to 2021||The release of Malayalam movies in cinemas is expected only by December or January next year even if they get the nod from the government to resume operations amidst the pandemic crisis, according to estimates by the Kerala Film Producers’ Association (KFPA). “We anticipate that the uncertainties triggered by COVID-19 will continue at least till October. Releases in November are generally few as collections remain low. Big films will release only after the situation turns normal in overseas markets, which remain crucial in the overall box-office returns,” says M. Renjith, president of the KFPA. The fate of 66 Malayalam movies was hit hard after the cinemas had downed the shutters following the nationwide lockdown from March 25. Despite the State government permitting indoor shooting with a crew of 50 members, only 10 producers could resume work as 12 others want to shoot in outdoor locations, says Mr. Renjith. Limited window Sabu Cherian, executive committee member, Film Federation of India, says it is time the industry took a serious look at the limited theatrical window available now in view of the large number of movies churned out every year. “Nearly 190 movies were released last year at the rate of three to four movies a week. The holding capacity gets further reduced with the release of other-language movies. Ideally, we need to limit the total Malayalam releases to 90-100 movies annually to come out of the bleak times ahead,” he says. M.C. Bobby, general secretary, Film Exhibitors United Organisation Kerala, says they are hopeful of reopening cinemas by August-September. “The footfall may not be as expected in the initial days. The situation would turn favourable once the vaccine for COVID-19 is ready,” he says. Safety protocols On the safety protocols to be in place once the cinemas reopen, Mr. Bobby says they will have to consider physical-distancing and hygiene norms to boost viewers’ confidence. Sanitisation and not permitting full-capacity screenings are some of the plans under consideration, he says.
05 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki reports two cases||Two persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Idukki on Saturday. A 32-year-old man from Adimali who came from Oman to Kochi on June 24 and a 28-year-old woman from Nedumkandam who came from Delhi are the two new COVID-19 cases in the district. While the former was in home quarantine, the latter was under observation at a Covid Care Centre at Nedumkandam. Meanwhile, two persons recovered from the disease on Saturday.
05 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cases against 28 after night party in resort||The Santhanpara police have registered cases under the Epidemic Diseases Act against the chairman of a private firm and 27 persons in connection with a party and dance programme organised at a resort at Khajanapara in Udumbanchola taluk, violating COVID-19 regulations. The programme was organised as part of the inauguration of a metal and granite factory at Chathurangappara on June 28. Four dancers performed separately from 8 p.m. and each show was witnessed by around 60 persons. The entire programme lasted six hours, according to reports. The incident came to light after those invited to the function posted videos of it on social media. Following a directive from the District Collector to the Superintendent of Police to inquire if there was any violation of the COVID-19 rules, an inquiry was held and the Santhanpara police registered the cases. Against all attendees On Friday, a case was filed against Jose Kurien, chairman of Thannikkot Metals and Granites. Twenty-seven more cases were registered on Saturday, said a police officer, adding that cases would be filed against all those who had attended the event. The police said the women performers, including a Ukrainian, were brought to Khajanapara from Perumbavoor.
05 July 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Forest to replace plantations||The Forest and Wildlife Department is gearing up to convert nearly 240 hectares of monocrop plantations in Wayanad district to natural forest. Under the eco-restoration programme of the department, nearly 29 of the 199 hectares of monocrop plantation in the Sugandhagiri section of forest under the Kalpetta forest range of the South Wayanad forest division and 39 hectares of teak and softwood plantations at Ondayangadi under the Begur range of forest under the North Wayanad forest division will be converted to forestland. Cleared in 2018 A huge area under the Sugandhagiri forest section was cleared of eucalyptus trees in 2018 and natural forest has taken over most of the open space, South Wayanad forest divisional officer P. Ranjith Kumar told The Hindu . In the remaining space, the Forest Department will execute the scheme. “In the first phase, we will plant saplings of 10 species of endemic trees, spread over nearly 29.1 hectares at Koncherrykunnu, with the help of 220 members of the Tharayodu Vana Samrakshana Samiti (VSS),” Mr. Ranjith said. A sum of Rs. 12 lakh would be utilised for the planting and conservation activities. The department would also convert 39 hectares of teak plantation at Ondayangadi under the Begur range of forest of the North Wayanad forest division. The forestland had been converted to a monocrop plantation in 1958 after felling natural forest. Opposition from public The department had faced strong opposition from the public when it started to replant teak saplings in the area last year. “We are planning to plant nine endemic species such as Ungu, Nelli, Thani, Kumizhu, Ayani plavu and Cheru,” said V. Ratheesan, forest range officer, Begur forest division. The saplings would be planted and conserved with the assistance of 150 members of the Plamoola VSS. A sum of Rs. 8 lakh would be used for the purpose. The total forest area of the district is 1,100 sq km, of which nearly 350 sq km has monocrops such as teak and eucalyptus. Teak is planted in 50,000 hectares of forestland in the State, of which 30,000 hectares is in Wayanad.
05 July 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Foundation stone laid for endosulfan village||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said that the first phase of the Endosulfan Rehabilitation Village project at Mulliyar will be completed within 10 months. She was speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the village through videoconferencing on Saturday. The first phase of the project will be completed by including it in the Kasaragod development package. An amount of Rs. 5 crore has been earmarked for it under the package. The Minister said the master plan for the rehabilitation village was prepared after studying 24 best models of rehabilitation in various parts of the world. The rehabilitation village is aimed at the holistic development of endosulfan victims, and 25 acres at Mulliyar has been acquired for the purpose, Ms. Shylaja said.
05 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Local transmission evident in Ernakulam||Five persons in the district, with no travel history and no immediately apparent contact with COVID-19 positive patients, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Health officials said they were still in the process of tracing the sources of infection and contacts of the five persons. Ward 17 of Piravom and Ward 5 of Paingottoor panchayat were declared containment zones on Saturday. Divisions 43, 44, 46, 55, and 56 of the Kochi Corporation, Ward 8 of Paravur Municipality, Ward 8 of Kadungalloor panchayat, and Ward 28 of Thrikkakara Municipality have also been declared as containment zones on the basis of the new cases. At present, there are 14 containment zones in the district. A 52-year-old woman from Kadavanthra who visited the Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital, Kadavanthra, complaining of fever two days ago, tested positive after visiting a private laboratory nearby. Around 15 staff members and doctors at the hospital have been quarantined, along with staff members at the laboratory. Health officials said she had been working at the Naval Base and a possible source of infection at the base was being investigated. A 35-year-old resident of Palarivattom who also tested positive had reportedly visited a private laboratory at Thammanam to receive his test results, and staff members of the lab have gone into quarantine. A 54-year-old resident of Vennala who also tested positive without a travel history might have links to the area around the Ernakulam market which were being investigated, Health officials said. A 51-year-old resident of Thrikkakara, a 51-year-old from Kadungalloor, and a 29-year-old from Paravur have also tested positive with no travel history. Of the 135 persons tested from the area around the Ernakulam market, 61 tests have returned negative. Antigen tests are also being conducted among residents of the containment zone at Chellanam. 13 cases A total of 13 positive cases were reported from the district on Saturday. Health officials said testing would be ramped up, particularly among symptomatic people, irrespective of whether or not they had a travel history. Two additional RT-PCR test processing facilities are likely to come up soon—a third one at the Kalamassery Government Medical College Hospital and one at the Ernakulam Public Health Lab.
05 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||1,675 suspected cases of dengue in Ernakulam||Health officials are straddling a double burden as the district has seen a spurt in cases of dengue and leptospirosis this year, even as a strict vigil is required to be maintained over COVID-19 preventive measures. From January to July 3, as many as 1,675 suspected cases of dengue were recorded with 972 cases in June itself. Of them, 146 were confirmed, according to Vinod Paulose, District Surveillance Officer for non-COVID diseases. Suspected cases could mean cases that are diagnosed using card or antigen tests at hospitals, while confirmed tests are those that are sent to the Ernakulam Public Health Laboratory for confirmation. In 2019, till July, the district recorded 158 suspected cases and 41 confirmed ones. The last time a large burden of cases was recorded was in 2017, when there were around 1,500 suspected cases. “Every three years, dengue has a peak, which is an epidemological phenomenon. After a peak in 2017, it is likely to peak this year,” Dr. Paulose said. This year, the pre-monsoon source-reduction activities of eliminating breeding sources that usually begin in April, could not be initiated early enough with the lockdown in place, said an official of the vector control unit. The eastern belt of the district, where pineapple, cocoa, and areca nut plantations are located, has been hit hardest, including parts of Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Varapetty, and Pandappilly, the official said. A hundred cases of leptospirosis have also been reported in the district till July, Dr. Poulose said, mostly among people working in marshy areas.
05 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Heifer park to be set up at Kattappana dairy||The Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union plans to set up a park on the Kattappana dairy premises in Idukki district to rear quality heifers imported from other parts of India. The heifer park is part of several projects being laid out for the new financial year. The milk union has a budget of Rs. 728 crore for 2020-21, said John Theruvath, the zonal chairman, on Saturday. Expatriates The cooperative has said that it will reach out to expatriate Malayalis who have returned to Kerala in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and provide support to poor students in tribal and other backward areas to attend online classes. Dish antennas and other infrastructure will be established with the support of the milk union. Latest facility The cooperative will set up a modern facility to produce dry cow dung, join hands with Horticorp to market honey produced by farmers under the aegis of the corporation, help fight cattle diseases and provide incentives like subsidy for milking machines, subsidy for hay supply and decentralised health-care facility for cattle. The milk cooperative plans to establish an online hub and strengthen marketing in rural areas.
05 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||20 arrested for flouting norms at market||The Maradu police arrested 20 persons in the early hours of Saturday from the Champakkara wholesale fish market on the charge of flouting physical distancing and face mask norms which are being strictly implemented to prevent community spread of COVID-19. The arrests took place during the morning rush hour at the market. Senior police officers along with Health officials and the Kochi Corporation Secretary led the inspections on market operations following complaints regarding the danger posed by overcrowding. The arrested were later released on bail, police sources said. A wholesale dealer at the market said people had been violating physical distancing norms or entering the premises without wearing masks during business hours. The Champakkara fish market has been the focus of attention of the Health authorities owing to the absence of crowd control during peak hours. Corporation health standing committee chairperson Pratibha Ansari said several rounds of warning had been issued after it was found that physical distancing norms were being grossly flouted at the market. A fish broker said steps were being taken to control crowd. However, with some other markets being closed, there has been an increase in rush at Champakkara where business is done between 3 a.m. and 8 a.m. He added that the market hours would be restricted to around three hours, and that arrangements would be made to ensure that people wore masks and practised physical distancing without fail. Meeting today Meanwhile, market stakeholders, including workers, retailers, wholesalers, and brokers are meeting here on Sunday to decide the future course of action as the police and corporation Health officials have hinted that the market may be closed down if rules were not followed.
05 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Advanced AGL at airport||The Cochin International Airport (CIAL) has commissioned a Rs. 36-crore upgraded aeronautical ground lighting (AGL) system which enhances visual acuity and provides near-perfect alignment guidance for the operating pilot during final approach and landing,.
05 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Filmmaker severs ties with WCC||Filmmaker Vidhu Vincent has severed her ties with the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC). The writer-director took to social media on Saturday to announce that she was ending her journey with the women’s collective for personal and political reasons. “I am extending all support to the agreeable efforts by the WCC to help women make films and create a women-friendly atmosphere within and outside cinema. I wish the collective gains strength through self-critique,” she said.     Stand Up , starring Nimisha Sajayan and Rajisha Vijayan, was her latest directorial venture.
05 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||16 COVID-19 cases, 26 recoveries in Kollam||The district reported 16 COVID-19 cases and 26 recoveries on Saturday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 11 persons from abroad, two from other States, two persons with no travel history, and one who visited UP.   The 80-year-old person had visited Gokulam Medical College on June 24 for urological problems. He was accompanied by his daughter and a relative from Maharashtra who had completed quarantine and tested negative for the virus. The Kottarakara-resident was later admitted to the critical care unit of the medical college on July 1 and his sample was taken there. The person, currently under treatment in Thiruvananthapuram, had gone to Vijaya Hospital on June 30 and he also used to visit some shops at Kottarakara and a bakery at Kunnikode during this period. The Neendakara resident’s sample was collected when he showed symptoms. The patients also include a 33-year-old Kanjaveli resident who had recently visited UP for official purposes. An employee of an insurance company working at the Kadappakada branch, he was in institution quarantine after returning on June 30.
05 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mani rules out further talks with UDF||The Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani has convened a steering committee meeting of the party on Wednesday to discuss the possibilities of aligning with the Left Democratic Front (LDF). According to party sources, the meeting will discuss the ‘favourable’ stance adopted by the CPI(M) State secretariat towards the regional party, among other things. The move comes even as the faction is busy reporting its stance to the cadre by holding meetings at different levels. The outcome of these meetings is expected to be discussed at the steering committee. Despite opposition from the CPI, the CPI(M) is learnt to have activated a back-room channel of communication with the Mani group at the local level. As per reports, the faction has been asked to declare its political stance without delay to decide on whether or not to proceed with its induction into the LDF. Speaking to the mediapersons here on Saturday, Mr. Mani dismissed possibilities of holding talks with the United Democratic Front (UDF) any further. “We have decided to stand on our own for the time being and will take a right decision at an appropriate time. There is no point in continuing talks with the UDF,” he said. Responding to the developments, rival group leader P.J. Joseph reiterated that more people would come to his side as a majority of the KC(M) followers preferred to stay with the official group faction in the UDF. “We have already seen how senior leaders with the Mani faction, including Josmon Mundakkal and Prince Luckose, decided to join the official faction and remain in the UDF. The exodus will continue in the coming days as well,” he said. P.C. George factor Meanwhile, speculations are rife about the UDF trying to woo P.C. George, MLA, to its side to make up for the loss of the Mani group. The move, however, appears to have not gone down well with the ‘A’ group leaders in the Congress. On Saturday, a group of Youth Congress workers staged a protest against senior Congress leader Joseph Vazhakkan at Erattupetta for allegedly holding secret meetings with regard to the possible induction of Mr. George into the coalition. Congress activists, who attended the meeting, sought to counter these protesters, leading to a minor clash. Dispute over symbol Meanwhile, the State Election Commission is likely to consider on Tuesday a dispute between the KC(M) factions over the allocation of KC(M)’s official election symbol ‘two leaves’ for a byelection in a local body ward.
05 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS opposes govt. move to increase seats for Plus One||Taking exception to the government decision to raise the number of Plus One seats by 10% in higher secondary schools (HSS), the Nair Service Society (NSS) has said the move will bring down the quality of education in the sector. In a statement here on Saturday, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said the increase in seats for HSS batches in the previous years had already engendered a crisis. “While the existing system stipulated the maximum number of student intake in a batch at 50, the government raised the number of seats by 30% after the admission procedures commenced in the previous year. Due to this sudden move, up to 65 students were forced to sit in classrooms originally meant for 50 students,” he said. While the Education Department has attributed the latest decision to the higher number of applicants in some districts, he said schools had failed to get even the minimum number of students to maintain the batch. “It is unfair that the government has decided to increase the seats even in districts that do not even have a single applicant for supplementary allotments. This has come at a time when thousands of seats are lying vacant in government/aided schools even after the completion of supplementary allotments in the previous year,” Mr. Nair said. According to him, reports suggest that the number of students eligible for higher studies has come down by 9,000. “In such a situation, increasing the number of Plus One seats unscientifically and without following any particular set of criteria will affect the sector adversely,” he added.
05 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Six more patients in Kottayam||After a temporary respite, the number of COVID-19 cases in Kottayam has begun to surge with 20 people testing positive for the disease over the last two days. Of this, 14 were confirmed of contracting the virus on Friday while the remaining six persons tested positive on Saturday. With this, the number of active cases in Kottayam has become 111. At the same time, 25 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from hospitals. The number of persons who recovered from the district now stands at 142. The persons diagnosed with the disease on Saturday were identified as a 54-year-old Vakatanam native who arrived from Sharjah, a 25-year-old Kurichi native from Pune, a 48-year-old Manjur native, and a 39-year-old Ettumanur native who landed from Saudi Arabia, a 39-year-old Bharanganam native who landed from Muscat, and a 30-year-old Vellavoor native who returned from Qatar. Meanwhile, authorities opened the first COVID treatment centre outside hospitals at the primary health centre in Muttambalam.
05 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Strict enforcement of COVID-19 protocol at Central Market||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation cancelled the licences of three shops at Central Market on Saturday on the charge of not following the COVID-19 protocol. The special squad that inspected the market also slapped fines on 28 persons for not wearing mask. The special drive was held to ensure safety at the market after a vendor’s son tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Subsequently, the corporation has taken steps to prevent crowding in the market. As a first step, the market will function in two shifts—one from 3 a.m. to 6 a.m. and another from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. Only 15 trucks will be allowed to enter the market in each shift. Volunteers have been deployed for registering workers in each truck and to make sure that they follow the protocol. People aged above 60 have been banned from doing any kind of business at the market.
05 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Search on for auto driver||The Mukkom police on Saturday intensified the search for an autorickshaw driver who allegedly molested an elderly woman and took away her gold ornaments. The woman sustained serious injuries in the incident that took place on Thursday and is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode. According to the victim’s statement, the man tied her up inside the vehicle and molested her. He then abandoned her at an isolated spot after taking away her gold ornaments, according to the police.
05 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Surge continues as Malappuram records 37 cases||The districts of Malappuram and Palakkad witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases on Saturday, with the former recording 37 cases and the latter 29. All but one of the 37 patients in Malappuram reached the district from outside the State. While four persons came from other States, 32 came from abroad, said District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. Six of them were admitted to a hospital at Kozhikode and three at Kannur. The remaining cases were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. The nine-year-old boy who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 apparently contracted the disease from a paediatrician at Edappal. The confirmation of COVID-19 in two doctors at Edappal had spread panic waves across Ponnani taluk, prompting authorities to impose a triple lockdown in the taluk. As many as 277 persons are currently under treatment in Malappuram. A total number of 635 persons have beeen tested positive in the district so far. More than 36,000 persons are in quarantine in the district. Twenty-nine persons were tested positive for the virus in Palakkad district on the day. While 11 patients had come back from the UAE, three had returned from Kuwait, three from Saudi Arabia, two from Oman, seven from Tamil Nadu and one from Hyderabad. Two persons in the district, including a 13-year-old girl, were infected through local contacts. As many as 176 persons are currently under treatment in Palakkad. In Kannur The district recorded 35 cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said 10 of the patients had arrived from abroad, four were Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, 11 Defence Service Corps personnel and 10 arrived from other States. Most of the affected CISF and DSC personnel were in quarantine after they had returned from outside the State. The total number of positive cases recorded in the district so far stands at 560. There are 22,989 people under observation. In Kasaragod Fourteen more persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said eight of them came from abroad and six from other states. There are 6,820 people under observation in the district. In Thrissur Twenty fresh cases of the disease were reported in the district. It includes four Border Security Force (BSF) jawans at the Kainur camp. Ten persons have recovered from the disease. With the jawans testing positive, institutional quarantine facilities will be arranged for the other BSF personnel at the Kainur camp. A health team led by the District Medical Officer has been deployed to review the situation. District Collector S. Shanavas said the situation was under control. Among the positive cases, three were infected through contact. Currently, 189 patients are undergoing treatment in the district. So far, 463 cases have been reported from Thrissur. As many as 18,472 people are under observation. In Kozhikode Eight new cases were reported from the district on Saturday. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the patients are from Vadakara, Puthuppady, Payyanakkal, Narikkuni, Azhiyoor, Eramala, Balussery, and Eramala. They had returned from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Qatar. The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district now is 101. The number of people under observation is 17,572. Meanwhile, public transport on roads has been banned in Kundayithode, Ward 44, in Kozhikode Corporation, which has been declared a containment zone. Sale of essential commodities and emergency medical care have been exempted and shops should be open only between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. In Wayanad Two more positive cases were reported from Wayanad on the day. The patients were a 36-year-old resident of Kaniyampetta and a 29-year-old resident of Ellummannam, said Health Department sources. The Kaniyampetta resident returned from Bengaluru on June 25 and the Ellummannam patient landed at the Kannur airport on July 2 from Dammam, sources said. They were admitted to the District Hospital at Mananthavady and COVID-19 hospital at Anjarakandy in Kannur district respectively, the sources added.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Wayanad bureaus)
05 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Counselling for people hit by lockdown||Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWAS), an organisation working for the betterment of people who have suffered excesses from various quarters, is offering counselling to those affected by the lockdown. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, inaugurated the renovated office of the society at the civil station. Assistant Collector D. Dharmalasree presided. VISWAS will offer free counselling by joining hands with the Snehitha project of the Kudumbashree. VISWAS vice president S. Santhadevi, secretaries P. Premnath, and R. Devikripa spoke.
05 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||New ADRM for Palakkad rail division||C.T. Sakkeer Hussain has joined as Additional Divisional Railway Manager (ADRM)-II here. He was at Waltair division of East Coast Railway before joining the Palakkad division. Dr. Hussain hails from Cherukode in Malappuram district.
05 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||22 new cases in Pathanamthitta||The number of active COVID-19 cases rose to 183 in Pathanamthitta, with 22 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday.  168 recoveries So far 352 cases have been reported from the district. Of this, 168 persons have recovered. One death has also been reported. A 38-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on June 15, six-year old boy (Maharashtra, June 15), 39-year-old woman (Maharashtra, June 15), 55-year-old man (Tamil Nadu, June 16), 35-year-old man (Qatar, June 25), 32-year-old man (Kuwait, June 18), 52-year-old woman (Delhi, June 16). A 41-year-old man (Delhi, June 18), 23-year-old youth (Kuwait, June 19), 33-year-old man (Abu Dhabi, June 25), 42-year-old man (Sharjah, June 23), 25-year-old youth (Sharjah, June 22), eight-year-old boy (Riyadh, June 24), 45-year-old man (Dubai, June 21), 57-year-old man (Riyadh, June 21). A 53-year-old woman (Sharjah, June 13), 41-year-old woman (Sharjah, June 19), a 30-year-old man (UAE, June 20), 50-year-old man (Kuwait, June 13), 25-year-old man (Dubai, June 30), and a 47-year-old woman (Delhi, June 15) are the Non-Resident Keralites who tested positive on Saturday.
05 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Food delivery man among 16 who test positive||The prevalence of COVID-19 cases continued to stoke panic in the capital as a food delivery executive, a vendor and a medical representative were among the 16 persons who tested positive for the viral infection on Saturday. Four persons contracted the disease through contact and their sources of infection are yet to be traced. All the others came from abroad. A 37-year-old Kunnathukal native who is a delivery executive with the online food aggregator Zomato was among those who tested positive. He used to reside near the Palayam fish market and has reportedly delivered food parcels from restaurants at Palayam. A 27-year-old medical representative who used to frequent hospitals at Kazhakuttam and Nalanchira and his 66-year-old father, both residing close to the Poonthura police station, tested positive on the day. A 31-year-old man from Kallattumukku who used to work at the Kumarichantha fish market was also diagnosed with the disease. Gulf returnees A 32-year-old Kunnuvila native who came from Saudi Arabia on July 2; a Kanyakumari native (51, Saudi Arabia, June 29); an Anchuthengu native (26, UAE, June 26); a Thumba native (45), a woman (62) from Kadinamkulam, an Uzhamalakkal native (36) and two Kanyakumari natives aged 29 and 30, who all came from Kuwait on June 26; a Vettuthara native who came from Qatar on June 29; an Edava native (22, UAE, June 29); a Kadinamkulam native (39, Kuwait, June 29); and a woman (53) from Mavelikara who came from Qatar on June 25 also tested positive. Stricter regulations The district continued to witness stricter regulations on account of the spike in transmission through contact. While restrictions currently in place in the containment zones in the wards of Attukal, Kuriathy, Kalippankulam, Manacaud, Tagore Road in Thrikkannapuram and Puthenpalam in Muttathara will continue for seven more days, Chemmaruthumukku ward in Nagaroor grama panchayat, Kuravara ward in Ottasekharamangalam and Vanyacode and Inchivila wards in Parassala grama panchayat have been newly designated as containment zones. The government also instructed local-self government institutions to crack down on commercial establishments that failed to adhere to the guidelines. The Thiruvananthapuram City police closed down nine shops that violated norms in the past two days. Restrictions have also been imposed on entry to the Secretariat.  Fisherfolk had been advised against entering the Tamil Nadu coast and told to dock their boats at the Vizhinjam harbour, if the need arose.
05 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mumbai lessons may help State||As the proportion of serious COVID-19 patients goes up in the State, Kerala should do meticulous planning and develop indices for understanding how and when the State’s intensive care facilities could reach the saturation point. This will help to rationalise investment in infrastructure and human resource, according to Santhosh Kumar S.S., Deputy Superintendent of Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital, who had been in Mumbai where he had been part of a medical team running a 120-bed ICU facility. In Mumbai hospitals, non-availability of critical care beds and ICU facilities has significantly contributed to COVID-19 mortality. With over 200 cases a day now, the current situation in Kerala is quite manageable, with only about 30 patients in ICUs and about five in ventilators. But this is the crucial time for the State to make a realistic estimation of its functional ICU facilities because the current level of facilities in Kerala hardly fulfils the requirements of serious COVID-19 patients, says Dr. Santhosh Kumar.  Liquid oxygen plants He has now submitted a report of his team’s Mumbai stint and the lessons that Kerala can learn from Mumbai to the B. Ekbal committee. “A COVID ICU would require more oxygen supply than is normally required. Oxygen intensive therapies which are critical for serious COVID patients need 10-15 litres of oxygen per minute. This cannot be fulfilled with oxygen cylinders and instead we will need liquid oxygen plants to cater to ICU requirements,” Dr. Santhosh Kumar says. COVID-specific beds “Just looking at ICU bed numbers alone will not give an assessment of our capacity because we need functional beds, specific to the requirements of a critical COVID-19 patient. Standardisation of our ICU facilities is needed in the light of high oxygen requirement and other human resources demands,” he adds. While Kerala is focussing on prevention and containment strategies to hold down a possible surge in patients, it also needs to keep a sharp eye on the increase in proportion of its critically ill patients region/district wise so that one can estimate the doubling time, the time when the ICUs could be overwhelmed and devise suitable mitigation plans. The report also details the need for creating negative pressure systems in ICUs to protect health workers in a highly contaminated environment, the need to plan for additional human resource to run a four-shift system (health workers cannot work in a PPE kit for more than six hours) and the additional investment in facilities for accommodation, food and laundry services for health-care workers as they cannot return home. “Mumbai was a great learning experience. Kerala is managing very well now but once community transmission happens, the spike in in caseload and the demand for ICU care can surge in a matter of days. Planning ahead alone will help us keep the mortality down,” Dr. Santhosh says.
05 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Marines: CM calls for fair trial in Italy||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has expressed strong feelings over the Centre’s handling of the proceedings in the International Tribunal on Law of the Sea (ITLOS) which culminated in the ruling that the Italian marines accused of killing two Indian fishermen at sea in February 2012 could not be tried in Indian courts. The marines had said that they shot the two fishermen “mistaking them for pirates.” In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, he said the matter definitely deserved a more sensitive and cautious handling from the beginning and during the proceedings in the ITLOS, as it involved the loss of life of two innocent Indians. ‘Shocking’ “It is quite shocking that such a grave crime committed against our citizens is not being brought to justice in our country. Whatever be the technicalities of international conventions, the decision of the ITLOS has resulted in added grief for the bereaved families and the people of Kerala,” he said. Mr. Vijayan urged the Union government to take earnest efforts to build international pressure for a fair trial in Italy. “As two valuable lives have been lost without any provocation from the victims, we need to bargain for an exemplary amount as compensation. We should also keep our option of approaching the ITLOS within the stipulated time of one year if getting adequate compensation is not possible through negotiations,” he said. The letter urged Mr. Modi to intervene in the matter to ensure justice for two countrymen who lost their lives while on the seas to earn their livelihood.  In a letter to Prime Minister, he says the matter deserved a more sensitive and cautious handling from the beginning
05 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Efforts on to secure GI tag for Thalanad clove||The Agriculture Department has launched efforts to help farmers secure a Geographical Indication (GI) tag for the famed cloves of Thalanad in Kottayam district. As a first step, the State government has given administrative sanction for ‘Characterisation and Registration of Thalanadu Clove (Thalanadan Grambu) as a Geographical Indication,’ a proposal submitted by Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) under a scheme for the development of spices. “Farmers say the clove has distinct characteristics such as high oil content and when dried a dark golden colour. GI registration will guarantee exclusivity and better value for the aromatic spice,” Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar says. “For securing registration, we need to show why the product is unique,” says C.R. Elsy, coordinator of the Intellectual Property Rights Cell at the KAU. KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandrababu says the university will undertake a biochemical analysis of the clove to determine its unique characteristics. Aspects such as the history of clove farming in Thalanad grama panchayat and cultivation techniques, including the harvesting and drying techniques, also will be documented for filing an application, Ms. Elsy says. Spice lore goes that cloves were introduced in hilly Thalanad by a family many years ago. Today, clove trees are grown in 130 hectares in the panchayat. The panchayat is now planning a farmers’ society to obtain GI. The local body is also encouraging every home to grow least one clove tree, panchayat president P.S. Babu says. Other products The IPR Cell of the KAU has facilitated GI registration for 10 agricultural products from Kerala including Pokkali rice, Nilambur teak, Marayur jaggery, Jeerakasala and Gandhakasala rice varieties from Wayanad, Kaipad rice, Vazhakulam pineapple, and Central Travancore jaggery.
05 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Order on uniform change||Any uniform change in schools in the State should be intimated to parents/guardians 10 months in advance, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. The commission has asked the Director of General Education (DGE) to issue a circular asking schools, including higher secondary institutions, to follow the commission’s direction strictly. The DGE had earlier issued a circular not to change school uniforms in three years on the commission’s directions. The commission had also directed that uniforms should not be changed this academic year owing to the COVID-19 situation. Commission member K. Nazeer observed that change in uniform would increase financial burden on students and parents. To prevent such difficulties and feelings of disparity among students, any decision to change the uniform in an academic year should be made known to parents at least 10 months beforehand. Complaint The commission was acting on a complaint from a school student that a decision to change the uniform from this academic year was sprung on them by the parent-teacher association (PTA) at the end of last year without informing parents or teachers. The school staff council too had informed the PTA that the decision was inopportune and would lead to practical difficulties. The commission sought a report on the action taken within 50 days.
05 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||International Day of Cooperatives||The cooperative movement in the State has become the flag-bearer of survival during times of crises, Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran has said. He was addressing the cooperative sector in an online gathering in connection with International Day of Cooperatives here on Saturday. Mr. Surendran said the cooperative sector stepped forward to help those affected by the floods in 2018 and 2019 by building houses for 2,000 families who had lost their houses. The activities during COVID-19 too were exemplary. The changes brought about through the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Ordinance would impact the sector in the State. An online discussion would be held in protest against the Ordinance on July 7, he said.
05 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur to create 1,500-bed COVID Care Centre at Raminepalli||With the number of COVID-19 positive cases crossing the 2,000-mark on Saturday, and new positive cases getting reported at the rate of 100 to 200 per day for the past four days, the district administration has drawn plans to convert a warehousing godown into 1,500-bed COVID Care Centre at Raminepalli, about 14 km from the Government General Hospital in Anantapur. The district, which was at the bottom of the list of COVID-19 positive districts in the State, has come to the second position with 2,099 cases with Anantapur origin and another 300 cases with origin from other States and countries. Kurnool district has 2,354 cumulative positive cases of district origin and another 350 with other State/country origin. While Anantapur district has 951 active cases being treated in four hospitals and five COVID Care Centres, Kurnool has 1,131 active cases being treated in four hospitals and about nine COVID Care centres as on Saturday. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Saturday inspected the newly constructed godowns, which could be converted into at least 1,000-bed Covid Care Centre initially, where asymptomatic or patients with mild symptoms could be treated. ‘All ready’ The Collector told The Hindu that there were 900 hospital beds available in the district and of them, 500 were still vacant and out of 10 COVID care centres readied, only five were being used, hence the preparation for any possible community transmission and explosion of number of cases, was not a worrying factor. The COVID Care Centres have 2,000 bed capacity. Meanwhile, there were complaints of the State government itself creating stigma against the COVID-19 patients, while asking people to destigmatise the disease. “We have barricades and police personnel posted on both ends of our colony no allowing anyone to go out or come in at a time when there is no institutional support to deliver essentials like it used to be in April,” said Sayed Vali of Munna Nagar. ‘Dichotomy’ The district administration on the one hand is suggesting home isolation for the COVID positive patients with mild symptoms, but is barricading the lane not allowing anyone close to that place, unlike the practice in other States of declaring just that house as a containment zone and there exists a dichotomy in their practice pointed out Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary V. Rambhupal.
05 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home delivery service launched in Anantapur||A Chennai-based delivery solutions company ‘Smart Life’ launched its operations in Kurnool, Anantapur and Bellary on Saturday, promising to deliver almost everything that is locally available in a city- be it food, beverages, grocery or textiles. To avail its services, that start at 6 a.m. and go on till 11 p.m., customers need to download the Smart Life delivery App from the play store and place an order.
05 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tirupati zoo will be made a global attraction’||Rajya Sabha MP Vijaya Sai Reddy on Saturday said that efforts would be made to convert the S.V. Zoo Park in Tirupati into an international attraction by initiating a series of eco-friendly measures and involving the public participation towards adoption of animals. The YSR Congress Party MP spoke to the media on SV Zoo Park premises at the foot of Tirumala hills, accompanied by Tirupati Urban Development Authority Chairman Ch. Bhaskar Reddy, and Superintendent of Police (Tirupati) A. Ramesh Reddy. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the Tirupati zoo had a wonderful ambience to woo tourists from across the world and the potential of pilgrims visiting the Tirumala temple would be aptly tapped. “The plan of action would be taken to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and to the Central government as well for obtained funds and initiating new schemes The immediate focus would be on encouraging philanthropists to come forward to adopt animals in the zoo,” he said. SV Zoo Park curator Hima Sailaja told The Hindu that the MP and TUDA chief were appraised of the facilities available to the various animal and birds in the zoo. She said that the aspect of “adoption of animals” had assumed significance during their visit to the zoo park.
05 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||CI, 2 constables suspended||The Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Eluru Range, K.V. Mohan Rao has suspended Rampachodavaram circle inspector B.H. Venkateswarlu and two constables, K. Burranna Dora and and M. Satya Prasad (attached to the Devipatnam police station), for allegedly resorting to corruption. It was alleged that the CI and the two constables took Rs. 28,000 bribe and released seven bikes seized during raids on gambling dens in the Rampachodavaram and Devipatnam police limits. Following an inquiry, the DIG issued the suspension orders on Saturday. Further investigation is on.
05 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steep increase of cases in Guntur||The doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in the district is rising rapidly. If the number of positive cases was less than 500 during the lockdown phase till May 31, the numbers jumped to 1,500 on June 30 and now during Unlock-2 , the number of COVID-19 cases touched a staggering 1,847. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that the situation was alarming and urged people to follow basic safety precautions such as use of hand sanitisers, mask and follow social distancing protocols. In a press conference held on Saturday, the Collector said the steep rise in number of cases was due to lifting of restrictions on movement of people and large influx of migrant labourers back to their homes. Bed strength “We urge people not to venture unless it is absolutely necessary and avoid all contacts with those returning from outside the State. Around 80% of cases are asymptotic and care should be taken to avoid public spaces,” said the Collector. Further, the district administration is gearing up to meet any medical exigency by scaling up the hospital bed capacity to 5,000 of which 2,000 beds are allotted for emergencies. The discharge rate has too gone up with 916 patients getting discharged while 930 persons are still being treated. “We ask people not to show any discrimination to COVID-affected persons. We have medical evidence pointing that the virus stays only till 5 to 6 hours after the person’s death,” he said.
05 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Novel protest against move to shift capital||In a novel protest against the proposal to shift capital to Visakhapatnam and coinciding with the 200th day of protest by people of the capital region, members of the JAC dug up pits on the banks of the Krishna and buried themselves waist-deep in them at Undavalli village on Saturday. JAC youth wing president R. Sai Krishna said the decision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to shift the capital out of the Amaravati region dealt a death blow to the growth prospects of the region and crippled the booming construction sector. Three capitals The YSRCP government had made up its mind to decentralise the administration and chose to establish three capitals – Visakhapatnam (Executive capital), Amaravati (Legislative capital) and Kurnool (Judicial capital). Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced on the floor of the Assembly that the cost of building a capital in the floodplains of the Krishna and in the low-lying areas was becoming prohibitively expensive, and decided to locate the Executive capital in Visakhapatnam, a city endowed with natural resources, a major port, and vast industrial area. Protests began in the Amaravati region soon after the announcement with the TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu leading a frontal attack on the Chief Minister.
05 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP refutes allegations of power tariff hike in State||YSRCP Floor Leader in the Lok Sabha P.V. Midhun Reddy has urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Seetharaman not to take cognisance of the allegations of steep hike in power tariff levelled by the opposition parties in Andhra Pradesh. Seeking to clear the air, Mr. Mithun Reddy said, “Though the State is procuring power from the NTPC and the SECI at a lower price of Rs. 2.70 per kWh , there are additional charges incurred towards transmission and distribution losses, and transmission and distribution costs.” Stating that the Average Cost of Supply of Power (ACOS), as approved by the A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission, was Rs. 6.87 per KWh for 2020-21, Mr. Mithun Reddy attributed the high cost of power to the State being forced to procure power at an exorbitant cost of Rs. 9.44 per kWh from the NTPC Kudgi and the Rs. 5.5 lakh per MW per month being charged by the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL). Though the State government took the issue to the notice of the Centre, there was no respite, he said, and added that the annual burden on account of PGCIL charges was about Rs. 1,700 crore. Burden on Discoms Reiterating that the State government had inherited troubled Discoms with unpaid dues of Rs. 20,000 crore and accumulated losses of Rs. 27,000 crore, Mr. Reddy said the State government was trying to revive the power sector. The outstanding debt of all the corporations was Rs. 70,000 crore, he added. In spite of the losses, the government was able to attract investors such as Greenko.
05 July 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Health-conscious’ consumers send tomato prices spiralling||The COVID-19 pandemic, which in the initial days of summer played havoc with the tomato farmers of Madanapalle revenue division, has now turned into a boon for them. The trade picture is crystal clear that from the first week of June onwards, the prices have maintained a steady march dangling between Rs. 30 and Rs. 40 a kg in the retail market till June-end. July took the consumers for a sudden surprise, with a kg of tomato of second grade selling at Rs. 60 to Rs. 70. It is estimated in the market circles that the prices would double by the month-end. The scenario of tomato business took a sudden leap in this second half of the year, thanks to the “vitamin-savvy” consumers not only in Chittoor district, but also from all over the country, particularly the metros. The first grade of tomato sold at Rs. 48 a kg at the Madanapalle market is commanding Rs. 100 in the posh localities of Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai. On Saturday, the Madanapalle market saw the arrival of over 600 tonnes of tomatoes, with a dip of 100 tonnes compared to last week. At the same time, the local market at V. Kota in Kuppam division for the first of time in six months saw a whopping arrival of 300-plus tonnes, while the Palamaner market added another 300 tonnes. In the months from April to August-end, the price of tomato would generally be on the downward trend, even reaching Rs. 5 a kg. The sudden spike, which is considered unusual at this season, is without a doubt attributed to the “immunity seekers”. Dhananjay, an elderly tomato grower at Palamaner mandal, told The Hindu that he had been despatching regular loads to Bengaluru and Goa during the last two weeks. “The size and quality of my produce would invite no argument. I can’t tell you how much I get, but I am highly satisfied. This state of affairs in a month like July is something strange,” he said. Awareness Assistant Director (Marketing) P. Gopi said that in this COVID-19 situation, naturally there is a sea of awareness among people about health and immunity. “Tomato is definitely rich with many essential vitamins. Split into three grades, the vegetable is reaching all sections. Some vendors are making big money by selling even the third grade and scrap stocks to the consumers. The exports to almost all big cities are very encouraging,” he said. Meanwhile, it is projected that with the COVID-19 perception set to continue for the next few months, the tomato prices might “skyrocket” and might even remain beyond the reach of the common man. Coupled with this, the months from July to November would see a spree of festivals. when the prices of all most all vegetables would be high.
05 July 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman reunites with son after treatment||On the night of January 30, a 45-year-old woman, who looked mentally unstable, was seen criss-crossing the Bhakarapet forest road, 25 km from Tirupati. Circle-Inspector (Piler Rural) S. Murali Krishna, who was on night patrol, rescued the woman with bruises, and shifted her to the Bhakarapet police station. Finding her mentally disturbed, a case was registered under the Mental Health Care Act-2010, and she was shifted to a government-run home for the mentally sick in Visakhapatnam the following day, with permission from the local court at Piler. Two women constables, Sobha and Durga, were entrusted with the job of shifting the woman to Vishakapatnam, and also to monitor her health condition, with a view to restoring her to the kin. After a five months, doctors contacted Mr. Murali Krishna and said the woman fully recovered and was perfectly fit for getting discharged. The woman was brought back to Bhakarapeta police station on Friday. Interestingly, the woman reportedly withheld her personal information from the medical team, and expressed the wish that she be left at the police station. In a cheerful mood, fully adhering to COVID-19 guidelines, the woman greeted Mr. Murali Krishna and profusely thanked him and the constables who took care of her. She identified herself as a resident of a village, 35 km from the police station. She informed the police that before she could reunite with her son, she was obliged to first see and thank the police personnel. On information, the woman’s 25-year-old son rushed to the police station and it was a tearful reunion of the mother and son, after one year. It was observed that the woman slipped into depression after her husband left home five years ago. In June 2019, the woman, who by then was suffering from mental trauma, got lost in a village shandy near Kalikiri. Her son, after lodging a missing complaint with the police, launched a frantic search for her at many temple towns, railway and bus stations, but in vain. The mother-son duo took leave of the police personnel with folded hands and after touching their feet. As a gesture of goodwill, the police bid them farewell with fruits. “This episode gives us great satisfaction as police personnel are human beings as well,” Mr. Murali Krishna said.
05 July 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Finance firm staff attacked, condition critical||A jewel shop owner and his son allegedly attacked an employee working in a vehicle financier, G. Rajesh, with a lethal weapon when the latter came for collection at Machavaram area in the town on Saturday. The accused after stabbing Rajesh allegedly pushed him into a canal and fled. Rajesh was admitted to hospital and his condition is stated to be critical. Police registered a case and are trying to find out the reason for the attack. A search is on for the accused.
05 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety measures enhanced in Prakasam police stations||With an alarming increase in the coronavirus cases and some of the COVID warriors contracting the infection while discharging their duties, the Prakasam police has put in place infrastructure to ensure safety and security of personnel and public at large. In this context, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal extensively toured the district on a motorcycle to oversee the implementation of the stringent lockdown, especially in hotspots, and inaugurated on Saturday a newly-built reception room, a room for Station House Officer, visitors’ waiting room and strong access control points at the police stations in Podili and K.K.Mitla. “Now, the face of every police station will change with the new infrastructure,” Mr. Kaushal said, while highlighting the standard procedures laid down for receiving complaints, regulation of visitors to the police station and ensuring a healthy environment for public-police interaction. Showing the way The procedures evolved in the district have been adopted by the police across the State at the behest of Director-General of Police(DGP) Damodar Goutam Sawang.
05 July 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retain Amaravati as capital: JAC||Members of the Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Joint Action Committee(JAC) in Prakasam district on Saturday expressed solidarity with the farmers agitating for retaining the State capital in Amaravati. The JAC members vowed to continue their stir till the YSR Congress Party Government shelved its three capital decision. Farmers led by N.G. Ranga Kisan Samastha president Alla Venkateswara Rao and general secretary Ch.Seshaiah payed homage to 69 agitators who died during the prolonged struggle. State Congress vice-president Sripathy Prakasam, TDP district secretary G. Raj Vimal, CPI leader Vadde Hanuma Reddy, CPI(M) leader G. Ramesh, Navyandhra Writers Association president T. Arunawere among those who spoke on the occasion.
05 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||207 more test positive in Prakasam, Nellore districts||Coronavirus continued to spread rapidly in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as 207 persons — 142 in Prakasam district and 65 in SPSR Nellore district — tested positive for the dreaded disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of cumulative positive cases rose to 894 in Prakasam district and 946 in SPSR Nellore district. A total lockdown was implemented Sivaprasad Colony, Power Office area, Bhagyanagar, Sujatha nagar in Ongole which reported fresh cases. The new cases came also from villages of Ghadiyapudi, Kopparapadu, Vetapalem, Podili, Thuravagunta, Gollapalem, Perala, Challareddypalem, Parchur and Tripurantakam. Two boys aged six and seven from Darsipet and Ongole were among those who got infected in Prakasam district. Containment zones With this, the very active containment zones rose to 34 and active zones 58 in the district. The worrying aspect was that 76 patients were neither primary or secondary contacts of already infected persons, said health officials who feared that the disease had started to spread at the community level. Only one of the infected persons had come from outside the State. In SPSR Nellore district, Kovur accounted for a maximum of 12 new cases, followed by Venaktagiri and Sangam with eight cases each, Nellore with seven cases and Saidapuram with four cases, according to a health bulletin released by the Medical and Health department on Saturday night.
05 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 victims to get decent final journey||Taking a cue from a few charitable organisations in Tamil Nadu, the Srikakulam district administration has decided to make arrangements for the final rites of the persons who die of COVID-19 as family members, relatives and friends are scared of doing it themselves. Recently, some locals used an earthmover and a tractor to lift the bodies of COVID-19 patients, drawing public outcry and showing the district administration in a bad light. Collector J. Nivas, who ordered an inquiry into the issue, said that the local officials were forced to use earthmovers and tractors as vehicle owners were not coming forward to transport bodies to the cremation ground. The locals have also stopped processions fearing that coronavirus would spread as it would be alive at least for six hours in the body. In view of the situation, the Collector held talks with the representatives of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) and the Rotary Club. IRCS president Mr. Jaganmohana Rao offered to provide an old ambulance which could be used for lifting of bodies. The Rotary Club expressed its willingness to hand over its specially-designed vehicle to ensure a decent final journey for COVID-19 victims. After getting assurances from the voluntary organisations, the Collector decided to organise final rites under the supervision of government authorities. “Ten persons have come forward to perform the last rites. We will take care of their health by supplying PPE kits. Medical tests will also be conducted for those volunteers after the funeral,” he said. Masks given away Meanwhile, Mr. Nivas and Rotary Club new president M.R.K. Das and others gave away masks to the nurses and medical staff in the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. Mr. Das said the club would extend its support to the district administration in controlling the disease. It would help spread awareness on the benefits of following the COVID-19 protocol. Rotary Club past president Mantri Venkata Swamy said the club planned to felicitate the frontline warriors performing COVID-19 duties.  Government authorities will supervise final rites J. Nivas Collector
05 July 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alluri’s contribution to freedom struggle recalled||People from all walks of life, including officials, on Saturday celebrated the 124th birth anniversary of freedom fighter Alluri Seetaramaraju across East Godavari district, recalling his contribution in the freedom struggle. In Kakinada, District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy accompanied by public representatives offered a floral tribute to the Alluri statue. In Rampachodavaram, ITDA In-Charge Project Officer Praveen Adithya recalled the services of Alluri. Various social service organisations across the Rampa and Chintoor agencies celebrated the birth anniversary.
05 July 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||117 test positive in E. Godavari||As many as 117 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours ending Saturday morning in East Godavari district. According to the health bulletin issued by District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, 37 persons in Kakinada and 26 persons in Rajamahendravaram have tested positive. In Kakinada rural, six persons tested positive. However, 29 persons who tested positive have been allowed home isolation in the district.
05 July 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Protesters in Amaravati movement are not real ryots’||Kakinada city MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy on Saturday said that those who were part of the Telugu Desam Party-led movement against the shifting of the capital from Amaravati were not real farmers. ‘Sponsored event’ Terming the 200-day Amaravati movement as a TDP-sponsored event, Mr. Reddy added that the real farmers had already quit the movement and realised the motive behind it. “TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu had managed the show of the ‘Amaravati movement’ by offering money to the protesters. The movement has already been weakened as it is not genuine,” the MLA said. Mr. Reddy hailed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s plan of establishing the capital in the three regions of the State.
05 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||No hike in daily quota of darshan tickets: TTD||TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Saturday ruled out any increase in the number of pilgrims allowed per day for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara at the Tirumala temple. Currently, about 12,000 pilgrims are allowed to have darshan every day. Addressing the media after presiding over an emergency meeting of the board of trustees to discuss the COVID-19 scenario, Mr. Reddy said the safety of pilgrims was on the top of the TTD’s agenda. The fact that no devotee had so far tested positive for coronavirus after returning home from Tirumala indicated the strict adherence by the temple administration to the health advisories, he said. He said the board resolved to test all its employees, particularly those working at Tirumala, in the backdrop of 17 of its staff testing positive. Introduction of a two-week shift for those working at Tirumala instead of the current one-week was being considered. Single-use gloves would be provided to the barbers at Kalyanakatta in addition to half-body PPE kits. Online Kalyanotsavam Following requests, the board resolved to explore the feasibility of allowing devotees to take part in Kalyanotsavam online. The board resolved to end the practice of allotting vacant sites to private parties for construction of guest houses at Tirumala on nomination basis. Instead, it would go for online bidding system as per the wish of the Chief Minister, who was keen on ensuring transparency, he said. Resolving a 15-year-old issue, it was decided to permit the Karnataka State Charities to construct a guest house in the land leased out to it.
05 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fight to the finish, Naidu exhorts people of the capital region||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday accused the YSRCP government of “doing everything possible to destroy and kill the dream of Amaravati, the people’s capital.” Addressing people of the 29 villages in the capital region, who had been protesting against the proposed shifting of the capital to Visakhapatnam, Mr. Naidu saluted their fighting spirit, and exhorted them to make it a fight to the finish. The day marked the completion of 200 days of protests by the people of the Amaravati region. Mr. Naidu said the occasion also coincided with the 123rd birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Alluri Sitarama Raju, who had laid down his life to achieve freedom from the autocratic British rule. ‘Self-financing model’ Stating that the movement should draw inspiration from the freedom fighter, Mr. Naidu paid tributes to the 66 person who had died while protesting for the cause. He said there was no truth in the government’s claim that it would cost Rs. 1 lakh crore to build Amaravati, and explained that the ‘self-financing’ project would not need any investment, and that it could be fully financed by the income accrued from the sale of land for various development schemes, loans and local taxes. “Amaravati had a glorious history, and the capital of the Satavahana rulers was a symbol of ancient civilisation,” he said, and referred to the Hindu Mahasabha proposal to build a grand Ram temple here after the one in Ayodhya. Bifurcation had resulted in deep financial crisis as the State was left with no capital, revenue and jobs, he said. Appeal to Modi “We wanted to build a modern capital that did not belong to any one party, or section, but to the people of the State and even the nation,” Mr. Naidu said. Taking exception to the YSRCP criticising Union Finance Minister Nirmala Seetharaman, Mr. Naidu sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to stop the proposed shifting of the capital to Visakhapatnam. Mr. Naidu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, when in the Opposition, had extended his support to the construction of the new capital in 30,000 acres, and wondered why he changed his stand now. ‘False propaganda’ “The ruling party is trying to mislead the people by bringing in caste politics, by falsely propagating that the Amaravati region is vulnerable to floods, and by alleging insider trading,” the TDP president alleged. “Amaravati would have taken a shape by now had the project been taken forward,” he said, adding that 139 institutions, which included universities, hospitals, schools, colleges and other establishments, had come forward to open their units in the new capital. “They would have generated thousands of jobs and promoted economic activity that could create wealth for the State,” Mr. Naidu observed. He said the government should respect the sentiments of the people and announce Amaravati as the single and permanent capital of Andhra Pradesh.
05 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No truth in allegations of graft in ambulance services’||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health A. Kali Krishna Srinivas has refuted the allegations of large-scale corruption in the ‘108’ and ‘104’ ambulance, and said the State government has in fact reduced the expenditure on the services by Rs. 185 crore through the reverse tendering process. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Srinivas said the government was transparent in calling for tenders and awarding the contract to the service provider. “While the entire nation is hailing the State government’s initiative, the opposition leaders are trying to defame the government,” Mr. Srinivas said. ‘Transparency’ Referring to TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, the Minister said, “Everyone knows how Mr. had Naidu sabotaged the ‘108’ ambulance service during the TDP’s term. Many people had lost their lives due to lack of access to emergency care under the TDP rule.” In contrast, the YSRCP government launched 1,088 ambulances after going through reverse tenders and judicial review, the Minister said, and added that the contract was awarded to Aurobindo Pharma Foundation only through reverse tenders. As a result, the government saved Rs. 26,000 on each vehicle, Mr. Srinivas said. “It has been clearly stated in the contract that the government is not responsible for any increase in fuel prices and no additional costs will be paid in the seven-year contract period,” he added.
05 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged not to ‘politicise’ Information Commission||Members of the Andhra Pradesh chapter of the United Forum for RTI Campaign (UFRTI-AP) are opposed to the selection of R. Srinivasa Rao for the post of the Information Commissioner. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, founder member of AFRTI Campaign-AP, and co-convenors Chakradhar Bhuddha, Emmanuel Dasari, Srinivas Goud and Chalapati, hailed the appointment of P. Ramesh Kumar as the Chief Information Commissioner saying he was ‘a man of impeccable integrity’. They said the government move would help effective implementation of the Right to Information Act and promote transparency in the State. Referring to Mr. Srinivasa Rao’s appointment as the Information Commissioner, they called the decision ‘arbitrary and illegal and in violation of the provisions of Section 15 (3) (5) and (6) of the RTI Act’. They said since Mr. Rao had a YSRCP connection, the act was tantamount to ‘politicising the appointments.’  Reminding that in united A.P. the High Court had quashed the appointment of four Information Commissioners due to their political affiliations, they said the YSRCP, when it was in the Opposition, had also condemned ‘politicisation of the posts of Information Commissioners’. The members appealed to the high-power committee empowered to appoint the commissioners to consider people from civil society, journalism and social activists for the post.
05 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reconsider power sector decisions’||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to reconsider his government’s “short-sighted” decisions in the power sector. He alleged that the CM’s Principal Adviser, Ajeya Kallam, not only intentionally misled people on the PPAs but also ventured to criticise the Union Finance Minister’s advice for judicious management of energy. In a letter to the CM on Saturday, he questioned Mr. Kallam’s claim that the government had not withdrawn from the PPAs, and sought explanation on why the Singapore, French, Japanese, South Korean and German embassies had warned the State. The BJP leader said power tariffs in Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Gujarat were lower than in AP. Instead of giving reasons for buying power at Rs. 11 per unit, Mr. Kallam concealed the intentions of the State, he alleged. The government brought disrepute to the country by reviewing the PPAs.
05 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action sought||CPI(M) senior leader Ch. Babu Rao demanded that the government conduct a thorough inquiry and punish the responsible who led to the “missing” of 63-year-old Tadepalli Vasanta Rao, who visited COVID hospital in the city. In a release, Mr. Babu Rao said that due to the negligence of the staff at the Government General Hospital, which is now COVID designated hospital, wife of Vasanta Rao after visiting the hospital had to undergo harrowing time for nine days until his body was found in the mortuary by the police.
05 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu has no real concern for farmers’||The proposed decentralisation of development is in tune with the people’s wish, and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu is raking up the issue in furtherance of his political agenda, and not out of affection for the farmers who gave their lands under the hyped pooling scheme, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Kannababu questioned why Mr. Naidu could not build the capital city in five years, and the reason for militating against the government’s plan to develop the north coastal region by making Visakhapatnam the Executive capital. The idea behind moving the High Court to Kurnool was also intended to foster development of Rayalaseema, he added. Mr. Kannababu said the TDP government had spent a whopping Rs. 800 crore on the designs of Amaravati, but the project never progressed at the desired pace. The concept of distributed development was widely accepted, he said.
05 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||482 persons booked for not wearing masks||The police conducted a drive against those who were moving on roads without wearing masks and booked 482 cases and collected Rs. 37,950 as fine in the last two days. Following the directions of Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, police conducted drives at different places and booked cases against those who were violating COVID-19 rules and moving without masks.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Museum will be established at Alluri’s birthplace: Minister||The district administration organised birth anniversary celebrations of legendary freedom fighter Alluri Sitarama Raju at Pandrangi, the birthplace of the revolutionary leader, in the district on Saturday. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, A.P. Official Language Commission Chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad and a few others paid floral tributes to the statue of Alluri and recalled his services to the nation. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that a museum will be established at Pandrangi with a budget of Rs. 2 crore and with another Rs. 50 lakh a park at K.D. Peta in Golugonda mandal, where he was buried, will be developed. The two projects will be finished by the next birth anniversary celebrations, the Minister said. The Minister said that he would strive to ensure that one of the new districts is named after Alluri Sitarama Raju “In Padmanabham mandal, a junior college will be set up and it would be named after Alluri. The long-pending bridge construction work at Pandrangi will be also done. Pandrangi will be developed as a mandal headquarters,” he said. Mr. Lakshmi Prasad said that the history of Alluri Sitarama Raju, who is also called as ‘Mannem Dora,’ should be in books and taught to the future generations. He appealed the Tourism Minister to make efforts to install the statue of Alluri in Parliament. Narsipatnam MLA P. Umashankar Ganesh paid rich tributes to Alluri at Alluri Park at K.D. Peta in Golugonda mandal. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer S. Venkateswar and Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi paid floral tributes to the statue of the revolutionary leader at the ITDA office and recalled his services to the nation. Members of the BJP, CPI(M), SFI and a few others took part in the celebrations.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 102 new cases, district tally shoots up to 1,238||In a steep spike, 102 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. This is for the first time, the district crossed 100-mark within 24 hours. With the new cases, the total number of cases as on Saturday is 1,238. The number of active cases is 782. With the discharge of two more persons, the number of discharged persons is 449. Seven persons died due to COVID-19 in the district. Out of the seven, five hailed from the Visakhapatnam district, while one was from Srikakulam and another one was from Hyderabad. As many as 787 cases were reported from the district in June. In the last four days (July 1 to 4), as many as 338 new cases were reported, which is almost 42 % of total cases reported in June. Officials say that as the sample testing was increased, cases see a rise. Cases were reported from Appughar, Peda Jalaripeta, Kobbarithota, Atchutapuram, Allipuram, Arilova, Makavarapalem, Narsipatnam, Anakapalle, Haripalem, Saripalem, Ananthavaram and a few other areas. The Health Department officials have ramped up testing at containment zones with most number of cases. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, there are 79 very active clusters and 114 active clusters in the district. Sixty clusters have been identified as dormant and already 30 were denotified, he said.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temporary rythu bazaars to continue for some more time||Temporary rythu bazaars, which were set up to ensure easy supply of essentials and proper implementation of social distancing norms, to continue for some more months in the view of the increasing cases of COVID-19 in the district. According to Joint Collector G. Venugopal Reddy, there is a proposal of setting up three more rythu bazaars, including one each at Arilova and Madhurawada. However due to the COVID-19 crisis, taking up such works is not possible as of now. To ease congestions at the existing rythu bazaars, the temporary markets which were set up nearby vacant grounds will continue. Some farmers from the existing rythu bazaars will be selling vegetables at those places, he said. “At present, we are having 30 temporary rythu bazaars and 47 mobile rythu bazaars. Mobile rythu bazaars are being sent to containment areas,” he said The district administration has also decided to tighten safety protocol and implement COVID-19 rules strictly at the rythu bazaars. Though the Marketing Department has drawn circles at all the counters to ensure physical distancing, people are seen ignoring the safety measures, while purchasing vegetables. Moreover many are seen coming to rythu bazaars without face masks. Especially on weekends, some rythu bazaars are reporting congestion. “In every meeting, I have been asking the officials to make sure physical distancing is properly implemented in the rythu bazaars. The Collector has already issued orders to impose fine on persons without wearing masks. People are requested to wear mask without fail while coming to such places,” Mr. Venugopal Reddy said.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu not bothered about people of Amaravati region, alleges MLA||Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath alleged that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu was not really bothered about the people of Amaravati region, but only concerned about his real estate interests. Speaking to the media here on Saturday, Mr. Amarnath said Mr. Naidu was claiming that about 200 cities across the world is backing the idea of Amaravati as the capital for the State, but there are not even 200 people supporting him. It is only the media channels which are favourable to the Opposition party and a few in social media groups are supporting him, the MLA said. Mr. Amarnath said that farmers from the capital region had seen the corruption and insider trading in Amaravati done by Mr. Naidu and his party members and defeated them in the 2019 elections. Even Mr. Naidu’s son Nara Lokesh was not able to win a seat in Amaravati, he said. The MLA also criticised CPI State Secretary K. Ramakrishna for supporting Mr. Naidu on the issue. “At a time when North Andhra was completely neglected for ages, it was Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy who came up with the idea of decentralised development with Visakhapatnam as executive capital. It is a shame that the TDP leaders are finding fault with it,” he said. Mr. Amarnath said that Mr. Naidu should remember how people of Visakhapatnam region have opposed him when he tried to visit the district a few months ago. “When State government had given e-pass to Mr. Naidu to visit victims of LG polymers gas leak incident at Venkatapuram, he came to the State and left for Telangana again after conducting TDP Mahanadu. Till now, both Mr. Naidu and Mr. Lokesh did not find time to visit Venkatapuram. But Mr. Lokesh had time to go to Srikakulam and meet Atchannaidu’s family,” he said.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for Model School admissions||The District Education Department is inviting applications from interested students to join Class VI in the Adarsh Schools (Model Schools) for the academic year 2020-21. Applications for the five Adarsh Schools – Tegada (Kasimkota mandal), Patipalle (Munagapaka), Manchala (Cheedikada), Marupaka (Ravikamatham) and Vemulapudi(Narsipatnam) will be taken online. The admissions would be chosen through lottery process following reservation rules. English is the medium of instruction and students need not pay any fee, said District Educational Officer (DEO) B. Lingeswara Reddy. Explaining the eligibility criteria for the schools, the DEO said that OC/BC students should have born between September 1, 2008 and August 31, 2010. Similarly, SC/ST students should have born between September 1, 2006 and August 31, 2010. They should have studied in government schools during the academic year 2018-19 and 2019-20. They should have passed Class V. Interested can apply inwww.cse.ap.gov.in/apms.ap.gov.in by paying the application fee through online between July 6, 2020 to July 25, 2020. For O.C/B.Cs, the application fee is Rs. 100 and for SC/ST, the fee is Rs. 50. Interested can also contact Principals of the schools,MEOs and the Education Department office.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Human error caused accident at pharma unit’||Human negligence is said to have caused the accident at the Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited at the Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC) at Parawada. Two employees were killed and four others hospitalised when hydrogen sulphide vapours leaked from a hosepipe connected to one of the reactors at the pharmaceutical company on June 29 at around 11.30 p.m. The four-member committee, comprising RDO K. Penchala Kishore, Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories K.B.S. Prasad, APPCB Environment Engineer P. Prasada Rao, and A. Ramalingeswara Raju of the District Industries Centre, which was constituted by Collector V. Vinay Chand, submitted its preliminary report on Saturday, in which it was learnt to have stated that human negligence was the main cause. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Vinay Chand said based on the preliminary investigation, the accident was largely due to human error. As per investigation, production at the time of the accident was in the third stage, and mother liquor, a waste product, was being pumped into an incinerator from one of the reactors. The committee reportedly observed that the technician concerned apparently connected the hose from the reactor to the nozzle in the incinerator without attaching the nipple. Hydrogen sulphide fumes leaked out as a result, and two employees on the shift near the reactor inhaled it and died on the spot. Four other employees, who tried to rescue them, fell sick after inhaling the fumes. Further investigation is under way.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP visits IT park at Rushikonda in Vizag||Director-General of Police D. Goutam Sawang visited the IT park near Rushikonda here on Saturday. Mr. Sawang arrived here on Friday evening on a two-day visit. He visited Hill Nos. 1 and 2 at the IT park and later visited a few other areas at Sontyam, Anandapuram and Pendurthi. At Anandapuram, he inspected a new Greyhounds site. He also visited Sainor Life Sciences Private Limited at J.N. Pharma City at Parwada and enquired about the recent accident in company that killed two employees on June 29. The DGP was also learnt to have addressed the VMRDA officials at the Police Commissioner’s office. He also held a meeting with the SP, the DIG-Visakhapatnam Range and SP (Greyhounds) and reviewed the Maoist situation in the Agency. Meanwhile, speculation is rife that the DGP is here to make a survey of the locations to set-up the DGP and other government offices once the Executive capital starts functioning from city.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online elocution, quiz contests for students||Population Research Centre and Department of Statistics, Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, in collaboration with the Indian Association for the Study of Population is conducting online elocution and quiz competitions in connection with the World Population Day-2020 on July 11. The competition is open for UG and PG students. The last day for registration is July 7 till 4 p.m. Registration link:https://aucoe.info/util/ quiz2020/quiz2020.phpFor details call: 9966981277
05 July 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chaturmasya deeksha from today||Sri Swaroopanandendra Saraswathi Maha Swamy, Head of Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham, Pendurthy, and Uttara Peethadipathi Sri Swatmanandendra Saraswathi Swamy will undertake 'chaturmasya deeksha' at Rishikesh from July 5 to September 2, according to a statement issued by the peetham.
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last date for AUCET and AUEET extended||Officials from Andhra University have extended the last date for the registration of applications to Andhra University Common Entrance Test (AUCET 2020) and AU Engineering Entrance Test (AUEET 2020), due to the prevailing COVID-19 crisis, here on Saturday. The tentative schedule for the examinations has been revised. Directorate of Admissions D.A. Naidu said that the last date for registration of online application of AUCET/AUEET-2020 is extended up to July 31, 2020 without fine and August 10, 2020 with a fine of Rs. 1,000 for AUCET and Rs. 1,500 for AUEET. He said that candidates can correct and upload the online applications between August 15 and 17. Hall tickets can be downloaded from the website on August 25. Tentative date for the commencement of entrance tests is between September 7 and 9. For more details candidates can check www.audoa.in
05 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP: sacrifices of Amaravati ryots will not go in vain||Telugu Desam Party State secretary Md. Nazeer said sacrifices made by Amaravati farmers will not go waste. Speaking to the media here on Saturday, he said because of the ideas floated by the TDP government investors had came forward to invest in Amaravati. He said that ever since the YSRCP had come to power no investor had come forward to set up an industry.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heaps of work||
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welcome showers||
05 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||12 TSSP constables positive||As many as 12 police personnel of the Telangana State Special Police (TSSP)’s 6th Battalion at Chathakonda near Kothagudem tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, sending ripples across the industrial hub of the district. Medical and Health department sources said that the test results of a total of 12 constables of the TSSP 6th Battalion were positive. All the 12 policemen returned to the battalion on Friday, after attending bandobust duties at Amberpet and various other police station limits in Hyderabad, sources added. It is suspected that they contracted the infection while performing duties in Hyderabad, which is grappling with a rising tide of COVID cases. The infected were placed under quarantine and contact tracing to identify their primary and secondary contacts, as per the standard protocol, has been initiated, sources added. The industrial hub of Palvancha has witnessed a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases in the past week. As many as seven persons of Palvancha town and its surrounding localities were diagnosed with the dreaded virus, three days ago. A constable and a sub-inspector of police of Kothagudem sub-division were reportedly tested positive, a few days ago. Collector M.V. Reddy monitored the preventive measures with mandal level officials through a video conference from his office at the Collectorate in Kothagudem on Saturday. He asked officials to intensify disease surveillance and control measures across the district. He also urged people to bring incidents of violation of home quarantine norms, if any, to the notice of the staff manning the control room at the Collectorate by calling at 08744 241950.
05 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL miners end 72-hr. strike||The 72-hour strike by the coal workers of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) against the Centre's move to allow private sector in commercial coal mining ended on Saturday, crippling coal production in the last three days. The three-day strike spearheaded by the central trade unions of the Coal India Limited (CIL) resulted in a production loss to the tune of about 3 lakh tonnes in all the 46 mines of the SCCL spanning across the coal belt region of the State, sources said. The coal workers cutting across trade union affiliations exhibited their collective strength by actively participating in the strike in all the 11 coal mining areas of the SCCL. Demonstration The trade unions of the Singareni coal fields, those affiliated to the CITU, the AITUC, the INTUC, the BMS and other central trade unions, staged a demonstration in front of the SCCL’s head office in Kothagudem late on Saturday afternoon. Addressing the demonstration, the leaders of the SCEU general secretary M Narasimha Rao said the entire workforce of the SCCL showed a firm resolve to fight against privatisation by making the three-day strike a grand success. Though the TRS-affiliated TBGKS has participated in the strike only on the first day, an overwhelming majority of the workers across the coal belt region spearheaded the 72-hour strike with a missionary zeal to save Singareni from the looming threat of privatisation, he said. We will undertake intensive agitations if the Centre fails to drop its move to auction the coal blocks, Mr Rao said.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Work on 3,000 public loos in full swing||Construction of public toilets, as promised by the government, is progressing in the city, informed a GHMC statement on Saturday. GHMC has undertaken construction of a total of 3,000 public toilets on the Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) basis across various locations in city. It is proposed to complete construction of 500 public toilets in each zone by August 15 this year. Feasible locations have been identified for construction of 2,729 toilets so far, 500 each at L.B. Nagar, Kukatpally, Charminar, Serilingampally and Khairatabad zones, and 229 in Secunderabad zone. Further, 271 locations need to be identified in Secunderabad, which will be completed at the earliest, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar informed. Of the total, construction of 140 public toilets has been completed so far, and works are in progress at 237 more locations. Instructions have been issued to the zonal commissioners to expedite the remaining toilets too, and complete the works before August 15, the statement informed.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS not tracing COVID-19 contacts, PIL petitioner tells HC||With inadequate human resources to trace the primary contacts of coronavirus infected persons, the pandemic is spreading like wildfire in the State. Stating this, a PIL petitioner filed an interim application in Telangana High Court seeking a direction to State government to step up contact tracing to check further spread of COVID-19. The petitioner, Surya Balu Mahendra, an advocate, filed a PIL plea stating that the government is not tracing the asymptomatic primary contacts and symptomatic secondary contacts of coronavirus infected persons. Interim application While hearing of the plea by a bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan was in progress, the petitioner filed an interim application stating that failure of the government to trace primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 affected persons amounts to violation of ICMR guidelines. He also wanted the High Court to instruct the government to undertake extensive COVID-19 tests. Citing media reports, the petitioner said the State witnessed phenomenal rise in coronavirus positive cases in the past two weeks. Close to 80% of them are from GHMC limits. The lawyer contended that tracing the contacts of infected persons is crucial in curbing further incidence of the virus. But inadequate number of health workers and non-availability of municipal staff to trace the contacts of COVID-19 infected persons is resulting in rapid proliferation of the virus, he said. ICMR findings According to the petitioner, the ICMR had said earlier that the tracing of contacts of COVID-19 patients in the country faltered long ago. Statistics indicate that COVID-19 confirmation tests were conducted for over 10 lakh citizens in the country till April 30. The mode of transmission of the virus among 57% of these people is not yet known. Of them, 40,184 persons tested positive for the virus. Interestingly, the ICMR said 44% of them were not sure how they contracted the virus. The petitioner maintained that the ICMR had revealed that 80% of the people on whom tests were conducted did not know the source of transmission. In Telangana, only 68% of persons on whom COVID-19 confirmation tests were conducted knew how the transmission occurred. The others are apparently in dark as to how they contracted the virus. Relying on media reports, the petitioner said that Telagana government stopped tracing contacts of COVID-19 patients due to shortage of municipal staff. ‘Why can not the State government avail services of volunteers or adopt new technologies to track down all contacts of coronavirus affected persons?’, the petitioner said. Roping in corporators, counsellors and ward members of municipal areas concerned and equipping them with the technology of tracing contacts was one option to check further spread of COVID-19, the petitioner said. The PIL plea would be heard again on July 20.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discoms to borrow Rs. 12,600 crore from PFC, REC for better liquidity||The two power distribution companies (discoms) in the State – Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL) and Northern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSNPDCL) – are set to improve their liquidity position with the State government according guarantee to Rs. 12,600 crore special long term transition loan to be borrowed by them. They would borrow the money – Rs. 6,300 crore each from the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and Rural Electrical Corporation (REC) – as part of the Special Economic Package (stimulus) announced by the Centre following the impact of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic on the economy. The loan would be utilised to clear the outstanding dues of the discoms to Central Public Sector Enterprises, power generation companies (Gencos), transmission companies (Transcos), independent power producers (IPPs) and renewable energy generators. As on March 31, 2020, the outstanding dues of the two discoms of Telangana to Central and State power generation and transmission companies and private power companies was at Rs. 14,333 crore. However, a lion’s share of it – Rs. 12,609 crore – is due from the State government departments at the end of 2019-20 financial year. The State government would provide unconditional and irrevocable guarantee to the long term loans to be borrowed by the discoms. Letter of Credit Following the introduction of Letter of Credit (LC) system by the Ministry of Power from August 1 last year, wherein giving the credit guarantee by the Discoms to the power producers/generators mandatory, the discoms have been under financial stress to adjust the money regularly in spite of delays in getting receipts from consumers. They are forced to seek the State government’s help for adjustment of money for issuing LC to power producers from time to time. “The delay in getting energy consumption charges from consumers during the lockdown has put the discoms under severe stress since they had to issue LCs to the power suppliers in advance so that they could encash them after the grace period of 45 days to 60 days as agreed to in power purchase agreements,” a senior official said, adding that the Rs. 12,600 crore loan would ease their liquidity position. The borrowing is expected to have some impact on the retail supply tariff yet to be submitted by the discoms to the regulatory commission for approval.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown experience to spur growth in warehousing in Hyderabad: report||Hyderabad shows the highest potential for warehousing development among top eight cities in the country, real estate consultancy Knight Frank’s India Warehousing Market Report-2020 has said. Ranking the city high on the Knight Frank’s Development Potential Multiple, the report said the potential is to more than double its existing stock from 13 million sq ft to 29 million sq ft. This exists on the back of a land pool of approximately 1,291 acres committed to warehousing. Besides Hyderabad, the report looked at Mumbai, National Capital Region, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Pune. In 2019-20, Hyderabad’s warehousing market witnessed 3.4 million sq ft leasing activity, which was 14% lower compared to the previous fiscal. However, over the past three years, the warehousing asset class in the city has seen a robust compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 41%, the report said. Knight Frank branch director-Hyderabad Samson Arthur said while warehousing market demand was affected in FY 2020 due to economic slowdown and disruption caused by COVID-19, the market’s underlying strength is evident in the 41% CAGR growth. Investment interest continues to remain strong in this property type and should fuel its momentum over the longer term, he said. E-commerce, retail and fast moving consumer goods (FMCG)/ fast moving consumer durables (FMCD) industries are the major drivers of the warehousing sector in Hyderabad, together contributing to 50% of the total transacted space in FY 2020. The warehousing activity in Hyderabad is largely concentrated in three major clusters of Medchal, Patancheru and Shamshabad. Of the three, a significant 87% of the FY-2020 transaction activity was concentrated in the Medchal cluster. Rent appreciations have been reported across locations in the three warehousing clusters, a release on the report said. Elaborating on the pandemic impact and changes likely to be triggered in the warehousing space, the report said lean supply chain with a focus on inventory carrying cost had been a key consideration for enterprises. In the COVID-19 circumstances, many such businesses, mainly in essential segment like food and beverages, groceries and pharmaceuticals faced stock out as raw material sourcing as well as production was disrupted. Learning from the experience, many businesses may look at increasing the level of inventory in the short to medium term. This shift towards increased stocking need was likely to lead to a greater demand for warehousing. However, the demand will be served by greater cubic capacity utilisation of vertical space rather than mere increase in floor area, the report said. The learnings from the pandemic could also see more demand for cold storage facilities. Automobile, consumer durables and engineering are segments that will experience a slowdown thus impacting their warehouse demand.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP blames TS govt. for virus spread||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy alleged on Saturday that the TRS government has “left the people of the State at the mercy of COVID-19 by not conducting enough tests and washing off its hands by blaming the Centre for the spread”. Addressing party workers of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Vikarabad and Medchal-Malkajgiri, as part of ‘Jan Samvaad’ virtual rally on Saturday, he said that along with fight against COVID, BJP had been holding virtual rallies to explain people about the success of Narendra Modi government. He suggested the State government to conduct mass tests on a war footing to contain the spread of the virus. Stating that Telangana had been under the “clutches of Kalvakuntla and Owaisi families”, he urged people to save it from the two families. Meanwhile, State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar said that the Modi government had resolved several long-pending issues during the last one year. He stated that the Centre had announced the lockdown at the right time and provided relief to people by announcing Rs. 20 lakh crore Atma Nirbhar Bharat package. He alleged that the virus had spread more in Old City due to government’s failure in implementing the lockdown there, particularly during the Ramzan month.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Realtor’ arrested for cheating||Cyberabad police on Saturday arrested a person in connection with a cheating case. The accused, Raghu Yarlagadda, ran a firm by the name ‘Swadhathri Infra Pvt Ltd’ and is alleged to have cheated 1,450 persons to the tune of Rs. 156 crore. According to the police, the accused formed two companies — Swadhathri Infra Pvt Ltd and Swadhatri Realtors — and ran two offices, one at Srinagar Colony and the other at Ayyappa Society. These companies employed 30 agents and 20 tele-callers to allegedly take deposits from gullible people. A case was booked against him under sections 420, 406 and 506 of the IPC, at the Madhapur police station. Police said that the accused started three schemes to put his plan into action. In the first scheme, the accused allegedly sought to lure his victims by promising high returns of 9% per month for a deposit of Rs. 1 lakh or more, and the return of the principal amount after a year. He along with one Gogulapati Srinivasa Babu and Meenakshi, a manager, collected Rs. 87 crore in deposits from around 950 people. He also launched a by-back scheme on open plots in which he allegedly collected deposits of Rs. 42 crore from around 300 people. And in the third scheme, the accused allegedly blocked flats by paying 40% of the cost. He then allegedly lured people by offering registration at no cost and no Goods and Services Tax, provided the buyer pays 70% of the cost of the flat. For those who paid between 50% and 60% cost of the flat, he offered Rs. 10,000 per month till the victim takes possession of the flat. In this manner, he allegedly collected deposits of Rs. 27 crore from nearly 200 people.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP incapable of running country: Uttam||In response to the party’s call for nation wide protests against the rising fuel prices, the Congress leaders and workers in Telangana participated in protests in mandal headquarters and municipalities across the State on Saturday. Leading the protest at Shamshabad municipal office near the airport, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has no concern for the common man even as the fuel prices are soaring, and it is incapable of running the government, he said. Along with former MP Konda Vishweshwer Reddy, DCC president, Challa Narsimha Reddy and official spokesperson Rachamalla Siddeshwar, Mr. Reddy submitted a memorandum to the tahsildar to be forwarded to the President. TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar held a dharna at Kothapalli mandal quarters village in Karimnagar district along with the party workers. He said the BJP is raking up nationalism to divert people’s attention from its failures. In Gajwel constituency, represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, DCC president Narsimha Reddy led the protest. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the BJP government earned Rs. 18 lakh crore by hiking fuel prices ever since it came to power, and shameful this is happening when people are suffering under COVID-19 pandemic, and have little money to spend due to loss of work and employment. He said despite huge prices of crude oil in the international market when the UPA was in power, petrol prices were under Rs. 40. In 2004, petrol was priced at Rs. 30 per litre and diesel at Rs. 25 per litre when the barrel cost of crude oil was $40. Crude oil price in the international market now is also at US$ 40 but petrol and diesel are priced at Rs. 80 per litre. “The BJP government is breaking the back of all the classes and rakes up various other issues instead of answering questions on the pressing issues of people, he said.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Panel for TS hockey body mooted||Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud suggested forming a five-member committee to streamline the functioning of the Telangana Hockey Association, on Saturday. Speaking at a review meeting in response to the representation of former and current players and some District Hockey Association office-bearers, the Minister wanted Telangana Hockey president Saral Talwar to take the necessary steps in this regard. “This high-powered panel should also ensure that similar committees are formed in districts for better sports governance,” Mr. Goud said. He also felt that domestic hockey leagues should be held and that all the districts should host at least one tournament as early as possible. “The State despite abundance of sporting talent suffered for want of support in the past. Now, with the government coming out with a new sports policy soon, I am confident of a golden era thanks to the all-out support of our Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for all disciplines,” he said. The meeting was attended by TSIIC chairman Balamallu, SATS chairman A. Venkateshwara Reddy, State Hockey officials, and former and current players.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Graft in projects due to defections’||Linking ‘corruption’ in irrigation projects to defections to the ruling party, the Telangana Congress said Paler MLA Upender Reddy was the contractor of canals linked to Kondapochammasagar that breached twice within a few days of inauguration. At a press conference, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former Ministers - Nagam Janardhan Reddy and Shabbir Ali, and TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi said the contract of the canals was given to Mr. Upender Reddy and TRS MLC Karne Prabhakar through a leading engineering company, which executed major works in the State and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. Congress MLAs were lured with such gifts, he alleged. Mr. Upender Reddy, who was elected on the Congress ticket, joined the TRS. Mr. Uttam Reddy said the casual statements of the Engineering-in-Chief Hari Ram that such breaches are normal is shocking. These canals are constructed with cement and not with mud like earlier, he reminded, and said officials are least bothered about quality as people at higher places are directly involved in corruption. The TPCC chief alleged that none of the files related to contracts in the Irrigation Department are being signed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasehkar Rao. He claimed that Muralidhar Rao, an engineer who retired seven years ago, and a relative of the Chief Minister, is managing the files as Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao wants to escape from any enquiry in future. Similarly, another relative of the Chief Minister was allegedly given contracts worth Rs. 10,000 crore, though his company did not have any experience in irrigation before 2014. “I am accusing the Chief Minister directly of indulging in corruption through retired persons and his relatives, and he should respond,” Mr. Reddy demanded.  Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao wants to escape from any enquiry in future. N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, TPCC chief.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two storm water drains ready at Hi-Tec City||Completion of works pertaining to two storm water drains at Hi-Tec City could prevent inundation during heavy rains in the area as was witnessed earlier. GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, through a statement on Saturday, informed that construction of a twin box drain has been completed on the Barlakunta surplus nala in Madhapur area. The RCC box drain sized 4x2.5 metres has been constructed with an expenditure of Rs. 4.1 crore, and aimed to prevent inundation of Cyber Hills and Jubilee Enclave areas in Madhapur. The storm water drain was sanctioned after Hi-Tec City area had witnessed heavy inundation as a result of heavy rain lasting three hours back in August 2017. With the box drain, the discharge capacity has been increased by 18 times, the statement said. Besides, another storm water drain between Barlakunta and Khajaguda lakes has been developed and modernised with Rs. 3 crore. The existing drain was only 900 mm wide, which has been widened to 3x2.3 metres through a box drain. The drainage capacity has increased by 20 times.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NEET, JEE deferment shows CETs are here to stay||Even as the shrill gets louder over the demand for cancellation of entrance exams altogether in Telangana, the Central government’s decision to just postpone and not cancel JEE and NEET indicate that Common Entrance Tests (CETs) are here to stay and will be held later, if not sooner. Even before the Telangana government submitted to the High Court over its decision to postpone the State entrance exams due to rising COVID cases, there has been a demand from certain sections to cancel them and admit students in professional courses based on the qualifying examination marks. “The Central government has clearly indicated by postponing the JEE and NEET that entry into professional courses will be based on entrance test only, even if they are delayed,” a senior official in the education department argued. “The Supreme Court’s judgment on these admissions is very clear and to change that status, all State governments need to unitedly argue in favour of cancellation at least for this year due to the unprecedented crisis,” he said. The intense competition for seats in good colleges will continue and cancelling entrance exams will stir a hornet’s nest. Controversies are bound to rise in medical related courses where seats are few and aspirants huge, and where even half a mark mars the chances of many. “If the demand for admissions based on qualifying examination is accepted, there are bound to be legal issues. The biggest hurdle is the huge variation in exam methods of different boards and the disparity in competition levels. How will they be plugged?” a senior teacher asks. The valuation and assessment methods of annual examination papers of all streams have always been a bone of contention due to the huge human intervention in awarding the marks. Statistics of Intermediate and EAMCET reveal that students who score more than 90% in Intermediate also end up in the 50,000 ranks band, given the intense competition. In fact, thousands of students score same marks in Intermediate and separating them with different ranks will always raise questions. “There would be too many claims for good seats and allotment process would leave a big headache for us”, officials say. CETs are the safe and effective way of handling this crisis as the legal issues can be avoided easily, an official said.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Survey work for MGKLIS Karne thanda lift taken up||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has stated that the government is planning to make the Karne thanda lift on Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme (MGKLIS) by Dasara festival this year. Speaking at the launch of survey work of the Karne lift in Khilla Ghanpur mandal of Wanaparthy district on Saturday, he said the plan was to provide water to the gap ayacut of MGKLIS for the Yaasangi season. The survey work would be completed in 15 days and tenders would be invited soon after. Stating that government is committed to complete the Karne thanda lift at the earliest provided the people of the area cooperated for works, the Minister noted that Ghanpur branch canal was completed in 11 months and Pedda Mandadi canal was completed in a matter of just 44 days. The Minister said completion of Karne thanda lift would provide irrigation facility to the lands in Balijapalli, Jangamayapalli, Basireddy cheruvu, Ituka thanda. District Collector Shaik Yasmin Basha and others attended the event.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tribal welfare junior colleges entrance results released||Results of Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Junior Colleges common entrance test for admission to first year intermediate (arts and science) and vocational courses in Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Junior Colleges were released on Saturday and are available on www.tgtwgurukulam. telangana.gov.in. As many as 10,052 candidates appeared for the exam as against 7,040 available seats in 73 junior colleges. Provisionally selected candidates will be intimated through SMS on their registered mobile number. Date of joining will also be intimated through SMS at a later date. Provisionally selected students have to download their selection copy and keep all relevant documents ready to complete the admission formalities.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Burglar involved in 18 cases arrested||Cyberabad police arrested a man on Saturday for 18 burglary cases in various commissionerate limits. Police seized gold and silver ornaments, and vehicles worth over Rs. 70 lakh from his possession. Baswaraju Prakash (32), a native of Hampapur in Bengaluru, was involved in six cases in Cyberabad Commissionerate limits, seven in Rachakonda Commissionerate limits, three cases in Sangareddy and two in Tamil Nadu. Police said that the accused used to do a recce and identify ‘potential’ houses during the day, and return at night to break the door locks. After decamping with valuables, he either used to sell them or mortgage them to pawn brokers. Over 1.01 kg gold ornaments, 2 kg silver ornaments, a car and a two-wheeler were seized from his possession.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSWREIS online classes on Yadagiri channel from July 6||The Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) will air teaching lessons through the Doordarshan Yadagiri channel for degree, Intermediate and school students from July 6. TSWREIS secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar, in a statement here, said online classes would be held for 30 minutes from 1.30 p.m. to 2 p.m. daily. Classes for degree students would be held from July 6 to 18 followed by Intermediate students from July 21 to 31 and for school students from August 3 to 11. Classes will be conducted by selected trained teachers in all key subjects.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Geographical indications of Telangana||An e-book on Geographical Indications of Telangana giving an account of agricultural products, foodstuff, wine and spirit drinks and handicrafts in the State was launched by Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The book has been brought out by the Confederation of Indian Industry in association with the State government.
05 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Demolition of 10 illegal buildings||GHMC’s Town Planning officials continued the demolition drive at Ayyappa Society on Saturday too, and pulled down 10 more illegal structures from the Gurukul Trust land. All the 10 were high-rises demolished using compressors, gas cutters and earth movers.
05 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||DCCB chairman tests COVID-19 positive||Nalgonda District Cooperative Central Bank chairman and Aler legislator G. Sunitha’s husband, G. Mahender Reddy, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Ms. Sunitha’s samples earlier showed positive on Friday, and the couple are being treated at a corporate hospital in Secunderabad. Three drivers of the TRS leaders also tested positive.
05 July 2020||Nalgonda/SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Ganja||Nakrekal police seized about 50 kg ganja from a Maharashtra-registered car going towards Hyderabad on Saturday. Police found abandoned ganja packets after the car met with an accident and all its occupants fled. It rammed a heavy vehicle around 7.30 a.m. near Chandampally village limits on NH-65. In Suryapet, police arrested three persons for dealing with 42 kg ganja.
05 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Harish faults Centre’s farm import policy||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has alleged that farmers interests are getting harmed with the import and export policy of the Union Government and it was not right. He wondered what will happen to Indian farmers when the government is procuring red gram from Africa. Addressing a gathering after laying foundation stone for the construction of Rythu Vedika at Kankol on Saturday, Mr. Rao said: "There is a need to change the Central government’s import policy. Farmers in India will lose heavily as the government is importing red gram from Africa. This has to be stopped immediately and items like rice and red gram should not be imported." Stating that the import and export policy are in the hands of the Union government, the Minister said that the policy must be reviewed and changes need to be put in place so that Indian farmers stand to benefit. Referring to the MSP for various agriculture produces by the Union government, he said that it is the State government which procures and pays the MSP. Earlier in the day, the Minister inaugurated a dumping yard, Vaikuntha Dhamam, children's park and mini garden in Sangapur village of Raikod mandal.
05 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Complete vaikuntha dhamams, rythu vedikas in time: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on Saturday directed officials and sarpanches to meet July-end deadline for construction of vaikuntha dhamams, dumpyards and rythu vedikas, failing which action will be initiated.
05 July 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||‘Shift COVID-19 patients from colony’||Residents of Nadigudem mandal headquarters in the district came on to the streets and protested outside the Tahsildar’s office on Saturday demanding shifting of COVID-19 patients from their localities. At around 10.30 a.m., people from the nearby colonies assembled outside the Tahsildar’s office and blocked the road. According to the police, three persons in the locality tested COVID-19 positive in the week, and they were prescribed home isolation since they did not show any symptoms. The protesting groups were dispersed later.
05 July 2020||Ahmedabad,||Ahmedabad containment zones soar||In a bid to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Ahmedabad civic body in Gujarat has identified 26 new micro containment zones in the city, which is the biggest COVID-19 hotspot in the State. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said intense door-to-door surveillance will be carried out to detect new cases in these micro containment zones, where movement of people is restricted. These newly-identified areas took the number of micro-containment zones in the city to 84, with around 35,000 residents. The civic body said two areas with an estimated population of 1,246 were removed from the list of micro containment zones, and 26 areas, where 5,988 people reside, were added after fresh cases were reported from there. “There were 60 existing micro containment areas,” the AMC said.
05 July 2020||Mumbai,||For want of bed, patient kept in ambulance; dies||The family of a 64-year-old man, who succumbed to novel coronavirus, in neighbouring Navi Mumbai has alleged that he had to be kept in an ambulance for a whole day before he could be admitted to a hospital. When he was finally admitted, the family did not have money to buy an injection that cost Rs. 32,000. The man, who performed in a music band, died on June 25. “He developed cough and breathing problem on June 20. We took him to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s COVID-19 hospital at Vashi,” his son said. “There was no bed with oxygen supply available, so I was asked to go to another hospital,” he said. “I asked them to tell us where to go, but they did not guide us and only asked us to go to a private hospital,” he said. “Then I started searching for a hospital. After a few hospitals refused to admit him, I called a cardiac ambulance and put my father in it because he needed oxygen support,” said the son, who also performs in a music band. The next day he was admitted to a private hospital in Koparkhairane.
05 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘Will look into Akshay’s air trip to Nashik’||Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar’s helicopter trip to Nashik in north Maharashtra during lockdown has sparked a controversy. Maharashtra minister Chhagan Bhujbal said on Saturday that he will order inquiry into the special permission which the actor reportedly obtained for the air travel and stay at a resort in Nashik during the visit earlier this week. While the actor’s spokespersons did not offer any comment immediately, sources said he flew to Nashik with a special permission to see a doctor. “I read about his visit to Nashik in newspapers today. I have no idea when he came and left. I will have to check,” said Mr. Bhujbal, who is also the Guardian Minister of the district. “I will have to check, where he lived, etc. I have received complaints about how he could be allowed to stay in a resort. We will ask the police to look into it. I have no idea who gave him the permission, why it was given. Officials will be questioned if something wrong has happened,” the senior NCP leader said.
05 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||No coordination among MVA allies: Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday claimed that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders are not supportive of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s decisions. “The leaders of the other three parties don’t show any support to the CM. Even if they don’t support, at least they should not let their actions reflect the same,” Mr. Fadnavis said, referring to the Nationalist Congress Party and Congress leaders’ displeasure over Mr. Thackeray’s decision to extend the lockdown in the State till July 31. When asked about Thane Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde allegedly being in dark about the transfers of some of the Municipal Corporation Commissioners, Mr. Fadnavis said, “I have been saying from day one that there seems to be lack of coordination among the leaders of the MVA. This is not the time to transfer Municipal Commissioners.” Mr. Fadnavis was addressing media after taking stock of the COVID-19 hospitals under Panvel Municipal Corporation and Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation. On the COVID-19 situation under the PMC and NMMC, the former CM said, “The cases have increased in the past month and not enough tests are being conducted. More ventilators are also needed. APMC market, which is one of the hotspots from where many were infected, needs more rapid testing.” Mr. Fadnavis also said government-run hospitals had run out of beds, forcing patients to go to private hospitals where they could get looted. “Corporations will have to make sure that private hospitals do not overcharge patients,” he said. On Pankaja Munde’s appointment to the national Bharatiya Janata Party committee, Mr. Fadnavis said, “I am a worker of the party so I am there for whoever works in the executive committee. The party has sought some names for the central executive. We have given these names to them. One name you know, there are two-three more names.”
05 July 2020||Panaji,||Goa’s chief COVID-19 warrior home after 98 days||The doctor in charge of treatment at Goa’s dedicated COVID-19 hospital, Dr. Edwin Gomes has returned home after 98 days of uninterrupted duty, a senior health department official said on Saturday. Dr. Gomes received a hero’s welcome when he reached his home on the outskirts of Panaji, with people applauding and offering him flowers. A video of the welcome is on social media. Attached to the Goa Medical College and Hospital, Dr. Gomes heads a team of doctors posted at the ESI Hospital, the State’s dedicated COVID-19 treatment facility. According to a senior official from the health department, “Dr. Gomes has been working tirelessly right from the beginning since the dedicated facility was set up at ESI Hospital.” Dr. Gomes has treated around 333 patients in the facility, of whom 153 have recovered from the deadly infection, the official said. The doctor, however, was unavailable for comment. Five dead As on Friday, Goa has reported 1,576 COVID-19 cases, of whom 800 are active cases. A 74-year-old woman became the fifth person to die, a health department official said on Saturday. The woman from Salcette tehsil in South Goa, who was admitted to ESI hospital, died on Friday night. Goa had reported its second highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases on Friday after 94 more people were found infected. It pushed the State’s tally beyond the 1,500-mark, the health department said.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Peace under process, tension in the air||Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi did not name any group when he, in a letter to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio on June 16, said the legitimacy of the constitutionally-established State government was being challenged on a daily basis by more than half a dozen “armed gangs that question the sovereignty and integrity of the nation”. The Governor, who took charge in July 2019, pointed out instances of “gunpoint extortions” for siphoning off a large chunk of government funds meant for development. The Governor’s comments have threatend the tenuous peace process with the militant groups responding sharply to him. The Working Committee of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), a conglomerate of seven extremist groups, denied indulging in extortion but admitted to accepting “nominal contribution” that has been “mandatory” since the “inception of our struggle”. Some of the constituents of the umbrella group are breakaway factions of the NSCN (K), or the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, formed by the Myanmar-based Shangnyu Shangwang Khaplang. The NNPGs were not the first to counter Mr. Ravi. Their bigger rival NSCN (IM), named after founders Isak Chishi Swu, who died in June 2016, and Thuingaleng Muivah, reacted first by insisting it does not extort people but levies “genuine taxes” on them. “It is the inherent right of any sovereign people and nation to collect taxes from the people and commercial establishments... Taxes have been the source of sustenance that has brought the Naga political movement this far. This was legitimately acknowledged by the earlier interlocutors and Indian authorities and it was never an issue,” the NSCN (IM) said in its defence. The letter from Mr. Ravi, who was appointed as the Centre’s interlocutor for the Naga peace process in August 2014 for his hold on the affairs of the northeast, was unprecedented. Those acquainted with extremism in Nagaland and adjoining States where various factions of the NSCN have been active know much of what he said was familiar. The extremist groups have been collecting “taxes” or “donations” from people in their areas of operation before and after the ceasefire agreement with the NSCN (IM) in mid-1997. Special responsibility Mr. Rio’s coalition government, of which the Bharatiya Janata Party is a constituent, objected to the Governor’s reminder of Article 371A (1)(b) of the Constitution that gives the Governor of Nagaland the special responsibility with respect to law and order in the State. In a statement on July 2, the State government pointed out that the procedure of taking the Governor’s approval for the transfer and posting of senior officers was ended through an Assembly resolution in December 2013. It also said any decision to put the clock back “in the guise of discharging special responsibilities” under the said Article “would be against the principles of democracy” and anti-people. But what stood out in the government’s rebuttal was the complaint about the Governor’s reference to “armed gangs”. Terming the organisations such, it said, “may not be congenial to the achievement of lasting peace, which is the desire of both the Central and the state governments”. By using the term vis-a-vis the peace process, both the Governor and the Rio government made it clear which group mattered the most — the NSCN (IM). The Naga Club Mostly comprising the Nagas of Manipur, the NSCN (IM) is 32 years old. But it has its roots in the conscription of some 2,000 Nagas by the British as labourers and porters for salvage work and road-building in France during First World War in 1917. On a foreign land, the Nagas, from disparate and warring tribes, developed a bond and the survivors who returned in May-June 1918 formed the Naga Club, along with some educated locals in October that year. The club aroused a sense of Naga nationalism. In 1929, leaders of the club submitted a memorandum to the Simon Commission, stating that the Nagas should be left alone to “determine for ourselves as in ancient times”. The Naga Club was later overshadowed by the Naga Hills District Tribal Council, formed in 1945. A year later, it metamorphosed into a political organisation called the Naga National Council (NNC), which campaigned for sovereignty and secession of the Naga Hills, then a district of Assam, from India. Under the leadership of Angami Zapu Phizo, the Nagas declared independence on August 14, 1947. A referendum organised by the NNC in May 1951 showed “99%” people supported an “independent” Nagaland. The NNC’s movement intensified after it boycotted the 1952 general election. As New Delhi deployed the armed forces, the strength of the underground Nagas increased. In March 1956, the NNC formed a parallel government and hoisted the flag of the “republic”, while the radical members floated the underground Naga Federal Army. The intensity of the armed movement lessened with the signing of the 16-Point Agreement between the Centre and a group of the people’s representatives in 1960, leading to Nagaland’s statehood in December 1963. The movement, however, continued intermittently. The hopes of peace were raised when the Centre signed the Shillong Agreement with a moderate faction of the NNC in 1975. But a dissident group led by Muivah, Swu and Khaplang, who had been trained in China, rejected the pact outright. They went underground again, spending much of their time in Myanmar and formed the National Socialist Council of Nagaland in January 1980. Differences surfaced within the outfit over initiating a dialogue process with the Indian government. It split into the NSCN (IM) and the NSCN (K) in April 1988 and often engaged in fratricidal battles. Feelers from Delhi In 1997, the NSCN (IM) received feelers from New Delhi for peace talks and a ceasefire agreement was signed. The NSCN (K) followed suit four years later but it unilaterally abrogated the ceasefire in 2015. At least three of its breakaway factions, however, formed the NNPGs to join the peace process two years later. In the 23 years since the signing of the truce pact, the NSCN (IM), dominated by the Tankhuls of Manipur, has held more than 100 rounds of peace talks with the Centre within and outside the country. One of its most contentious demands was the creation of a unified Naga homeland, called ‘Greater Nagalim’ by integrating the Naga-inhabited areas of Assam, Manipur and Arunachal with Nagaland. The other north-eastern States are opposed to the idea of the pan-Naga homeland, and are wary of the Framework Agreement the NSCN (IM) leaders signed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence in August 2015. The contents of the agreement have not been revealed. The NSCN (IM) said Governor Ravi’s letter reflected the intention of an interlocutor who wanted to complicate and prolong the much-delayed peace process. There are reports that key NSCN (IM) leader Phungthing Shimrang and his loyalists have gone underground again for a return to the pre-1997 days if the Nagas do not get the “honourable solution” they seek.  In Focus The NSCN split into two factions in 1988 over differences on initiating a dialogue with the Indian government Both factions, NSCN (IM) and NSCN (K), later joined the peace process In 2015, NSCN (K) abrogated the ceasefire but three breakaway factions formed a new group and entered the dialogue later   In response to the Governor’s comment, NSCN (IM) militants said they don’t extort, but levy ‘genuine taxes’, which is the ‘inheritant right of any sovereign people’
05 July 2020||Washington,||Trump delivers dark, divisive speech at Mount Rushmore||Standing in a packed amphitheatre in front of Mount Rushmore for an Independence Day celebration, President Donald Trump on Friday delivered a dark and divisive speech that cast his struggling effort to win a second term as a battle against a “new far-left fascism” seeking to wipe out the nation’s values and history. With the COVID-19 pandemic raging and his campaign faltering in the polls, his appearance amounted to a fiery reboot of his re-election effort, using the holiday and an official presidential address to mount a full-on culture war against a straw-man version of the left that he portrayed as inciting mayhem and moving the country toward totalitarianism. “Our nation is witnessing a merciless campaign to wipe out our history, defame our heroes, erase our values and indoctrinate our children,” said Mr. Trump, addressing a packed crowd of sign-waving supporters, few of whom wore masks. No mention of pandemic Mr. Trump barely mentioned the frightening resurgence of the pandemic, even as the country surpassed 53,000 new cases of the COVID-19 and health officials across the country urged Americans to scale back their Fourth of July plans. Instead, appealing unabashedly to his base with ominous language and imagery, he railed against what he described as a dangerous “cancel culture” intent on toppling monuments and framed himself as the strong leader who would protect the Second Amendment, law enforcement and the country’s heritage. The scene at Mount Rushmore was the latest sign of how Mr. Trump appears increasingly disconnected from the intense concern among Americans about the health crisis gripping the country. More than just a partisan rally, it underscored the extent to which Mr. Trump is appealing to a subset of Americans to carry him to a second term. Cancellation of parades Most politicians, including former Vice President Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, this year were forgoing any of the traditional holiday parades and flag-waving appearances. The vast majority of fireworks displays in big cities and small towns have been cancelled as new cases reported in the U.S. have increased by 90% in the past two weeks. As he travelled to South Dakota for the huge fireworks display at Mount Rushmore National Memorial, Mr. Trump, however, had a different message: the sparkly, booming show must go on at all costs. Mr. Trump announced plans to establish what he described as a “vast outdoor park that will feature the statues of the greatest Americans to ever live,” an apparent repudiation of the growing pressure to remove statues tied to slavery or colonialism. Virus in Trump’s circle Despite his rosy outlook, the SARS-CoV-2 on Friday for the first time infiltrated Mr. Trump’s family circle. The President’s elder son, Donald Trump Jr., and his girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, had travelled to South Dakota separately with plans to meet up with the President. But they left before Mr. Trump arrived after Guilfoyle tested positive for the virus and said they planned to cancel all coming events. Mr. Trump’s show, however, went on without missing a beat. The President’s political opponents said the celebrations were about one person, only: the President himself. “Donald Trump is seeking to aggrandise himself and divide our nation at yet another rally,” said Andrew Bates, a spokesman for Mr. Biden. “Joe Biden believes the presidency is about serving the American people — whereas Donald Trump only exploits it to serve himself.”NY Times
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Fighting through generations||The June 29 attack on the Karachi Stock Exchange that claimed at least eight lives brought back attention on the Baloch Liberation Army (BLA) as well as the complexity of the Baloch militancy. In an email to the media, a group called the Majeed Brigade, claiming to represent the BLA, said the attack was carried out by Tasleem Baloch, Shehzad Baloch, Salman Hammal and Siraj Kungur. The claim immediately triggered a protest from the BLA. Spokesperson Azad Baloch claimed that the four were already expelled from the BLA. His statement indicated that the attack was part of Iranian effort to malign the group because it had not compromised with Iran. The BLA considers both Pakistan and Iran as occupying powers of Baloch territories stretching from Pakistan's Balochistan province to southeastern Iran. Meanwhile, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has blamed India for the attack. The Baloch militancy is broadly divided into three phases. The first phase unfolded in the immediate aftermath of the creation of Pakistan and the second phase during the era of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto following the 1971 Indo-Pak war. Gen. Zia ul Haq made peace with the Baloch militants as he focused on the Mujahideen-driven movement against the Soviet troops in Afghanistan. With this compromise, the Marris, the Bugtis, the Bizenjos and the Mengal clans had nearly two decades of peace which was interrupted by the launching of a military campaign against the rebels by Pervez Musharraf. Overground presence The BLA, which drew from an earlier version, was reborn in 2000 when it claimed a few attacks on Pakistan targets. The group, however, maintains an indirect overground presence in Baloch leader Hyrbyair Marri, who remains in exile in London. From London, he runs the Free Balochistan Movement. Mr Marri has in the past denied his links with the BLA. The leader hit the headlines in 2016 when he sent a representative to Delhi to read out a message in support of Baloch freedom at an event. The identity of the military commander of the BLA remains a mystery as the organisation refuses to confirm who really conducts the operations locally. Azad Baloch, the spokesperson, speaks to the media whenever the outfit feels like communicating. In recent past, on two occasions, the BLA expelled important figures for “violating” its rules. Aslam Baloch, a key military commander of the organisation, had travelled to India in 2018 and underwent treatment for kidney ailments. He spoke to the media during his stay at Delhi's Lajpat Nagar with an assumed identity of ‘Qazi’. What made his presence in India problematic was that the BLA is considered a terror outfit in Pakistan. He was later expelled. In another case Jiyand Baloch, who became a spokesperson of BLA, was expelled after he claimed responsibility of the November 9 2019 attack in Bolan that targeted a road construction company. It is difficult to say with certainty if the BLA uses expulsions to achieve its strategic goals, but at least in the case of Aslam Baloch, the expulsion was real. The commander was subsequently killed on December 24, 2018 when a suicide bomber targeted a vehicle carrying Baloch activists in Kandahar. The major difference between the BLA and the previous phases of the Baloch militancy lies in the fact that the current generation of fighters are mostly educated youngsters who have made a conscious decision to take on the Pakistan military which they see as an exploitative arm that is partnering with foreign countries to cart away Balochistan’s natural resources. ‘Just compensation’ Balochistan’s militancy had for long been based on the demand for just compensation for Pakistan’s use of gas reserves in the province. The current generation make the same demand, maintaining that Pakistan has partnered with China for using the province without giving due share to the province itself. In adopting this line and method of armed militancy, the BLA has made a clean break from the Sardar-driven militancy of the 20th century Balochistan when the Mengals and the Bugtis called the shots. Today the scions of these families, including Mr. Marri, are active in overground activities, while a new generation of rebellious commanders are driving the BLA militancy.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||From teacher to Taoiseach||Micheal Martin, Ireland’s new Prime Minister (Taoiseach), who was sworn in to office on June 27, is the architect of Fianna Fail’s (FF) spectacular revival after the party’s poll drubbing a decade ago. The 59- year-old Premier heads Dublin’s unprecedented coalition between FF and its traditional rival Fine Gael (FG) following the February election. Having propped up a minority FG government in the last four years, Mr. Martin will now serve as Prime Minister until December 2022, after which his predecessor and FG chief Leo Varadkar will assume charge for the remainder of the five-year term. As head of the centrist party, Mr. Martin has been an outspoken supporter of same sex marriages and revocation of the abortion ban in the Catholic nation. As Health Minister in 2004, he promulgated a ban on smoking in the workplace. The current electoral arithmetic wherein, FF secured 38 seats compared to FG’s 35, forced the two centre-right parties to stitch up a triangular coalition with the Greens to establish a parliamentary majority. This move to share power with FG that was voted out in February in the wake of popular disenchantment after a severe housing crisis has raised awkward questions. The left-wing Sinn Fein, having secured the largest share of the popular vote, resents being kept out of power by the two main parties because of its one-time links to the militant Irish Republican Army (IRA). The rise In a political career spanning over three decades, the one-time teacher was first elected to the Dail Eireann (the lower house of Ireland’s Parliament) in 1989. Mr. Martin built his reputation as a Minister over the years, in charge of education, enterprises, health and foreign affairs portfolios. Although his 2004 no-smoking ban was resisted by the tobacco lobby, it received strong backing from the Bertie Ahern Cabinet. When he was Foreign Minister in 2011, Mr. Martin challenged then Prime Minister Brian Cowen for the party leadership. His contention that FF’’s survival was at stake due to the austerity measures imposed under the €85 billion EU and IMF bailout backfired when Mr. Cowen won a confidence vote in the parliamentary party. An isolated Mr. Martin, who tendered resignation, eventually went on to clinch the leadership in a four-cornered race. The tenuous victory also meant that he had to pick up the pieces following the party’s decimation in that year’s election, losing 51 out of its 71 parliamentary seats. Under Mr. Martin’s stewardship, FF has veered to a broadly social democratic political line. The so-called confidence and supply agreement that underpinned its support to the minority FG government in 2016 advocated more public spending and fewer taxes. Mr. Martin’s restrained approach also came in for praise during delicate negotiations over the border question arising from Brexit. The integrity of the open border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland after Britain’s exit from the EU is paramount to protect peace across the island. Firm positions Notable was Mr. Martin’s bold backing for same sex marriages in the 2015 referendum. He was equally forthright in his support to repeal the ban on abortion in the 2018 plebiscite. He had stood firm despite some 30 FF legislators campaigning for its retention. Given this progressive backdrop, the presence of just a few women Ministers in Mr. Martin’s Cabinet is being ascribed to the party’s failure to field more female candidates from electable seats. The new government’s foremost challenge is to build on the effective steps already in place to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Shaping a rescue out of the housing and health care crises that proved the previous government’s undoing would be critical to regain public trust. A particularly ticklish issue for Mr. Martin is to determine, alongside London and Brussels, the status of Northern Ireland, which is supposed to be brought within the EU jurisdiction, while simultaneously respecting the U.K.’s constitutional sovereignty. Even as the new coalition gets down to business, questions are being raised as to whether an alliance made largely of the same parties can effect real change. A glimpse of a picture will begin to emerge over the coming months.
05 July 2020||Hong Kong,||Books disappear from Hong Kong libraries||Books written by prominent Hong Kong democracy activists have started to disappear from the city’s libraries, online records show, days after Beijing imposed a draconian national security law on the finance hub. Among the authors whose titles are no longer available are Joshua Wong, one of the city’s most prominent young activists, and Tanya Chan, a well known pro-democracy lawmaker. Beijing’s new national security law was imposed on Tuesday and is the most radical shift in how the semi-autonomous city is run since it was handed back to China by Britain in 1997. Restoring ‘stability’ China’s authoritarian leaders say the powers will restore stability after a year of pro-democracy protests, will not stifle freedoms and will only target a “very small minority”. But it has already sent fear coursing through a city used to speaking openly, with police arresting people for possessing slogans pushing independence or greater autonomy and businesses scrambling to remove protest displays. Mr. Wong said he believed the removal of the books was sparked by the security law. “White terror continues to spread, the national security law is fundamentally a tool to incriminate speech,” he wrote on Facebook, using a phrase that refers to political persecution. Searches on the public library website showed at least three titles by Mr. Wong, Ms. Chan and local scholar Chin Wan are no longer available for lending at any of dozens of outlets across the city. The national security law targets acts of subversion, secession, terrorism and colluding with foreign forces. China says it will have jurisdiction in some cases and empowered its security apparatus to set up shop openly in Hong Kong for the first time, ending the legal firewall between the two. Outlawing views Rights groups and legal analysts say the broad wording of the law outlaws certain political views, even if expressed peacefully. Any promotion of independence or greater autonomy appears to be banned by the legislation. Another vaguely worded provision bans inciting hatred towards the Chinese or Hong Kong government. The new law and the removal of books raises questions of whether academic freedom still exists. Hong Kong has some of Asia’s best universities and a campus culture where topics that would be taboo on the mainland are still discussed and written about. But Beijing has made clear it wants education in the city to become more “patriotic” especially after a year of huge, often violent and largely youth-led pro-democracy protests.
05 July 2020||Tokyo,||14 feared dead as heavy rain lashes Japan||Fourteen people were feared dead at a nursing home in western Japan on Saturday as record rainfall triggered massive floods and landslips, forcing authorities to issue evacuation advisories for more than 2,00,000 residents. The victims were found “in cardio-respiratory arrest” at the facility for elderly people that was flooded after a nearby river broke its banks, Governor Ikuo Kabashima from the western region of Kumamoto told reporters. Authorities in Japan often use that term before a doctor officially certifies death. “The Self-Defence Forces have launched rescue operations,” Mr. Kabashima said, adding that three others at the home were suffering from hypothermia. Some 60 to 70 people were in the home as water rushed in to the second floor on Saturday morning, public broadcaster NHK said. Local officials separately said another person was also found in cardio-respiratory arrest in landslides in Kumamoto. They had previously said two were feared dead. Elsewhere in Kumamoto, one person was seriously injured and nine others were missing while about 100 people were stranded as roads were cut off by floods and landslides, NHK reported. The nation’s weather agency downgraded rain warnings by one notch from the highest emergency level in Kumamoto and nearby Kagoshima, but Prime Minister Shinzo Abe urged local people to be “on maximum alert”. Mr. Abe ordered 10,000 troops on stand-by for immediate deployment to join rescue and recovery operations, pledging the central government would “do its best to take emergency measures, prioritising people’s lives”.
05 July 2020||COLOMBO,||Gotabaya sets up committee to look into Colombo Port concerns||Following concerns raised by workers and some Opposition parties over a key terminal at the Colombo Port, which India and Japan had agreed to jointly develop with Sri Lanka, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has appointed a panel to look into the issue. The five-member committee will examine and report on the concerns regarding the development of the State-run Jaya Container Terminal (JCT) and East Container Terminal (ECT), which the three countries were to develop together. Near China-run port Among other things, the panel will study “agreements entered by the Government of Sri Lanka with other Governments with regard to Colombo Port and in particular ECT”, a statement from President Rajapaksa’s office said on Friday. In May 2019, the Maithripala Sirisena administration signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with India and Japan to jointly develop and operate the ECT — with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) holding 100 % ownership — that is adjacent to the Chinese-run Colombo International Container Terminal (CICT). Following the change in government last November, the Rajapaksa administration’s plans in regard to the project remained unclear, but meanwhile, port workers protested last week, demanding that three newly-imported gantry cranes from China, meant for the State-run JCT, be installed at the ECT. Workers alleged “Indian pressure” in preventing the cranes from being installed at the ECT. Following the strike action, the government agreed to the workers’ demand, local media reported. “Though they are not the right cranes to fix at the ECT, we decided to fix them there,” said Daya Ratnayake, Sri Lanka Ports Authority Chairman, according to news website Economynext. ‘Selling it to India’ Workers and the Opposition Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna had also accused the government of “selling the terminal” [a national asset] to India — a refrain that often gets amplified around elections in Sri Lanka. With the island readying for parliamentary elections on August 5, the project has yet again come under sharp focus. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, who said “no final decision” has been taken on the ECT, held talks with Port workers on Friday, after which they called off the strike.
05 July 2020||Geneva,||Virus alert given by our office, not China: WHO||The World Health Organization has updated its account of the early stages of the COVID crisis to say it was alerted by its own office in China, and not by China itself, to the first pneumonia cases in Wuhan. The UN health body has been accused by U.S. President Donald Trump of failing to provide the information needed to stem the pandemic and of being complacent towards Beijing, charges it denies. Initial timeline On April 9, WHO published an initial timeline of its communications. In that chronology, WHO had said only that the Wuhan municipal health commission in the province of Hubei had on December 31 reported cases of pneumonia. The UN health agency did not however specify who had notified it. WHO director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a press conference on April 20 that the first report had come from China, without specifying whether the report had been sent by Chinese authorities or another source. But a new chronology, published this week by the Geneva-based institution, offers a more detailed version of events.  It indicates that it was the WHO office in China that on December 31 notified its regional point of contact of a case of “viral pneumonia” after having found a declaration for the media on a Wuhan health commission website on the issue. The same day, WHO’s epidemic information service picked up another news report transmitted by the international epidemiological surveillance network ProMed about the same group of cases of pneumonia. After which, WHO asked the Chinese authorities on two occasions, on January 1 and January 2, for information about these cases, which they provided on January 3.
05 July 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. will complete CPEC at all costs: Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan vowed on Friday that his government would complete the ambitious China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) at “any cost” as the $60 billion project is a manifestation of the all-weather friendship between the two countries. Addressing a meeting held in Islamabad to review progress on the CPEC projects, Mr. Khan said the “gigantic multi-faceted initiative would guarantee a bright future for the nation”, the Dawn newspaper reported. Mr. Khan’s statement came a day after Chinese Foriegn Minister Wang Yi discussed the CPEC projects with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi during a phone conversation. A Chinese official last month admitted that the majority of the projects under the BRI are either adversely or partially affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
05 July 2020||Washington,||2 U.S. officers fired over racist gesture||Two U.S. police officers have been fired after a photo emerged showing them re-enacting a chokehold used on a black man at his memorial site, said Colorado police. Elijah McClain, 23, died after suffering cardiac arrest last August in Aurora three days after police put him in a chokehold and injected ketamine to sedate him. Police this week ordered a special investigation into his death, which came under the spotlight after the killing of George Floyd by police in May sparked nationwide anger and protests. Three officers imitated the chokehold that was used to subdue McClain last year.
05 July 2020||Ottawa,||Ottawa, July 4, 2020 (AFP) -||Canada’s ethics watchdog said on Friday that it has launched an investigation into Justin Trudeau, after a contract to manage a major government programme was awarded to a charity with links to Mr. Trudeau’s family. Conflict of Interest and Ethics Commissioner Mario Dion tweeted that he had “informed” Mr. Trudeau of the decision.AFP
05 July 2020||Kolkata,||CIL-NLC JV to spend Rs. 12,000 crore on solar||Coal India Ltd. (CIL) and NLC India will jointly develop solar power assets of 3,000 MW with a likely investment of about Rs. 12,000 crore, sources said on Saturday. The two state-run companies had on Friday said they would form a JV to develop 5,000 MW of solar and thermal power assets across the country. “A solar JV is already in process of formation with an initial capital of Rs. 10 lakh,” the sources said. “Once the company is formed, the respective company boards will decide the final contours of the project. At present, solar capex for each MW is around Rs. 4 crore,” they added. The government plans to impose 20% basic customs duty duty on imported solar panels to boost the domestic industry, the sources said. Solar developers have been largely dependent on Chinese equipment. Separate JV The thermal power project will be taken up by a separate JV after due diligence, they said. CIL has already installed solar projects of 4.83-MW capacity and these plants are generating about 4.6 million units of renewable energy annually, officials said. Core capabilites “This JV aims to utilise the core capabilities and infrastructure of CIL and NLCIL for the creation of power assets to harness renewable sources of energy. “The JV company will ensure sustainable growth and contribute to achieving the ambitious solar power programme of both” firms, Coal India said in a statement.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Mulling national logistics law’||The Commerce Ministry is considering replacing the Multi-Modal Transportation of Goods Act (MMTG) with a full-fledged national logistics law with a view to promote growth of the sector, a senior government official said on Saturday. Special Secretary in the logistics division of the Ministry, Pawan Agarwal said a National Logistics Efficiency and Advancement Predictability and Safety Act (NLEAPS) is under consideration and this law tends to define various participants of the logistics space and create a light regulatory ecosystem. “What the logistics sector is all about is not very clear to us as of now and in that direction, we need to clearly define what the logistics sector is and what the various elements in it are... We are considering replacing it with a full-fledged national logistics law.” NLEAPS is under consideration, he said at a webinar organised by industry chamber PHDCCI. Multimodal transportation refers to a combination of more than one mode of movement, such as rail, road or sea, for end-to-end delivery of goods. “We are working towards finalising a national logistics policy. We will be having consultations once the draft is finalised,” he added. The move assumes significance as high logistics cost impacts the competitiveness of domestic goods in the international market. Effective implementation of the policy would help provide an impetus to trade, enhance export competitiveness, and improve India’s ranking in the Logistics Performance Index. India’s logistics sector is highly fragmented and the government aims to reduce the logistics cost from the present 14% of the Gross Domestic Product to less than 10%. According to an earlier statement from the Ministry, the sector is complex, with more than 20 government agencies, 40 partnering agencies, 37 export promotion councils, 500 certifications and 10,000 commodities.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Demand may come back to normal by third quarter’||Operations at the Oragadam plant of the Indian subsidiary of Denmark-based Danfoss are back on track due to the green shoots seen in agriculture, medical / pharmaceutical, food processing, hospital infrastructure, IT services and other essential sectors, said its president Ravichandran Purushothaman in an interview. Edited excerpts:  Can you describe your plant operations under the new normal? All the three plants of Danfoss at Oragadam, near Chennai and Pune and Vadodara are operating as per the standard operating procedures (SOP) laid down by the respective State governments. At the Oragadam campus, we are operating at 40% of the total campus headcount and have prioritised 100% of the permitted headcount to keep the plant at full capacity. Sixty per cent are working from home. All our suppliers, located in different parts of the country, have responded very well and are supporting us at close to pre-COVID-19 levels. How did COVID-19 impact you? We were into lockdown since March 24. April sales was almost nil but we have started to see recovery in May that became even stronger in June. Our factory production has been continuous even during the lockdown as about 70% of our production is being exported to our customers directly, including to those in medical and food processing [sectors]. So, the government permitted us to operate with due adherence to all safety guidelines. We have been building a stronger ecosystem of local supplier base since the last six years and this has helped us to manage the crisis well. Our suppliers rose to the situation well; we provided all necessary support to them to restart and recover fast. Our suppliers, who were exporting to global plants, were initially interrupted in April, and are now back stronger. Chennai campus is a critical global factory for medical, pharmaceutical and food industries and we got very good support from all stakeholders. Can we assume that recovery has started? We have added close to 200 new colleagues in H1 2020 (January – June 2020) for our various expansion projects and most of the new hiring is for the Chennai campus. It was a great experience to use digital/virtual technology for hiring and onboarding new colleagues. Overall, the recovery of demand has been mixed. We see green shoots in agriculture, farm machinery, food processing, pharmaceuticals, vaccine storage and IT service sectors. There is a recovery in demand in these sectors and we are now back close to pre-COVID-19 levels. However, when it comes to core sectors /traditional industries such as engineering and heavy machinery and road construction, the market is still down as infrastructure spending has not taken off in a big way. It is a mixed bag for the customers of our customers i.e medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs). About 40% have restarted on the road to recovery, another 40% is in the process of restarting and 20% is suffering due to intensive lockdown. Cash flow in tier 2 and 3 segments is still a major challenge but its slowly easing up. What is the outlook for Danfoss India? Our financial year is January–December, and we just completed our half year. It is really hard to predict the outlook for the remaining six months as there is no clear visibility now. If the R of COVID-19 index (a key factor in gauging the pandemic) drops below one, we can confidently predict a little bit into, may be, the next two quarters. As we follow the government guidelines, which are dynamic, it’s very hard to predict. We now take on things day by day and no two days are the same. In fact, as we speak, we have housed our critical resources close to the campus since June third week as inter-district movement was restricted during the intense lockdown in Greater Chennai. Our company buses were not allowed to pick up employees from neighbouring districts and it has added to our cost of production. We hope things stabilise soon and settle down to a new normal. Inventory had piled up in April. But, the improvement in May and June eased it up a little bit. Demand has picked up and hope it will come back to normalcy by the third quarter. We are staying optimistic to see if we can at least get back to last year’s levels, which looks tough but we are staying confident about the next two quarters. Tell us more about the operations. Travel has reduced. Plant is fully operational. Technology adoption of IoT and robotics on the automation side is tremendous. Webinars and online training were extensively used as engagement tools during the lockdown, with our customers and partners across India very effectively. As we are a young organisation, initially there was a lot of anxiety. We kept the workforce posted about COVID-19 and Danfoss’s responsiveness. We had our colleagues commissioning equipment online across India and also trouble-shooting virtually, especially in late May when Unlock 1.0 happened. Some of these changes in behaviour will stay in the new normal.  When it comes to core sectors such as road construction, the market is still down as infrastructure spending has not taken off in a big way
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sheela Foam bats for demand side steps||With almost 80% of its stores now open, albeit with reduced working hours, Sheela Foam — the makers of the Sleepwell brand of mattress — is witnessing 55-60% business returning with the easing of the lockdown, driven by pent-up demand, a senior company official said. However, the company feels there is a need for measures on the demand side for a turnaround. “About 20% of our stores are in the red zones. Our estimate is that business is back at 55-60% due to pent- up demand,” Rahul Gautam, MD, Sheela Foam, told The Hindu. “It is slowly climbing... going through stops and starts.” Demand pressure He added the company was witnessing demand pressure in some bigger towns such as Mumbai and Delhi, which have seen an increase in the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Gautam said while the government had introduced measures to aid the supply side, there was also a need to boost demand. “The government has been doing a lot on the supply side but our view is that measures are needed on the demand side as well... if that is not taken care of... as long as there is no demand, opening of showrooms will not help; there would not be a turnaround,” he said. The company also announced that it would donate 10,000 bedding units consisting of mattresses, pillows and beds for the world’s largest isolation facility coming up in New Delhi, as part of its corporate social responsibility. Mr. Gautam said the specially-designed beds can be assembled in under five minutes, are water-resistant and made of 100% natural and recyclable corrugated hardboard. Special design Likewise, the mattresses have been designed for long hours of sleeping and sitting and come with a special cover for easy wiping and sanitising, according to Mr. Gautam. Sheela Foam, in its financial results for 2019-20 announced recently, estimated the loss of revenue at Rs. 100 crore from three markets — India (Rs. 75 crore), Australia (Rs. 15 crore) and Spain (Rs. 10 crore) on account of COVID-19. “These months have helped us forget the year before the COVID-19 year when there was a slowdown…The year (FY20) was not as good as what we planned it to be,” said Mr. Gautam. Sheela Foam shares closed at Rs. 1,448.45 on the BSE on Friday.    Our business is slowly climbing... going through stops and startsRahul GautamMD, Sheela Foam
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||WhatsApp rolls out brand campaign||WhatsApp said it is unveiling its ‘It’s Between You’ brand campaign in India, showcasing stories about how Indians are using the Facebook-owned platform to communicate in a secure manner. WhatsApp collaborated with Bollywood director Gauri Shinde along with BBDO India to create two advertisements that highlight how its features such as texts or even a voice message (which is end-to-end encrypted) help replicate in-person conversations, it said. With more than 400 million users, India is among the biggest markets for WhatsApp. “The campaign narrates real stories about how Indians communicate daily on WhatsApp with their closest relationships,” Facebook India’s director- marketing Avinash Pant told PTI.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||Levy challan covers NR e-com vendors||The Income Tax department has brought in changes to the challan for paying the equalisation levy by expanding its scope to include non-resident e-commerce players supplying goods or services online. Over two dozen non-resident tech companies would come under the purview of the equalisation levy which was introduced in Budget 2020-21 and has come into effect from April 1. Its first instalment is due on July 7. The 2% tax would be levied on consideration received by such companies from e-commerce supply or services. The challan also seeks mandatory PAN of the deductor. Non-resident digital companies were awaiting a detailed FAQ for clarity on issues around the equalisation levy, said Nangia Andersen LLP Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala.
05 July 2020||Mumbai,||Omron, Lupin plan 100 Nebulization Rooms for asthma patients in India||Omron Healthcare India, a healthcare monitoring brand from Japan, in a strategic alliance with Lupin Ltd. is planning to set up and run 100 respiratory disease management facilities called nebulisation rooms in hospitals for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients. The objective is to support the whole journey of a respiratory patient right from diagnosis to treatment.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jaiprakash says MD (Cement) Sunny Gaur resigns||Debt-ridden Jaiprakash Associates on Saturday informed that its MD (Cement) Sunny Gaur had resigned. The board of directors had accepted the resignation tendered by Mr. Gaur citing personal reasons, Jaiprakash Associates said in a filing. “The board of directors has accepted the resignation with effect from the date of passing of the resolution,” it said.PTI
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||Reliance launches unlimited free conferencing app JioMeet as competition to Zoom||Reliance Industries has unveiled JioMeet video conferencing app with unlimited free calling that is seen as a rate war on rival Zoom. The app is available across Android, iOS, Windows, macOS and web. As per company website, unlike Zoom, it does not impose a time limit. Calls can go on for 24 hours and all meetings are encrypted and password-protected.PTI
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||RERA authorities pitch for one-time debt recast in realty; ask builders to comply with orders||Real estate regulators will write within a week to the RBI, seeking a one-time debt restructuring for the industry to help developers overcome liquidity issues, Uttar Pradesh RERA Chairman Rajive Kumar said. Industry bodies CREDAI and Naredco have been making the demand to restructure loans in order to prevent bad loans and make them eligible for fresh borrowings.PTI
05 July 2020||Spielberg,||Bottas in pole position||Finland’s Valtteri Bottas will start the Formula One season on pole position after denying Mercedes team mate and six-times World champion Lewis Hamilton the top slot on Saturday. The front-row lockout by Mercedes equalled Ferrari’s record of 65, and the “Black Arrows” were in a private duel at the scenic Red Bull Ring. “It feels really good, I’ve missed this feeling,” said Bottas of a third career Austrian GP pole after 2017 and 2018, and one secured despite going into the gravel on his final flying lap. “Our team has done an amazing job, we seem to be in our own league.” Hamilton was a mere 0.012 slower than the Finn’s time of one minute 02.939 seconds, set on his first run, after lapping fastest in all three practice sessions. Young Norris fourth Red Bull’s Max Verstappen, winner of the past two races at his team’s home circuit, qualified third but as the sole driver in the top 10 on the medium tyres. McLaren’s Lando Norris, at 20 the youngest man in the race, will line up an impressive fourth. Ferrari struggled, however, with four-time champion Sebastian Vettel failing to reach the final phase of qualifying and starting 11th while Charles Leclerc, on pole last year, ended up seventh on the grid. “Of course, it’s a surprise, we thought we had a little bit more in hand but it seems the others were probably running a little bit more fuel or were more conservative in practice,” Vettel said. “I wasn’t so happy with the car, more oversteer in entry than I would like. But we will see, I think tomorrow is a different picture.”  Meanwhile, Formula One said in a statement that 4,032 tests of drivers, teams and personnel, conducted between June 26 and July 2, have returned negative for COVID-19. Protest rejected In an earlier development, stewards rejected a Red Bull protest against the Dual Axis Steering (DAS) system used by Mercedes in practice.
05 July 2020||Chennai,||Sekhar remains optimistic despite the saliva ban||The coming days are bound to be challenging for pacemen around the world with the ICC banning the use of saliva on the ball owing to COVID-19 concerns. Former India paceman and noted coach T.A. Sekhar believes it is still possible for the pacemen to be effective. He said to The Hindu , “The pacemen will have to depend on cross seam. By landing the ball on one side you can get the sphere to roughen up on one side.” Sekhar added, “Then, if the shiny side hits the surface the ball will tend to skid off the pitch, troubling the batsmen. And if the ball hits the seam, it will tend to pop up.” Old-fashioned ‘cutter’ Bowling the old-fashioned but still highly effective cutters could be another method to minimise the loss of saliva on the ball. “Your accuracy and control will determine how effective the cutters are. You can take the leg-cutter away from the right hander, bring the ball back with the off-cutter. If the pitch develops cracks, these cutters can be lethal,” said Sekhar, Talking about the tour of Australia, which will be the next major Test challenge for India, Sekhar said, “The kookaburra ball, which will be used for the series, does not move around conventionally after the first 20 overs.” Sekhar explained, “After that, it will be reverse swing and that will be key.”  Providing fascinating insight, Sekhar said pace legend Dennis Lillee once told him, “We used sweat and saliva on one side of the ball to make it heavy. The ball used to swing the other way. We used to call that ‘Irish’ — not reverse swing.” With saliva out of the picture now, Sekhar said skilful polishing of one side of the ball on trousers, even without saliva, could create the contrast with one side becoming smooth and the other heavier. And the Kookaburra ball, with its diffused seam, will start reversing from around 30 overs. One of the best Sekhar said, “India has one of the best exponents of reverse swing in Mohammed Shami. I expect him to still reverse the ball. “Then don’t forget, the Australian pitches are hard and the paceman who bends his back will be able to extract bounce. So bounce will always remain a threat with someone like Jasprit Bumrah around.” Even without saliva, Sekhar sees plenty of room for optimism. “They will have to learn to bowl with a dry ball.”  The fast bowlers will have to depend on cross seam
05 July 2020||Shanghai,||‘Super Dan’ hangs up his racquet||China's two-time Olympic champion Lin Dan, arguably the greatest badminton player of all time, announced his retirement on Saturday aged 36. It means that ‘Super Dan’, who won gold at the Beijing 2008 and London 2012 Games, will not compete at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, pushed back to next summer because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The end of Lin's glorious career comes just over a year after the retirement of his great rival and friend, Malaysian star Lee Chong Wei. The duo reigned over badminton for more than a decade and relinquished that hold only in recent years as their powers waned. Lin, who had something of a “bad boy” reputation during his younger days and sports several tattoos — unusual for Chinese athletes — ends with 666 singles wins and a glut of medals. “My family, coaches, teammates and fans have accompanied me through many peaks and difficult troughs,” he said in a post on China's social media platform Weibo. “Every forceful jump was a desire for victory. I have dedicated everything to this sport I love.” Lee called his nemesis Lin “my greatest opponent”. “Please believe that the laughter, tears and all the promises are unforgettable diary entries. Proud of you,” the 37-year-old Lee wrote on Weibo.
05 July 2020||KOLKATA,||Sonia Lather has a secret up her sleeve||Banking on her fitness and experience, former World Championships silver medallist boxer Sonia Lather is working on a ‘secret plan’ to beat her younger opponents in the country before seeking a berth for the Tokyo Olympics. Preparing to reach Patiala on Sunday, Sonia — who would be among the first batch of boxers to report for the National camp resumption — was eager to switch to high intensity training. “I don’t have any passion other than boxing. I worked hard on increasing my strength during the lockdown. I also tried a few things around my movement. I want to improve further under the supervision of the coaches,” Sonia told The Hindu on Saturday. Acknowledging the stiff competition — especially from World Championships silver medallist Sonia Chahal, World youth champion Sakshi Chaudhary and Asian bronze medallist Manisha Moun — in the 57kg weight class, the 28-year-old said, “I have a secret plan (to tackle my opponents) which I cannot reveal. The kind of load I am taking during my training will help me.” Sonia, who prepared an exercise tool by putting a bar on two tree trunks in the backyard of her home at Julana in Jind district of Haryana, focused on fitness during the lockdown. “Fitness has always been my priority. You may ask anyone in the camp about my fitness. I respect time and love discipline. Even in the lockdown I took care of these things.” Even though she has been in and out of the scheme of things over the years, Sonia, an Arjuna award winner, has never run out of patience. “If you fight problems, you gather a lot of energy. I believe in participating in events and giving my best. I avoid complaining. “I am ready for the Olympics challenge,” said Sonia.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Can’t even train, let alone compete: Sania||Six-time Grand Slam winner Sania Mirza felt that not having a timeline to prepare for tournaments was the biggest challenge for an athlete, especially during the current lockdown. “Any athlete always tries to work for something like preparing for a tournament, train accordingly and try to peak at the right time,” Sania told The Hindu . “Right now, there is so much uncertainty and you are not even sure when you can practice, let alone compete." Difficult phase “I am very scared and not even going out. It’s a very difficult phase for everyone across the world and a crisis which is not in our control,” the 33-year-old said. “I am not even daring to train much on the court (she has one adjacent to her home) because you never know what is going to hit you. It’s a different kind of challenge,” she said. “More importantly, I have to also think like a mother, not just as an athlete, [and] take care of my toddler (Izhaan). I just cannot take the risk of playing and inviting any serious trouble. Of course, the best part of this break is being with my son. He is growing, learning a lot of things and the joy of a parent watching this process is priceless,” Sania said with a smile. Serious impact The former World No.1 said that if the lockdown kept stretching, it would have a serious impact on many a career. “Definitely, I cannot afford to travel in this grim scenario and also take the liberty of taking my son around or being away from him. Unless there is a magical vaccine, I cannot think of even playing for some time. “So, let’s wait and watch how things evolve. We can come through this phase should be the belief.”
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen in dazzling form||Magnus Carlsen dismantled the defences of Anish Giri to take a 1-0 lead in the second set of the $150,000 Chessable Masters on Saturday. After winning the first 3.5-2.5 by clinching the second blitz game on Saturday, Carlsen returned to produce a sheer masterpiece. He blitzed his moves and at one stage gained two minutes to the 15 minutes of starting time. On the other hand, Giri fell back on the clock. Carlsen sacrificed a central pawn and later gave up a rook to weave a foolproof checkmating net. Giri, with only four seconds left to Carlsen’s 7:42 minutes, resigned.  The results:   Final: Set Two: Rapid: Game One: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Anish Giri (Ned); Set One: Rapid: Game One: Draw; Two: Carlsen won; Three: Draw; Four: Giri won; Blitz: Game One: Draw; Two: Carlsen won .
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Bad day for Daruvala||India’s Jehan Daruvala had a disappointing debut in the FIA Formula 2 championship, finishing 12th in the first race of the weekend in Spielberg, Austria, on Saturday. Starting from the sixth position, Daruvala dropped three places at the start before he was hit by Carlin Racing teammate Yuki Tsunoda on the opening lap, pushing him down to the back of the grid.
05 July 2020||Coimbatore,||Racing driver Mrinalini fails dope test||Formula-4 driver Mrinalini Singh has tested positive for a banned substance from a sample taken during the National Racing Championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here in July last year. The National Anti Doping Agency (NADA) communicated to her that it had found a beta-blocker — a class of medication used to manage abnormal heart rhythms, but also a prohibited substance on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) list — in her sample. “I really do not understand what’s going wrong and what will go wrong from here,” Mrinalini told The Hindu from Bengaluru. “It’s almost a year since they took the test at Coimbatore and now they say I tested positive.” Mrinalini said she had taken an ‘Inderal’ pill after the race, “prescribed as an SOS for me by the doctor” after she had had “a severe headache due to the immense heat”. FMSCI secretary-general Rajan Syal, who advised Mrinalini to contact the racing body’s medical commission in Delhi, said, “WADA’s list is very exhaustive and many times sportspersons are caught out due to the medicines they take. In her case, she had probably taken the beta-blocker by mistake.” Mrinalini has responded to NADA with her doctor’s report.
05 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||Man United runs riot||Manchester United powered into fourth place in the Premier League with a 5-2 rout of struggling Bournemouth, while Leicester got back on track with a 3-0 win against Crystal Palace on Saturday. Third placed Leicester, three points above United as the race to make it to the Champions League hots up, got full points thanks to Iheanacho and Vardy’s double strike.  The results:   Premier League: Norwich 0 lost to Brighton 1 (Trossard 25); Leicester 3 (Iheanacho 49, Vardy 77, 90+4) bt Crystal Palace 0.   Manchester United 5 (Greenwood 29, 54; Rashford 35-pen, Martial 45+2, Fernandes 59) bt Bournemouth 2 (Stanislas 15, King 49-pen).   LaLiga: Friday: Atletico Madrid 3 (Morata 29-pen, 45, Koke 79) bt Real Mallorca 0.
05 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||One of the greatest: Gopi||India’s chief National coach P. Gopi Chand has the rare distinction of having a 2-1 head-to-head record against one of the all-time greats of world badminton, Lin Dan. So, when the Chinese legend called it quits, Gopi took pride in his encounters with him even as he hailed him as “one of the greatest” shuttlers ever. “I am somebody who is not comfortable in giving ratings to any athlete. But, I would certainly rate Lin Dan as one of the greatest ever to grace the sport,” Gopi told The Hindu . “To hold your own place when some of your contemporaries are equally great players like Taufik [Hidayat], Lee Chong Wei and Peter Gade is something that speaks of his mastery. “When Lin Dan started off, he was an exceptionally attacking player like most Chinese. But the way he adapted to shore up his defence and turn it into his biggest strength is something everyone is in awe of.” What stood out in Lin Dan’s game was his ability to close out a match, Gopi felt. “The sport will surely miss the great Lin Dan though I felt he should have retired three years ago, for, in the recent past he was never the same player for various reasons. “But again, Lin Dan remains a very, very special player famed for his no-nonsense approach with a high level of mental toughness.”
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Salary cap for Indian coaches to go||The Sports Ministry is set to remove the Rs. 2 lakh per month cap for Indian coaches, fulfilling a long-standing demand in an attempt to bring parity and encourage more Indians to turn to professional coaching. They would also be given four-year contracts, subject to annual review, at par with foreign coaches. “The government is keen to attract the best coaches from across the country to train elite athletes and we do not want the cap on compensation to be a deterrent,” Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said.
05 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Salvi named Puducherry head coach||Former India seamer Aavishkar Salvi has been appointed head coach of the Puducherry senior team for the upcoming domestic season. It was confirmed by a Cricket Association of Pondicherry (CAP) official who also informed that former Mumbai First Class cricketer Onkar Khanvilkar will be assistant coach and former Rajasthan keeper Dishant Yagnik will don the role of a fielding coach. All the appointments are for one season. The 38-year old Salvi replaces former Karnataka batsman J. Arun Kumar. “Salvi had done a good job when he coached Pondicherry during first season. So, we have gone back to him. He is a nice guy and knows the players well,” the CAP official said. Confirming the development, Salvi, a former Mumbai player, said, “This is my second stint with Puducherry as I was their head coach for the first season. This time, they have reappointed me. “It is exciting. We don’t know when the cricket season will start because of COVID-19, how cricket will be played, but still if an association is preparing itself, it is a good thing to be part of it,” added Salvi, who played four ODIs for India.
05 July 2020||LONDON,||Recreational cricket to return in England on July 11||The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has announced the resumption of recreational cricket in England from July 11 after Prime Minister Boris Johnson gave the green light.PTI
05 July 2020||LONDON,||Bess named in England squad||Spinner Dom Bess was named in England’s 13-man squad for the first Test against West Indies from July 8 and there was no place for Moeen Ali among nine reserves, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) said on Saturday.  The squad: Ben Stokes (Capt.), James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Dominic Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler, Zak Crawley, Joe Denly, Ollie Pope, Dom Sibley, Chris Woakes, and Mark Wood. Reserves: James Bracey, Sam Curran, Ben Foakes, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Saqib Mahmood, Craig Overton, Ollie Robinson, and Olly Stone .
05 July 2020||Srinagar,||Maths al fresco as COVID-19 pandemic, slow Internet stall classes in Kashmir Valley||Dawn evokes unpleasant memories in Kashmir — usually associated with anti-militancy operations by security forces. However, one early morning initiative has kindled hope and won hearts in the troubled region — an open-air coaching class in the open, amidst tall English willows. The challenge Twenty days ago when Muneer Alam, a mathematics teacher and engineer, decided to resume his classes amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the challenge was finding a suitable venue. “The SOPs suggested avoiding closed rooms. I took a walk around the city to look for a venue and decided to set up a trial class at the Eidgah,” Mr. Alam told The Hindu . Around seven kilometres away from his house in the Malbagh area, Eidgah is Srinagar's largest prayer ground, mostly used for congregational prayers on the occasion of Id. “There is a dried swamp at one corner of this sprawling ground. The grass around it tall enough to act as a wall against the morning chill,” Mr. Alam explains on why he chose the spot for his open-air classes. And the enthusiastic teacher certainly has filled crying need as his classes have seen students come in from across the city. “Twenty days on, the students, stuck at home due to the lockdown, have started multiplying and the parents are feeling encouraged,” Mr. Alam said. Around 70 students gather at the open-air venue from as early as 5 a.m. and the classes end by 7: 15 a.m. “Even before the dawn breaks, these students even from far-off areas of Srinagar start assembling. The timing suited us because it’s not noisy and the movement is minimal, helping to avoid any contact and maintain social distancing,” Mr. Alam said. The sessions are the first return to academics for high school students of grades XI and XII. “I used to teach 350 to 400 students during “normal” times. As abnormality becomes normal, more and more students are coming forward,” said Mr. Alam. He was forced to stop his online classes due to non-availability of 4G connections in the Valley. “The Internet speed is 2G and gets suspended every time an encounter takes place. Mathematics requires extra attention on details. I could see my students slipping into a cycle of depression,” the dedicated teacher said.  “The time has come to declare education an essential service like health. If our students fail to pick up the fundamentals of the subject, the handicap is going to stay with them. Given the competition, I don't want my students to suffer in their careers. This is not about money but a generation’s future is at stake,” Mr. Alam added. Mahira and Saima Hameed, both grade XII students, echo their teacher teacher. “It’s hard to take lessons on 2G Internet. Also mathematics needs to be taught in a group so we can learn better,” they said. Shadow of violence But it has not been smooth sailing for the teacher and students. “An encounter broke out in my area on Thursday night. I was worried if the students could reach the venue. I had to leave early, despite the ongoing operation in the area, to ensure that my students are safe. Security forces were all around the venue. We had to cancel classes for the day,” Mr. Alam recalled. Despite the difficulties, his initiative has motivated other teachers, too. “I have received appreciation from as far away as teachers in Bangladesh! They have been motivated to resume their classes in the outdoors,” he said. His initiative has galvanised a movement, with scores of other teachers in the Valley looking for open-air venues to restart classes, with the pandemic showing no signs of dying down. Fresh guidelines have been issued in Kashmir, as the cases and deaths due to COVID-19 continued to rise.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 07:46 IST,||Sudoku - July 5, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A voice all her own||On March 31, 1865, in Pune, a girl child was born to Gangabai and Ganpatrao Joshi — their fifth child, whom they named Yamuna. On her ninth birthday, March 31, 1874, she was married to Gopalrao Joshee, a widower of about 26, employed as a postmaster at Thane. She was from then known as Anandibai — a name chosen for her by her husband Gopalrao. In her short life of just 22 years, she made history by becoming the first Indian woman to be trained as a medical doctor, at the Women’s Medical College of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia. Consumed by tuberculosis, she died in 1887, soon after her return to India with an MD degree in medicine (1886). She had accepted an offer to take charge of the Edward Albert Memorial Hospital in Kolhapur, which unfortunately never materialised. In many ways, her life was similar to that of Srinivasa Ramanujan (1887 -1920) who shook the world of mathematics, but died young of tuberculosis aggravated by malnourishment and lack of care. Certainly, her achievements ought to be celebrated as no less a feat. Against patriarchy The book Fragmented Feminism chronicles the time from which Yamuna became Anandibai until the day she died. The book reveals Anandibai as she was — through her own letters and in her own voice, with helpful annotations by the author Meera Kosambi and three editors — Ram Ramaswamy, Madhavi Kolhatkar and Aban Mukherji. It reveals her flowering individuality, determination and agency in the face of a strongly patriarchal culture, a domineering, volatile husband and the travails of living in an unfamiliar land so far from home. The letters also underline the impact of this patriarchy on her. In her stint away from home, she appears to have thrown off the shackles of her caste pride and deep-seated nationalism, conservatism. Two passages from the book are worth mentioning here as a sample of the cultural milieu of the time and the pressure she might have felt in being married to a person with the complex character of Gopalrao. The first is about a public address in 1883 in India that she chose to make herself — “Why do I go to America?” — in which she addresses six questions that were posed to her often. She states: “In my humble opinion there is a growing need for Hindu lady doctors in India, and I volunteer to qualify myself for one.” To the question “Are there no means to study in India?” she replies thus: “[T]he instructors who teach these classes are conservative and to some extent jealous... That is characteristic of the male sex. We must put up with this inconvenience until we have a class of educated ladies to relieve these men.” This is a bold indictment of the gender question in education, at a time when women’s education was not a priority. Inspiring journey The second passage that highlights the environment she lived in and how she dealt with it is from a letter written to her husband after reaching America. She is full of reasoning and entreaty: “Don’t misunderstand and make me suffer so. It is very difficult to decide whether your treatment of me was good or bad. If you ask me I would say it was both... Hitting me with broken pieces of wood at the tender age of ten, flinging chairs and books at me and threatening to leave me when I was twelve, and inflicting other strange punishments on me when I was fourteen — all these were too severe for the age, body and mind at each respective stage...” It was against all these odds that Anandibai became the first Indian woman doctor. Ironically, when she was dying, the healing power of this very trade was denied her, as the book reveals. In India, Kesari and The Mahratta, run by Bal Gangadhar Tilak, were quick to take up stories on the Joshees who were portrayed as social reformers. Pandita Ramabai, on the other hand, who had travelled to England for her education and converted to Christianity there, was strongly criticised by this section, even though she was doing well. Ramabai was invited by Anandibai’s mentor, Dean Bodley, for the latter’s graduation ceremony, and Ramabai travelled to America just for this. Anandibai wrote of Ramabai thus: “...her courage has outweighed that of the sternest and bravest warrior.” This book is a deep, frank look at a life of endeavour and difficult journeys, both literal and metaphorical, cross-cultural interaction, purpose and providence — a worthy one to collect.  A Fragmented Feminism: The Life and Letters of Anandibai Joshee Meera Kosambi Edited by Ram Ramaswamy & Others Routledge  Rs. 995    In her stint away from home, she appears to have thrown off the shackles of her caste pride and deep-seated nationalism and conservatism
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘You are a total country bumpkin, da’||Whenever Amma’s brother and sister-in-law visited, Amma couldn’t hold still for a minute. He was Amma’s only brother, older and, more importantly, slightly better off than them. That was why Amma was in a frenzy that morning, as if possessed by a spirit. How many times would she walk back and forth between the house and the veranda! She held a flask in her hand and walked into the house. Then she turned back and went to the veranda as if she had forgotten something. Then she stopped to talk to them. And to Akka. Akka mumbled something quietly to herself. Appa and Maama were in conversation. His Annan was on the cot, curled and twisted like a tied-up sack. Even though the boy was awake, he continued to lie down and did not get up. It was all the exhaustion from the day before. The boy’s irritation and anger at Amma had still not been assuaged. How sharp-tongued was this same Amma just the day before. Look at how she was fluttering about gleefully on seeing her brother and sister-in-law! If not for Appa, he would have lost control of himself in his ire. And wouldn’t have recovered from the fizzy light-headedness. Or the shame he was subject to — as if he was stripped naked, tied to a pole and whipped. All this over a paltry issue. It all started two days ago in school. The boys were chasing each other around playfully in their classroom. The maths teacher had not yet arrived. The boy and Ravi were very close. They had plenty of petty fights and angry exchanges between them also. Sometimes they threw blows at each other and brawled quite fiercely. When the maths teacher did not show up, these two suddenly began to chase each other around the class. He jumped over desks and benches but Ravi chased him relentlessly. The whole class was chaotic and no one knew what was going on. Ravi chased him everywhere and finally caught him in the corner of the class. In the giddiness of his victory, he pinched him on his hand. Once on his cheek. Once on his hip. And as he pinched him on his thigh, he shouted out, ‘Dei, he isn’t wearing any underwear!’ Senthil, Murali and Balu all got together, surrounded him and pinched him hard all over his front and back. They mocked and laughed at him. He shrank into himself and held on tightly to his shorts. His eyes were brimming with tears and on the verge of spilling over any minute. The pain from all the pinches was also unbearable. Until then, he didn’t think that not wearing underwear was something to be made fun of. Ravi pulled him aside later and explained himself. With guilt. ‘Dei, I did all that in the madness of the moment. Thoughtlessly.’ ‘It is okay, da...’ ‘Are you not wearing one only today or do you not wear one at all?’ ‘Should I be wearing one? I didn’t know, da.’ Ravi gave a very awkward smile. He said after a little while, with some reservation, squirming the entire time, ‘You are a total country bumpkin, da. We are in tenth standard. We are going to be in plus one next year. We have to wear full pants like college students. We are now older, aren’t we? Wear underwear, da.’ At home, the boy couldn’t ask just anyone to buy underwear. He was too embarrassed to walk into a store and buy any by himself. The commotion they had created in class the other day was eroding his peace. With extreme reluctance, he bought a few from a vendor at a street corner. He kept the underwear in a bin. Amma was gathering clothes to wash when her eyes fell on them. ‘Whose are these?’ she asked. ‘These are mine, Amma. I bought them.’ ‘Why now, we seem to have crossed international borders here. Is your penis not staying down if you wear only your shorts?’ Amma’s words fell like a scythe on his chest. He burst into tears and cried loudly. Appa came running and held him against his chest. ‘Get lost, you donkey of a woman! Don’t you know what to say to your son?’ ‘What does she know? I will buy you better ones. What does she know about current trends? Will you cry for all this now?’ But Appa’s words did not mend the wounds. He didn’t eat dinner that night. Appa tried pacifying him in several ways and gave up after a while. Amma got a lot of scolding. That gave him some satisfaction. ‘Let it go now. What would Maama and Atthai think if I keep lying down like this just because I am angry with Amma?’ He got up and came out. Appa and Maama were sitting on the cot, Atthai was sitting on the plinth. She saw him and made a comment without moving her heavy body, tilting her head slightly from where she was. ‘So, the master had to sleep in until now? Kids who study well would have woken up early and started studying by now. But you?’ ‘When did you arrive?’ he politely inquired with a wide grin and tried to slip away to wash his face. His eyes were puffed up and red. He didn’t know why the two of them had come over so early. Maama was a masonry foreman. They lived in Karattur. Atthai always spoke in a chiding tone. Her eyes grew large, her nostrils flared up and her lips alternated between being bunched up and spread out when she spoke. She had a dominating demeanour. Maama was docile. Since the boy was so used to them, he wasn’t being particularly mindful around them. ‘Why don’t you come by... Maama has brought half a dozen jackfruits. Who’s there to eat all that? If you come over, you can bring some back, can’t you?’ ‘I will come, Atthai.’ Appa and Maama were engrossed in their conversation about politics and paid no heed to them. Both of them were ardent fans of ‘Thalaivar’, ‘the revolutionary leader’, one of the two most famous actors of that time who went on to become the chief minister of Tamil Nadu eventually. There was not a Thalaivar movie that Appa had not watched. He did not watch anyone else’s movies either. He didn’t care at all for the other popular actor — ‘Thilagam’, as he was known. The actor of all actors. ‘Thoppaiyan’ was what Appa called him. Pot-bellied. Earlier, there was a Rama Talkies where they screened Thalaivar’s movies back to back once every week. He always went only for the second show. Occasionally, he took the boy along as well. They would clean sand off the floor and watch the movie sitting on it. It was a miracle that the talkies had not exploded into bits with all the whistling and cheering from the fans. They were building a bigger movie theatre in Karattur town. ‘From now on, there won’t be any more dawns for the party with the symbol of sunrise. Back then, he partnered with that lady and managed to win.’ ‘That was a higher-level election. Even though that fell apart, it was Thalaivar who won here. As long as he is alive no one can move him from the position.’ ‘One should take heart. And look at that Thoppaiyan. An absolute miser who wouldn’t even shoo a crow away while he is eating for fear of losing crumbs to it. But this man, he doesn’t have any children, any successor. He will give away all that he has to the people.’ Because the two of them were in complete agreement, they could talk for hours on end like this. And if they started talking about movies, they would go over them scene by scene and relish every detail. They didn’t need food, water. He seated himself next to his aunt. Atthai called for Akka... Extracted fromRising Heatby Perumal Murugan (trs Janani Kannan) published by Penguin Random House India.  Amma’s words fell like a scythe on his chest. He burst into tears and cried loudly. Appa came running and held him against his chest
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||On a wish and a prayer||If Anita Sharma*, an ASHA worker (or Accredited Social Health Activist), had a Twitter account, she could have tagged @drharshvardhan, the health minister, and introduced herself thus: My name is Anita. My job profile has changed since the coronavirus pandemic. These days I work for more than 12 hours. My meagre salary of Rs. 2,000 per month, which was only raised to Rs. 4,000 last year, has not been paid. In fact, I have not been paid at all since February. The social media platform may have amplified her voice and drawn the attention of the movers and shakers. It might have also led to a flurry of tweets of commiseration. The outrage and publicity generated might have even raised hopes that her salary backlog would be credited into her account in one lump sum. But that was not meant to be. Instead, Anita keeps her head low, covers her face with a mask stitched from her old clothes, washes her hands as frequently as she can (she doesn’t want to run out of the only 500ml bottle of santiser given by the government), and goes about her job in Haryana with a prayer on her lips. “They expect us to do everything but don’t give us even the minimum protection,” says Anita. Anita leaves home by 8 a.m. every day, going house to house, checking on people, specifically the children, the aged, and pregnant women. On an average day, she visits 25 homes and prepares a list that is updated every day. She could mean the difference between life and death for many people. Grassroots work For every health scheme launched by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, it is women like Anita who step in to implement it at the grassroots level. From distributing iron tablets to checking on immunisation schedules of babies and pregnant women to carrying out periodic checks on TB patients, Anita’s job has expanded now to watching out for signs of COVID-19 and counselling people. She also keeps an eye on migrant workers who have returned after their livelihoods evaporated overnight. She ensures they are observing their quarantine period in the designated centres. Besides all this, she also disseminates pandemic precaution tips to her flock. At the forefront of India’s healthcare system, which is now creaking under the weight of the pandemic, are nine lakh ASHA workers like Anita who are soldiering on — unarmed, unprotected and poorly paid. Their job is thankless. Many of them have had to deal with hostility. “In Kozhikode, one worker’s scooter was damaged when she asked a group of men to disperse during the lockdown. Some men ask why they should listen to a woman,” says P.P. Prema, an ASHA worker from Kerala. Worse, it is estimated that 20 ASHA workers nationwide have succumbed to COVID-19. Bheemakka, 51, an ASHA worker, died while on duty in Badanakatte village in Ballari district, Karnataka, on May 13. Her relatives kept the body in the hospital for an entire day, seeking insurance for the COVID-19 warrior. The doctors argued that she had died of a cardiac arrest, had tested negative, and was therefore not eligible. The local MLA and other leaders promised they would discuss her case with the Chief Minister, but are yet to respond. As this goes to print, two ASHA workers, one anganwadi worker, and one health assistant who tested positive in Karnataka have returned home after hospitalisation for COVID-19 and recovery. Renuka Renukegoudar, an anganwadi worker from Hirebagewadi in Karnataka’s Belagavi district, has also recovered only recently. She said that even though rules specify that doctors and paramedical staff have to also do the rounds in containment zones, nobody ever turns up. “Only ASHA and anganwadi workers do the difficult work of door-to-door surveys, detecting positive cases, tracing primary and secondary contacts, patrolling containment zones, and distributing food and medicines. In some villages, where neighbours were not ready to sell food or milk to former patients, I had to bring food from my house,” says Renuka. Being boycotted Renuka was working in a high-risk area with a cluster of 20 cases when she tested positive. When she returned home after recovery, she was boycotted by the villagers. “My neighbours stayed away from me and my daughter. Even at work, I faced stigma. A lot of us have unfounded fears about the disease. Most people want to avoid you, even if you have been cured.” Renuka has been an anganwadi worker for 19 years now, beginning with a salary of Rs. 800 and now earning Rs. 10,000 a month. Workers’ unions have come out strongly against the insensitive handling of frontline health warriors. S. Varalakshmi, president of the ASHA Karyakartara Sangha in Karnataka, says: “The government maintains that Bheemakka did not die on duty. She was on duty when she collapsed. She died on the way to the hospital. How can it be treated as not dying on duty? We have demanded that all ASHA and anganwadi workers and health assistants be regularised or treated on par with other regular employees and given all benefits such as insurance.” Wherever ASHA workers are part of a strong union, they get heard. In Maharashtra, when ASHA workers were not paid from last September, they threatened to go on strike. The government promised to pay up, but it is unclear whether they will get any incentive as promised by States like Telangana and Kerala. In response to the increased workload due to the pandemic, Kerala and Telangana have hiked ASHA workers’ salaries to Rs. 7,000 per month, while Karnataka pays Rs. 10,000 per month. Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and West Bengal are other States where salaries have been delayed. An ASHA worker’s salary typically works out to Rs. 2,000 per month from the Centre and Rs. 2,000 from the State governments. Right to dignity According to an Amnesty report, as early as April 28, the World Health Organization (WHO), had called upon all governments, employers, worker organisations and the global community to take urgent measures to protect the occupational health and safety of frontline health workers and emergency responders, respect their rights to decent working conditions, and develop national programmes for their safety. As the pandemic spirals out of control, the responsibilities of ASHA workers have increased exponentially. According to the Health and Family Welfare’s Model Micro Plan for containing local transmission of COVID-19, it was ASHA workers who were deployed early on to conduct door-to-door visits and report back on symptomatic as well as asymptomatic cases. In Kerala’s Thrissur district, where the country’s first COVID-19 case was detected in January, ASHA workers like Ajitha Rajan were asked to keep tabs on the health of travellers from abroad from early February onwards. In Kozhikode, Prema, who is also Kerala president of the CITU-affiliated ASHA workers’ union, says: “We are on the job all the time. We have to take late-night calls from neighbours informing us of somebody’s return from outside the State; we have to comfort distressed people in quarantine.” Latha Raju has filled several notebooks chronicling the number of people in home quarantine in her ward in Kochi — where these people live, where they have travelled from, their contact details. She also has to keep notes on any elderly people living alone, people with existing ailments and pregnant women. In the evening, these figures are sent to junior public health nurses and health inspectors, contributing to State-wide data. ASHA workers in Kerala have also been delivering groceries, medicines, and food from community kitchens to homes. Their responsibilities increased when lakhs of people started returning home. They became a crucial part of ward-level committees that were formed to monitor people in home quarantine. They visit the person along with ward committee members and inspect the home to see if there is an attached bathroom and home quarantine can be followed. They then brief the family on safety protocols.  Disturbingly, ASHA workers in many States have not been provided with PPE — masks, gloves or face shields. Many of them have to make do with cloth masks made at home or dupattas wrapped around their faces. After positive cases were detected among them in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Malappuram and Kollam districts, the women have turned wary. “If one of us tests positive, the contact tracing process would be frightening,” says Latha. The indifference to their well-being is inexplicable, given that the country’s COVID-19 fight is buttressed by ASHA workers and their rapport with people.  In a recent article (published in The Hindu) M.S. Seshadri and T. Jacob John wrote that the most important step in the coming days “would be to educate rural people with all the tools at our disposal. We need to give them accurate information.” One can’t imagine anyone but these unsung workers being able to do this. Meanwhile, the exhaustion of maintaining a strict vigil is setting in as the numbers of infected cases increase. But, as Prema says, “The smallest lapse could undo months of good work.” So they soldier on. (* Some names have been changed   to protect privacy.)   With inputs from Rishikesh Bahadur Desai and AbhinayaHarigovind.   Renuka was working in a high-risk zone when she tested positive. She was then relieved of COVID-19 duties, but when she returned home after recovery, she was boycotted by the villagers
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Dahlias in the dumpyard||In the highest part of Coonoor, the charming hill town set amidst the tea gardens of the Nilgiris, there is a dumpyard. It is not exactly one of Coonoor’s sightseeing spots. But this year Ottupattarai is a riot of colours. Pansies, petunias, phlox, salvias, zinnias, dahlias and marigolds vie for attention in a vibrant garden that takes up at least an acre of the eight-acre dumpyard. Newcomers driving past won’t even guess it’s a landfill. The journey from muck to marigolds has been a long one. In 2014, a non-profit called Clean Coonoor was set up to give the town a makeover. Its 15-odd members, all volunteers, went about sprucing up bus stops, repainting walls, and undertaking cleaning drives, notably the clearing of the Ghat road from Mettupalayam to Coonoor. Then last year, on World Environment Day, they launched a marathon project: to clean up the Coonoor river. Founder member Samantha Iyanna describes it: “A group of us rolled up our trousers and waded into the river wearing rubber gloves and masks. The river is fed by mountain streams, but in the town it had become no more than a fetid drain choked with waste.”  Flowing again Cleaning the river manually was a herculean task requiring time, money and manpower. Fortunately, Rajshree Pinnamaneni from Hyderabad, who is part of an NGO trying to make villages plastic-free, offered to sponsor the project. Within two months, they recovered 12,000 tonnes of sludge and rubbish from just two kilometres of the river. Sofa sets, mattresses, an auto-rickshaw, railway sleepers, old culverts and foundation pillars of bridges were among the dredged-up objects. “We fished out 40-50 years of garbage,” says Iyanna. Then, when they began to dump the garbage in Ottupattarai, the team realised that the dumpyard itself could do with a clean-up. One acre of the flatter part of the yard, not far from its 15,000-litre water tank, was chosen as the spot for a garden. Two more acres were made into a verdant lawn. The rest of the dumpyard continues to be used for segregating waste. No stench Every morning, Dr. Vasanthan Panchavarnam, a trustee and member of Clean Coonoor, walks the three kilometres from his home to Ottupattarai where Navin Joseph, another volunteer, joins him. They stay there till about 7.00 p.m, supervising the segregation and gardening. “Only dry waste comes to us here. So there is no stench. We have cleaned up every last bit of trash; there is nothing to suggest it is a landfill,” Panchavarnam says with obvious pride. Waste segregation began on a war footing last year under the aegis of Clean Coonoor. “The municipality ensures door-to-door collection of waste and source segregation. It transports the dry waste here, where we further segregate it. We have set up a baling machine and an incinerator,” says Panchavarnam. The wet waste is sent to a micro-composting unit five kilometres away. Mynahs sing Plastic and paper are baled into 250 kg blocks. The plastic goes to Hyderabad where an entrepreneur transforms it into fuel. The paper goes to Pollachi in Tamil Nadu to be recycled into paperboard. There’s also a compost bin and a shredder for poultry, but the main struggle is with e-waste. “We don’t get entire TVs and computers; most reusable parts are stripped and sold before they reach us. We are trying to see how best to deal with those,” says Iyannna. Ottupattarai’s rejuvenation is all the more heartening because of its history. “The place has been a dump since at least the 1930s,” says Panchavarnam. Before Independence, this place made up the far fringes of the town. There would have been a settlement of sanitation workers here and Gandhi visited Ottupattarai in 1934 as part of his tour against untouchability.” Back at the facility, Ramdev and Selvi, two of the 19 people usually employed here, are hard at work. Some 15 saplings have just been planted, mostly fast-growing ornamental trees such as bottle brush and Indian coral. “They are colourful, provide shade and act as a wind-break,” says Panchavarnam. Most seeds and cuttings are given by enthusiastic Coonoorians from their own gardens. “We are already seeing butterflies and bees and scavenging raptors have reduced, which is a good sign,” he says. And the mynahs have come. The author is a freelancer based in Coimbatore.  There would have been a settlement of sanitation workers here and Gandhi visited Ottupattarai in 1934 as part of his tour against untouchability
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Plague passports, please||I reach Hyderabad at about seven in the evening. They make me pass a second sanitary examination at the station; they change my first plague passport for another, more detailed, if such a thing is possible... I shake with indignation, I protest. For a crowning insult, they tell me that I must go the day after tomorrow to the Civil Hospital and have myself examined by a nurse appointed for this... If I decide to remain for 10 days, I shall have the advantage of being examined only every other day. What luck for me.” This is the lament of a French traveller who arrived in Hyderabad sometime in 1920. A hundred years later, on May 18, 2020, when the first train from New Delhi reached Secunderabad, disembarking passengers were given a quarantine stamp on their left wrist and sent home. No medical examination by a nurse, no follow-up calls, no visit to the civil hospital. Between 1918 and 1920, when the Spanish Flu swept through the land, killing as many as two crore Indians according to historians, it did not find the Nizam’s city ill-prepared, as our French visitor attests. Years of struggle against natural disasters, cholera and the plague had inspired the beginnings of a transformation. Hyderabad at the turn of the century was an oriental kingdom that conjured images of an Arabian Nights fable. Isabel Burton described the mile-long palace of the Nizam, the ostrich races, cock-fighting, gymnastics and a boring nautch while visiting the city with her husband Richard Burton. But surrounding this make-believe world was a walled city where people lived in houses that were little more than tiled roof and mud walls. In September 1908, a wall of water from the Musi River swept through the city, killing thousands and flattening large areas. Three years later, a pestilence hit the city. It was on August 25, 1911 that one Hafiz Syed Abdul Qadir gave information about a bubonic plague case to the municipal commissioner. Within two days, the commissioner had found more cases. The death toll kept rising and when the Nizam travelled with his entourage for the 1911 Delhi Durbar to kowtow to King George V, the plague had killed thousands. Residential areas on the edge of the Musi River and the Afzal Sagar lake were wiped out. Plague camps were set up, away from residential areas, in open spaces near dargahs and temples. At some plague camps, the inmates rioted, torching the tents. Then, the main quarantine hospital that treated plague victims was handed over to the Army. The residency surgeon, Lt Col H. L. Drake-Brockman, was appointed plague commissioner for Hyderabad. Devastating toll According to historian Eric Beverley, about 20% of the city’s population, or roughly 1 lakh people, were killed. The plague commissioner’s report pegs the death toll at 16,901 from a population of 3,87,000, or a mortality rate of 4.3% over a nine-month period. The high court, which functioned on the southern bank of Hyderabad’s river, was shifted to a park on the other side of the river. As the plague raged, nearly half the city’s population was forced to live in temporary tented camps for six months. This dance of death had an immediate impact. After his return from Delhi, the Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, created the City Improvement Board (CIB) in 1912 with the remit of ‘general improvement of the social, moral and physical conditions of the citizens’. The CIB would transform the walled medieval city into a modern metropolis with a riverbank lined with gardens and secular buildings such as a court, railway station, school and a grand hospital. Densely populated areas with low houses were pulled down, lakes were drained, and in a break from the past, the land on the other side of the Musi River was explored. Planned self-contained townships were laid on a grid pattern with parks, grounds, religious places and shopping complexes developed in Sultan Shahi, Gunfoundry, Musallam Jung Gardens, Moghulpura, Begum Bazar, Pathanwadi, Feelkhana and Errannagunta. The airy Osmania Hospital, completed in 1925, became a magnet for modern medical care. “It was the hospital of choice for everyone in Hyderabad. Everyone from the nobility to ordinary people went there for treatment. By 1942, there was a network of hospitals in Hyderabad,” says Anuradha Reddy of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. A city remodelled Outbreaks of plague and cholera soon became localised. “The plague camps were for the healthy people so that they could escape the affected areas,” says Reddy. The area where the plague first broke out in 1911, to the west of the Hyderabad Railway Station, was transformed into a planned residential colony by draining a lake and turning a part of it into a playground. Its centrepiece was a mosque — one that, ironically, had to be turned into a containment zone this year after a number of people tested positve for COVID-19. Incidentally, the playgrounds that were built then were key to Hyderabad’s rise as a football powerhouse. A survey by architect Anuradha Naik found that the Mallepally area produced four Olympians, five international players and 11 national players. The city’s transformation had a significant impact on the health of its people. The mortality rate due to the plague dropped from between one and five per 10,000 in 1897-1906 to less than one per 10,000 by 1917-1926. The population figures show the success of the plan to remodel the city. Hyderabad’s population grew by 55.2% between 1931 and 1941, going from 4,66,896 to 7,39,159. “The prevalence and frequency of epidemics like plague, influenza, cholera etc., were much mitigated by the successful operations of the Public Health Department,” says the census document of 1941. The epidemics had helped remodel the city from within. What was once an oriental fantasy with bastions, walls, palaces and slums was now a modern urban centre with the domes and cupolas adding a patina of the medieval. The working class had flat concrete homes with playgrounds, parks and markets. The slums had disappeared. And so had diseases. Till COVID-19 struck.  According to historian Eric Beverley, about 20% of the city’s population, or roughly 1 lakh people, were killed by the plague. Nearly half the city’s population was forced to live in temporary tented camps for six months
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||No child’s play||What books should my child read?’ is a query often raised. On the face of it, the question should be perfectly easy to answer. The truth is, it’s not. For one, there’s no ‘should’ about making choices. For another, the books ‘I’ consider best may not coincide with ‘your’ idea of best. So how do you arrive at ‘the’ best? You never really can because reading tastes are entirely subjective. A similar dilemma exists in the world of book awards. While it is heartening to see that finally there are awards recognising the work done by children’s writers and illustrators, an award is still one jury’s subjective choice. So on what basis do we choose books for our children? It is in this context that the Parag Honour List (PHL) becomes important. Drawn up by Parag, a publication initiative of Tata Trusts, to promote reading among children by supporting the development and dissemination of, and access to children’s literature, the list is not an award or prize. It is simply a list of books targeting various age-groups, recommended for their overall high quality of content and presentation. It is also an attempt to set tangibly superior standards. In other words, PHL recommends books on its list and books like them as well. Though formally launched in January this year at the New Delhi World Book Fair, the work on the catalogue had begun in October 2018. Publishers were asked to send a set of books for consideration. While the first list features books in English and Hindi, it is hoped that eventually more languages will be included. There are two challenges: one is that not enough books are being published in most languages; and second, there’s the difficulty of identifying suitable jury members. Behind the scene About 120 books were sent to each jury member for evaluation. A day-long meeting was called in Delhi on August 9 last year, of the jury members and the Parag team, to reach an understanding of the criteria for selection. Language, content and treatment, plot, balance, timeless quality, values — these were stressed. The creative use of language is an important factor: it is not about simple or complex sentences, but richness, the ability to connect with the reader, the flow, how the reader is invited into the story. As Isaac Bashevis Singer said so succinctly: “Unknown words won’t stop the child; a boring story will.” A book should make an emotional connect, it was decided — it should be meaningful and joyful, whether straddling real, unreal or surreal worlds. And then there was plot, of course. It has to be strong enough to hold the reader’s attention and lead to a resolution, whatever that might be, however imaginative or questioning. While pushing boundaries and challenging children, the story needs to possess an internal logic and balance, be it of tone, experimentation, text and pictures, perspective. Universal appeal The best books are, in essence, universal, relevant across ages and cultures, and appealing to children and adults. They are also deeply rooted in values, even if not explicitly so. In the case of picture books, it was thought that equal weightage should be given to text and illustrations. The two language juries met separately in November to make the final selection. The jury members had made notes, and as each book was taken up, it was assessed thoroughly. While a few were unanimous picks, most entailed some discussion, and a few led to heated debate. One of the issues that was argued vigorously was the question of language: how much slang is acceptable in books for young adults, for example? While some argued that books for children need to set a certain standard in terms of values, the opposing argument was that this is how children speak, so who are we trying to kid? The dust has not quite settled on this subject. Questions regarding gender sensitivity, stereotyping, caste discrimination, and religious bigotry also came up. In many instances, the context of the story determined how to evaluate these matters. But in any case, it was decided that all of this must be handled sensitively and objectively by writer and illustrator. Some of the books that made it to the PHL 2020 are (English) A Cloud Called Bhura; Owlet Not Out; Adventures of the Humongoose Family; and (Hindi) Kaisa Kaisa Khana; Ghursawar ; Chamanlal ke Payjame. The complete list can be found on the Parag website (https://paragreads.in/parag-reads/parag-honour-list-2020/). The PHL is ready to become an annual feature; work on the 2021 list has begun. And it looks set to make a qualitative and quantitative difference to children’s literature in India. The writer is a freelance editor who writes for children.  The creative use of language is an important  factor: it is not about simple or complex sentences, but richness, the ability to connect
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Slinging mud in Noida||As far as I can remember, I’ve lived my life at a safe distance from value-added faecal matter. But life is unpredictable. One languid monsoon afternoon, you’re stretched out in your favourite arm chair on the terrace, savouring the sweet scent of wet earth. A week later, your Sunday turns to mud, literally. Sometime back, during our morning tea, my wife noticed that overnight rain had left our potted plants looking greener, and less miserable than they normally look. Some had even sprouted flowers. Marvelling at this unexpected bounty from Mother Nature, she decided she was going to expand the household’s population of flora, and I was going to help her do it. Driving in the badlands “You know, gardening is a de-stressing activity,” she said. “Of course. Anything for the environment.” “So we’re leaving in half an hour,” she said. “Get ready.” “What? Where? It’s Sunday morning. I’ve just woken up. Not even had a chance to get depressed by the headlines!” “We’re going to a nursery. To buy plants, pots, and mud for the plants and pots.” Delhi nurseries apparently overcharge. So we set out instead for the sectored badlands of Noida. After driving around for an hour and 45 minutes, the only nurseries we could find were the ones little humans go to. “It’s supposed to be somewhere here,” she said, as I stopped the car in an empty square in the middle of a ghost town. All around us were high-rises in various stages of abandonment. They had signboards with posh names: ‘Celebrity Apartments’, ‘Corona Villas’, ‘Gardenia Madasambrania’. From where we were, I could see three blades of grass in the distance but no nursery. “We should have gone to Sunder Nursery,” I said. “Right,” she said. “You should have gone to Harvard Medical School.” “Fine,” I said. “Which sector did your friend say it was?” “Sector 144, I think.” “You sure he wasn’t talking about Section 144?” She turned and stared at me, biting her tongue. “Gosh, we did talk about Section 144. I think the sector number might be something else.” I wanted to bang my head on the steering wheel. But the seatbelt wouldn’t let me. “Can you call and confirm which sector this alleged nursery is in?” “No need,” she said. “Just keep going straight.” “Does this nursery have a name?” “I said keep going straight.” “You do know the earth is round, right?” “So?” “If we keep going straight, we’ll just return to where we started from.” Skull and bones At this point, she took over the wheel. An hour later, we reached a nursery with a grumpy chowkidar who also doubled up as gardener, salesman and gangster. Wife picked up some overpriced saplings, overpriced pots, and overpriced gardening implements. But the nursery didn’t have overpriced mud. By now, it was mid-afternoon. The sun was beating down, as if to make amends for the rain last night. The car AC had given up. But we set out again, for mud. If you’ve ever been to Noida, or to north India, for that matter, you would know it’s full of mud. Let’s say you’re eating an idli, and you accidentally drop the idli. Doesn’t matter where you are. You could be inside an MRI machine — but when you pick up the fallen idli, you’d find it caked in mud. That’s the density of mud we have here. And yet, we were struggling to find a place that will take our money and give mud in return. After several halts in the middle of nowhere to ask directions from serial killers and car-jackers who were, luckily for us, not in the mood, we finally made it to what looked like an orphanage for abandoned saplings. And yes, it had mud to sell. The mali asked us to park and wait. As we waited, he began to dig. Right in front of us. “I’m not responsible if he digs up a body,” I said. “He won’t dig up a body,” the wife said. I noticed pieces of glass, crockery, and bone fragments in the mud he shovelled out. “That looks like a piece of skull to me,” I said. “Could be the skull of a large monkey.” “This is Noida,” I said. “How could you be so sure?” “I want khaad also,” she said, addressing the mali . “ Haan -ji madam.” “I am not allowing cow dung in my car,” I said. “ Khaad is not cow dung, it’s just compost.” “Nope. It will leave a smell. Let’s hire an e-rickshaw to transport the khaad -mud separately.” That was a week ago. The e-rickshaw guy never delivered. His number was perpetually unreachable. The fellow had disappeared with 60 kg of mud and khaad that had cost us — if you include the transportation charges — one month’s telephone reimbursement. Wife wanted to file a police complaint. I dissuaded her. “It’s okay,” I said. “I’ve a friend who runs a graveyard. Graveyards are full of fertile mud. I’m sure he can dig a little for us.”  All around us were high-rises in various stages of abandonment. They had signboards with posh names: ‘Celebrity Apartments’, ‘Corona Villas’, ‘Gardenia Madasambrania’
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Unearthing facts of history without bias or discrimination||Historian T.C.A. Raghavan excels in telling a story, or rather stories, of history writing in a fascinating account of three historians who shared much in common about their single-minded passion for details in reconstructing the past. The coming together of a knighted professor in Jadunath Sarkar, a committed civil servant in G.S. Sardesai, and an unassuming prince in Raghubir Sinh produced volumes on the intricate interface of history that had fading Mughals, rising Marathas and struggling Rajputs at the centre of an immense political flux in the country.  History Men captures the intensity of their relationships, often at intellectual variance with each other, in producing history free from its ideological biases. Search for truth Sarkar’s multi-volume research on Aurangzeb, Sardesai’s authoritative study on Marathas, and Sinh’s insights on the tussle between Marathas and Rajputs are significant historical outputs, but it was the extraordinary fellowship between the three that created a benchmark for scholarship in history writing. All three had a voracious appetite for unearthing facts of history and a near obsession with establishing chronology factually through primary sources. As historians they sought to speak the truth at a time, during the early 19th century, when history was under the threat of being appropriated to further the pursuit of nationalism. The discipline of history continues to be confronted by such a reality even today. Through a commentary on the trio’s published research and reflections on their unpublished exchanges, Raghavan examines the challenge of history writing both as a discipline as well as a piece of heritage. They had their share of disapproval and criticism for judging the historical characters as they did, but remained firm in their historian resolve of seeking, understanding and accepting truth. That has been their enduring legacy. Towards the end of his life, Sarkar had reiterated that “national chauvinism does not go very far — even where it goes it only acts as a delusive will-o’-the wisp.” Constructing history by mounting joint exercises and expeditions contributed a distinct flavour to history writing, by which the three could infect each other to connect geography and topography of the place(s) with characters’ ambitions, achievements and regrets. Such an approach helped history vibrate with life and vigour born of the personal acquaintance with the site of important historical events. For instance, without a visit to Afzalpura, near Bijapur, it would not have come to light that a premonition of his coming end had impelled Afzal Khan to kill and bury all his 63 wives. The tombs of the same shape, size and age close to one another bear testimony to it. Going for nuance Historical events in the Mughal-Maratha-Rajput interface interested all three historians in exploring every possible nuance in drawing both the minutiae and larger generalisations. While the killing of Afzal Khan continues to be the wildest exultation among the Marathas but for historians the question worth exploring was to ascertain if his slaying was a treacherous murder or an act of self-defence on the part of Shivaji. Regardless of antagonism and alienation from their own fraternity, the spirit of inquiry and endeavour in research remained foremost in the minds of these historians. Had Rana Sangha not invited Babur from Kabul to destroy Ibrahim Lodi, the medieval period would have been a different history. As much a tribute to the incredible contribution of Sarkar, Sardesai and Sinh to the art and science of history writing in the country, History Men makes for an engaging and compelling read. That the three historians were committed to the Rankean approach to the practice of history is an essential takeaway for those interested in pursuing the discipline. The reviewer is an independent writer, researcher and academic.  History Men T.C.A. Raghavan HarperCollins  Rs. 799
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1This world renowned institution broadcast its first television news bulletin on July 5, 1954, with the News and Newsreel and the top story was on peace talks of Indo-China. It began with a summary of the news, illustrated with maps and stills. Newsreaders Richard Baker and John Snagge were out of vision as it was thought their appearance would be a distraction and possibly even betray their opinions. Which institution is this that is the world’s oldest national broadcaster, and the largest by number of employees? 2This show is the world’s longest running weekly music show. It was first aired in January 1964, and The Rolling Stones were the first band to perform on it. Each weekly show consisted of performances from some of that week’s best-selling popular music records, usually excluding any tracks moving down the chart, including a rundown of that week’s singles chart. What is the name of this popular show which was known by the acronym TOTP? 3This gentleman was BBC Director of Programmes in 1969 and was responsible for two revolutionary things: 1) he was responsible for televised snooker, as colour TV had been introduced and he realised that the coloured [billiard] balls showed off its advantages. 2) he commissionedMonty Python’s Flying Circus. Who was this gentleman who is known and loved because of what he went on to do, which made the world amazing for all python lovers? 4In 1930, the evening before Good Friday, the Home Office was desperate to deny a newspaper account of an interview with the home secretary. It was aware that no newspapers would be published over Easter, so it contacted BBC Radio to ensure the denial was included in the evening radio news. This led to a unique happenstance in news history. What happened that evening during the news which involved a piano piece? 5The GTS, also known as ‘the pips’, is a series of six short tones broadcast at one-second intervals by BBC Radio stations every hour, on the hour. They were introduced in 1924 and have been generated by the BBC since 1990. If ‘TS’ stands for ‘Time Signal’ what does G stand for which refers to the fact that the BBC is based off London? 6In 1957, BBC aired a segment showing a family harvesting spaghetti from the family spaghetti tree. When viewers asked how they could grow their own, they were told to place a sprig of spaghetti in a tin of tomato sauce and hope for the best. This segment received a lot of criticism but people were pointed to the fact that it was aired on a certain day. On what day was this aired? 7From 1960 to 2013, Television Centre in west London was the hub for the BBC’s television broadcasts. One theory for the building’s unusual shape was that it was the result of architect Graham Dawbarn drawing a question mark on a piece of paper. Later an article inBBC Quarterlyproposed that the circular design existed well before he was hired. Due to its unusual shape by what sweet pastry name is it referred to by the staff? 8The very first on-air instance of what is considered a modern phenomenon was actually during a live 1984 BBC telecast where the presenters were trying to educate viewers about the advantage of a brand new technology called ‘E-mail’ over traditional letter. When they tried accessing the email someone had left a pirate tune for them. This unauthorised incident happened because one of them had inadvertently said the password out loud. What had been done, which is a subject of several discussions to improve security today? 9The term ‘BBC English’ was used as an alternative name for an accent, known popularly as ‘RP’, which is traditionally regarded as the standard for British English. It is so popular that the English Pronouncing Dictionary uses the term ‘BBC Pronunciation’ to label its recommendations. The definition of the first word, ‘R____’ conveys its original meaning of ‘accepted’ or ‘approved’ — as in ‘r____ wisdom’. What is the correct name for this accent? 10The Blue Police Box is a box which had a telephone inside using which one could directly call the police for help. They also contained an incident book, a fire extinguisher and a first aid kit. They were quite prevalent from the early 1920s well into the 20th century. Since 1996, the BBC has trademarked the Blue Police Box due to a vital role it plays in a popular BBC TV series. What is the name of this series, which sounds more like a question? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Happily everafter in a grass house||There lives a small pig that builds a house of grass, soft shoots for the bed and long stiff leaves for the thatched roof. But this is not the children’s story of the Three Little Pigs.  The real-life pig ventures out of this structure only to eat and poop in the early mornings and late afternoons. While other porcine species make nests to farrow, the pygmy hog, the world’s rarest and smallest pig, cannot survive without a roof over its head all year round. The wolf of habitat loss, paddy fields, tea gardens, and intense fires, has been blowing hard to bring the pig’s house down and devour the little animal for more than a century. From a range that once extended across the entire southern foothills of the Himalaya, by the 1990s, the species’ domain had shrunk to just one location in the world — Manas National Park of Assam. Hitting the jackpot In 1995, Goutam Narayan, in collaboration with Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, set up a breeding programme near Guwahati with six animals trapped in Manas. “We hit the jackpot,” remembers Narayan. Three of the females were already pregnant, adding to the genetic diversity of the small founding stock. The one-foot-tall hogs are extremely shy, but they are more than a handful. It takes two men to hold down each eight-kilogram pig to administer the annual inoculations. Even then, the staff suffers bites and gashes from boar tushes. Boars and sows live in paddocks separated by gates of netting with regular L-drop latches. The animals learned to slide the bolts and escape into the neighbouring enclosures. Since they were marked with rice-grain-sized micro-chips, Narayan and his team identified and returned them to their respective paddocks. The staff fixed the latches to the top of the gates, and as an additional precaution, bound them with wire. Large litters in captivity Enjoying better nutrition in captivity, the sows had large litters. Within six years, “we had pigs coming out of our ears,” Narayan says. They ran out of space when their captive stock shot up to 72. Narayan and veterinarian Parag Deka separated the sires from the pregnant sows, afraid the males might kill the young. But the boars were attracted by the sight, cries, and smells of piglets, staring through the net gates separating their enclosures. Favourite foods When a mother died a month after giving birth, the conservationists gave the piglets to the father who took care of them, grooming and bedding down in a mass of bodies in his grass house. But his paternal instincts wouldn’t have kept him away from their food of human baby cereal constituted with milk. They provided him favourites such as boiled eggs, dates, and sweet potatoes. They also set his feeding trough out of reach of the piglets, to prevent them from eating an adult diet before they were ready. While breeding the pygmy hog wasn’t without its share of heartaches, finding a secure wild habitat in an area rocked by insurgency proved harder. After the 2003 Bodo Accord, the conservationists chose potential sites for release, areas with plenty of grass and few humans or livestock. For five months, they prepared the animals to live independent lives in large enclosures with natural vegetation near Nameri National Park. Of the nearly 400 piglets that survived to adulthood, 130 were released into the wilds of Sonai Rupai Wildlife Sanctuary and Orang and Manas National Parks. Some which were released into Barnadi Wildlife Sanctuary, the site of the species’ rediscovery in 1971, didn’t stay put. The former grassland had been planted with trees and converted into a woodland, inappropriate for the pygmy hog’s survival. Today, the largest population of about 150 thrives in Orang. In the children’s story, the third pig’s sturdy brick house withstood the wolf’s huffing and puffing just as the breeding centre in Guwahati has stalled the porcine decline. The real measure of success will be when the pygmy hogs’ homes of grass endure under the immense skies of the terai.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Chocolates with a heart||I am an unabashed chocolate fanatic and always keep enough stock of fine dark chocolates. Pardon me for claiming to be obsessed with chocolates. It’s their irresistible dark beauty that I am passionate about. A few weeks before the lockdown, I received a parcel which appeared to be grocery and put it away in the storeroom. A few days later, on examining it closely, I saw peeping through the bubble wrap, pieces of dark chocolate. I frantically tore open the wrap and to my delicious surprise, my most preferred dark chocolates from Ecuador tumbled out. Various other brands too emerged majestically from the carton. I was thus blissfully stocked for the lockdown. I love sharing my passion with special friends and so one winter morning, I offered a friend coffee with a voluptuous chocolate. He snapped it into two and decided to gobble the half in his hand. Though chocolate lovers often joke, “Don’t bite off more than you can chew unless it is a chocolate,” I didn’t appreciate his gluttony. From the cacao farmer in the Congo to the truck driver in Brazil and the chocolate lover in Chandigarh, we all would loudly proclaim unanimously that it is the food of the gods. Theo, my most favourite organic chocolate, has the generic name derived from the Greek words theos , meaning god, and broma , signifying food  . Sadly, we forget the fallout of colonialism in Africa or Central America, which remain economically on the decline, whereas the corporate chocolate tycoons loot the disadvantaged in these regions of their rich supply of cocoa and coffee beans. Blood, sweat and tears No credit seems to be given to those who expend blood, sweat and tears in the killing fields of the developing world for negligible returns. However, to end this age-old abuse, the Fair Trade Organization has stepped in to help producers achieve sustainable and equitable international trading. It warms my heart that profits from various companies have been channelled into buying bicycles for seven million Africans. Moreover, steps have been taken to incentivise farmers by offering fair prices for their beans and allowing them to share in the manufacturing process right up to the tasting stage. An additional base price is paid for quality beans. Fair Trade partnerships believe in the dictum of “bean-to-bar” process, signifying the elimination of middlemen who heartlessly pocket millions from “blood chocolates”. The ideology behind the production of organic dark chocolates helps develop a more compassionate and enduring world where the profits go not into the pockets of the some, but are used for the welfare of farmers from Congo to Dominican Republic and Guatemala to Brazil. shelleywalia@gmail.com
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||My car, my friend||I believed that a car is just something that takes one from Point A to B, a thought car lovers find sacrilegious. Hence, I refused my family’s attempts to make me go for an upgrade. My 2005 model wore its dents with pride, and I couldn’t imagine myself in the driver’s seat of another vehicle. I have come a long way driving on Bengaluru roads from the time that I had to get out through the passenger door after parking too close to a tree and reversing was not something I could do before midnight on that busy road. Even then, my driving skills did not lead to any major mishaps, for which I am ever grateful to my wine-red car. A nervous driver at best, I had to necessarily traverse the Hebbal flyover, a nightmare for me. The heavy traffic tests even the best drivers. I nervously look at the car in front and the two-wheelers which crowd me as I negotiate the road with clammy hands and a thudding heart. This car of mine never stalled despite my furious braking and accelerating with jerks and starts. So great is my nervousness that I start belting out the songs being played on my radio the minute I get off that flyover. I am not sure if my car would have preferred the jarring tones of shifting gears to my bellowing, but it never did complain. We both had plenty of adventures together. Once, it decided to go backwards at a level crossing the minute I released the handbrake and no amount of pleading made it want to go ahead. Before I was lynched by the impatient motorists behind me, a good Samaritan and I decided to exchange our vehicles and I got his scooter across the road safely and he my car. After that, my car realised that I was willing to let it go into other hands and decided to behave — or maybe I learnt the art of applying half-clutch. As the time to bid it goodbye has approached, I am ever grateful to the hardy car that made me feel warm the minute I buzzed open the door. I would miss my car for sure for I did learn to navigate the famed Bangalore roads in it. Chandrika1306@gmail.com
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The politics of book reviewing||Book reviewing is among the commonest practices of literary journalism but it has been rarely explored from the sociological perspective. In her latest book Inside the Critics’ Circle: Book Reviewing in Uncertain Times, Phillipa K. Chong of McMaster University, critically parses the sociology of journalistic evaluation of fiction with her spontaneity of ideas, and thus provides an insightful account of inner workings of writing and publishing book reviews. Although the book is overwhelmingly imbued with complex theoretical undertones, Chong has the knack of presenting such abstruse ideas in an interesting manner with her sharp wit and clarity of thoughts. Making a choice Divided into three parts, the tome begins with an exhaustive ‘Introduction’ where the author argues that book reviewing is an act of subjective judgement. Chong puts book reviewers on a pedestal calling them “cultural consecrates” who demarcate which books deserve to be read and which ones should be left out. However, this process of consecration entails sociological uncertainties which are at play when the activity of book reviewing takes place. And she goes on to demonstrate how uncertainties faced by reviewers may impact their evaluative judgement of fiction. For instance, epistemic uncertainty suggests that “aesthetic judgement is a matter of idiosyncratic taste” and that has a shaping influence on the editors’ selection of books to a reviewer’s act of writing. In this interview-based study, Chong takes the responses from fiction reviewers who had published a review in at least “one of the three influential American review outlets”. And of course, it seems a lopsided sampling that she honestly accepts as an “elite bias”. But she claims that her respondents have worked with multiple big publications in various countries including Canada and the U.K. that widens the scope of her study. Interviews of reviewers and editors elicit some interesting stories. Not just a report The book casts a refreshing look at the driving mechanism of book reviewing, and invites the reader to understand hitherto unexplored complexities. Book reviewers, whom Chong interchangeably calls as “critics”, are among the chief components of this mechanism. They are the tastemaker who steer the reader towards a good book; they are also the business intermediaries who contribute to the saleability of books; they construct the meaning in a specific cultural context and provide an artistic legitimacy. And thus, book reviewing is more than just a reporting on books, and of course it carries some implications which the author brings into the spotlight as well. Chong as an academic is quite forthright about her objective — she uses a subtle yardstick to measure the flaws of the book reviewing practice. Thus, her book unfurls a succession of fraught questions discerning commercial compulsions, non-standard techniques of reviewing and subjective evaluative approach. Chong gives us a peek into the world of critics and the literary values they offer. The reviewer is a writer and senior research scholar at the department of English, Aligarh Muslim University.  Inside the Critics’ Circle: Book Reviewing in Uncertain Times Phillipa K. Chong Princeton University Press  Rs. 1,964
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Lucky expert||It isn’t fair. It’s bad enough that experts have superior bridge judgment and technique, they also seem to get lucky more often than we do. Today’s lucky expert, sitting South, is ACBL Hall of Fame member David Berkowitz, of Boca Raton, Florida. Berkowitz played low from dummy on the opening heart lead. The rule of 11 would have told East to play his eight, but that takes more courage than East could muster. Berkowitz ruffed the ace of hearts and had to decide how to play the black suits. This was a team game, so overtricks didn’t matter — just safety. Berkowitz decided to lay down the ace of spades. Should the king of spades be onside, with East, it would still be there later, and his goal was to assure no more than one spade loser, if possible. Lucky Berkowitz saw the king fall under his ace as West leaned farther back in his chair. Assured now of only one spade loser, Berkowitz turned his attention to clubs and gave that suit the same treatment. He led a club to dummy’s ace, no doubt disappointed not to drop that king also. Berkowitz crossed back to his hand and led another club. He mis-guessed by playing dummy’s queen, but he had his contract, losing one spade and two clubs. At the other table, the contract failed when declarer led a spade to the queen and then later a club to the queen. No luck in either suit. He probably wasn’t an expert!
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Aaaaaaaarrrggghhh||Respected Madam/Sir,  Whether sometimesyou are getting feeling that whole India country is trying to irritate you nonstop? You are minding your own business and doing daily things and just like that living life when suddenly India will jump out like M.N. Nambiar in Ayirathil Oruvan , do one laughter, and destroy everything. Instead of Satyameva Jayate and all what Ashoka should have put on the pillar? Maybe put something like ‘You are enjoying now, just wait for 10 minutes.’ Forty years ago or something which branch I was working? Maybe Tiruppur? Who is remembering such old stories. I was junior accountant. Cashier came and said, Mathrubootham are you hearing news about cricket World Cup in London? I said, no, if I want to wear white dress and stand whole day in the sun without doing anything I would have become traffic police. He said, hahaha stupid man India is going to win. I said what nonsense, typical Indian thinking. He said, ok shall we put bet. I said, I will put hundred rupees bet India will not win World Cup. He said, done. Madam/ Sir, was there any need for bet? Never. Those days for hundred rupees you can buy one flat in Coimbatore. Just like that I said some nonsense. And what country of India is doing? Immediately it is going and winning the World Cup and my hundred rupees is gone. Even today when I think about that hundred rupees, pain is coming. Those days duplicate note also very difficult to obtain. Whether this annoying habit has stopped? Never. India is still trying to irritate Mr. Mathrubootham. Fifteen minutes before putting petrol in car petrol price will go up. Ten minutes after filing income tax returns after rushing like anything they will put new deadline. Book one train ticket and what will happen? Mrs. Mathrubootham will get berth, but I will move from RAC 45 to RAC 17 to RAC 2 and finally in station TT will say you are still RAC 2, sit on the floor. Who is bigger enemy of India? Pakistan or Mathrubootham? All the youngsters in family WhatsApp group are doing dance item. So Mrs. Mathrubootham said, we will also make one video like this. I saw the video and said, “Kamalam ithellam thevaiyya ? Let young peoples act like uncultured buffoons. Why we also have to do?” She said, old man this is latest trend. If we put on internet people will laugh and laugh like anything. I said, no. She said, please. I said, no. She said, please. I said, no. She said, please but with special look on face that is danger. I said, ok. So for two-three weeks Mrs. Mathrubootham and myself are practising one little dance type item. Madam/ Sir, we are practising like anything. Idea is simple. Mrs. Mathrubootham is wearing sari and I am wearing shirt and pant and we are dancing. Then suddenly she is wearing shirt and pant and I am wearing sari. We practised and practised like anything. I don’t know how these young people are doing this every day non-stop? Finally few days ago perfect video is done. Perfect means superb. We showed to some family members and they said, it is superhit attahaasam . Internet will enjoy like anything. So I said, Kamalam ok you put it on Tiktok immediately, no more time wasting. Two minutes later Indian government is banning Tiktok forever. Bloody nonsense, if you want to fight, India can fight with Nepal or Bangladesh or China no? Why you are fighting with Mathrubootham family? Fed up.  Yours in exasperation,   J. Mathrubootham
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The Chain||Adrian McKinty  Orion Rs. 499 A stranger kidnaps a child with a unique ransom: to free the child, the parents will have to abduct another child. Or else, the child dies.This is the chain referred to in the title: as victim turns survivor turns abductor turns criminal. The thriller comes with an endorsement by Stephen King.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The Lies That Bind||Emily Giffin  Ballantine Books Rs. 2,366 In this unusual love story, a reporter finds her mettle as she investigates the identity of the man she met in a bar and feel in love with. After Cecily and Grant find each other, Grant disappears in the chaos of 9/11. Then Cecily spots his face on a missing-person poster. How well did she really know Grant?
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Lallan Sweets||Srishti Chaudhary  Penguin eBury Press Rs. 299 At Lallan Sweets, the laddoos have a secret ingredient known only to Lalaji. Before Lalaji retires, he devises a quest for his three grandchildren to find the ingredient. Whoever gets it first gets the shop. The quest takes them from Mathura to Ludhiana, dredging up old secrets and family legacies.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||To Kill a Man||Sam Bourne  Quercus Rs. 399 Natasha Winthrop, widely regarded as the future presidential candidate, is violently assaulted by an intruder. She fights back, the intruder lies dead, and Winthrop is lauded as a #MeToo hero. But when Maggie Costello is asked to investigate, she finds strange gaps, especially in Winthrop’s early life.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||An Extraordinary Life: A biography of Manohar Parrikar||Sadguru Patil, Mayabhushan Nagvenkar  Ebury Press/Penguin Rs. 499 A grassroots leader, Manohar Parrikar was one of the most sought after leaders of Goa, where he was chief minister four times. In this biography, the writers follow former defence minister Parrikar’s journey.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Every Creature Has a Story: What Science Reveals about Animal Behaviour||Janaki Lenin  HarperCollins India Rs. 599 Lenin draws readers towards the wonders of the natural world. Female nightingales, for example, decide which male will share the burden of parenthood by listening to the prospective candidates’ songs.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Middle Class, Media and Modi: The Making of a New Electoral Politics||Nagesh Prabhu  Sage Publications Rs. 1,395 This volume studies how the Indian middle class has become a player of importance in collective action and in making new political demands. It played a decisive role in the electoral outcomes of 2014 and 2019, as did the media, managed by Modi.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3107||Across  1 Top monk’s snack prepared as party staple (8,5) 8 Bottom seen in bearskins, oddly (5) 9 Can sprats get battered in famous London location? (2,7) 11 ‘Independence stifled: ace!’ Cameron ordered drink (9) 12 Lavish spread with no starter for Hindu god (5) 13 Poet known by initials (W. C.) going back over introduction to sonnet (1,1,5) 15 Dish including cheese: sag of the bum to come back round (7) 17 Busy, on a boat, in channels that might get congested (7) 19 Half of what’s seen in seasoner adding little taste for starters? (3,4) 21 Where you might find Adonis ... or bearskins (5) 23 ‘Date, essentially?’ ‘Here and now’ (2,7) 25 Partly dapper cap: it adorns a head (3,6) 26 Swearing’s a little loathsome (5) 27 Fantastic luck: ‘Not haggis, Aunt Sally’ (8,5)  Down  2 Undressed yobs, spectacle that’s indecent (7) 3 Gives evidence: ‘Four quit wild festivities ‘ (9) 4 No good: agates ransacked, lost (2,3) 5 Almost closed shop arranged for one who worked in theatre (9) 6 Galliano nosejobs – covered up – they’re taboo (2-3) 7 Kinky game (7) 8 Adonis undresses, rising for the rest (6,5) 10 They hang from the ceiling in attics, stale, sultry (11) 14 Conductor: ‘Opera by Paganini? Not half!’ (9) 16 Son dressing monkey, George, in jacket – he’ll be in trouble (9) 18 Somewhere in Africa, ‘dry’ European: ‘Drink up!’ (7) 20 On the contrary, US spies take month to become clean (7) 22 Primarily, tone with adenoidal nasality, generally? (5) 24 Primarily, pesky road accident necessitating garagist? (5)
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Apps offloaded||As border tensions between India and China brewed, the Centre announced it would ban 59 Chinese apps, saying that data mining could be a “threat to sovereignty and integrity of India”. Google’s Play Store and Apple’s App Store have been asked to remove popular apps, including TikTok, ShareIt, UC Browser, Club Factory, CamScanner and Mi Video Call. China, meanwhile, said it was “seriously concerned” by the move.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian vaccine||Covaxin will become the first Indian-made COVID-19 vaccine to begin human trials this month. One of around 120 such vaccines in development worldwide, this effort by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology, was developed from a local strain of the virus and shown to be safe in animal testing.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Unlock 2.0||India entered the second stage of its phased exit from lockdown, dubbed ‘Unlock 2.0’. The Centre issued a set of guidelines such as relaxed night curfew hours for areas outside containment zones. States were allowed to add their own guidelines and several imposed or extended lockdowns until July 31. However, States may no longer seal their borders as some had been doing.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Locust clouds||After ravaging crops in several States in western and central India over the last few months, desert locusts swarmed into the outskirts of New Delhi. Videos shared on social media showed thousands of the invasive insects clouding the skies in Gurugram, settling on buildings and sugarcane fields. Delhi residents were asked to keep their windows shut and sheath plants with plastic covers.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Swine two||Researchers in China identified a new form of swine flu, G4, that has the potential to become a pandemic, according to a study published in the science journalPNAS. This variant, dominant in pigs since 2016, is descended from the H1N1 strain and is highly infectious, having already infected 10% of slaughterhouse workers in China. There is as yet no evidence that it can be passed from human to human.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Bounty hunting?||In the latest U.S. political scandal, President Donald Trump denied that he was briefed on intelligence that Russia had offered bounties to Taliban fighters for killing U.S. troops in Afghanistan. He dismissed aNew York Timesreport that he had received a written briefing as ‘fake’ news. With various accounts circulating about what the President knew and when, he faces accusations ranging from incompetence to treason.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Shrinking core||Data released by the Commerce and Industry Ministry showed that the output of India’s eight core infrastructure industries — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, steel, cement, fertilizer (which alone grew by 7.5%) and electricity — shrank by 23.4% in May, after a 30% drop in April when economic activity was at a standstill.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A grain of hope||The Centre extended the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana, a scheme to provide free foodgrains to ration card holders, up till November. However, there was no extension to the Aatmanirbhar package, meant for those without ration cards. Official data shows that this scheme reached less than 15% of its intended recipients.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Police state||China passed a long-dreaded security law that effectively criminalises dissent in Hong Kong, with sentences as severe as life imprisonment for offences such as support for secession or subversion. When thousands of protesters took to the streets to commemorate the 23rd anniversary of the end of British rule, the police cracked down hard, employing tear gas and water cannons. More than 180 people were arrested.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Meta-analysis does not support continued use of point-of-care serological tests for COVID-19||Serological tests to detect antibodies against novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) could improve diagnosis of COVID-19 and be useful tools for epidemiological surveillance. These have been seen as a tool to issue immunity passports or certificates so that already-infected people can move around freely. There has been increasing number of serological tests, and many are being marketed for point-of-care use. A systematic review and meta-analysis of 40 studies of antibody testing for novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) has found “major weaknesses” in the evidence base for serological tests. The “evidence does not support the continued use of existing point-of-care serological tests for COVID-19”, says a study published in The British Medical Journal.  Risk of bias The study found that the available evidence on the accuracy of serological tests is characterised by risks of bias, and estimates of sensitivity and specificity are unreliable and have limited generalisability. The evidence is “particularly weak” for point-of-care serological tests. The team led by Dr F. Ahmad Khan from the Respiratory Epidemiology and Clinical Research Unit, Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Canada has said that caution is warranted while relying on serological tests for clinical decision making or epidemiological surveillance. And they say, “current evidence does not support the continued use of existing point-of-care tests”.  Immunity certificates The study warns: “Our findings should also give pause to governments that are contemplating the use of serological tests — in particular, point-of-care tests — to issue immunity certificates or passports.” A linked editorial also echoes the authors’ views on using serological tests for decision-making. The editorial says: “The key message of the review aligns with the conclusion of another systematic review published last week: serologic assays for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, especially point-of-care tests, are not ready for widespread use by clinicians, the general public, or policy makers.” Primary outcomes The primary outcome of the analysis was to evaluate the overall sensitivity and specificity based on the method of serological testing — ELISA, lateral flow immunoassays (LFIAs), or chemiluminescent immunoassays (CLIAs), and immunoglobulin class (IgG, IgM or both). The secondary outcomes of the analysis were to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the tests within subgroups defined by study or participant characteristics, including time since symptom onset.  The study found high risk of patient selection bias in 98% (48/49 studies) of assessments, and high or unclear risk of bias from performance or interpretation of the serological test in 73% (36/49) of studies. Only as little as 10% (4/40) of studies included outpatients.  Pooled sensitivity However, the pooled sensitivity and specificity were estimated for each serological tests. The pooled sensitivity of ELISA measuring IgG or IgM was just 84.3%. But for all methods of serological testing, the sensitivity increased — 69.9% to 98.9% — when the testing was carried out at least three weeks after symptom onset compared with within the first week (from 13.4% to 50.3%). But they warn that even when the sensitivity estimates were higher at later time points — third week or later — important false negative rates were found. “In people with COVID-19 who are tested three weeks after symptom onset, ELISA IgG will misclassify 18% as not having been infected and LFIA IgG will misclassify 30%,” they write. “For each test method, the type of immunoglobulin being measured — IgM, IgG, or both — was not associated with diagnostic accuracy. Pooled sensitivities were lower with commercial kits and in the first and second week after symptom onset compared with the third week or later. Pooled specificities of each test method were high,” they write. Word of caution But the editorial cautions that pooling sensitivities makes it “difficult to determine how well tests perform at detecting antibody” in the course of illness whether undertaken early or late in the illness. The ability to identify individual tests that might perform well in testing algorithms is also hindered. The study found many shortcomings in the case of LFIA serological tests, leading to say that LFIA should not be used beyond research and evaluation purposes.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||How a fungus grows inside a bug, goes on to kill and feed on it||When you are an Ophiocordyceps fungus, your life is straight out of a sci-fi movie: Infect a bug, eat from inside, kill it, sprout out and target the next bug. Researchers have now found this fungi (Ophicordyceps nutans) for the first time in central India and show how it infects a stink bug. They also explore the potential of using these fungi as biopesticide and medicine. It was early summer in 2018 when a team from Pandit Ravishankar Shukla University in Raipur set out on a plant survey at the picturesque Kanger Valley National Park in Chhattisgarh. “By chance we stumbled upon the fungus and dead bug and wanted to study it further. Morphological studies showed that it was Ophicordyceps nutans which has been reported in India only from the Western Ghats,” says Jai Shankar Paul, from the University’s School of Studies in Bio-Technolog, the first author of the paper published in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society.  The fungus was found on its specific host insect Halyomorpha halys. Also called the stink bug, this insect is a pest to forest trees and agricultural crops. The simple but scary modus operandi of the fungi involves infecting the insect when alive, developing fungal mycelium inside its thorax, and when it is time for the spores to come out, kill the bug. The fruiting body sprouts out from between the insect’s thorax and head, and it continues to take nutrition from the dead body. The fungi are very host-specific, so the spores travel and infect many more stink bugs. Dr. Paul adds that more studies are needed to understand in detail about the behaviour, mode of action, and exact interaction of the fungus with the insect. Previous studies have shown that these fungi can be used as a biological pest control agent. The stink bug is known to damage the flower and fruits of soybean, green beans, apple, pear, and the team write that exploring these fungi as a pesticide will help reduce the harmful effect of chemicals in our fields. “The more interesting and important point to note is that several species of the Ophiocordyceps fungi have medicinal properties. Reports have shown that China has been traditionally using it. Also, in the Western Ghats, the local people use these fungi as an immune stimulator,” adds corresponding author Professor S.K. Jadhav. The authors say that studies from across the globe have noted that these fungi is rich in biologically active metabolites, vitamin C, phenolic compounds, and also has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. They also claim that it contains a component called ‘cordycepin’ which has anticancer properties. The fungi can be grownin lab settings and explored further, says the team.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||IITM: Converting written text to synthesised speech||Automated conversion of the written text to spoken form is very useful, especially in this time of online classes. Having lectures originally presented in English made available in all Indian languages has obvious uses. A group from the computer science department of Indian Institute of Technology Madras is working on this. The researchers are developing the technology to enable text-to-speech conversion for 13 Indian languages: Assamese, Bodo, Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi, Odia, Rajasthani, Tamil, Telugu and their corresponding Indian English flavours. A study on this was published in the journal IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,and Language Processing.  Indian languages In order that the synthesised speech sound as natural as possible, and close to a sentence that has been read out by a human being, there is a need to convert punctuations into pauses of suitable lengths. This is the approach when converting English language text into synthesised speech. When applying this to Indian languages, the first difficulty one encounters is that there are no punctuations, save the period. There are many such differences, “The longest English sentence could be about 6 seconds long, while in Indian languages sentences can last as long as 30 seconds,” says Hema A. Murthy from the Computer Science and Engineering department of IIT Madras who led the study. Such long sentences are essentially phrase-based, the researchers found, and each phrase is almost a complete unit. In the study, voice professionals – news readers and radio jockeys – were made to read out text carefully selected to be representative of various fields. “The audio signal and the text were aligned including pauses. Text was syllabified using rules, and syllables and pauses were identified in the audio using acoustic properties,” explains Prof. Murthy in an email to The Hindu. “Since the text and audio are aligned at the syllable-level, computing syllable-rate, number of syllables between pauses was straightforward,” she adds. Domains covered An hour of speech contains about 350-400 sentences. The researchers collected 10 hours of data for every language. “Five hours of data was used for hypothesising, and a set of held out sentences from the database was used for testing the hypothesis,” says Prof. Murthy. The text sentences were chosen in such a way that maximum domain coverage is ensured. “This includes news, sports, fiction, etc, as we work on open domain text-to-speech synthesis systems,” adds Jeena J Prakash from Uniphore Software Systems, IITM Research Park, Chennai, who is the first author of the paper. Phrase-based synthesis Using these inputs, the text is split into phrases using the findings. “A phrase location–based speech synthesis system was built [which delineates the first phrase, last phrase and middle phrases]. The phrases of the text were synthesised using the appropriate phrase-based synthesis systems. The synthesised waveforms were concatenated,” explains Dr Prakash. The results were tested on listeners to get a subjective evaluation. The original spoken sentences and the synthesised sentences were played out in random order. They found a uniform improvement across all Indian languages. “Currently we are part of a consortium on building speech-to-speech systems, where the objective is to replace the audio in the NPTEL/Swayam Lectures (in English) to vernacular,” says Prof. Murthy.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A sponge-like single-cell ancestor||The Smithsonian Institution, in the U.S., discussing the earliest form of life on earth, points out that an environment devoid of oxygen, and high in methane, was not fit for animal life, though it could ‘host’ microorganisms which could cope with the incoming sunlight and use it to generate energy for living. This was around 3.4 billion years (Byr)ago, about 1 Byr after the Earth itself was born. In the process, these microorganisms generated the gaseous waste product called oxygen. About 2 Byr later, thanks to this ‘great oxidation event’, the amount of oxygen on Earth became an important component of the Earths’ surface, and amenable for animal life. Using this oxygen as external energy, animal cells can produce their food for growth and multiply. In order to do so, their body anatomy and biology needed to change. (An excellent summary of the origin and the need for ‘multicellularity’ is given by T. Cavalier-Smith in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, February 5, 2017,<https://doi.org/10.1098/rstb.2015.0476>). He also points out why a unicellular organism, Choanoflagellate, can be used as the model to study the evolution and diversification of animals such as humans, consisting of multi-cell body parts such as tissues and organs. Choanoflagellates are the closest living relatives of animals that appeared nearly a billion years ago. Thanks to recent genome sequencing efforts, they have been shown to possess some key processes, such as cell signalling, cell–cell adhesion, that were thought to be present only in multicellular animals. Avoiding mistranslation Over time, animal cells also evolved to produce increased amounts of molecules called reactive oxygen species (ROS), which are involved in many essential cell activities but toxic at high levels. The ROS play an essential role as signalling molecules in processes such as immunity, stress response and development. In addition, more complexity necessitates a substantial increase in the genome size of the animal with concomitant increase in all transactions in the cell: DNA, the genetic material in the cells of the various organs, their transcription of the information to messenger RNA (mRNAs), then translation of these into the amino acid sequences that make individual proteins in the cells through what are called tRNAs — at least one per amino acid. These increased number of tRNAs, from around 50 in a typical bacterium to a few hundred or more in animals, means they must be selected carefully with minimal errors. If a wrong interpretation of the genetic code at the protein level occurs, it will lead to functional disorders and even diseases. (For example, substitution of one ‘wrong’ amino acid in place of the right one can change the shape, size or the solubility of the protein, leading to what Linus Pauling has called ‘molecular disease’. One amino acid change in haemoglobin can lead to anaemia, one wrong amino acid in the proteins of the eye lens can lead to cataract). In order to avert such ‘mistranslation’ into the wrong amino acids in the resultant protein, cells do contain enzymes that help remove the incorrect amino acid. It is on this aspect of ‘proofreading’ enzymes in animal cells that a recent publication by Rajan Sankaranarayanan and his colleagues from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, has focused on. Their research findings titled: “Genomic innovation of ATD alleviates mistranslation associated with multicellularity in Animalia”, are published in the journal eLife, on May 28, 2020 (Kuncha et al. eLife2020;9:e58118. DOI: https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.58118). Proofreading enzyme This intriguing title made me talk to Dr Sankaranarayanan, and here is how he explained it. His group has found such a proofreading enzyme which is Animalia-specific called ATD, which removes the amino acid alanine (A) from tRNAs which are supposed to carry another amino acid threonine (T), thus restoring proper protein synthesis and hence normal function in the cell. They further showed that animal cells also carry another enzyme called ThrRS which performs similar activity as ATD, though at high ROS levels in the cell, this enzyme loses its activity. The enzyme, ATD, appears to be stable even at high ROS levels in cells. These results were confirmed by them in the laboratory, using human kidney cells and mouse embryonic stem cells. Knocking out this gene from cells, using the newly available genome editing technology called CRISPR-Cas9, resulted in global protein misfolding leading to cell death. Strikingly, they could also identify the molecular reasoning behind the above phenomenon. They show that indeed alanine was wrongly substituted for threonine in multiple places in proteins that are made in cells devoid of ATD. They will now have to check the specific role of ATD in tissues with high levels of ROS, such as testes and ovaries. The group points out that the increased number of a particular group of tRNAs, which resulted in the mistranslation problem in animals, may even have evolved the potential to be involved in other functions beyond translation, such as epigenetics, programmed cell death (apoptosis) and even fertility. These are to be examined in greater detail. Shaping evolution Lastly, does the proofreader ATD exist in the model animal Choanoflagellate and perform a similar function? The answer is yes, as Kuncha and coworkers write: “One such enzyme,called ATD, is only found in animals. ... Further studies found that ATD originated around 900 million years ago, before Choanoflagellates and animals diverged, indicating these enzymes might have helped to shape the evolution of animals”. In other words, this sponge-like single cell is the ancestor of all animals on earth, including us, humans. Truly a humbling thought! What about plants and trees? That is another story. dbala@lvpei.org
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Detecting RNA virus in saliva samples using Raman spectroscopy||If Israel developed a spectroscopy-based one-minute breath-analyser to detect coronavirus, a team led by Amit Dutt from the Mumbai-based Tata Memorial Centre has turned to Raman Spectroscopy to detect RNA viruses present in saliva samples. It is a proof-of-concept study to analyse non-infectious RNA viruses using conventional Raman Spectroscopy without using any additional reagent to enhance the signal. It has been reported that novel coronavirus is found in sufficient numbers in human saliva. For the study, the researchers spiked saliva samples with non-infectious RNA viruses and analysed it with Raman Spectroscopy. They analysed the raw Raman Spectroscopy data and compared the signals with both viral positive and negative samples. Statistical analysis of all the 1,400 spectra obtained for each sample, showed a set of 65 Raman spectral features was adequate to identify the viral positive signal. “Interestingly, most of the spectra were specific for the RNA molecule,” says Dr. Dutt. “We confirmed our finding by adding an enzyme that specifically degrades RNA molecule — the RNase — in presence of which the 65 spectra–based feature was completely abrogated that didn’t happen in presence of DNase or proteinase. We thus confirmed that the signal came from the RNA contributed by the intact virions,” says Dr. Dutt. The signal set has 92.5% sensitivity and 88.8% specificity. The results are published in the Journal of Biophotonics . Dr. Sudeep Gupta, Director of TMC is a co-author of the paper. Free downloads To minimise variability and automate the analysis of the Raman spectra for RNA viruses, they developed an automated tool — RNA Virus Detector — using a graphical user interface. The tool can be used for detecting RNA virus from an individual or a group of samples in an unambiguous and reproducible manner, and is freely downloadable. “This tool, the first of its kind, takes raw data from a Raman Spectrometer analysis based on the 65-spectra signature and provides an objective output if viral RNA is present or absent in the sample,” says Dr. Dutt. “This conceptual framework to detect RNA viruses in saliva could form the basis for field application of Raman Spectroscopy in managing viral outbreaks, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,” they write. Since the tool can only identify RNA viruses and not identify the specific one, it can be used only for screening. “The RNA virus detected could be a common cold virus as well or any other RNA virus such as HIV. It doesn't look for COVID-19 viral-specific signature,” he explains. The advantage is that the tool can be taken to the field and people who test positive for RNA virus can be quarantined while another sample may be sent for validation using RT-PCR. “This whole process of data acquisition and analysis can be performed within a minute. Since no additional reagent is needed there is no recurring cost. A portable Raman spectrophotometer installed at the port of entry such as airports or any point of care can screen passengers within minutes,” he adds.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Get ahead of your pay cut||I’ve been paying a lot of attention to my bank accounts in the last few months. After all, the coronavirus pandemic has brought a great deal of uncertainty in our lives, especially in our finances. Pay cuts, furloughs and bulk layoffs are no longer news as entrepreneurs and professionals navigate the worst job market of our times. But though things are bleak, your bank balance doesn’t have to be. Now is the time to take a critical look at how you approach money and savings. Here’s a five-point guide to help you reassess and rethink your finances:     It is time to take a long, hard look at your credit card statements. “Identify your discretionary and fixed spends, and cut out as many of the former as possible,” says Akshay Golechha, CA, CFA and Columbia MBA graduate, who previously worked with Temasek, one of Asia’s biggest private equity firms. Discretionary spends include those Rs. 400 coffees, the six streaming service subscriptions you pay for despite watching only YouTube, the sales you’ve been shopping and the gourmet ingredients lying forgotten in your fridge. Adjusting with a pay cut necessitates a change in lifestyle, so start with what you know you don’t need. Most discretionary spends may seem insignificant, but you’ll be surprised by how they add up. 2. What does your balance sheet look like? Doyou have debt? How many credit cards do you own? Where are your savings parked? Do you have savings at all? Drawing up a picture of what you have (your assets) and what you owe (your liabilities) will give you direction on what you need to do next. “If you have expensive debt like a credit card loan, or any high interest loans, pay that off first,” says Vivek Kaul, author of Bad Money . “It is okay even if you have to pause your investments or savings for this, but it is important to be debt-free at this time.” If you’ve taken a pay cut, you will have to look at ways that you can save as much money (if not more) as you did before. You know how you’re constantly told to save for a rainy day? Well, we’re in the middle of a monsoon now. 3. Take a fresh look at your resumé   Ifyou are in the job market, it might be tempting to say yes to any offer that comes your way. But it can hurt your career in the long run. “Money in the bank helps you make better decisions,” says Kaul. “If you are in a company where the risk of layoffs are high, start saving money so you are in a position where you don’t have to take the first offer that comes your way.” Upskilling and adding relevant certifications might also help, given that there has been a surge in online learning resources. And there’s excellent free content available. “People need to ask themselves, why should someone hire me?” says Golechha. “And they should work at getting better at answering that question.”  4. Stay away from what you don’t understand  Now is not the time to make headway in the stock market, especially if you don’t understand its intricacies. Invest in what you know and can understand, even if that only means fixed deposits and recurring deposits. In addition to traditional savings methods, “health insurance and terms insurance are a must, especially if you have a family and commitments”, says Kaul. “Many people are still dependent on their employers’ insurance, but when your job could be on the line, how can you depend on it? Make sure you’ve got your own health insurance cover.”  5. Be honest and seek financial advice  Iknow people who would rather take a credit card loan with 25% interest per annum than ask their parents/friends for financial advice. But this is an especially stressful time for professionals in industries that aren’t “essential” and recent graduates who have to job hunt. “Don’t shy away from talking about money or asking others for help,” says Golechha. It doesn’t have to be a loan. It could even be a discussion on how things are faring for you financially, what you are doing to cope and maybe a trick or two about savings that you can pick up. If the last three months have taught us anything, it is that living a minimal lifestyle is not as difficult as we believed it was. Inculcating fiscal discipline has never been more important. And if you don’t take stock of your money now, then when?  Lavanya Mohan blogs about personal finance at pennmoney.com.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning to bend a knee||Last year, 1,731 people died in police or judicial custody in India, which translates into some five deaths a day. Almost 75% of those who died in police custody had been tortured. The details of the methods used are not pretty to read: nails were hammered into them; chilli powder applied on their private parts; they were branded, stripped, urinated upon; violated with batons and more. Five custodial deaths a day. More than 1,500 deaths in a year. And it barely raised a ripple in our consciousness. So how did the case of Jayaraj and Benicks, who died in police custody in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district, penetrate the noise of border skirmishes and orchestrated television fury and manage to touch our carefully selective conscience? Over the years, activists have taken up many such cases, but popular response has always remained blissfully serene. Something was different this time. For one, the Delhi-centric media cabal was prodded into headlining the news on primetime rather than tucking it away in a mid-morning broadcast. This munificence, in turn, happened because their hand was forced by insistent social media posts. And why did the beautiful people of social media, the divas, actors and chic columnists, get bothered by the deaths of two people whose names they could not pronounce in a city whose existence they had not heard of? Because George Floyd. The interconnected space that is social media outrages about something in Finland or Faridabad with the same felicity of intimacy and rage. As the powerful visuals and videos from the Floyd case exploded on their device screens, Indians saw ordinary people in the US, the UK and Europe reacting forcefully against police excess. Our Netizens and Twitterati saw the people of these nations articulating expectations and demanding behavioural norms from their uniformed forces that pointed to what Indians ought to have demanded years ago and chose not to. The potent images of hardened American cops taking a knee in front of protesting crowds in a gesture of apology and solidarity seem to have made Indians see that when ordinary citizens raise a voice against institutional excess, institutions do respond. That wearing a uniform doesn’t grant immunity from questioning. That being a policeman isn’t a free pass for gratuitous violence. Impervious as we’ve been to every egregious use of power and intimidation over the years, today even we have been shamed into demanding that the police be subject to the same law that they are trained to uphold. It should not take two horrific deaths to make us see this, but we are so cosseted by class, caste and connections that police brutality is always a faraway thing that happens to other people. People we can slot into neat categories — rowdy, criminal, terrorist and even, these days, students, activists and journalists — people who we decide “deserve it”, where “it” ranges from imprisonment without bail to harassment and mild beatings to full-fledged torture. The National Campaign Against Torture report, whose findings I began this piece with, says that 60% of those who died in police custody last year belonged to poor and marginalised communities — they included Dalits, tribals, Muslims, labourers and rag-pickers, among others. None of us know their names or why they were picked up. None of us heard about their deaths leave alone get outraged about it. If today we are finally angry about the deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks, one hopes it will stand for something. In the wake of Floyd’s death, the US is contemplating a Bill that bans chokeholds, creates a national police misconduct registry, removes “qualified immunity” for police-persons, and requires all enforcement personnel to wear body cameras. Is it possible that we can create a similar reforms bill that will enforce more accountability from our police? US Congressional Black Caucus leader Karen Bass said last month, “A profession where you have the power to kill should be a profession that requires highly-trained officers who are accountable to the public.” For the longest time, our police forces have been accountable only to the politicians in office at the time. If now we want them to be accountable to the people, then it’s we the people who have to hold them to account. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.
05 July 2020||MANESAR,||A spate of highway robberies||Sukhdev, a truck driver, travels frequently on the Manesar-Palwal section of the 135-km-long Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway while heading towards Central and South India. Though he considers himself lucky to have never encountered criminals on this part of the highway, his helper Haathi Ram claimed to have heard several stories of robberies. Taking a break after crossing the Pachgaon toll plaza on the highway leading to Uttar Pradesh on Thursday afternoon, the duo recalled how truck drivers were allegedly attacked with stones when passing through a stretch among the Aravalis — locally known as Sohna Ghati — and robbed. Sukhdev said he has been driving to far-flung areas such as Ahmedabad, Baroda and Hyderabad for years, but most of those highways are well-lit. “However, it is pitch dark on the KMP except at the tolls,” he added. The two admitted that they avoided travelling on the road at night, as they thought it was “risky”. The over 50-km Manesar-Palwal section of the highway, operational for more than four years now, has been notorious for crimes. However, after three armed robberies that took place within a span of a week last month near Palwal toll plaza, security for those travelling on the road passing through six districts of Haryana has been stepped up. On June 14, two more families were waylaid similarly and robbed of cash and jewellery on the highway in the Hathin police station area. On January 27, a resident of Mathura travelling back from Delhi with his minor nephew was waylaid and robbed and the child was sodomised. An FIR was registered at Hathin police station against unknown persons. Nehru Singh Meena, manager at the toll collection agency called Path India Limited, recalled that two years ago the company’s cash van was chased during broad daylight on the Manesar-Palwal section for several kilometres and they had to call for reinforcement from another toll. The highway has eleven tolls on the entire 135-long stretch. He said, the “Sohna Ghati” is a crime-prone area on the Manesar-Palwal section with the road that passing through the mountains and it is dark at night. “Many truck drivers at the toll would tell us how stones were thrown at their vehicles to force them to stop. Many were robbed,” said Mr. Meena. However, he added that no robbery was ever reported on the 80-km Kundli-Manesar section of the highway passing through Gurugram, Jhajjar, Rohtak and Sonipat. Iron nails on road In all the three recent cases of robberies on June 20, 23 and 26, the families, travelling in cars, were forced to pull over after the iron nails were strewn on the expressway caused the tyres to burst. Speaking to The Hindu , the victims recalled how five to six youths carrying arms and their faces covered walked up to them from different directions after their cars stopped, held them at gunpoint and fled the spot after robbing them within a few minutes. The robbers told the victims to immediately drive away from the spot threatening to kill them. The modus operandi in the two cases registered at Hathin Police Station has also been similar. Superintendent of Police, Palwal, Deepak Gahlawat, said that Manesar-Palwal stretch was notorious and while snatching and robberies were committed, most of the cases were solved soon. He said there appeared to be the same gang behind the robberies in the jurisdictions of Sadar and Hathin police stations this year. Mr. Gahlawat added that the gang is from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh and had carried out similar robberies on the Yamuna Expressway. “Since it is easy to reach KMP from Yamuna Expressway through the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressway, they strike in Haryana as well,” said Mr. Gahlawat. He claimed that the members of the gang were identified. Though three Police Control Room vehicles patrol the 36-km stretch of the highway passing through Palwal round-the-clock, Mr. Gahlawat said three teams of Crime Units were deployed on the road soon after the June 20 incident at a distance of six to 10 km each and they encountered the robbers on June 26 but no arrests could be made. He said the robbers had become active after the lockdown, and there was no major crime reported for months this year. Bablu alias Ganja, involved in the robbery and sodomy case of January 27, was, however, killed in an encounter with the Special Task Force of Uttar Pradesh Police on Yamuna Expressway late on July 2. The police suspect that he along with his gang was involved in the spate of robberies on Manesar-Palwal section of the KMP and his death could put an end to such incidents. Bablu, a resident of Faridabad, carried a cash reward of Rs. 50,000 on his head and involved in several cases of robbery, including on Yamuna Expressway.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The impact of the Chinese apps ban||The story so far: In the wake of the face-off with Chinese forces on the India-China border in Ladakh, and a violent clash on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, the Indian government on June 29 banned 59 apps of Chinese origin, citing data security and national sovereignty concerns. These include popular ones such as TikTok, SHAREIt, UC Browser, CamScanner, Helo, Weibo, WeChat and Club Factory. Why were the Chinese apps banned? The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology in a press release asserted that it had received “many complaints from various sources, including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India”. The Ministry said it had decided to block the 59 apps to safeguard the “sovereignty and integrity of India”, invoking powers under Section 69A of the Information Technology (IT) Act read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009. The government also said that several citizens had reportedly raised concerns in representations to the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) regarding security of data and loss of privacy in using these apps. In addition, the Ministry said it had also received “exhaustive recommendations” from the Home Ministry’s Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre. And while the government did not name China openly in its action against the apps, public comments by officials including Ravi Shankar Prasad, the Union Minister for Communications, Electronics and Information Technology and Law and Justice — he asserted that the ‘digital strike’ was done “for safety, security, defence, sovereignty & integrity of India and to protect data & privacy of people of India” — signalled that it was aimed at Chinese economic interests. How large is the user base in India for these banned apps? Estimates by Sensor Tower show the video-sharing social networking app, TikTok, for instance, has seen about 611 million downloads in India over the app’s lifetime, while estimates of active users vary with the highest pegged at 200 million. According to media reports, file-sharing tool SHAREIt has about 400 million users. Statcounter places the Alibaba-owned UC Browser second in India market share at 10.19%, after Google Chrome (78.2%). Other reports estimate its user base at 130 million. How will users be affected? Installed apps may continue to exist on mobile devices. But now that the latest versions of the apps have been removed from Google’s Play Store and Apple’s App Store, users will not be able to access updated versions in future. If a notice goes out to internet service providers asking that data flow from these apps be halted, that could impact the functioning of existing, installed apps. What are the alternatives and are they easy to find? Users of banned browsers or video apps may find it easier to shift to similar offerings from elsewhere. Chingari, a competitor from India to TikTok, saw its downloads soar from 1 lakh to 1 crore-plus on Google Play Store soon after the ban on Chinese apps was announced. Users of some apps such as CamScanner may not be able to shift so easily. For example, it is not clear yet how say a pdf, or portable document format, created by a user via CamScanner a couple of years ago and backed up in Google Drive, could be transferred to another app such as the Adobe Scan or Microsoft Office Lens, unless individually downloaded and re-uploaded. There are some alternative products such as the India-made Zoho Doc Scanner, which does offer users the option to import all files en masse from CamScanner. How does the ban affect Chinese app providers? The potential loss of advertising revenue impacts app-makers. Tik Tok’s parent ByteDance Ltd. recorded a doubling of global revenue to $17 billion in 2019, over the previous year, with $3 billion in profit. Its India business may have yielded only $5.8 million in revenue for the year ended March 2019, but with quicker user adoption more recently, the stakes seem to be getting higher. When TikTok was banned briefly in India last year on the grounds that it reportedly promoted pornography, the company had told a local court that it was losing roughly $15 million a month due to the ban, according to a Reuters report. The app had subsequently been permitted to operate. What has China’s response been to the ban? China has said that it suspects India’s actions could be in violation of the World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. In a statement, the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said, “India’s measure selectively and discriminatorily aims at certain Chinese apps on ambiguous and far-fetched grounds, runs against fair and transparent procedure requirements, abuses national security exceptions, and [is suspected] of violating the WTO rules. It also goes against the general trend of international trade and e-commerce, and is not conducive to consumer interests and the market competition in India.” The Chinese government’s comments indicate that it could file a formal complaint at the WTO. Will the move hurt India? It could, in terms of investments and employment. ByteDance Ltd. had talked of upcoming investments worth $1 billion in India. That will probably remain suspended till further clarity emerges, potentially impacting job creation. What legal options does the Indian government have? In terms of process, there are two options available to the government under Section 69A of the IT Act to issue ban orders — normal and emergency. In the case of the ban on the 59 apps, based on the use of the phrase “interim order” in the statement issued by TikTok, it appears that the government may have adopted the emergency route. The emergency route allows content to be blocked on the directions of the Secretary, Department of IT, who must consider the impugned content and record his reasons for doing so. In the normal course, an order to block content requires: (a) a decision to be made by a government committee (b) relevant intermediaries to be given an opportunity to be heard by this committee. These processes are not required when emergency provisions are used. However, in the case of emergencies, the order of the Secretary, Department of IT, must be placed before the government committee within 48 hours. Based on the recommendations of this committee, the order can then be finalised or vacated. Does the government necessarily have to publish the order? The legal order that empowers the designated authority to implement the ban is yet to be made public. Rule 16 of the Blocking rules requires strict confidentiality to be maintained regarding blocking requests, complaints received, and actions taken. However, policy experts such as Rishab Bailey, a technology researcher with the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, believe that this provision primarily applies to intermediaries (through whom blocking is implemented). He points out that the government ought to disclose the orders passed (subject to relevant redactions that may be required) in the interests of transparency and accountability. Also, and as recognised by the Supreme Court recently in the Anuradha Bhasin case (in the context of Internet suspensions ordered under Section 144 of the The Code Of Criminal Procedure), publishing such orders is the only way in which the reasons and rationale for the decision can be judged. Challenging the decision-making process requires the reasoning to be made public, Mr. Bailey said. Can the order be challenged in an Indian court? Though it is unlikely that the companies concerned may take such a step immediately, either they or any affected individual in India could challenge the blocking orders in court. The courts will then decide whether the government has provided sufficient explanation as to the nexus between what these apps are alleged to be doing and the reasons adduced by the government such as protection of national security and strategic interests. Courts will also consider if the ban is a proportionate and necessary step to be taken, given the facts at hand. According to Mr. Bailey, another factor to be considered is whether the process for blocking under Section 69A of the IT Act contemplates blocking of content (or apps) on grounds of privacy violations.  China has said that it suspects India’s actions could be in violation of the World Trade Organization rules
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||Confusion, glitches on Day 1 of DU online mock examinations||The first day of Delhi University’s online mock open book examinations (OBE) saw hundreds of students complain about the website crashing, and difficulties in registration, uploading of documents and answers, and incorrect question papers. With the prevailing COVID-19 outbreak, the university had announced online OBE for terminal year students amid strong reservations from students and teachers. The exams were supposed to begin from July 1 but were postponed to July 10 by DU citing rising number of COVID-19 cases in the city. In the meantime, the university had decided to conduct mock tests. On Saturday, several students complained of the website crashing around afternoon and that papers of all subjects had not been uploaded. “Needless to say, the online mock exams have been a disaster. The website crashed, student details were missing and there were incorrect papers. Then DU claimed that this is just for us to understand the procedure, but when our paper pattern and question type has been changed, how can this be a mock test,” asked a student of Gargi College. Students also said that the file size limit of answer sheets was 5 MB and that there were difficulties in uploading them. Delhi University officials, however, maintained that the website was functional throughout the day and that as of Saturday evening around 7,000 regular students and 9,000 School of Open Learning students were logged into the system. ‘For practice only’ DU spokesperson Sanjeev Singh said, “The papers are for practising only and not necessarily related to respective subjects. It is just to allow students to get used to the portal. As for students who were unable to log in, it was because of incorrect details entered by them.” “In cases where students have entered an incorrect email ID or phone number, they will not receive the One-Time Password. Sometimes by mistake a space gets added, which then becomes a part of the password. We have received mails from many students seeking a change in the details entered by them,” Mr. Singh said. Stating that students were being subjected to undue anxiety and stress, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) reiterated its demand to scrap the OBE. “The mock tests have turned out to be a mockery and DUTA is inundated with panic mails from students who have nowhere to address their queries and get solutions and are turning to their teachers. The association demands immediate scrapping of the OBE and relief to students from unnecessary stress in these already distressing time,” the teachers’ body said.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi inches towards 1 lakh COVID-19 cases||The Capital reported 2,505 fresh COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 97,200 cases, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Saturday. With 55 deaths in the last 24 hours and 26 older deaths being added to the tally, the total death toll crossed the 3,000-mark and now stands at 3,004. According to the bulletin, 2,632 people recovered in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recovered patients to 68256. The bulletin added that currently there are 25,940 active cases in the city. While 16,004 patients are currently under home isolation, of the total 15,283 hospital beds, around 9,761 are vacant. Additionally, there are 6,113 vacant beds in dedicated COVID care centres and 391 vacant beds in dedicated COVID-19 health centres in the Capital. Kejriwal lauds efforts Stating that efforts of Delhiites were yielding results in fighting the virus, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet said, “The hard work of two crore people of Delhi is paying off. Congratulations to all Corona Warriors on Delhi’s recovering rate crossing 70 per cent. Now all of us have to work harder to defeat Corona.” According to the government health bulletin over 6.20 lakh tests have been conducted so far and 32,650 tests per million are being conducted. In the last 24 hours, 9,925 RT-PCR tests and 13,748 antigen tests were conducted in the city, according to the health bulletin. While there are currently 448 containment zones in the city, the total number of calls dispatched to ambulances stood at 1,030, according to the bulletin issued. The Delhi government added that a meeting on public health response to COVID-19 was held by the Cabinet Secretary and an order regarding revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild, pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic cases, was issued.
05 July 2020||JAIPUR,||‘We can conduct 41,000 tests daily’||Rajasthan has developed the capacity to conduct over 41,000 tests per day for COVID-19 and will shortly carry out more than 50,000 tests a day. The recovery ratio of COVID-19 patients in the State had reached 80% as a result of better management of the disease, Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here on Saturday. “When Rajasthan’s first COVID-19 case came to light, we sent the sample to a laboratory in Pune for testing. Today, we are testing 41,450 samples per day in the State,” Mr. Sharma said. He added that the arrangements had been made at all the places to fight the virus infection. Of the 19,256 COVID-19 positive cases detected in the State so far, 15,352 have recovered and gone home. Mr. Sharma said the patients were recovering fast both at the institutional quarantine centres established by the State government and in the home quarantine. The Minister affirmed that enhancing the testing facility had benefited in the recovery of patients. “People with high risk and elderly people have been identified as the groups needing high attention. The samples of about 9 lakh people have so far been obtained for testing,” he said. ‘In curriculum’ As many as 20 districts in the State now have COVID-19 testing facilities and the rest will soon follow suit. Mr. Sharma said COVID-19 would be included in the school curriculum to make the children aware of the disease.  The samples of about 9 lakh people have so far been obtained for testing   Raghu Sharma Medical & Health Minister
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Why has Indian Railways opened doors for private players?||The story so far: Indian Railways has launched the process of opening up train operations to private entities on 109 origin destination(OD) pairs of routes using 151 modern trains. It has invited Request for Qualifications proposals, for scrutiny of vendor capabilities, from those who can bring modern trains for operations on existing rail infrastructure. At present, scheduled passenger train services remain paralysed during the COVID-19 pandemic, and various railways have been running only specials such as those for workers. Yet, the Railway Board has moved ahead with a long-pending plan, setting a tentative schedule for private train operations, expected to begin in 2023 and in 12 clusters. In December 2019, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal had said that a Group of Secretaries had gone into the question of allowing private train services. There was no proposal to allow more Tejas trains from Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC), the Minister said. The IRCTC, in which the government is the majority shareholder, was given pilot Tejas operations in the New Delhi-Lucknow, and Mumbai-Ahmedabad sectors. These were the first trains allowed to be run by a ‘non-Railway’ operator. The present move takes another step towards competing passenger train operations, bringing new-generation trains and attracting investments of an estimated Rs. 30,000 crore. What is the background to the decision? Several committees have gone into the expansion and the modernisation of Indian Railways. In 2015, the expert panel chaired by Bibek Debroy constituted by the Ministry of Railways a year earlier, recommended that the way forward for the railways was “liberalisation and not privatisation” in order to allow entry of new operators “to encourage growth and improve services.” It also made it clear that a regulatory mechanism was a prerequisite to promote healthy competition and protect the interests of all stakeholders. The present invitation for private operators to submit qualification bids for 151 trains would be, in the assessment of the Railway Board, only for a fraction of the total train operations — 5% of the 2,800 Mail and Express services operated by Indian Railways. The overall objective, however, is to introduce a new train travel experience for passengers who are used to travelling by aircraft and air-conditioned buses. From a passenger perspective, there is a need for more train services, particularly between big cities. The Railway Board says five crore intending passengers could not be accommodated during 2019-20 for want of capacity, and there was 13.3% travel demand in excess of supply during summer and festival seasons. Without an expansion, and with growth of road travel, the share of the Railways would steadily decline in coming years. Why is the move significant for Indian Railways? For the Railways, one of the largest organisations in the country operating not just trains for passengers and freight, but also social institutions such as hospitals and schools, it represents a radical change. According to data maintained by the World Bank, in 2018 India had 68,443 route kilometres of railways. It is among the four largest rail networks in the world, along with the United States, China, and Russia, although every kilometre of track in India covers geographical area much less than Germany, Russia, China or Canada, indicating scope for expansion. An analysis of passenger and freight operations in the Railways, taken note of by the Economic Survey and the erstwhile Planning Commission, showed that a steady shift to other modes of travel for both categories was affecting economic growth: by as much as 4.5% of GDP-equivalent. It was estimated that a one rupee push in the railway sector would have a forward linkage effect of increasing output in other sectors by Rs. 2.50. The Debroy committee found this significant to take the ‘Make in India’ objective forward. The panel also noted that passengers were willing to pay more, if they had guaranteed and better quality of travel and ease of access. The move to augment capacity virtually overnight through private capital in train operations pursues this line of reasoning. Are private train operations sustainable? Train services operated by Indian Railways cover several classes of passengers, meeting the social service obligation to connect remote locations, and adopting the philosophy of cross-subsidy for passengers in low-cost trains through higher freight tariffs. In more recent years, it has focused on revenue generation through dynamic demand-based pricing. Private operators are not expected to shoulder the burden of universal service norms, and will focus on revenue. Even the first IRCTC-run trains have a higher cost of travel between Lucknow and Delhi than a Shatabdi train on the same route that almost matches it for speed. So private operators would have to raise the level of their offering even higher, to justify higher fares, and attract a segment of the population that is ready to pay for this difference. The government would have to explain that it has monetised its expensive fixed assets such as track, signalling and stations adequately for the taxpayer, who has paid for them. The key piece in the scheme is the independent regulator, recommended by expert committees. Before the pandemic struck, the Government of India said in the Lok Sabha in March that it had notified the resolution to set up a Rail Development Authority as a “recommendatory/advisory” body, advising government on, among other things, promoting competition, efficiency and economy, and protecting consumer interests. Private rail operations can thus be seen as a government-led pilot plan, not a full programme for unbundling of the monolithic Indian Railways, although the more attractive parts are being opened for private exploitation.  Private operators will have to raise the level of their offering to justify higher fares and attract a segment of the population that is ready to pay for this difference
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Pathogens and prediction||The story so far: Reports of an emergent viral infection transmitted from pigs in China dominated the news earlier this week. Newspapers and television channels reported that a new strain of H1N1 (also known as swine flu) had started infecting workers and the recommendations of scientists were that it must be controlled with a great deal of urgency as it had the potential of becoming yet another pandemic. What are the risks from emerging pathogens? At this stage, potential harm from G4 EA H1N1, the new strain, has just been flagged by scientists who predict risk from emerging pathogens. Knowledge of the existence of the virus in pig farms in China has been present since 2016. But a new study (“Prevalent Eurasian avian-like H1N1 swine influenza virus with 2009 pandemic viral genes facilitating human infection”) published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , U.S. (https://bit.ly/2ZuLy7O), said it replicates efficiently in human airway paths and so far, has infected a few people without actually making them ill. They found antibodies for the virus in the blood of pig farm workers, none of whom was sick. The authors, who are researchers based in China, recorded in the article: “Pigs are intermediate hosts for the generation of pandemic influenza virus. Thus, systematic surveillance of influenza viruses in pigs is a key measure for pre-warning the emergence of the next pandemic influenza... G4 viruses have all the essential hallmarks of a candidate pandemic virus. Of concern is that swine workers show elevated seroprevalence for G4 virus. Controlling the prevailing G4 EA H1N1 viruses in pigs and close monitoring in human populations, especially the workers in swine industry, should be urgently implemented.” The researchers collected 338 blood samples from workers on 15 farms and 230 from people in nearby households. The results, as published, found that 10.4 % of the workers and 4.4 % of the others tested positive for antibodies to G4 EA H1N1. Over all, 20.5 % of the workers between the ages of 18 and 35 tested positive. Is G4 a current pandemic? No. The paper has merely forewarned of the possibility that the G4 virus might emerge into a pandemic in the future, and the authors have called for greater vigilance in monitoring people. It has not become potent in humans even though their blood contains antibodies for the virus. Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, Director, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and also an adviser in the White House coronavirus taskforce, told the U.S. Senate that U.S. health officials were watching the China developments with reference to G4, which has the characteristics of the 2009 H1N1 virus and the 1918 pandemic flu. The virus, which scientists are calling “G4 EA H1N1,” has not yet been shown to infect humans but it is exhibiting “reassortment capabilities”, the media cited him as saying. At this point of time, the alert can be considered an early warning bell. It calls for vigil primarily because this is a new strain against which humans would have no inbuilt immunity from the virus, much like SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, COVID-19. What is disease/pandemic risk surveillance? Most countries have their own disease surveillance mechanisms in place to monitor and track emerging diseases. Public health teams evaluate the risk of a particular pathogen on the community, based on the cases occurring, and warn of potential risks from that pathogen. Early warning systems have been successful in predicting dengue and Ebola outbreaks, among other diseases, in the past, enabling health systems to be pre-warned and, thus, prepared to tackle the challenge. Local outbreaks of cholera or diarrhoeal disease have also been identified in cities, and have helped limit the damage in the community. Closely studying a pathogen will yield valuable information on transmission, and behaviour of the organism, giving humans early lessons in its prevention and treatment. Alerts should also be sent out by global health mechanisms, including the World Health Organization (WHO), so that other nations at equal risk might be warned before the outbreak hits their shores. What is the future? Borrowing the urgency of a now famous phrase that WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus used for the coronavirus (‘Test, Test, Test’), the world must seek ‘Vigilance, Vigilance, Vigilance’/ All risk assessment systems across the world will have to be on active mode, besides forming a network globally to share information on emerging diseases and pathogens. WHO’s Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN) is at the front of such initiatives to make scientific predictions based on certain models. While there is no doubt that disease and pathogen surveillance have a place in the modern world, it is also important to remember that scientists themselves regard it as an imprecise form, ergo, any undue alarm as a consequence of such studies would quite frustrate the target of preparedness.   Studying a pathogen will yield valuable information on transmission, and behaviour of the organism, giving humans lessons in its prevention and treatment. Global health mechanisms, including WHO, must send out alerts
05 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha reports 30% local cases||Odisha on Saturday reported close to 30% of total fresh infections from the community that indicated deterioration in COVID-19 pandemic situation in the State. Worried over community transmission, local administrations have started controlling intra-district movements and emphasising on isolation for persons coming from high infection districts. As many as 495 new coronavirus cases were detected during past 24 hours, taking the State’s total to 8,601. Among fresh cases, 355 were from quarantine centres while 140 were from community, accounting for 28.28%. On Friday, as many as 136 of the 561 COVID-19 positive cases were identified as local. Similarly, in the first two days of July, around 80 local cases were detected from outside quarantine centres. Ganjam was again worst affected, reporting 216 cases — over 200 cases in consecutive days. Now, total positive cases in the district alone crossed 2,000 mark. The State government on Saturday appointed two IAS officers as additional District Magistrates for two subdivisions of Ganjam. For the first time, the State reported five deaths in a single day, taking the toll to 34.
05 July 2020||Noida,||51 people booked for holding cricket match||Fifty-one people have been booked for holding a cricket match in Greater Noida in violation of the administration’s COVID-19 guidelines, the police said on Saturday. Challans have also been issued to owners of 17 cars which were used by the participants of the match held on Friday, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said. Those booked include two Delhi-based organisers of the event and they have been identified as Deepak Aggarwal and Nagik Khurana. Several participants too hailed from the Capital, the police said. Without permission “The cricket match was held in the Knowledge Park police station area without permission, with its lead organisers being Deepak Aggarwal and Nagik Khurana. Due to COVID-19, it is known that everyone has to maintain social distancing and it has been made mandatory to wear masks,” Mr. Singh said. Social distancing He said a lot of people had gathered for the event without following social distancing norms. Fifty-one people have been booked and an FIR has been registered at the Knowledge Park police station, the DCP said. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), the police said. Provisions under the Epidemic Diseases Act have also been invoked in the case, they added.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sub-inspector held for hitting woman with car||Two women were hit by cars in two separate incidents reported in east Delhi on Friday, the police said on Saturday. Two persons, including a Delhi police sub-inspector have been arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Jasmeet Singh said that the accused in the two incidents have been identified as sub-inspector Yogender Kumar and Bhanu. According to the police, the first incident was reported at 7.15 p.m. from Ghazipur. The police said that the sub-inspector, posted in the Police Control Room unit, was coming home from work when he hit the woman. The victim was later identified as Noor Jahan. Off duty A senior police officer said that the SI — off duty — was drunk at the time of the incident and was caught by locals. He was then arrested by the police who reached the spot after the PCR call was made. Ms. Jahan was rushed to Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital where she is undergoing treatment. The police said that she resides in Gurugram and was visiting a relative here. The victim was walking on the street when the incident took place, the police said. The second incident was reported from Mayur Vihar’s Chilla Village around 8 p.m. A video of the incident caught on a CCTV camera went viral on social media. Locals catch accused In the video, the victim identified as Hajiran (55) gets hit by the car and falls on the road. The driver stops for a few seconds. As people gather, possibly to catch hold of him, he speeds again attempting to flee while the victim was still in front of the front tyre. He runs her over twice before being forcibly stopped by locals. The police said that the accused, Bhanu, is a water supplier in the area and they are yet to ascertain and verify the concrete details of the sequence of events. Victim stable Ms. Hajiran was rushed to the hospital where she underwent treatment and was discharged late night. The accused, held by the locals, was handed over to the police who was then formally arrested. Mr. Singh said that case under Section 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered in both incidents and further investigation is under way.
05 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Animal rights activist and her team ‘assaulted’ in Rani Bagh||A 33-year-old animal rights activist and founder of NGO ‘Neighbourhood Woof’ Ayesha Christina was allegedly assaulted by locals in Outer Delhi Rani Bagh area on Friday night. The police have registered a case and begun probe. Ms. Christina, who is empanelled by the North Municipal Corporation of Delhi for sterilisation of stray dogs, was visiting Rishi Vihar in Rani Bagh with her team when the incident happened. She said that she and her team were accompanied by a local for catching and sterilising stray dogs in the area. “There were some unfriendly dogs and we were about to catch the last one when a father-son duo came and started questioning one of my team members very rudely. He just told them that they can speak to me instead,” she said. ‘Questioned our work’ Subsequently, when Ms. Ayesha asked the duo, they allegedly started shouting and abusing her and the team and questioned their work saying “we can even steal their children like this”. The matter was aggravated when locals gathered and allegedly surrounded the team and vandalised their vehicle. They also hurt them. “We ran for our lives, else they would have either killed us or at least thrashed us brutally,” she said. Viral video Ms. Christina, bleeding, reached Azadpur police station from where she did a Facebook live and alleged that she wasn’t able to meet the senior police officers and her complaint wasn’t being taken. The video went viral on social media. On Saturday, Ms. Christina lodged her complaint at Rani Bagh police station as the place of incident came under their jurisdiction.  The police said that three PCR calls were received on Friday night regarding a quarrel between two parties — members of NGO and locals of Rishi Nagar. When the police reached the spot, they said, it was revealed the member of NGO had come to catch stray dogs and in view of late night hours, “local residents enquired about their identities on which a heated argument started and a scuffle followed,” they said. The police claimed that members of the NGO tried to flee in their car and three locals were hit by the car who got injured. Medical examination of four members of NGO and three locals was conducted. The police said that based on Ms. Christina’s complaint, a case under relevant sections was registered. “Police procedures needs to be more accessible and more awareness on animal birth control needs to be carried out for such incidents to stop,” she said adding that this is not the first time she has been assaulted.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||DU extends last date for registration to July 18||Delhi University on Saturday extended the last date for registration to undergraduate and postgraduate courses to July 18. The online registration portal was scheduled to close on Saturday. University officials said the step had been taken in view of a notification issued by the Central Board of Secondary Education pertaining to the declaration of Class 12 results by July 15. CBSE notification In a statement, DU Dean of Admissions Shobha Bagai said, “Despite the COVID-19 outbreak situation, the university has received tremendous response. The decision to extend registration has been taken keeping in view the CBSE notification on declaration of Class 12 results, and postponement of JEE and NEET examinations.” Till Saturday evening, the university had received over 3.28 lakh applications for undergraduate courses, out of which approximately 2.12 lakh applicants had completed the payment process, For postgraduate courses, the university has received over 1.28 lakh registrations out of which 98,232 applicants had completed the process along with payment. The last date for application to MPhil and PhD programmes was also extended by the university till July 18. As of 5 p.m. on Saturday, the university has received around 22,000 applications out of which 12,259 have completed payment. The DU registration process began on June 20 and is taking place entirely online due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Several changes were introduced by the university, including no admissions under the extra curricular activities quota — apart from NCC and NSS, which will be picked on the basis of certificates. Admissions under the sports quota will also be taking place on the basis of certificates and no trials will be held this year.
05 July 2020||new delhi,||Tribunal seeks report on augmenting forest dept.||Following a plea seeking enhancement of staff and infrastructure in the Delhi government’s forest department, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) was informed that while “certain steps” have been taken, other measures were delayed due to the lockdown. Taking note of a June 17 report furnished by the department, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel observed, “A report has been filed by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) mentioning that while certain steps have been taken, further steps have been delayed on account of lockdown. The applicant has filed objections to the compliance report.” Time till Dec. 15 Directing the PCCF to file another report by December 15, the Bench said: “Without going into rival contentions whether delay is justified, let a further action taken report be filed before the next date by the PCCF, Delhi.” The directions came on a plea moved by petitioner Aditya N. Prasad, who was seeking enhancement of strength and infrastructure in the forest department. The plea had contended that there was “massive deficiencies of resources” in the department. Earlier, the Delhi government had informed the NGT that the staff strength was increased from 108 to 398.  A report has been filed by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests mentioning that while certain steps have been taken, others have been delayed due to COVID-19 outbreak National Green Tribunal bench
05 July 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. CM asks officials to prepare COVID-19 plan||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed the State’s health and medical education departments to prepare a special work plan for Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad in view of the growing number of COVID-19 cases. In a meeting with senior officials, Mr. Adityanath stressed on more efforts for further improving medical facilities in the two districts to check the spread of infection, an official statement issued here said. The CM also directed that a special health department team be sent to Ghaziabad to ensure better arrangements in COVID hospitals and treatment of infected people, and further said a similar team should be sent to Bulandshahr. Mr. Adityanath also directed private hospitals to use TrueNat machines for COVID-19 screening. They are presently being used in government hospitals. He had earlier sought permission for using TrueNat machines in private hospitals and permission for the same has been given by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Use of TrueNat machines in private hospitals will help provide prompt treatment to emergency patients as it would save time spent in waiting for the COVID test reports before starting treatment, the statement said.  Testing capacity Directing officials to increase testing capacity, which has crossed the 25,000 tests-per-day mark, Mr. Adityanath said the aim would be to achieve the 30,000 mark in the next phase. Directing the officials to improve facilities in the State’s medical colleges, the CM said senior doctors should make regular rounds and an official should be nominated to monitor health services in the colleges. He also asked the special secretary-level officials, sent in districts as nodal officers, to undertake regular monitoring of all the COVID hospitals. He added that kin of patients admitted in COVID hospitals should be provided regular information on their health by telephone.
05 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||BJP, RSS plan to abolish reservations, alleges Selja||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Saturday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh have been conspiring to abolish SC, ST and OBC reservations in the country and in this line, the State’s BJP-JJP government had recently decided that the benefit of reservations will not be applicable in promotion system. “Provision for promotion through roster system was made by the Haryana government by an order on November 15, 2018, but the current government has issued new order on June 23, withdrawing the 2018 order. According to the previous order, SC, BC employees were to be promoted through the roster system as per reservations policy. But the instructions were not implemented in any department and now this decision has exposed the anti-reservation mindset of the Haryana government,” said Ms. Selja, addressing a video press conference here. “The Central government should clarify its views on this subject. The 117th Constitution Amendment Bill, 2012, should be passed and the SC, ST, OBC reservation should be inserted in the 9th schedule of the Constitution,” she added.
05 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. opposes power amendment Bill||The Congress government in Rajasthan has termed the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, contradictory to decentralisation of power for States and against the spirit of the Constitution in view of its emphasis on the Centre’s control of the power sector despite its inclusion in the concurrent list. Energy Minister B.D. Kalla said at a videoconference convened by the Union Ministry of Power on Friday that the draft Bill would infringe on the rights of the States and adversely affect their financial and operational powers. He said the powers of the Regulatory Authority should remain with the States. “The proposed Bill is inclined towards centralisation of orders, control and regulation related to the power sector. It should be withdrawn,” Mr. Kalla said, while pointing out that several States had raised objections to its provisions. The Minister also sought an increase in the target from 325 mW capacity to 725 mW for the State under the Kusum Yojana for installation of solar pumps in agricultural fields. He said the State government had completed the process for installation of 25,000 solar pumps under the scheme.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||Light rain expected in 3-4 days||Light rain and cloudy skies over the next three-four days are expected to keep the mercury in check in the Capital. The maximum temperature is expected to drop to 34 degrees Celsius by Wednesday. “Good rain here and the adjoining areas are expected only after July 15,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, India Meteorological Department’s head of regional forecasting centre. Though the IMD has predicted a normal monsoon for Delhi, rain has remained subdued since the wind system reached the city on June 25.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP workers helped in public service’||State BJP president Adesh Gupta gave a presentation on ‘Seva hi Sangathan’ Abhiyan before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president J.P. Nadda through videoconferencing here on Saturday. According to the party, Mr. Gupta said the Delhi BJP had worked virtually using technology and established ‘Jan Samvad’ with 55,520 party workers, all party MPs, MLAs, office bearers. State-level to booth-level party workers were involved in public service and as a result more than 1 crore food packets, over 31 lakh Modi kits, and more than 10 lakh face masks were distributed in the Capital. More than 1,000 tonnes of fodder was delivered to cowsheds, milk was made available to the children living in ‘Seva Bastis’ and karyakartas had “inspired” 1,06,430 people to contribute to the PM CARES Fund. The Delhi BJP used social media to help people and assisted more than 15,000 migrants, the party said. The Delhi BJP with the city police launched ‘Mission Anivarya’, under which more than one lakh sanitary napkins were distributed to women.
05 July 2020||July 05 2020 00:00 IST,||New beginnings||
05 July 2020||Noida,||Wanted criminal held||An alleged criminal, wanted in at least half a dozen cases, including robbery and attempted murder, was injured in an exchange of fire with the police in Greater Noida on Saturday, officials said. The incident took place when the accused was intercepted by officials from the local Dadri police station near the Eastern Peripheral Expressway early on Saturday, the police said. The accused, Irshad, was fleeing on a motorcycle when the cross-firing broke out and he got shot in the leg in retaliatory action by the police.
05 July 2020||Chandigarh,||Seven Dera followers held for sacrilege||Punjab police SIT probing sacrilege incidents on Saturday arrested seven followers of Dera Sacha Sauda in Faridkot for their alleged involvement in a 2015 Guru Granth Sahib theft case. “We have arrested seven persons who are Dera Sacha Sauda followers,” said Deputy Inspector General of Police (Jalandhar Range) Ranbir Singh Khatra.
05 July 2020||Guwahati,||Assam Raj Bhavan campus sealed||The Raj Bhavan campus and its surrounding areas in Guwahati were sealed and declared a containment zone on Saturday after two persons of the Governor’s Office tested COVID-19 positive, an official said. Assam Governor Jagadish Mukhi, his wife Prem Mukhi and 176 employees, including security personnel and their family members, were tested on July 1 after two personal security officers had tested positive earlier.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||Barapullah flyover likely to miss deadline again||Phase III of the much-anticipated Barapullah flyover is likely to miss yet another deadline. The flyover, which is expected to reduce travel time for commuters between east and south-east Delhi — eventually easing vehicular congestion across the Capital — may get delayed beyond September-end. Ongoing work on the 10-km-long flyover being constructed by the Public Works Department (PWD) at a cost initially pegged at Rs. 964 crore between Mayur Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan has been under way over the last five years. It was “considerably slowed down” due to a series of lockdowns to contain the COVID-19 pandemic on the one hand and due to a land acquisition issue on the other, according to government sources. Meanwhile, the cost of construction soared by over Rs. 324 crore till the end of June. During lockdown “Construction was completely suspended as per Central government guidelines when the lockdown was imposed; after norms in this respect were eased and the go-ahead to resume construction was given there were some issues with the availability of labour,” a source said. Land dispute “While construction has resumed and is on in full-swing, a dispute related to around 10 acres of land on the Yamuna floodplain still remains unresolved. This land is a very crucial part of the flyover as it is required for the construction of pillars and further connecting both sides over a distance of 3.5 km,” another source said. According to sources, the project, which was initially supposed to be completed by October 2017, was “highly likely” to miss its modified deadline of September 30, 2020. This, even as its initial cost of Rs. 964 crore has risen to Rs. 1288.93 crore as there is lack of certainty about the acquisition of floodplain land required for the construction of one-third of the project and support its “extradosed” part. The only respite for the project had been in early 2019 when an 800-metre flyover, another crucial component of the project providing signal-free passage from near the vicinity of Mayur Vihar extension to the Akshardham metro station was thrown open and has reduced travel time between both points to between 15 to 20 minutes.
05 July 2020||New Delhi,||SDMC copy||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) issued 30 notices to group housing societies and educational institutions asking them to submit a structural audit report, ensuring seismic stability, within 30 days, the civic body said on Saturday. Following directions from the Delhi High Court, the SDMC has so far issued notices to up to 103 such buildings. Six owners have started the process of engaging structural consultants and consulting SDMC’s engineers.
05 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akalis protecting their political interests: CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday accused the Shiromani Akali Dal of supporting the Centre’s agriculture related ordinances to protect their political interests. The CM said he would write to the PM soon for an appointment for the all-party delegation on the issue, which all Punjab parties, except the BJP, had unanimously decided upon.
