05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccine may be ready in a few weeks: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told floor leaders of 19 political parties represented in Parliament that a vaccine against COVID-19 could be available for roll-out in the next few weeks. He said this during his closing remarks at an all-party meeting, where nearly 30 leaders of various parties were present. “Experts have assessed that it won’t be too long before a vaccine against corona is available and that it could be a matter of weeks for that to happen,” Mr. Modi said. “As soon as scientists green light a vaccine, the distribution will start,” he said. Inputs from States The government, he said, had set up a national experts’ group of scientists, Central and State government officials for mapping the vaccination programme, which would likely take advantage of India’s large and experienced vaccination network from its universal immunisation programme. “Cold chain and other logistics will be boosted, taking inputs from State governments,” he said. Frontline health workers and those with co-morbidities would be first in line for the vaccine, Mr. Modi said. The pricing of the vaccine would be “according to the imperatives of public health” and in consultation with the State governments, he added. He said his visits to vaccine development and manufacturing facilities in Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad and his talks with company officials there showed that there was a high level of confidence in the possibility of a vaccine being out for use soon. Due to the world’s requirements for an effective and inexpensive vaccine, India was very much in the spotlight, the Prime Minister said, adding that eight vaccine candidates were being manufactured in India and three were being developed indigenously. “As we are on the cusp of getting a vaccine, we should not now relapse into behaviour that may see another spurt in the disease. India’s experience in dealing with the coronavirus, despite not having the health infrastructure of developed countries, is a sign of the country’s determination and adoption of a scientific approach to dealing with the disease. This must continue,” he said.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers firm on repeal of agriculture laws||Dimming hopes of a compromise, a joint front of protesting farmer groups on Friday rejected the Centre’s proposals to amend the three contentious agriculture laws and called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 to widen the agitation. The front reiterated the farmers’ demand for a total repeal of the three Central laws. The announcement by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha came ahead of a crucial round of talks, scheduled on Saturday, between the joint front of farmer unions and top Central Ministers tasked with negotiating a deal with the protesters. ‘Unanimous decision’ Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border here, the Morcha leaders said the decision to seek a repeal of the three laws was reached unanimously after two rounds of talks — the first between the leaders of Punjab farmers organisations and the second with farmers’ unions from across the country. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general-secretary Harvinder Singh Lakhowal, who presided over the morning meetings, said the farmer unions had given a call for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8. They also decided to burn the effigies of the Modi government and corporate houses on December 5.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers firm on repeal of agri laws||Dimming hopes of a compromise, a joint front of protesting farmer groups on Friday rejected the Centre’s proposals to amend the three contentious agriculture laws and called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 to widen the agitation. The front reiterated the farmers’ demand for a total repeal of the three Central laws. The announcement by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha came ahead of a crucial round of talks, scheduled on Saturday, between the joint front of farmer unions and top Central Ministers, tasked with negotiating a deal with the protesters. ‘Unanimous decision’ Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border here, the Morcha leaders said the decision to seek a repeal of the three laws was reached unanimously after two rounds of talks — the first between the leaders of Punjab farmers organisations and the second with farmers’ unions across the country. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general-secretary Harvinder Singh Lakhowal, who presided over the morning meetings, said the farmer unions had given a call for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8, besides deciding to burn the effigies of the Modi government and corporate houses on December 5. Mr. Lakhowal said sportspersons and other dignitaries would return their medals to the government on December 7 as a mark of protest. He said toll barriers across the country would be made “free” for a day on a later date. He added that farmer unions would also attempt to close the two highways leading to Delhi that are still open by December 8.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Activate GPS devices within a fortnight, says DC||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Friday directed private city bus operators in Mangaluru to activate the global positioning system (GPS) signals of their vehicles within a fortnight failing which the permits will be temporarily suspended, followed by permanent cancellation if they fail to adhere to the direction. Chairing a meeting of the Dakshina Kannada Regional Transport Authority here, Dr. Rajendra said the GPS was being made mandatory for public transport vehicles to ensure the safety of passengers, particularly women. Besides, it was also aimed at ensuring punctuality of services. A representative of MSCL informed the meeting that though all the 325 private city buses were fitted with GPS tracking devices, signals of only about 70 buses were being received. GPS was made mandatory for introducing the Intelligent Transport System in the city, he said. DK Bus Operators’ Association president Dilraj Alva said the association took the lead in introducing GPS on buses of its members. While MSCL had provided the facility for city buses operated by KSRTC, private operators bore the cost themselves, he pointed out. Nevertheless, there was no excuse for failing to activate the signals by operators, Mr. Alva said. He said the association itself would furnish the details of buses that did not activate GPS signals after the deadline. Mr. Alva also raised the issue of permitting private bus operators to display advertisements on the bus body as per Rule 127 of the Karnataka Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. He said when State road transport undertakings were allowed to display advertisements on bus bodies, private bus operators should not be denied such an opportunity. Dr. Rajendra directed Regional Transport Officer and RTA member-secretary R.M. Vernekar to examine the issue. “If the rule permits and there was no reason to deny such permission, permission should be accorded,” he said. The RTA also resolved to direct all city and service buses to display the name of Ambedkar Circle in their destination boards instead of Jyothi Circle in the city.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Cyclone Burevi may not affect State||Any threat to Kerala from Cyclone Burevi, which weakened into a depression near the Ramanathapuram coast in Tamil Nadu on Friday evening, appears to have diminished further. The depression is likely to remain stationary over the same region and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area by Saturday, according to the India Met Department (IMD). Meanwhile, Kerala is likely to receive above normal rainfall this week, the IMD Meteorological Centre here said. Normal rainfall is likely next week. So far, Kerala has received 30% deficient rainfall during the current northeast monsoon season, Met Centre director K. Santhosh said. The districts of Ernakulam, Idukki, Kannur and Kasaragod alone have received normal rainfall during the October 1-December 4 period. There is a moderate probability of a depression forming over the southeast Arabian Sea during December 4 to 10. Orange alert Meanwhile, the IMD has warned that one or two places in Kerala and Lakshadweep are likely to experience thunderstorms accompanied by lightning till Monday. The weather agency has put Idukki and Malappuram on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Saturday. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Alappuzha could receive isolated heavy rainfall.
05 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata assures support to protesting farmers||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday reached out to protesting farmers in Delhi and assured them support of her party and people of West Bengal. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and national spokesperson Derek O’ Brien visited agitating farmers and connected them to Ms. Banerjee over telephone. “This is not only your movement; it is a movement of people and of the entire country. We are ready to provide all support from Bengal. If you want our people can also join the protest,” Ms. Banerjee is heard saying in the video shared by the TMC. She also told the protesting farmers that she had herself participated in a 26-day hunger strike in the interest of farmers during the Singur movement. Ms. Banerjee suggested that the farmers continue their protest as long as the agriculture Bills were not withdrawn. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister had expressed solidarity with all farmers who are “protesting the draconian farm Bills passed by the Centre without consultation”. “14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26-day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired. I express my solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre,” Ms. Banerjee tweeted. The Trinamool Congress also held a press conference during the day extending support to farmers and highlighted the role of the party chairperson in the Singur and Nandigram movements .  Later in the evening, the Chief Minister held a meeting with senior party leaders and district presidents where it was decided that the party would hit the streets in Kolkata in support of the protesting farmers from December 8 to 10.
05 December 2020||Lucknow,||Interfaith marriage: will seek DM’s nod, says groom||A Muslim man and a Hindu woman, whose wedding was stopped by the Uttar Pradesh police on the basis of the new ordinance against “unlawful” conversion, said they had arranged the ceremony on December 2 unaware of the legislation. “If we knew clearly about the new law, we would have gone to the District Magistrate and sought permission first,” the 25-year-old groom, Kabir (name changed) toldThe Hindu, on Friday. “We did not know about the new law. We will act according to the law,” said Mr. Kabir, a pharmacist, the colour of mehndi still fresh on his hands. On Wednesday, he was to get married to his friend of six years, a 20-year-old Hindu woman, when the police reached the venue and summoned the families to the police station before the ceremonies could begin. The marriage had the consent of their families. Outsiders or the government should not get into interpersonal consensual relationships, the bride said, requesting anonymity. “When we both are willing and our families have no problem, then outsiders should not interfere,” she stressed. The police reached the venue allegedly on the complaint of a fringe outfit, Rashtriya Yuva Vahini, which describes itself as a “sahyogi” of the BJP.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Stranded fishermen rescued by Coast Guard||Three fishermen, stranded on Manalli Tivu Island in the Gulf of Mannar, were rescued by the Coast Guard on Thursday, in spite of challenging weather conditions due to Cyclone Burevi. Based on an alert from the Ramanathapuram Collector about 10 a.m. on Thursday, the Coast Guard pressed its hovercraft from Mandapam into service. The three went to the sea on December 1 but the boat’s engine developed a snag. They were stranded on the island for three days. All the three were provided with warm clothes, first aid, fluids and refreshment, before they were taken to Coast Guard Station at Mandapam. They were subsequently handed over to the Fisheries Department the same day. “The rescue operation was undertaken in challenging weather conditions caused by Cyclone Burevi. Strong winds, continuous rain and low visibility were posing serious challenges for the crew to locate the boat and undertake the operation,” an official release from the Coast Guard added.
05 December 2020||Pune,||Council polls: MVA wrests 3 seats from BJP||In a major jolt to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) swept the three graduate constituency seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) polls, breaching the BJP’s bastion in Nagpur and clinching the crucial Pune seat. The counting to five constituencies — three graduates’ and two teachers’ — commenced on Thursday. In the final results to the graduate seats declared on Friday morning, the MVA coalition of the Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress bagged all three seats, toppling the BJP in the all-important Nagpur, Pune and Aurangabad seats. The Nagpur graduate seat, considered a veritable pocket borough of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s family and a seemingly impregnable BJP bastion was breached by the Congress for the first time in more than 55 years.
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||RBI holds rates, sees FY GDP contraction at 7.5%||The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday left benchmark interest rates unchanged and retained an ‘accommodative’ stance as it prioritised support for the economy over ‘sticky’ inflation amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The MPC kept the RBI’s key lending rate, the repo rate, steady at 4%. The central bank has slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points since late March to cushion the economy from the fallout of the COVID-19 crisis, including the lockdowns to check the spread of the coronavirus. The RBI also brightened its outlook for the economy, projecting that the GDP contraction would narrow to 7.5% for the financial year ending in March 2021, a full 2 percentage points shallower than the 9.5% it had forecast in October. Citing the improvement in activity in the second quarter, it projected GDP would return to growth of 0.1% in Q3, and expand 0.7% in Q4. The risks to its estimates were “broadly balanced”, the RBI added.projected that growth would rebound in the first half of 2021-22 to between (+)21.9% to (+)6.5%. “There is considerable optimism on successes in vaccine trials,” the MPC said in its statement. “Consumers remain optimistic about the outlook, and business sentiment of manufacturing firms is gradually improving,” the statement said.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,||TAC seeks ban on all public events from Dec. 20 to Jan. 2||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Friday said the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the government should ban all public, religious and political events from December 20 to January 2. This includes New Year celebrations too. However, a final decision will be taken after consultation with the Chief Minister, he said. Although the advisory note prepared on the basis of TAC’s recommendations stated that night curfew should be imposed from December 26 till January 2, Mr. Sudhakar ruled out the possibility of ‘night curfew’ stating that the committee had not made any such recommendation. “There is no question of any curfew as there is no need for it now. But the committee has categorically said that certain stringent restrictions should be in place from December 20 to January 2, especially in the wake of an imminent second wave. People will have to continue following all COVID-19 guidelines, maintain social distancing and avoid unnecessary large gatherings,” he said. Responding to a question on the New Year celebrations, especially in Bengaluru, he said, “Not only Brigade Road or M.G. Road, the TAC has recommended that all kinds of events have to be banned in the entire State from December 20 to January 2 and a decision on this will be taken in consultation with the Chief Minister.” However, weddings can go on and the guest list should not exceed 100 members. On other days, religious and political events should not exceed 200 members. All COVID-19 norms such as social distancing, mask wearing and sanitisation should be strictly followed, he said. On the opening of pubs, bars during the 15 days (Dec. 22 to Jan. 2), the Minister said a decision would be taken after going through the TAC’s advisory note in detail and discussing it with senior officials and consulting the Chief Minister. Other recommendations Ahead of a second wave, the TAC has said the next 45 days are crucial. The committee has said there is a need to take certain control measures similar to those that were in place during the lockdown and unlock phase. Until vaccination is available, all the precautionary measures and guidelines need to be followed, the Minister said. Mr. Sudhakar said the first wave of COVID-19 in the State was declining as the positivity rate has now come down to 1.2 % and the R0 has also come down to 0.46%. “The first wave’s curve has flattened and the gap between the first curve and the second curve is about 45-90 days, when we look at other countries or States,” he said. The TAC has asked the State to keep all clinical facilities ready by the first week of January. Noting that a minimum of 1.25 lakh tests per day should continue till the end of February 2021, of which one lakh shall be RT-PCR ( 1:5 pooled in lab as per state protocol), the TAC has recommended fortnightly testing of all teachers, pupils, and staff in educational institutions, anganwadi staff and others by RT-PCR. On opening of schools and pre-university colleges, the minister said a decision is likely to be taken during a meeting under the Chief Minister’s leadership in December third or fourth week.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Financial aid sought for States||The all-party meeting saw Opposition party leaders re-emphasising the need for the government to take urgent measures to bring the economy back on track, and demanding additional financial help.  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP T.R. Baalu was the lone speaker to raise the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Several parties flagged the need to pay the GST dues that the Central government owes to the States, and additional financial help to meet the revenue shortfall that many States are facing due to the pandemic.page 10
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||RBI holds rates, sees FY GDP contraction at 7.5%||The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday left benchmark interest rates unchanged and retained an ‘accommodative’ stance as it prioritised support for the economy over ‘sticky’ inflation amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The MPC kept the RBI’s key lending rate, the repo rate, steady at 4%. The central bank has slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points since late March to cushion the economy from the fallout of the COVID-19 crisis, including the lockdowns to check the spread of the coronavirus. The RBI also brightened its outlook for the economy, projecting that the GDP contraction would narrow to 7.5% for the financial year ending in March 2021, a full 2 percentage points shallower than the 9.5% it had forecast in October.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Bearing the brunt||
05 December 2020||Kolkata,||People anxious about vaccine, TMC says at PM’s meeting||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who participated in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual meeting on Friday, expressed concern over the COVID-19 situation and said people were becoming anxious with regard to the vaccine. “We are not sure whether COVID-19 situation is going to reduce or improve. This is becoming unpredictable,” Mr. Bandyopadhyay, who is also TMC leader in the Lok Sabha, said in the video conference. He also said that people were “anxious to know what latest position of discovery of vaccine is”. The TMC leader, while referring to the PM’s recent visit to vaccine manufacturing facilities, expressed hope that the Union government would extend all help to them. He lauded West Bengal’s efforts in containing the COVID-19 pandemic and said that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had hit the streets to make people aware about wearing masks and maintain physical distancing. Mr. Bandyopadhyay also added that West Bengal had taken certain innovative measures in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, such as dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, safe houses for patients, plasma banks, tele-counselling, and a free ambulance service special helpline for COVID-19 patients.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Rain protection||
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||Stan Swamy given straw, sipper, winter clothes in jail||Father Stan Swamy, 83, finally received a straw and sipper and winter clothes from the Taloja Central Jail authorities, his advocate informed the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday. On November 26, the NIA, probing the Bhima Koregaon case, had informed the court that it does not have a straw and sipper as the items were not seized at the time of Mr. Swamy’s arrest. The court had then directed the jail authorities to file a reply to the application seeking the items. Soon thereafter, a group of lawyers sent a sipper and a pack of straws to the jail, along with a letter addressed to the Superintendent. Advocate Sharif Shaikh, representing Father Swamy, on Friday filed three applications seeking a direction to the probe agency to return Father Swamy’s bag seized at the time of his arrest on October 8; a clone copy of his hard disk, which was also seized; and a direction to not transfer him from Taloja jail as he was anxious about being shifted out. After the Father’s medical bail was rejected, Mr. Shaikh had filed for bail on merits. The application said he was being targeted due to his writings. He is suffering from Parkinson’s disease and had almost lost hearing in both ears. The court will hear the applications and the bail plea on December 10.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Cong. decline continues||As being feared, the political graph of the grand old party, Congress, continues to go down further in Telangana with two back-to-back poor shows – the by-election for Dubbak Assembly constituency first and now in the GHMC elections, indicating the fast-changing political landscape in the State. Page 4
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,||COVID-19: DK, Udupi report 56 new cases||Dakshina Kannada reported 42 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. With 20 patients being discharged, active cases in the district stood at 565. Udupi district reported 14 new cases and the active cases in the district stood at 196.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking the initiative||
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,||365 medical seats allotted||Of the 472 candidates called for counselling for seats under State quota in medical and dental colleges on Friday, as many as 384 were allotted seats. A total of of 148 candidates were allotted seats in government and 217 in self-financing medical colleges on the sixth day of counselling. Nineteen candidates were allotted seats in government dental colleges. Counselling began with 859 vacancies in government quota seats in medical colleges and ended with 711 vacancies. In self-financing medical colleges, 728 seats were yet available at the end of the day. Under the government quota seats in BDS, there are 127 vacancies. All 985 seats under self-financing dental category are yet vacant. While 19 candidates were absent for counselling, as many as 67 candidates opted to be wait-listed. There are no vacancies in the open category in government or self-financing medical colleges. Whereas there are 22 vacancies under the same category in government dental colleges and 305 seats in self-financing dental colleges. All seats under BC and BCM have been allotted in government medical colleges. However, 277 seats are available under BC in self-financing medical colleges.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Remarks by Canada PM unacceptable’||Comments from the leadership and other members of the Canadian government regarding the ongoing farmers agitation is “unacceptable interference” in India’s affairs, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday. This message was conveyed to Canadian High Commissioner Nadir Patel by senior Indian diplomats after he was formally summoned to the Ministry and handed over a démarche in this regard. “The Canadian High Commissioner was ... informed that comments by the Canadian Prime Minister, some Cabinet Ministers and Members of Parliament on issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs. Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement that summed up the contents of the démarche issued to Mr. Patel. Reacting to the development, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said: “Canada will always stand up for the right to peaceful protest anywhere around the world and we are pleased to see moves towards de-escalataion and dialogue (with the farmers).”
05 December 2020||Mumba,||Stan Swamy given straw, sipper in jail||Father Stan Swamy, 83, finally received a straw and sipper and winter clothes from Taloja Central Jail authorities, his advocate informed the special NIA court on Friday. On November 26, the NIA had informed the court that it does not have a straw and sipper as it was not seized at the time of Mr. Swamy’s arrest.  Advocate Sharif Shaikh, representing Father Swamy, on Friday told the court that he received winter clothes and a straw and sipper. Mr. Shaikh then filed three applications seeking a direction to the probe agency to return Father Swamy’s bag, a clone copy of his hard disk, which was also seized.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State gearing up to vaccinate 1 crore people||After successfully reducing the number of COVID-19 positive cases through a concerted effort during the last nine months, the government has turned its attention to administering the vaccine, which is likely to be ready in three months, in a phased manner, as it is impossible to provide inoculation to the entire five-crore population. As per the guidelines framed by the Centre, which promised to make the vaccine available for one crore people initially, the State has put in place a mechanism for giving it to 3.60 lakh health workers (doctors, nurses, ANMs), about seven lakh frontline staff of other departments and 90 lakh people aged above 50 in that order of priority, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. Making a statement on the COVID-19 containment measures in the Legislative Assembly on Friday, Mr. Jagan said the U.S., the U.K., France, Italy, and many other countries had witnessed a second wave of infections, which prompted the Indian government to caution the States against being complacent. Accordingly, the State government continued to deal with it in all seriousness in spite of achieving tremendous success in keeping the number of fatalities and new infections at far lower levels than in most States.
05 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Three of a family killed||Three persons of a family, including a young girl, were killed on the spot when a car rammed a stationary container near Ranebennur in Haveri district on Friday evening. The deceased have been identified as K.N. Hanumanthappa Ningappa, 60, Geetamma Alias Rajeshwar, 45, of Kumbalur village in Harihar taluk of Davangere district and their granddaughter Shivani, 12. Another woman identified as Veena has suffered injuries and has been shifted to taluk hospital in Ranebennur.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea for govt. nominees in mosque trust||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea to nominate Central and State government representatives to the ‘Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust’ for building a mosque in Ayodhya. A three-judge Bench led by Rohinton Nariman dismissed the petition filed by advocates Shishir Chaturvedi and Karunesh Kumar Shukla.
05 December 2020||Srinagar,||Over 50% turnout in J&K council election||Over 50% voters turned up to cast the ballot in the third phase of the District Development Council election in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Polling was held in 33 constituencies — 16 in Kashmir and 17 in Jammu — in this phase with 305 candidates — 252 men and 53 women — in the fray.
05 December 2020||new delhi,||If salons can run, why not spas, HC asks govt.||If salons are working, then why not spas, asked the Delhi High Court while telling the Aam Aadmi Party government on Friday to review its decision prohibiting the operation of spas in the city. The query was posed Justice Navin Chawla who said prima facie there is merit in the submission of spa owners that if salons can open, then they too should be permitted to function.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Nod for national project status for Upper Bhadra||In what could bring cheer to farmers in the parched central Karnataka region, the Upper Bhadra project has received approval from the Centre to be declared a “national project”. The project, estimated to cost Rs. 21,450 crore, will be the first from the State to receive the national project tag and will now receive the bulk of the funds from the Centre.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘TAC has recommended ban on public events’||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Friday said the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee has recommended that the government ban all public, religious and political events from December 20 to January 2.A final decision will be taken after consultations withthe Chief Minister.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Losses to small traders may be compensated’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday observed that even small traders, including those depending on roadside business for their livelihood, may be considered for award of compensation payable by the organisers of bandh in case of loss of business caused due to activities related to the bandh call.
05 December 2020||Srinagar,||Over 50% turnout in J&K council election||Over 50% voters turned up to cast the ballot in the third phase of the District Development Council election in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Polling was held in 33 constituencies — 16 in Kashmir and 17 in Jammu — in this phase with 305 candidates — 252 men and 53 women — in the fray.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea for govt. nominees in mosque trust||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea to nominate Central and State government representatives to the ‘Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust’ for building a mosque in Ayodhya. A three-judge Bench led by Rohinton Nariman dismissed the petition filed by advocates Shishir Chaturvedi and Karunesh Kumar Shukla.
05 December 2020||new delhi,||If salons can run, why not spas, HC asks govt.||If salons are working, then why not spas, asked the Delhi High Court while telling the Aam Aadmi Party government on Friday to review its decision prohibiting the operation of spas in the city. The query was posed by Justice Navin Chawla who said prima facie there is merit in the submission of spa owners that if salons can open, then they too should be permitted to function.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Fund-raising drive for Ram temple to begin on Jan. 15||Seer of Udupi Pejawar Mutt and trustee of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Vishwaprasanna Tirtha said here on Friday that the fund-raising drive to build the Ram temple at Ayodhya will commence across the country on January 15, 2021. It will go on till February 27.
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||First nearby||The Raigad police on Friday filed a chargesheet against Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami and two others in the case of alleged abetment of suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018. The chargesheet is of 1,914 pages and names Mr. Goswami, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Neetish Sarda of Smartworks. It states that Mr. Goswami owed Naik close to Rs. 84 lakh for the Bombay Dyeing studio project at Lower Parel, Mr. Shaikh owed Naik Rs. 4 crore and Rs. 7 lakh for his project at Andheri and Mr. Sarda owed him Rs. 55 lakh for his projects at Magarpatta and Baner.
05 December 2020||Pune,||Second nearby||Recoveries continued to outweigh cases with 6,766 patients being discharged across Maharashtra on Friday as opposed to 5,229 fresh COVID-19 cases. The total case tally now stands at 18,42,587 with the number of active cases coming down to 83,859. The cumulative recoveries have reached 17,10,050 with the State’s recovery rate inching towards 93%, rising to 92.81%. As many as 127 deaths were reported, taking the death toll to 47,599. “Of a total 1,11,32,231 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,42,587 have returned positive,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Bandh call unlikely to affect life in State||The bandh called by Kannada organisations against the formation of the Maratha Development Corporation on Saturday is expected to elicit a mixed response, with normal life remaining largely unaffected. Several key organisations like Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) led by T.A. Narayana Gowda, which initially opposed the bandh call, has only extended moral support.
05 December 2020||MADURAI,||CM assures 24X 7 safe drinking water to all||The focus of the AIADMK government is to provide round-the-clock safe drinking water to all the people of the State, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Friday. Once the 76 integrated drinking water projects in the State are completed, there would be no drinking water shortage, he added.
05 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,||Govt. to seek inclusion of seven SC sub-sects||In a major announcement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday said the government would recommend to the Centre to include seven Scheduled Caste sub-sects — Pallar, Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaaladi, Kadayar, Devendrakulathar and Vadhiriyar — in the Devendrakula Vellalar community. This was a long-felt demand of a cross-section of community members.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Daily case count drops below 1,400||Tamil Nadu on Friday saw a dip in fresh infections as the day’s count dropped under 1,400, with 1,391 more persons testing positive for COVID-19. Fifteen persons succumbed to the infection, taking the State’s toll to 11,762. The overall tally touched 7,87,554. The number of active cases stood at 10,938.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition seeks financial aid for States||An all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the COVID-19 vaccine strategy saw Opposition party leaders re-emphasising the need for the government to take urgent measures to bring the economy back on track, and demanding additional financial help.  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP T.R. Baalu was the lone person to raise the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Several parties flagged the need to pay the GST (Goods and Services Tax) dues that the Central government owes to the States, and additional financial help to meet the revenue shortfall that many States are facing due to COVID-19 pandemic. According to sources, the Shiv Sena, which was represented by Lok Sabha member Vinayak Raut, forcefully argued that GST collection by the Central government was more than Rs. 1 lakh crore and there was no reason to withhold the share of the State governments. NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar, while praising the Centre’s efforts in controlling the pandemic, stressed that there was a need for greater intervention in salvaging the economy. Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandhopadhyay spoke on the need to “handhold” the States in this hour of crisis. Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MP Namma Nageshwar Rao also spoke on similar lines. Sources said that, among other demands, Mr. Rao had said the government should provide the COVID-19 vaccine free of cost. The Central government, he said, should ensure that it builds cold storage units across the country for easy transport of the vaccine. The Biju Janata Dal, the Bahujan Samaj Party, the YSR Congress Party and the Samajwadi Party also urged the government to provide vaccines free for the poor.   Sources said that when Mr. Baalu raised the farmers’ issue, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi interrupted and told him to stick to the topic. Mr. Baalu, sources said, retorted that for the past 10 days farmers had been on the road and should not be ignored. A heated exchange between Mr. Joshi and Mr. Baalu followed. Sources said Mr. Baalu’s microphone was muted. Only a select few parties, which had 10 or more MPs, were allowed to speak. CPI(M) leader Elamaram Kareem wrote a letter to the PM flagging the “continuous contraction” in GDP and the “inadequate” economic stimulus package. D
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||TRS single largest party in GHMC polls||The ruling TRS has retained its status as the single largest party in the GHMC Council by winning the highest number of seats in the 150 divisions for which elections were conducted on December 1. Of the 149 divisions for which results were declared up to 9.30 p.m. on Friday, the counting day, TRS has won 55, while BJP has secured victory in 48 divisions. MIM retained the earlier number of 44 divisions. Congress could barely make its presence felt, with mere two seats. The victory, however, tasted bitter-sweet, with the party’s arch rival BJP improving its score several times over, and emerging as the main opposition in the Council. As a result, the pink team on its own will be short of members when it comes to the contest for Mayor’s seat, and will be forced to look for alliances. Result withheld The result of Neredmet division was withheld as per the High Court’s directions, as the ballots imprinted with other than arrow-cross (Swastika) symbol outnumbered the majority secured. The results are a giant leap for the BJP, from its four seats in the existing Council, while being a huge setback for TRS, from its existing 99 members. City’s Eastern part, which was severely affected during the October floods, proved to be the proverbial Achille’s Heel for the TRS, where the party registered its most humiliating defeats. The whole of LB Nagar Assembly segment was painted saffron without any gap, with TRS failing to register even one win there. BJP has swept the polls in Musheerabad and Amberpet segments too, which were badly affected during the floods. The party has secured five of the six divisions in the former, by winning Ramnagar, Adikmet, Musheerabad, Kavadiguda, and Gandhi Nagar. The only exception was Bholakpur which was retained by the MIM. In Amberpet too, BJP has registered victories in four of the five divisions, namely Amberpet, Bagh Amberpet, Nallakunta and Kachiguda, while Golnaka went to TRS. MIM has retained the seats which have been its traditional strongholds, except for Jambagh, where BJP has registered its victory. Congress party, on the other hand, failed to better its score in the Council. Losing its sitting corporators in Ramachandrapuram and Nacharam, the party has won in Uppal and A.S.Rao Nagar divisions afresh. Deputy Mayor Baba Fasiuddin could retain his seat in Borabanda, while Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan’s Cherlapally division, reserved this time for women, went to his wife Bonthu Sridevi.
05 December 2020||Srinagar,||Over 50% turnout in J&K polls||Over 50% voters turned up to cast the ballot in the third phase of the District Development Council (DDC) election in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Polling was held in 33 constituencies — 16 in Kashmir and 17 in Jammu — in this phase with 305 candidates — 252 men and 53 women — in the fray. Candidate attacked In the first militancy-related violence during the ongoing polls, militants attacked a candidate from the J&K Apni party in Anantnag district of south Kashmir. “J&K recorded 50.53% of voter turnout. The Jammu division recorded an average voter turnout of 68.88%, while the Kashmir division saw 31.61%,” State Election Commissioner (SEC) K.K. Sharma said. Kulgam district in the volatile south Kashmir, which has seen frequent encounters in the past two years, recorded the highest polling at 64.45%. “Our vote is to keep the BJP at bay. Electoral politics has become essential to stop the process of disempowerment initiated by the BJP in J&K since August 5 last year,” Nazir Ahmad, a teacher from Kulgam, said. A spontaneous boycott was observed in most polling booths in the other three districts of south Kashmir — Shopian with 22.68% polling, Anantnag (21.64%) and Pulwama (10.87%). “We have seen too many young bodies heading to graves to be casting votes,” Rehman Ganai, a resident of Pulwama, said. North Kashmir saw a healthy voter turnout, with Bandipora recording 56.73%, Kupwara 46.25% and Baramulla 30.94%. In central Kashmir, Budgam saw 50.18% polling and Ganderbal 24.69%, officials said. “In the Jammu division, poll percentage of 72.18% was recorded in Poonch, 70.44% in Jammu, 70.35% in Kishtwar, 70.15% in Samba 64.79% in Ramban and 62.18% in Kathua,” Mr. Sharma said. “Around 12 p.m., a terror crime took place at Sagam in Kokernag area of Anantnag, where terrorists had fired upon a DDC candidate, Anees-ul-Islam Ganie. He received injuries in a finger and on the thigh. His condition is stated to be stable,” a police spokesperson said.
05 December 2020||Pune,||MVA wrests 3 council seats from BJP||In a major jolt to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) swept the three graduate constituency seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) polls, breaching the BJP’s bastion in Nagpur and clinching the crucial Pune seat. The counting to five constituencies — three graduates’ and two teachers’ — commenced on Thursday. In the final results to the graduate seats declared on Friday morning, the MVA coalition of the Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress bagged all three seats, toppling the BJP in the all-important Nagpur, Pune and Aurangabad seats. The Nagpur graduate seat, considered a veritable pocket borough of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s family and a seemingly impregnable BJP bastion — the seat having been held by Mr. Fadnavis’s father Gangadhar Fadnavis as well as senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari — was breached by the Congress for the first time in more than 55 years. Abhijit Vanjari, the Congress’s candidate, polled an impressive 55,947 votes of a total of 1.33 lakh votes, trouncing his nearest rival, the BJP’s Sandeep Joshi, by nearly 15,000 votes. Likewise, in the hotly contested Pune graduate constituency, the NCP’s candidate, sugar baron Arun Lad, who polled 1.22 lakh votes, beat the BJP’s Sangram Deshmukh by a phenomenal margin of over 48,000 votes. Interestingly, the Sangli-based Mr. Lad, who is the president of the Kranti Co-operative Sugar Factory, was responsible for the NCP’s defeat in the last Pune graduate constituency election when he had raised the banner of rebellion. The seat, while traditionally an NCP bastion, had come to be seen as a BJP stronghold in the last 20 years, with the current BJP State president Chandrakant Patil holding it twice. Against this backdrop, the Pune graduate constituency turned into a ‘prestige fight’ with senior NCP leader Jayant Patil, the current Water Resources Minister, as well Mr. Chandrakant Patil both throwing their weight behind their party’s respective candidates in the vigorous campaign during the poll run-up. ‘Public has rejected BJP’ The results clearly hint at Maharashtra’s changing political scenario, said NCP chief Sharad Pawar, speaking after the results. “The results clearly show that Maharashtra’s public has rejected the BJP and has emphatically endorsed the ruling MVA. It is also testament to the unity of the tripartite MVA government,” Mr. Pawar said. Observing that the MVA’s defeat in the Dhule-Nandurbar MLC seat (whose results were declared on Thursday) was not surprising, Mr. Pawar said the BJP could win there only because sitting MLC Amrish Patel had merely switched sides to quit the Congress and join the saffron party. “The BJP’s win in Dhule-Nandurbar is not a victory in the real sense…in contrast, the MVA’s candidates swept the crucial Nagpur, Pune and Aurangabad graduate constituency seats. Nagpur was with the BJP for more than five decades with Nitin Gadkari and the Fadnavis family winning for a number of years from this seat. Even the graduate voters in Pune did not support us. But this year, we won big in Pune,” Mr. Pawar observed. Hitting out at the NCP chief, the BJP State president said the poll results could not be construed as a collective public verdict on the BJP. “If any of these MVA parties had the guts, then they ought to have fought alone. Very conveniently, all three — the NCP, the Sena and the Congress — came together to contest against the BJP. It should also be remembered that Arun Lad had once rebelled against his own party [the NCP]. So, this is not the people’s verdict,” Mr. Patil said. In the Aurangabad graduate constituency seat, the NCP’s Satish Chavan (the MVA candidate) won for the third consecutive time by beating BJP’s Satish Boralkar by more than half-lakh votes. He polled 1.16 lakh votes. In the Pune teachers’ constituency, the MVA’s Jayant Aasgavkar (Congress) has secured a comfortable lead of 6,000 votes over his nearest rival, Dattaray Sawant (Independent), and is heading for a comfortable win. In the Amravati teachers’ seat, Independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik defeated sitting MLC and MVA candidate Shrikant Deshpande by a margin of 3,242 votes. Mr. Sarnaik ended with 12,433 votes against Mr. Deshpande’s 9,191. The BJP’s Nitin Dhande managed to secure only the sixth position.  The results are also testament to the unity of the tripartite MVA government Sharad Pawar NCP chief
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Lakshwadweep Administrator Dineshwar Sharma passes away||Lakshwadweep’s Administrator and former Intelligence Bureau chief Dineshwar Sharma passed away at a Chennai hospital on Friday. He was 66. Mr. Sharma was being treated for interstitial lung disease at a city hospital since November 25. He is survived by wife Manju Sharma, a son and a daughter. Mr. Sharma, a 1979-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, hailed from Bihar. He served as IB Director from 2014 to 2016. He headed the bureau when the government announced demonetisation on November 8, 2016. Mr. Sharma had told this correspondent that he was not consulted by the government on the decision. After his retirement, the Modi government was keen on giving him an extension but he turned down the offer, saying it would upset the succession chart of his juniors. He was then appointed as an interlocutor for talks with the Assam-based insurgent groups and also headed a committee to restructure the Home Ministry. Mr. Sharma was appointed the Centre’s “Special Representative” to initiate and carry forward a dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir on October 23, 2017, and given the rank of Cabinet Secretary. He had requested the then Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh to convene a meeting with certain television news channels to caution them against spreading “vicious propaganda” against Kashmiris. Amnesty package Following successive reports by Mr. Sharma to the government that the killings and encounters were not yielding the desired results in Kashmir, the Centre announced “cease-ops or suspension of operations” in the former State on May 16, 2018. He also pushed for an amnesty package for the youth in Kashmir who were arrested for stone throwing after the July 8, 2016 encounter of Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani. However, after the BJP-PDP alliance broke in J&K in June 2018 and an announcement was made by Mr. Singh to resume security operations, he offered to resign but was persuaded to continue. After August 5, 2019, when Parliament revoked the special status of J&K and bifurcated the State into two Union Territories, Mr. Sharma was appointed the Administrator of the Union Territory of Lakshwadeep on October 25 last year. Former Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) chief A.S. Dulat, who worked with Mr. Sharma in J&K in the early 1990s, said his death had come as a rude shock. ‘Right man for Kashmir’ “When he was appointed an interlocutor for Kashmir, it was a great opportunity both for Delhi and Kashmir. Unfortunately, he could not do what he wanted to do. He was the right man, capable of much more. Even when he disagreed, he smiled,” Mr. Dulat recalled. Asif Ibrahim, who was Mr. Sharma’s predecessor in the IB, recalled that Mr. Sharma always took his team along. “He had an unassuming personality and was always willing to take any kind of challenge. He took his family along to Kashmir after he was posted there even when the militancy was at its peak in the 90s,” Mr. Ibrahim said. Retired IB chief Rajiv Jain, who succeeded Mr. Sharma, said he was a “straight shooter” and “someone whose character one should emulate.” “He was a simple soul and had no airs about him,” Mr. Jain said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted, “Deeply anguished to learn about the passing away of Administrator of Lakshadweep Shri Dineshwar Sharma ji. He served the nation with utmost devotion as a dedicated officer of the Indian Police Service. My heartfelt condolences to his family. Om Shanti.”
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Stan Swamy given straw, sipper, winter clothes in jail||Father Stan Swamy, 83, finally received a straw and sipper and winter clothes from the Taloja Central Jail authorities, his advocate informed the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday. On November 26, the NIA, probing the Bhima Koregaon case, had informed the court that it does not have a straw and sipper as the items were not seized at the time of Mr. Swamy’s arrest. The court had then directed the jail authorities to file a reply to the application seeking the items. Soon thereafter, a group of lawyers sent a sipper and a pack of straws to the jail, along with a letter addressed to the Superintendent. “We feel that detention must be humane. We urge you to make arrangements for all inmates who have special needs,” the letter said. Advocate Sharif Shaikh, representing Father Swamy, on Friday filed three applications seeking a direction to the probe agency to return Father Swamy’s bag seized at the time of his arrest on October 8; a clone copy of his hard disk, which was also seized; and a direction to not transfer him from Taloja jail as he was anxious about being shifted out. After the Father’s medical bail was rejected, Mr. Shaikh had filed for bail on merits. The application said he was being targeted due to his writings. He is suffering from Parkinson’s disease and had almost lost hearing in both ears. The court will hear the applications and the bail plea on December 10.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajoana to escape gallows, but govt. mum on his plea||The Supreme Court was livid on Friday to find that the Centre kept a condemned man’s plea for presidential mercy hanging in limbo despite having decided over a year ago to spare his life. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde discovered that the Home Ministry had declared its resolve to commute the death penalty of Balwant Singh Rajoana, found guilty of the murder of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, in September last year. The decision was taken in commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji in 2019. However, the Ministry failed to make good its declaration till date. Rajoana, in a petition to the Supreme Court from his jail cell, said his repeated pleas to the government about the fate of the mercy plea were met with silence. The mercy petition was filed in 2012. On Friday, Additional Solicitor-General K.M. Nataraj, for the Centre, explained that Rajoana’s plea for mercy was kept in abeyance because appeals filed by his fellow accused were pending in the Supreme Court. “But if you have already taken a decision to commute his death sentence because of Guru Nanak Jayanti, why do you have to wait for a decision on the appeals filed by his co-accused?” CJI Bobde asked the government side. The court said the law is settled that once the government has decided to recommend a presidential pardon for a condemned man, the pendency of appeals of his co-accused cannot delay the process initiated under Article 72 (presidential pardon) of the Constitution. The court gave Mr. Nataraj two weeks to make a statement on the issue.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea for govt. nominees in mosque trust||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea to nominate Central and State government representatives to the ‘Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust’ for building a mosque in Ayodhya. A three-judge Bench led by Rohinton Nariman dismissed the petition filed by advocates Shishir Chaturvedi and Karunesh Kumar Shukla. The Ramjanmabhoomi title dispute verdict of November last year had directed the Centre to allot five acres to the Sunni Waqf Board for a new mosque at a prominent place. The judgment had unanimously handed over the ownership of the disputed land where the Babri mosque stood to the Hindu side. The petition said that apart from private individuals and members of State Sunni Board, the presence of Central and State government representatives was essential to ensure proper management of the funds. According to the plea, the Sunni Waqf Board on July 29, 2020 announced the creation of a trust under the title of “Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation” for building a mosque, cultural and research centre and public utility facilities, including a community kitchen, a hospital and a library, within the five acres allotted to it. It had said there was no provision for nominating any officer of the government. There should be the proper management of the funds and property vested in the trust.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Burevi to bring rains over T.N.||Cyclone Burevi that was downgraded to a deep depression on Friday morning and remained stationary over the Gulf of Mannar for several hours further weakened into a depression. Nonetheless, it was one of the unusual weather systems that covered most parts of the State with rain. It may continue to have an impact over Tamil Nadu, and the spell of rain may last for two more days, even if not of the same intensity. Heavy to very heavy rain may occur in one or two places on Saturday. As a depression, it will move slowly west-southwestwards across Ramanathapuram towards south Kerala and lose its strength to become a well-marked low pressure area by Saturday. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said that as the weather disturbance remained stationary for several hours over the Gulf of the Mannar, it pushed moisture into the land and brought heavy rain. The outer feeder bands of the stagnant system brought rain to Chennai, too. More than 50 weather stations received heavy rain of up to 12 cm during the past 24 hours till Friday morning. A total of 11 stations recorded very heavy rain, and five places received extremely heavy rain of more than 24 cm. Kollidam in Nagapattinam district received 36 cm. Only the south extreme regions like Kanniyakumari and some Western Ghats areas, including Coimbatore, are yet to get sufficient rain. “In a single day, the weather system helped to bring the State’s rain deficit down to a mere 2% from 12% the previous day. Tamil Nadu’s overall rainfall is now 36.2 cm against its seasonal normal of 37 cm since October 1,” Mr. Balachandran said. On the heavy rain that extended to the northern parts too, Mr. Balachandran said the vertical wind shear (a sudden change in the direction or the speed over a short distance in the atmosphere) had shifted the rain bands from the main weather system. “This system has extensively covered the central and south parts and also impacted the northern region,” he said. Chennai and Ennore received 2 cm of rain till 7 p.m. on Friday. The India Meteorological Department has forecast that moderate rain, which may be heavy at times, is likely to occur in Chennai for two days. Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj noted that this system was unusual in that there were no clouds over the nearest areas like Kanniyakumari or Tirunelveli. There was a disconnect between the centre of the storm and the rain clouds. Besides the wind shear that pushed clouds towards the north, the weather system too tilted to the north with height owing to a colder temperature prevailing in northern India. “Cyclone Nivar gave rain along its track. This system gave more rain and covered more areas.” The system was stationary for many hours possibly because it was trapped in the calm region of the upper troposphere, where winds would be weak, he said.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Safety of COVID vaccine paramount, says DCGI||Safety and efficacy of a COVID-19 vaccine is paramount with the regulatory pathway for the vaccine in India seeing an accelerated rolling review and interim analysis of clinical trials, Drugs Controller-General of India V.G. Somani said on Friday. At a discussion on “Regulatory pathways for COVID vaccines, clinical trials, rolling reviews and adverse event monitoring”, he said India had a system for compensating participants for adverse reaction to new drugs being tested. Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology (DBT), said the vaccine expert committee set up by the department met every two weeks and gave scientific inputs on meeting the regulatory requirements. Speaking about the COVID vaccine development process, Sheela Godbole, senior scientist, ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), said that besides the accelerated dedicated research and rolling reviews, the vaccine development had been provided an enabling environment, rapid recruitment facilities and safety review.   540 deaths India reported 540 COVID fatalities in the past 24 hours with 77.78% of this from 10 States and Union Territories. “21.29% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra which reported 115 deaths, Delhi also saw a fatality count of 82 while West Bengal reported 49 new deaths,” a release from the Health Ministry said. Continuing with the trend of the past seven days, India had reported more daily recoveries than the daily new cases during the past 24 hours, it said. The trend had led to a continuous contraction of India’s active case load, which stood at 4,16,082 currently, the Ministry noted. As per data released by the Ministry, 36,595 persons in India were found to be infected and 42,916 new recoveries were registered during the period. “The difference of 6,321 between new recoveries and new cases has led to a net decline of 6,861 cases from the total active case load in the last 24 hours. India still continues to have one of the lowest cases per million population in the world (6,936) much lower than many other countries of the Western Hemisphere,” the Ministry said. Also India’s recovery rate now stands at 94.2%. Maharashtra leads with 8,066 persons recovering from COVID-19 while Kerala recorded 5,590 recoveries.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||New device measures rate of evaporation in minutes||In what is touted to be a more efficient and inexpensive alternative to existing methods, a team from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) has developed a device that can measure the rate of evaporation within a couple of minutes. Apart from being an integral process in the water cycle, evaporation plays a major role in regulating water loss in plants through a process called transpiration, an IISc. release explained. “Being able to measure the evaporation rate is useful for farmers to gauge water requirements for their fields and in weather stations to characterise the local atmospheric conditions. It is also widely used by botanists to study the dynamics underlying transpiration by plants,” said IISc. in the release. Currently, pan evaporimeters – resembling large pans that are filled with water – are the commonly used to measure evaporation rates. The change in water level over a day gives the evaporation rate from that area for that day. “The disadvantages are that the evaporation rates are for one whole day, and over a large area, one square metre. One needs an open ground to place the device. But we have a simple method of directly measuring evaporation from a small surface – at the order of a couple of centimetres, and over a short period of time. Our method allows you to get a much more realistic measure of transpiration from plants and evaporation from soil,” the release quoted Jaywant H. Arakeri, Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, IISc., and senior author of the study, which was recently published in the Journal of Hydrology , as saying. The proposed device consists of a filter paper connected to a capillary tube that takes water from a reservoir to the filter paper, wetting it and mimicking an evaporating water surface. By measuring the distance travelled by the lower meniscus in the capillary tube over a couple of minutes, the evaporation rate is estimated. The innovation lies in being able to measure the very small amount (about 1 microlitre) of water that is lost in evaporation from the surface in a minute, the release explained. As the evaporation rate is affected by a number of factors such as temperature, wind velocity and humidity, the device can show the evaporation rate within a niche environment. It would be useful to scientists studying the physiological process of transpiration in plants because of its ability to measure the evaporation rate over small areas over short periods of time.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka govt. asked to clarify stand on online betting at BTC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday found strange the State government’s “contradicting stand” that there was no provision in law empowering it to grant permission to Bangalore Turf Club Ltd. (BTC) to conduct online betting for horse racing and that the BTC need not seek permission from the government for online betting. If the government wanted to say that it had no power to permit BTC to conduct online betting, how could it grant permission? And if the BTC did not require government approval, then why did the BTC approach the government seeking permission? A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty posed these questions to the government counsel during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by C. Gopal, a resident of Shanti Nagar in Bengaluru. The Bench posed these questions following the contradicting claims by the government on the court’s question posed during an earlier hearing about the statute under which it had granted permission to BTC to hold online betting, instead of betting permitted on the premises of the racecourse. The government should withdraw the in-principle approval given to the BTC on June 29, 2020, allowing online betting, or the court will have to quash it, the Bench said orally while asking the government counsel to take clear instructions from the authorities. However, the Bench made it clear that it was not commenting on the legality of online betting in the racecourse, but only asking about the power of the government to grant permission. Meanwhile, the counsel appearing for BTC contended that they had approached the government as mode of betting was part of the conditions imposed in the licence granted to BTC under the provisions of the Karnataka Racecourses Licensing Act, 1952. The government, in its written statement, had said that there was nothing illegal in allowing online betting as it would encourage a cashless digital economy, increase revenue for both BTC as well as the government, and decrease illegal betting.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC adjourns hearing of SNC Lavalin case to January 7||The Supreme Court on Friday adjourned the hearing of the SNC Lavalin corruption case appeals against the discharge of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to January 7 on the basis of a request made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who is appearing for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Justice U.U. Lalit, heading the three-judge Bench, noted how the case is being adjourned time and again. Mr. Mehta said the case required a detailed hearing and would require some time. Meanwhile, the court gave the central agency permission to file additional documents. When the case came up before Justice Lalit’s Bench, the judge, on October 8, had cautioned the CBI that it would need to bolster its appeal against Mr. Vijayan with “very strong arguments” as two courts — the trial court and the Kerala High Court — have already discharged him of any wrong-doing. “You know that two courts have concurrently said these persons need not be tried. You will have to come up now with very strong arguments to say they should not be discharged,” Justice Lalit had told Mr. Mehta. The case has skipped from one date to another since January 2018, when the Supreme Court had stayed the trial. A Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana had, on the same day, admitted the CBI appeal against Mr. Vijayan’s discharge in the graft case. Mr. Vijayan was discharged as an accused by both the Special Court, CBI, in Thiruvananthapuram, and the Kerala High Court. The CBI has, in its appeal, contended that Mr. Vijayan should face trial in the case. The corruption case concerns the loss of Rs. 86.25 crore in the Kerala State Electricity Board’s (KSEB) contract with Lavalin for the renovation and modernisation of Pallivasai, Sengulam and Panniar hydroelectric projects in Idukki district of Kerala. Mr. Vijayan was the State’s Power Minister then. The premier investigation agency said Mr. Vijayan had travelled to Canada as a “guest” of Lavalin in 1997. It was there, in Canada, he had made the “crucial” decision to promote Lavalin.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||We will use social media to widen protests, say farmers||At the Singhu border on Friday, the protesting farmers said they will find ways to keep the momentum going if they have to remain at the borders as talks between them and the government were inconclusive. At a meeting on Thursday, they said they would not accept anything other than a repeal of the three laws. “Going forward, if we have to continue at the borders, we will not just sit and eat. We will use social media like Facebook and Twitter to mobilise, plan protests, and marches inside Delhi while we remain h e re. The eventual plan will be to shut entry to, and exit from, Delhi completely,” said Ranjeet Singh (34), a farmer from Bhatinda. Gurdeep Singh from Chandigarh said: “If the demands are not met, there is going to be an unexpected reaction. Perhaps, a hunger strike.” A 25-year-old farmer, Hardeep Singh Lidder from Chandigarh, said the government had not given anything in writing and they did not trust them. “We have already seen what corporatisation of crops  can do. We cannot accept any amendments,” he said. “We have decided we won’t back down and it’s only been eight days,” Shamsher Singh said. ‘Families supportive’ Bayant Singh (40) from Patiala said their families back home were very supportive and in fact, the villagers would feel betrayed if they go back without getting their demands fulfilled. A group of farmers also said they will follow their leaders. “We have come with our leaders and for us, their word is final. If they tell us to leave, we will leave right away. And if they tell us to stay, we will stay for even two years,” said Iqbal Singh from Jalandhar. He said allegiance to jathhe bandi (groups) leaders is of utmost importance to them. At the protest on Friday, Anmol Rana from Sonipat was seen carrying a mattress on his shoulder. “This is the weapon used by God Hanuman and Angad and it depicts that the government won’t be able to disperse us. Haryana Chief Minister had said only Sikhs from Haryana are participating but that’s not true. We are all with them and will intensify the protest if the demands are not met,” he said.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Change in stance over Sabarimala entry draws flak||The Kerala government’s reported change in stance over entry of women to the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala has raised eyebrows. The portal for virtual queue booking states that women and other genders (trans) below 50 and above 65 years will not be allowed darshan. The restriction has come up when the portal commenced booking for additional pilgrims being allowed for darshan during weekdays and weekends during the remaining pilgrimage season. When the temple was opened for pilgrimage on November 16, the government had announced that children below 10 years and people above 65 years will not be permitted to the temple because of COVID-19 restrictions. But, the sudden change in the stance of the government just before the local body poll has come in for flak. The new condition comes two years after the Left Democratic Front government had given police support for two young women to visit the temple in the wake of the Supreme Court verdict. Age-old customs The government’s decision has come in for opposition from devotees who wanted to stick to the age-old customs of the temple. The LDF government had also opposed the review pleas filed against the September 28, 2018 verdict that allowed women’s entry to the temple. With the reported change in stance, the government and the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) have gone back to preserving the age-old customs at Sabarimala. Responding to the restrictions, TDB president N. Vasu said on Friday that the portal was maintained by the Kerala Police since 2010. “We have not given any instruction to this effect. Moreover, the entry of women below 50 years is a non-issue now. We want peaceful situation to prevail at Sabarimala. There are several other pressing issues before us to be addressed for pilgrims,” Mr. Vasu said. “No one in this age group has evinced interest for darshan nor has come after the temple was opened last month for the season. Except for media reports, no organisation has raised it officially so far. It is still with the Supreme Court,” he added.
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Test positivity rates stay flat in multiple States||There was a dip in fresh coronavirus infections in Tamil Nadu as the day’s count dropped to below 1,400 on Friday. A total of 1,391 persons, including four returnees, tested positive for the infection, and 15 persons died, taking the State’s overall tally to 7,87,554 and toll to 11,762. Another 1,426 persons, including 452 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. Till date, 7,64,854 persons were discharged. The number of active cases stood at 10,938 of which Chennai accounted for 3,451 persons. Kerala reported a spike in disease metrics in some districts, and recorded 5,718 new COVID-19 cases from 57,456 samples on Friday. The test positivity rate was just under 10%, at 9.95%. Karnataka on Friday reported 1,247 new cases as well as 13 deaths. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.27 %. Bengaluru Urban reported 620 cases. With eight deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,170. The State carried out 98,049 tests, including 86,744 RT-PCR tests. Andhra Pradesh witnessed six more deaths and 599 new infections on Friday. The overall positivity rate of tests came down to 8.46% as the number increased to 1.029 crore. In the past day 63,406 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 0.94%. Krishna district reported two deaths, Chittoor, Guntur, Kurnool and Nellore one death each. The incidence data was as follows: Krishna (115), Chittoor (92), West Godavari (85), Guntur (71), East Godavari (60), Srikakulam (41), Kadapa (25), Anantapur (24), Nellore (23), Prakasam (20), Visakhapatnam (22), Kurnool (13) and Vizianagaram (8). Telangana recorded 631 cases on Thursday. While 57,405 people were tested, results of 658 are awaited. Two more patients died. Thursday was the third day when more than 50,000 tests were done. Throughout November, the daily tests did not cross 47,000. The 631 new cases included 109 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 57 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 49 from Rangareddy, 34 from Karimnagar. Zero cases were reported in Narayanpet, four in Jogulamba Gadwal.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus)
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC to move protesting farmers from Delhi’s borders||A petition in the Supreme Court on Friday sought a direction for the “immediate removal” of protesting farmers from Delhi’s borders, by applying its judgment in the Shaheen Bagh case that dissent should not intrude on public movement. “This court in the case of Amit Sahni vs. Commissioner of Police [Shaheen Bagh case] has stated that the protest which blocked the public way caused grave inconvenience to commuters and that such protest cannot be allowed, and indeterminable number of people cannot assemble wherever they choose to protest,” Rishabh Sharma, a law student from Delhi, said in his petition. He said thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, have been choking the entry points to Delhi since November 26. Mr. Sharma said protesting farmers could not block public movement. The judgment in the Shaheen Bagh case had frowned upon protesters occupying public places indefinitely. Dissent, the court had said, could not be expressed by blocking public places and spaces. The student contended that farmers continued to camp at the borders and block the roads, though the government had allotted the Nirankari ground in Burari to hold their protests peacefully. The petition said the large gatherings of farmers at the borders posed a challenge to the fight against the pandemic in the capital. Entry of patients to Delhi from other States for treatment would also be affected.
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||ED calls Ravindran to its office on Dec. 10||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, to appear before investigators at its office in Kochi on December 10. The date has reportedly raised eyebrows in the Communist Party of India (Marxist). By one account, the CPI(M) felt that the ED had timed Mr. Raveendran’s arrival at its office to fall on the second phase of polling for local body elections. However, CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan seemed not to betray any worry that the potential television optics of Mr. Raveendran’s arrival at the ED office would impact the voters setting out to polling booths. He told reporters in Kollam that a mere summons was no evidence of guilt. The ED reportedly wanted to question Mr. Raveendran in connection with its ongoing investigation into the money laundering aspect of the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The agency was also probing the suspected “kickbacks in the various infrastructure contracts” being implemented by the State government. Mr. Raveendran’s questioning brings the ED ominously close to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). The agency reportedly viewed Mr. Raveendran, a political appointee with long innings of service in various Left Democratic Front governments, as a consummate CMO insider and prime mover behind several infrastructure projects supposedly under its “radar”. Mr. Raveendran had pleaded inability to appear before investigators twice. He was stricken by COVID-19 and later laid low by residual health issues. He had taken a discharge from hospital recently.
05 December 2020||Lucknow,||Will seek magistrate’s approval, says groom||A Muslim man and a Hindu woman, whose wedding was stopped by the Uttar Pradesh police on the basis of the new ordinance against “unlawful” conversion, said they had arranged the ceremony on December 2 unaware of the legislation. “If we knew clearly about the new law, we would have gone to the District Magistrate and sought permission first,” the 25-year-old groom Kabir (name changed) told The Hindu on Friday. “We did not know about the new law. We will act according to the law,” said Mr. Kabir, a pharmacist, the colour of mehndi still fresh on his hands. On Wednesday, he was to get married to his friend of six years, a 20-year-old Hindu woman, when the police reached the venue and summoned the families to the police station before the ceremonies could begin. The marriage had the consent of their families. Outsiders or the government should not get into inter-personal consensual relationships, the bride said, requesting anonymity. “When we both are willing and our families have no problem, then outsiders should not interfere,” she stressed. The police reached the venue allegedly on the complaint of a fringe outfit, Rashtriya Yuva Vahini, which describes itself as a “sahyogi” of the BJP. Mr. Kabir said the date for the marriage had been fixed more than a month ago, before the ordinance was passed. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Suresh Chandra Rawat said both families were called to the police station after they got to know that a boy and girl from different communities wanted to get married. The families were informed about the new ordinance and provided a copy of the same, he said. “Following this, both sides submitted a written consent that they would inform the District Magistrate for permission before taking any steps,” said Mr. Rawat.   When we both are willing and our families have no problem, then outsiders should not interfere The bride
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Yechury flags move on postal ballots for NRIs||Flagging news reports about the Election Commission mulling the facilitation of voting by overseas Indians/NRIs to exercise their franchise in the upcoming Assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Pondicherry, CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury flayed the Commission for initiating the process without any consultations with political parties. In a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, Mr. Yechury said the EC’s efforts to amend the rules to bring postal ballots for NRIs and overseas Indians without speaking to political parties is a blatant departure from “conventional modus operandi”. Mr Yechury stated that his party is in favour of extending the voting rights to overseas Indians. The CPI(M), he said, had suggested the setting up of polling booths at Indian Embassy/Missions to permit Indian citizens to cast their votes in countries where they are residing. Instead, as per news reports, the ECI was mulling on postal ballots for overseas Indians, which they can dispatch to India “electronically”. Mr Yechury said ‘dispatching the ballot paper electronically’ is fraught with the risk of manipulation. “Seen against the ‘physical verifiability of the voter as an inviolable principle’ for casting the vote, ensuring it in the context of an overseas/NRI voter through the electronic transmission of the ballot is clearly problematic,” he wrote
05 December 2020||Kolkata,||Canadian writer plays Santa Claus in Santiniketan||This Christmas, a visiting Canadian writer staying put in Santiniketan due to the pandemic, has decided to play Santa Claus to children without parents or a home by featuring them in videos of carols and rhymes that have lyrics altered to bring extra cheer. The videos, to be released on YouTube on a regular basis from later this month right until the Christmas of 2021, “will immunise the inner child in us from the psychological attack the virus has unleashed upon us,” according to Brian Godzilla Salmi, 57, who came to Santiniketan in February this year and doesn’t intend leaving any time soon for the fear of contracting the virus. Viewers shouldn’t find it too difficult to relate to him for he already sports a beard similar to that of Santa — and Rabindranath Tagore. He came to Santiniketan at the invitation of his friend Ananda Lee Tan, whose paternal grandfather had started the Chinese Department at Visva-Bharati at the invitation of Tagore (the two met in college in Vancouver when Ananda moved to Canada in 1986). The homeless children he is engaging are sheltered by Sishutirtha, a school run by Sudripta Tagore, a great grandson of Rabindranath. “Everyone wants to see 2020 in the rearview mirror. In the famous words of Queen Elizabeth, it has been an ‘annus horribilus’. Her Majesty was speaking of 1992, but 1992 was an extended trip to Disneyland compared to 2020,” Mr. Salmi told The Hindu . “The vast majority of us will survive COVID-19, but suffering through the pandemic, and its myriad aftershocks and side effects, may destroy the inner child inside of us. In order to safeguard against that possibility, the Souper Sillysaurus Conspiracy [that’s how he has labelled his initiative] is launching this YouTube juggernaut,” he said. The rewritten lyrics all seek to ridicule the virus. For example, the popular carol “ Deck the halls with boughs of holly ” goes as “ We’ve had enough of you dumb year / Fa la la la la la la la la / It’s time for you to disappear / Fa la la la la la la la la .” “The videos will be released in the next two weeks and will be followed by a series of brand new nursilly rhymes in the form of one-minute songs. On Christmas Day we will release 30 of those nursilly rhyme videos, and we will release a new one every day until Christmas 2021. So, when people are feeling down, they will know that at the same time every day they are going to get a new injection of silly on our YouTube channel,” Mr. Salmi said. Sudripta Tagore is impressed by the project. “It’s good for the children,” Mr. Tagore said, “Learning new songs and meeting someone from a different cultural background is a good exposure for them.”
05 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||FIR against Assam MP’s foundation for misues of foreign funds||A foundation run by Assam MP Maulana Badruddin Ajmal has received funds from some foreign agencies allegedly linked to terror groups, a First Information Report (FIR) filed on Friday claimed. Mr. Ajmal is the chief of the All India United Democratic Front, which has been in talks with the Congress for an alliance before the 2021 Assembly polls. Right-wing leader Satya Ranjan Borah cited a report by an NGO named Legal Rights Observatory in his complaint against Ajmal Foundation at a police station in Guwahati. “Considering the report, we want proper investigation in this connection under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act... Ajmal Foundation has misused those foreign funds in several anti-national activities,” Mr. Borah said in the FIR, demanding that the culprits be brought to book. The NGO had in a tweet said the foundation received Rs. 69.55 crore received from “Turkish and UK terror groups” for education but used only Rs. 2.05 crore. Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma hoped that the Centre would investigate the possible Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) violations by the foundation. The Ajmal Foundation trashed the accusation. It denied receipt of money from any Saudi Arabia-based agencies.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Stan Swamy given straw, sipper, winter clothes||Mr. Shaikh then filed three applications seeking a direction to the probe agency to return Father Swamy’s bag, which was seized at the time of his arrest on October 8; a clone copy of his hard disk, which was also seized; and a direction to not transfer him from Taloja Jail as Father Swamy was anxious about being shifted out. After the Father’s medical bail was rejected on October 22 and on November 26, Mr. Shaikh had filed for bail on merits. The application stated: “The prosecution did not seek his custody for a single day and was remanded to judicial custody. He is being targeted due to the nature of his writings. He writesabout caste and land struggles of the people of India and about violation of democratic rights of marginalised. He has always raised questions and held State authorities responsible for injustice against the marginalised persons of thesociety.”
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,||French Ambassador to visit Chennai next week||The Ambassador of France to India, Emmanuel Lenain, will make an official visit to Chennai between December 7 and 8. His visit is aimed at strengthening cooperation between France and Tamil Nadu particularly in the economic field. During this visit, Ambassador Lenain would call on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, an official release said. The talks would focus on how France and French companies could continue contributing to Tamil Nadu’s ambitious development goals in the areas of industry, research & development and renewable energy. The Ambassador would also hold talks with Industries Minister M.C. Sampath. During his visit, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Industrial Guidance and Export Promotion Bureau of Tamil Nadu and the Indo-French Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also been scheduled. This MoU would establish a framework to facilitate connections between French businesses and Tamil Nadu, enabling investments and promoting ease of doing business.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers firm on repeal of three agri laws||Mr. Lakhowal said sportspersons and other dignitaries would return their medals to the government on December 7 as a mark of protest. He said toll barriers across the country would be made “free” for a day on a later date. He added that farmer unions would also attempt to close the two highways leading to Delhi that are still open by December 8. Mr. Lakhowal said the government had, at the December 3 meeting, agreed to make amendments to the three laws, withdraw the ordinance on stubble burning and make a law on minimum support price to an extent, but the unions wanted a complete withdrawal of the three laws. He claimed that the movement had support pouring in from across the country, with sit-ins and protests in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka as well. Bharatiya Kisan Union general-secretary Yudhvir Singh also addressed the joint press conference, saying the farmers were fast losing patience and were ready for a “do-or-die” battle. “There was strong consensus among the farmer leaders that nothing short of the withdrawal of three laws would be acceptable. The farmer leaders also stressed the demand for legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price,” said Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, present at the media briefing. Mr. Yadav said the BKU leader sharing the platform with the Morcha leaders was an important development since the union was earlier holding “parallel” negotiations. “Ten big federations of trade unions also pledged their support to the movement. There are spontaneous protests across the country in support of the agitation just as we saw during the ‘Anna movement’,” Mr. Yadav said. Farmer leaders from several States addressed the media briefing, stressing that it was an all-India movement and their demand for repeal of the three farm laws was “non-negotiable”. Claiming that the movement was headed for a “historic win” and the government for a “historic defeat”, the leaders stressed that the talks on Saturday would be only about the withdrawal of the three laws and nothing else.
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Congress turncoats spell doom for TRS||A significant fallout of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls for the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) was its outright defeat to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in both Assembly constituencies where the former was represented by Congress turncoats. In L.B. Nagar constituency, which had the largest number of eleven divisions in GHMC limits, the TRS drew a blank. Party MLA D. Sudhir Reddy had won on Congress ticket two years ago but switched over to the TRS. Similarly, there were two divisions in Maheswaram constituency represented by Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy that went to polls but the party lost both of them. She, too, was the Congress candidate in the last Assembly elections. Among other constituencies where the TRS MLAs had to bite the dust were Musheerabad; there the party lost five of the six divisions. In Amberpet, it lost three of five divisions and another three of nine divisions in Malkajgiri. The party also lost three out of six divisions in Sanathnagar. All of them were won by the BJP. The other TRS-held constituencies where it lost were Rajendranagar and Uppal (two each) and Jubilee Hills, Serilingampally, Kukatpally and Qutbullapur (one each). Significantly, the TRS won all the five divisions in Secunderabad constituency. The major victories for TRS were Serilingampally (nine), Kukatpally and Qutbullapur (seven each), Malkajgiri (five) and Khairatabad (four). Apart from L.B. Nagar and Musheerabad, BJP gained significant ground in Goshamahal (five) which is represented by party MLA T. Raja Singh. It also made inroads into MIM strongholds like Yakutpura, Malakpet and Karwan where it won two divisions. BJP,however, could not open its account in other MIM-held constituencies of Charminar, Chandrayangutta, Bahadurpura and Nampally. All were won by MIM. The BJP had much to cheer from its performance in Hyderabad Lok Sabha constituency represented by MIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi. It won 11 of the 32 divisions in the constituency but trailed behind the TRS in Secunderabad Parliamentary constituency. In Secunderabad, where the sitting MP is Union Minister of State for Home and BJP senior leader G. Kishan Reddy, the TRS won 18 divisions, BJP 13 and the MIM 9. It was an almost close fight between TRS and the BJP in Malkajgiri Parliamentary constituency which is held by Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy. The TRS won 25 divisions here and the BJP 18. The Congress scored its two victories in Uppal Assembly constituency, which is part of Malkajgiri Lok Sabha seat.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Remarks by Canadian PM unacceptable’||“The Canadian High Commissioner was ... informed that comments by the Canadian Prime Minister, some Cabinet Ministers and Members of Parliament on issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs. Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement that summed up the contents of the démarche issued to Mr. Patel. Reacting to the development, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said: “Canada will always stand up for the right to peaceful protest anywhere around the world and we are pleased to see moves towards de-escalataion and dialogue (with the farmers).” Friday’s comment is tougher compared to the December 1 statement when India had avoided naming Mr. Trudeau, even though he had expressed concern about the condition of the farmers in his Gurupurav message. Mr. Trudeau’s coalition partner Jagmeet Singh of the New Democratic Party has made several public comments about the farmers’ agitation. He had praised the farmers, saying they were opposing “privatisation”. “As millions of farmers march towards India’s capital... they walk with this spirit (of Guru Nanak),” Mr. Singh said on November 30. Another MP, Jack Harris, had criticised India’s handling of the protests and said “We are shocked” during the police action against the farmers. The December 1 statement from the MEA had merely described the Canadian messages as “ill-informed”. However Friday’s démarche said the comments from the Canadian authorities “have encouraged gatherings of extremist activities in front of our High Commission and Consulates in Canada that raise issues of safety and security”. The farmers’ agitation has found strong resonance among the Indo-Canadian community as many members have their roots in the north Indian plains. Various cities in Canada have witnessed drive-in protests and gatherings by Indo-Canadians against the police action on the farmers. Several such car rallies have been planned during the weekend in multiple cities. A major rally in support of the farmers is scheduled in capital Ottawa on Saturday.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||RBI holds rates, sees FY GDP contraction at 7.5%||Citing the improvement in activity in the second quarter, it projected that GDP would return to growth of 0.1% in Q3, and expand 0.7% in Q4. The risks to its estimates were “broadly balanced”, the RBI added. “There is considerable optimism on successes in vaccine trials,” the MPC said in its statement. “Consumers remain optimistic about the outlook, and business sentiment of manufacturing firms is gradually improving,” it added. Governor Shaktikanta Das, while announcing the policy, however, reiterated that inflation still remains a concern for policymakers. “Cost-push pressures continue to impinge on core inflation, which has remained sticky and could firm up as economic activity normalises and demand picks up,” he said. Mr. Das projected retail inflation to average 6.8% in Q3, before moderating to 5.8% in Q4 and 5.2% to 4.6% in the first half of the next fiscal year, with risks broadly balanced. With the MPC convinced that inflation would remain elevated, “barring transient relief in the winter months from prices of perishables”, the rate-setting panel said it found itself in a bind. Stating that supply-side bottlenecks had fuelled inflation and large margins were being charged to the consumer, Mr. Das said, “This constrains monetary policy at the current juncture from using the space available to act in support of growth. At the same time, the signs of recovery are far from being broad-based and are dependent on sustained policy support.” Asserting that the RBI would monitor all threats to price stability closely so as to anchor broader macroeconomic and financial stability, he said the MPC had decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next financial year — to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, while ensuring that inflation remained within the mandated target. The RBI also announced a raft of liquidity management measures and steps to improve regulatory oversight of the financial system.
05 December 2020||Kochi,||Court denies permission to conduct NIA probe||The Special Court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) here on Friday closed the proceedings on a jail report that a remand prisoner who was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for being a member of the banned Islamic State tried to explain the ideology of the proscribed organisation to fellow prisoners. The superintendent of the Sub-Jail, Ernakulam, had reported that remand prisoner Muhammad Polakkanni tried to explain the IS ideology to his fellow prisoners. Three fellow prisoners Ajish, Roshan and Shafeek gave statements to the jail authorities confirming the incident. As the matter came up before the court, senior prosecutor for the NIA sought an order from the court to begin an investigation. The prosecutor submitted that unless there was a specific direction from the court, the agency could not conduct any investigation and hence the local police be directed to make an investigation. While concluding that no offence was made out against the remand prisoner from the generalised statements of the fellow prisoners, NIA Special Judge K. Kamanees noted that it was not possible to take cognisance of any offence as the statements were neither complaints of facts constituting any offence nor were police reports. Police probe However, the court noted that the police had the preliminary jurisdiction to look into the matter.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Interfaith marriage: will seek DM’s nod, says groom||Mr. Kabir said the date for the marriage had been fixed more than a month ago, before the ordinance was passed. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Suresh Chandra Rawat said both families were called to the police station after they got to know that a boy and girl from different communities wanted to get married. The families were informed about the new ordinance and provided a copy of the same, he said.
05 December 2020||Patna,||RJD urges Bihar farmers to support stir||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav has appealed to farmers of Bihar to support the protest in Delhi. “The RJD appeals to the farmers of the State to hit the road to strengthen farmers’ ‘ andolan ’ [protest] in Delhi over MSP and to repeal new farm reform laws,” he said while addressing mediapersons at the party headquarters in Patna. He also slammed the new laws of the Central government. “There is no provision for farmers’ interest in the laws,” he said. He said farmers should get fair prices for their produce and also accused the Centre of resorting to privatisation of government companies and enterprises.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,||Two quizzed in Kerala gold smuggling case||The Customs on Friday interrogated the gunman and driver of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling and foreign currency smuggling cases. Gunman Jayaghose and driver Siddique were interrogated at the Kochi office of the agency. It was following the information gathered after questioning the other accused in the case that the duo were interrogated. The officials suspect that huge amount of foreign currency was smuggled out of the country with the help of those employed in the consulate. It had obtained a non-bailable warrant against Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, an Egyptian national for smuggling U.S. dollars worth around Rs. 1.30 crore.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Map long-term effects of vaccine: Azad||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday said India should be well placed to get a COVID-19 vaccine at an ‘affordable price’ at an early stage, and asked policy makers to take note that a COVID-like pandemic can pose a threat to internal security in future. At the all-party meet, Mr. Azad also asked the government to put in place an effective monitoring system to study long-term adverse effects of the COVID-19 vaccine. “...the government should rigorously monitor the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine,” he said. Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said there was no “road map” for vaccinating common citizens.
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||Chargesheet filed against Arnab, 2 others||The Raigad police on Friday filed a chargesheet against Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami and two others in the case of alleged abetment of suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018. The chargesheet is of 1,914 pages and names Mr. Goswami, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Neetish Sarda of Smartworks. It states that Mr. Goswami owed Naik close to Rs. 84 lakh for the Bombay Dyeing studio project at Lower Parel, Mr. Shaikh owed Naik Rs. 4 crore and Rs. 7 lakh for his project at Andheri and Mr. Sarda owed him Rs. 55 lakh for his projects at Magarpattaand Baner. The trio are charged under Section 306 (abetment of suicide), which can lead to an imprisonment up to 10 years, and Section 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment) of the Indian Penal Code. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat told The Hindu , “The chargesheet has statements of 65 witnesses. It will be submitted before the magistrate court at Alibag on Saturday. After the court takes cognisance of the same it will be committed to the sessions court. Then charges will be framed and the trial will begin.” Naik and his mother were found dead on May 5, 2018.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,||HC: hold polls in 198 wards of Bengaluru||In a serious setback to the State government, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday issued direction for holding elections expeditiously to 198 wards of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council and also held that the amended law to increase the number of wards in the BBMP to 243 would not apply to the present election. While directing the government to publish within a month the final notification on caste-based reservation of 198 wards based on the draft notification issued in September, the court asked the State Election Commission (SEC) to hold elections as expeditiously as possible by publishing the election programme within a maximum period of six weeks from the date of publication of the final reservation notification. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty delivered the verdict on separate PIL petitions filed by the SEC, two former councillors M. Shivaraj and Abdul Wajid, and Ravi Jagan, a resident of Kalyan Nagar. The Bench held that the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (third Amendment) Act, 2020, which increases number of wards of the BBMP and allows the government to set up panels for delimitation of wards in all corporations, would not apply to the elections of the corporations which ought to have been held as per the mandate of Article 243U the Constitution before October 3, 2020, when amendment Act came into force. Stating that the laws made by the State legislature cannot defeat the purpose of the constitutional mandate of holding elections to the corporations before expiry of their term, the Bench said allowing elections after creation of 243 wards as per the new law would ‘infringe’ on the constitutional provisions. Allowing the process of increasing the number of wards may lead to a situation of not holding elections even till September 10, 2021 though election was due much before September 10, 2020, the Bench observed. Background The SEC on January 24, 2020 had filed a PIL in the High Court seeking directions to the government to complete the processes of delimitation of wards as per the 2011 census and fixing caste-based reservation for wards at the earliest to enable the Commission to complete elections before the term of BBMP’s council ended on September 10. Though the High Court had asked the government to complete both the process by April 1, the process were postponed due to lockdown imposed in view of COVID-19 pandemic besides delaying hearing before the court. Once lockdown was relaxed, the government notified delimited wards on June 24 and published the draft reservation on September 24 while simultaneously moving an amendment for the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act in the legislature to increase number of wards in the BBMP. After the legislature approved the amendment, the government on October 14 increased wards to 243 and set up a committee to carve out the new wards. Following these developments, the SEC sought court’s permission to conduct elections to BBMP keeping number of wards as 198 while ignoring increase in number of wards. The SEC had contended that the elections cannot be held for a year if increase in the number of wards has to be considered and such an event would result in violation of the constitutional mandate of timely holding elections to the local bodies. However, it was argued on behalf of the government that the elections cannot be held ignoring the amendment of law to increase total number of wards to 243.
05 December 2020||Hassan,||A day after violence, Shivamogga peaceful||Shivamogga city, which witnessed a series of violent incidents following the attack on a Bajrang Dal activist on Thursday, remained peaceful on Friday. Additional policemen from neighbouring districts were called in to maintain law and order. The district administration also clamped prohibitory orders in city limits and business establishments remained closed in the heart of the city. Eastern Range Inspector General of Police S. Ravi said at a press conference that 10 cases had been registered by the police in connection with incidents reported on Thursday. As many as 62 people have been taken into custody on suspicion of involvement in the violence. Those involved in the assault on Bajrang Dal’s Nagesh are yet to be arrested. The police have identified 148 sensitive and hypersensitive areas in the city.   ‘No need for probe’ Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa termed the assault on the Bajrang Dal activist an act by “goondas of a minoritycommunity” to disturb peace and harmony. He also claimed there was “no need for an investigation” as itwas “clear who did it”. Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also the Minister in charge of Shivamogga, spoke to the media on Friday morning after visiting the private hospital where Mr. Nagesh was undergoing treatment. “I have told the police to arrest the people involved immediately,” he said. The Minister also took the Shivamogga tahsildar to task for his statement that both Hindus and Muslims were involved in breach of peace. He went so far as to say the officer had “lost his mental balance”.
05 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Flood-ravaged areas show support to BJP||Flood-affected wards in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation that recorded low voting percentage in comparison to the 2016 polls swung clearly in favour of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The party won Kothapet, Gaddiannaram, R.K. Puram, Chaitanyapuri, Vanasthalipuram, and Saroornagar in the L.B. Nagar Circle. The other flood-affected wards of Barkas, Chandrayangutta, Jahanuma, Nawabsahebkunta, Doodbowli and Falaknuma that saw a spike in voting percentage over the 2016 backed the All India Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen. While the voting percentage in these wards over 2016 showed a spike in sheer numbers, the electors actually declined in 2020. The ‘ambush’ elections announced on November 17 caught not just the political parties off-guard but left little time for electors to check their names in the voters’ list. The result? A big chunk of eligible voters could not find their names in the list prepared by the Election Commission. In the immediate aftermath of the October flooding, the Telangana government began giving out Rs. 10,000 as relief money to each affected family. The cash handouts got tainted with political colour as local politicians got involved with the distribution. The list of beneficiaries, too, got bloated leading to charges that people who had not been affected by the floods received the aid This disenchantment about not getting relief money might have played a role in the dip in voter numbers, thereby impacting the result.
05 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||AAP: convene special session of Lok Sabha||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday demanded that a special session of Parliament be convened immediately to revoke the recently passed agriculture sector laws, which have been opposed by farmers. AAP State president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann urged in a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to immediately convene a special session to ensure a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops and rolling back of the contentious farm laws. Mr. Mann said revoking the farm laws and the offer of a legal guarantee on MSP by the Centre was the only way forward to resolve the stalemate.
05 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder and Sukhbir lock horns||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of attempting to sabotage the farmers’ agitation by linking it with threats to national security. The Chief Minister hit back, saying all the Opposition parties in the State were playing politics with the lives of farmers to further their own interests. Mr. Sukhbir Badal asked the Chief Minister to share with the people the specific grounds or intelligence surrounding the threat to national security. “Capt. Singh is clearly dancing to someone else’s tune to paint the farmers as national security risk. His so-called ‘warning’ on national security comes immediately after his suspicious meeting with a powerful Union Minister. Does he think the farmers and others in the country can’t see through his conspiratorial role against them?” he said.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||World trusts India as a partner: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, while addressing the international global PAN IIT conclave, invited alumni to contribute ideas to commemorate India’s 75th anniversary of Independence in 2022. “We have ensured that the brand of IITs has only become stronger. We are committed to strengthening science and tech education. We have been working with various countries in southeast Asia and Europe in this area. Our aim is to ensure that our youngsters get an international platform to showcase their skills and learn from best practices globally,” he said. In the testing times of COVID-19, India had got “record” investment, much of it in the tech sector. “Clearly, the world sees India as a trustworthy and promising partner,” Mr. Modi said. “Earlier, when IITs produced aerospace engineers, there was not a strong domestic ecosystem to employ them. Today, with our historic reforms in the space sector, the last frontier before humanity has opened up to Indian talent,” he noted.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Stir will go on till Republic Day, says BKU||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Rakesh Tikait, on Friday, declared that the farmers’ agitation would continue till January 26, Republic Day. Stating that the Centre’s verbal assurances about the minimum support price (MSP) regime were not enough, he warned of a “march to New Delhi” on Republic Day in which agitating farmers would arrive on their own tractors. “We have come here to look for the government which stays only in Delhi. There are many more farmers who are waiting to come to Delhi in our support. There is no one who is trying to incite us, anyone trying to do so will be asked to leave,” he said.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul slams beating of health staff||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Friday tweeted a video clip of Madhya Pradesh police baton-charging health workers in Bhopal and called it shameful. “Shameful! They are being mercilessly beaten up only because they were doing a sit-in protest to demand employment -- what is rightfully theirs. Unjust BJP government displaying its dirty arrogance of power,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. Bhopal protest On Thursday, 500 health workers, who have been protesting in Bhopal’s Neelam park for three days for regularisation of their jobs, were beaten up by the police. The health workers, who have been employed on contract for three months, were demanding that their jobs be regularised by the government before December 31 when their current contracts end.
05 December 2020||Srinagar,||BJP scared of people power: Mehbooba||Former J&K chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday took a jibe at the Centre for its handling of the farmers’ protests. “Farmers’ protests have brought the Government of India to its knees. The BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) is scared of people’s power and it is why a reign of repression has been unleashed in J&K since the illegal abrogation of Article 370. Not allowing any peaceful medium for dissent shows their nervousness and failure on all fronts,” Ms. Mufti said. She expressed her condolences on the passing away of Dineshwar Sharma, an administrator of Lakshadweep and former interlocutor of the Centre for Jammu and Kashmir. “He was a thorough gentleman andtried his best to restore bridges of trust and goodwill between people of J&K and rest of the nation,” she said.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Army Chief to visit Saudi Arabia, UAE next week||In a first, Army chief General Manoj Naravane is scheduled to visit Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates next week, a defence source said. Gen. Naravane is scheduled to depart on Sunday and will visit Saudi Arabia on December 7 and 8 followed by two days in the UAE. He will address Saudi Arabia’s National Defence University in addition to meeting the country’s top military brass, the source said.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||India, Russia hold passage exercise in east Indian Ocean||The navies of India and Russia began a two-day Passage Exercise (PASSEX) in the East Indian Ocean Region on Friday, the Navy said. “It is aimed at enhancing interoperability, imbibing best practices and would involve advanced surface and anti-submarine warfare exercises, weapon firings and helicopter operations,” the Navy said. Two warships from India and three ships from Russia are taking part in the PASSEX.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mallya’s assets in France seized||The Enforcement Directorate has seized businessman Vijay Mallya’s assets in France. “On the ED’s request, a property of Mr. Mallya located at 32 Avenue FOCH in France has been seized by the French authorities. Its value is 1.6 million euros [about Rs. 14 crore],” said an official. The action was taken after the agency found that a large amount had been remitted abroad from the bank account of Kingfisher Airlines Limited.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Nation is proud of you, President tells Navy||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday greeted Navy personnel on Navy Day. “Nation is proud of your commitment in protecting our maritime frontiers and providing assistance in times of civil emergencies. May you ever rule the waters. Jai Hind!” he tweeted. December 4 is celebrated as Navy Day to commemorate the Indian Navy’s attack on Karachi harbour during the 1971 India-Pakistan war.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC grants bail to journalist Rajeev Sharma in espionage case||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted bail to freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, arrested in an espionage case under the Official Secrets Act for allegedly leaking sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers. Justice Yogesh Khanna granted bail to the 61-year-old on the ground that the Delhi police had not filed the charge sheet within the stipulated 60 days after arrest.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With major reservoirs filling up, sluices opened||After Chembarambakkam and Poondi, shutters of Red Hills reservoir, another major source of drinking water supply to the city, were opened on Friday evening. Initially, 500 cusecs (cubic feet per second) was released from the reservoir as the inflow was good. The Water Resources Department (WRD) decided to release water from the reservoir as the water level touched 19.89 ft, just 1 foot short of the maximum level. The storage was 2.99 tmcft on Friday evening as against its capacity of 3.3 tmcft. Following this, the Tiruvallur Collectorate issued a flood alert for the downstream areas. An official said, “We had to release water as the group of tanks upstream had surpluses and more inflow was coming to the waterbody.” Among the group of tanks feeding Red Hills reservoir are Morai, Pammadhukulam, Vellanoor, Iyyaneri and Pothur. Water released into the 13.5 km-long surplus course travels through areas such as Grandline, Naravarikuppam, Vadaperumbakkam, Manjambakkam and Kosapur before joining Kosasthalaiyar river and Buckingham canal near Sadayankuppam. “The course has a capacity to carry 7,500 cusecs safely. We raised the water release to 650 cusecs around 6 p.m. However, it will be reduced by Saturday morning,” the official added. Buffer source Cholavaram lake, which largely remains dry and is used as a buffer source, has a storage of 650 mcft against its capacity of 1,081 mcft. As inflow into the Chembarambakkam and Poondi reservoirs had increased on Friday, discharge was adjusted to maintain the level. The level at Chembarambakkam continued to be maintained at 22.45 feet, 1.5 feet short of the full reservoir level. About 3,000 cusecs of water was released into Adyar river around 6 p.m. Similarly, inflow of 5,341 cusecs into Poondi reservoir was discharged into the Kosasthalaiyar. The surplus is yet to reach the tail end of the river near Ennore creek.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waterlogging reported from 75 localities||The Greater Chennai Corporation has received complaints from residents about water stagnation at 75 localities, following the rain and water release from various reservoirs. On Friday, water stagnation was reported in areas such as Rajamannar Salai at K.K. Nagar, Baba Nagar at Villivakkam, Habibullah Road at T. Nagar, Jaganathan Street at Periyar Nagar, Ashok Avenue at Kambar Nagar in ward 66, Venus Nagar at Manali, Balasubramanian Nagar at Manali, Poompuhar Nagar at Kolathur and Five Furlong Road in the Adyar zone. Residents said areas such as Five Furlong Road suffered from water stagnation even after a storm-water drain was built recently. They have requested the Corporation to redesign such drains. T.K. Vijaykumar, former president of Baba Nagar Residents Welfare Association, said residents of 150 houses were affected by water stagnation on Friday. “The stagnation ranges from one foot to three feet of water. The Corporation has switched off 140 street-lights. So the risk of burglary is high... The police are not able to patrol the area. Milk supply has been disrupted. Newspaper distribution has also been stopped,” he said. Civic officials said the water level in MGR Canal and the Adyar was the same on Friday, causing inundation of many neighbourhoods on the banks of the canal. Many roads have been damaged by the stagnant water. Three relief centres have been opened in areas such as Villivakkam and Sholinganallur to help 330 residents. At least 200 residents of Manali have been housed at the Government School in Mathur. The Corporation has installed flood sensors at many locations, including MGR Canal, Ambattur Lake, the Buckingham Canal near Kargil Nagar and the Kathivakkam Creek bridge. “Pumping of storm water has been carried out,” an official said.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s daily case count drops under 1,400||Tamil Nadu on Friday saw a dip in fresh infections as the day’s count dropped under 1,400, with 1,391 more persons, including four returnees, testing positive for COVID-19. Fifteen persons succumbed to the infection, taking the State’s toll to 11,762, and its tally touched 7,87,554. As many as 1,426 persons, including 452 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. Till date, 7,64,854 persons have been discharged from various facilities. The number of active cases stood at 10,938, of which Chennai accounted for 3,451. In Chennai, 356 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the city’s tally to 2,16,867. Coimbatore recorded 139 cases, while Chengalpattu saw 85 and Salem 75. There were 66 cases in Tiruvallur and 61 in Tiruppur. The remaining 31 districts saw under 50 cases each. “The incidence of COVID-19 is definitely coming down. Our current sample size is around 70,000 and the positivity rate has reduced drastically. The fatality rate too has reduced,” a health official said. He said the number of persons reporting with Influenza-Like Illness had come down as well. “We are sustaining our control measures and the Health Department’s surveillance remains strong. People should be careful and not turn complacent, even as cases are decreasing. They should wear masks, adhere to physical distancing norms and follow hand hygiene,” he said. Of the 15 deceased, eight persons died in private hospitals. In the last 24 hours, 70,378 samples were tested in the State.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. parties suggest using CSR funds for COVID-19 vaccination programme||At a virtual all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the floor leaders of all political parties of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the country and vaccine development, the DMK suggested that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds from private companies could be used to share the cost of vaccination programmes, while the AIADMK urged the Centre to share the proposed vaccination plan with the States. During his speech in the meeting, DMK MP and former Union Minister T.R. Baalu pointed out the cost of probable vaccines and said that Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) too should share costs with the Centre. “As for private companies, the Centre should issue orders that the mandatory spending of CSR funds should be allotted completely towards vaccination.” The Lok Sabha MP from Sriperumbudur also stressed the need for creating necessary infrastructure such as cold storage facilities in all district headquarters for the vaccination programme. Pointing out that two of the several vaccine candidates from across the world are from India, including AZD 1222 of the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin of the Bharat Biotech and the National Institute of Virology, Mr. Baalu said, “The Centre and the Prime Minister are to be commended for this specific achievement.” Representing the AIADMK, Lok Sabha MP from Theni O.P. Raveendranath Kumar suggested that all States should continue the policy of aggressive RT-PCR testing for the next few months. Vaccination plan “The implementation plan proposed by the Centre for vaccination should be shared with the State governments. Subjects regarding the procurement of vaccines, syringes and cold storage transportation issues, etc. need to be clarified in advance whether they will be handled entirely by the Centre or whether some aspects have to be done by the States,” he said. The States must be notified whether consignments would be delivered at one place or in the districts so that cold chain transportation could be adequately planned in advance . He thanked the Prime Minister for convening the meeting to discuss matters related to COVID-19 management.
05 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Ten High Court judges sworn in by CJ||Ten district judges got elevated as judges of the Madras High Court on Thursday after Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi administered oath of office to them in a ceremony that was streamed live on the court’s YouTube channel. Immediately after taking oath, Justices G. Chandrasekharan, A.A. Nakkiran, V. Sivagnanam, G. Ilangovan, S. Ananthi, S. Kannammal, S. Sathikumar, K. Murali Shankar, R.N. Manjula and T.V. Thamilselvi began hearing cases in the High Court. In his welcome address, Advocate General Vijay Narayan said the working strength of the High Court judges had got increased to 64, as against its sanctioned strength of 75, with the assuming of office by 10 new judges. 13 women judges He expressed his wish to see the entire sanctioned strength of 75 judges getting filled up during his lifetime. He also stated that Madras High Court was the only High Court in the country to have as many as 13 women judges. Introducing the new appointees to the gathering, he said Justice Chandrasekharan was born in Srivilliputtur but pursued his schooling and higher education in Madurai. He got enrolled as an advocate in 1987 and served under senior counsel B.S. Gnanadesikan before getting appointed as a judicial magistrate in 1991. Justice Nakkiran hailed from Chennai bit obtained his law degree from the Government Law College in Tiruchi. He got enrolled as a lawyer in 1986 and entered Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service in 1991. Justice Sivagnanam was from Mayiladuthurai but had obtained his law degree from the Government Law College in Puducherry. Justice Ilangovan from Tiruvarur district had served as the Registrar (Judicial) of Madurai Bench of Madras High Court besides holding various posts ever since he entered State judicial service in 1991. Justice Ananthi was born in Erode district and had pursued law both in Chennai and Madurai. Justice Kannammal too had entered judicial service in 1991 as a civil judge (junior division) and got promoted as district judge in 2012. Justice Sathikumar was from Chennai and his wife G. Nalini was a practising advocate in the High Court. The A-G also stated that Justices Murali Shankar and Thamilselvi, a married couple, had created history by getting elevated to the chartered High Court on the same day.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A crusade against hunger in the time of COVID-19 pandemic and cyclones||Adversity sometimes thrusts some people to the fore. The world notices their courage to stand up for something or go the extra mile to help others, even as they themselves are inconvenienced. Srini Swaminathan, 41, is a social development consultant. He is happy to provide food to the homeless. The COVID-19 pandemic had opened new doors for him. He has been busy for a few days now, placing orders for sweets buns, breads and tea to feed the homeless in the city in view of Cyclone Burevi. Last week, as the government was preparing to mitigate the damage that Cyclone Nivar could do to the city, he was quick to arrange food for the homeless persons curled up under flyovers and at street corners and relief centres. Last week alone, he fed nearly 3,500 homeless persons and rescue workers across the city. “  I wanted to supplement what the Chennai Corporation was doing,” he says. This idea dawned on him in March, when the pandemic descended on Chennai and the migrant workers were about to leave the city in special trains after a protracted struggle. “I wondered where they would eat during a journey that could take more than a day, with every shop closed down. So I withdrew about Rs. 1 lakh from my savings and bought chapathis and bread for these workers. Subsequently, help poured in; close to Rs. 40 lakh was collected through crowd-funding, and nearly 1.45 lakh food packets were distributed. There was some money left, and I used it for providing food to the homeless during Nivar and Burevi,” he adds. Not just the homeless, he also packs food and tea for rescue workers, including policemen and corporation workers. He goes out distributing food to those dependent on temple ‘annadhanam’ during the lockdown period. He coordinates with three food and tea vendors and volunteers from Maatram Educational and Charitable Trust for food distribution.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bus gets stuck after road caves in||An MTC bus was stuck after a small portion of Kamarajar Road in K.K. Nagar caved in on Friday afternoon. According to the police, the bus (route 12G) was going from K.K. Nagar to Anna Square with four passengers. “There was a burst in a pipeline beneath the road and a small portion of the stretch caved in. The wheel of the bus got stuck in the pit,” said K. Balakrishnan Pillai, MTC traffic enforcement inspector, K.K. Nagar. No passenger was hurt in the incident. “It happened around 12.30 p.m. The MTC wrecker vehicle was brought to the spot and the bus was removed safely. We managed the traffic and ensured there was no traffic jam. The stretch was cleared by 1.30 p.m.,” he added.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Send only a 5-minute clip for The Hindu Margazhi contest||When you send in your video entry to The Hindu Classical Music Competition, the last date for which is December 12, 2020, do keep it under five minutes. Those of you who are interested in sending in their videos and have doubts about the formats to be used, or how to upload the content, do check: https:// www.thehindu.com/news/ national/tamil-nadu/ the-hindu-announces- margazhi- competition- for-young-indian-classical- musicians/ article33231111.ecet Carnatic and Hindustani vocalists, instrumentalists and percussionists under 40 can send the Google Drive or Dropbox links to their entries to thmargazhi@thehindu.co.in. Ensure a plain background, a mike to pick up the audio clearly would be great, and then calm down, relax and perform. Don’t rush. Start with a very brief introduction of yourself. Then provide details of the piece you are going to perform. Make it brief, the focus is on performance. In the email along with the video link, mention name, age, phone number, category, postal and email address, guru, number of years of training, and details of piece being rendered.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain causes potholes on highway, motorists irked||Last week’s rain has caused potholes on the Maduravoyal-Walajapet section of the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway, forcing motorists to slow down considerably. V. Joseph, of Besant Nagar, who drove down to Hosur, said it took him seven hours to reach the destination because of the condition of the road. “It kept raining, and so there was so much water in the potholes. We didn’t know how deep they were and therefore we kept braking,” he said. R. Selvaraj, a seven-axle vehicle driver, said the road was in a bad condition for a long time. “The road is being widened up to Ranipet, which means vehicles cannot get off the main carriageway to avoid the potholes. The rain has made it only worse,” he said. Toll money K. Raman, a Mylapore resident, who takes the road frequently, said a huge amount of money was being collected in the name of toll, but the road had not been maintained in the last 10 years. An official of the National Highways Authority of India, which manages the road, said potholes had developed in last week’s rain. “Repairs were undertaken on two days, but they had to be stopped because of heavy rain. All the pothole repair works will be completed if we have three clear rain-free days,” he said.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Winners of PII-ICRC Annual Awards 2020 announced||The winners of the Press Institute of India (PII)-International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) Annual Awards 2020, in the print and photo categories, were announced on Friday. The winners in the print category are: Maitri Porecha, Faysal Bakili, Menaka Rao, Varsha Torgalkar, Sanket Jain and Jigyasa Mishra. In the photo category, the winners are Ashwin Prasath, S.L.Shanth Kumar, Pattabi Raman, Arul Horizon, Prasanth Somnath Kharote, Narendra Vaskar, Manvendar Vashist, P. Jayesh and Rinku Raj. “The next pandemic may be just around the corner, but the time to start preparing to report better, based on the experience that the journalists get now, is between pandemics and not after something breaks out,” journalist and health consultant Jaya Shreedhar said at the ceremony to announce the PII-ICRC Annual Awards 2020. She reiterated that reports should contain valuable information that can help stir people's thinking about who they are, what they might do and how valuable they could be. “The kind of humanitarian reporting needs to go beyond simply talking about disaster and start equipping people in the same reports with information that a policy-maker or local community member can act upon,” she said. Vaccine reporting Today, vaccine reporting isn't bringing out the difference between efficacy and effectiveness, she noted. “Efficacy is what you see in a protected clinical environment and effectiveness is how it is going to play out in the real world. So a 90% efficacy of a vaccine may not measure up to anything close to that but we are creating an illusion in the minds of the public... just we don’t bother to look up a vaccine glossary. But a lot of the reports are coming from vaccine makers and pharma companies,” she added. Dr. Shreedhar noted that while journalists have done a commendable job covering the pandemic, more needs to be written about communities and people on the margins of society. D. Krishnan, former Photo Editor, The Hindu, said reporters and photojournalists risk their lives taking pictures, and they should be given better financial compensation.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Maran denies father’s links with Arjunamoorthy||DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran on Friday refuted media reports that Arjunamoorthy, the chief coordinator of the soon-to-be-announced party of actor Rajinikanth, was once associated with his late father and former Union Minister Murasoli Maran. Referring to the media reports, Mr. Maran said: “This is completely false. None like him were advisers to my father. I request the media not to spread such false information.”
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team to arrive in T.N. today||An inter-ministerial Central team, deputed by the Union Home Ministry to visit Cyclone Nivar-affected areas in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and evaluate the damage, will arrive in Chennai on Saturday. Nivar made landfall in the northern coast of Tamil Nadu between November 25 and 26. The Central team, led by Joint Secretary in the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Ashutosh Agnihotri, is expected to arrive around 1 p.m. on Saturday, and, later, call on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for a briefing and hold a discussion with State government officials. The team has been divided into two. On Sunday, one group will visit south Chennai, Mamallapuram and parts of Chengalpattu, before reaching Puducherry in the evening. It will visit the affected areas in Puducherry, and, later, parts of Cuddalore and Villupuram districts on Monday, before reaching Chennai the same evening. Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi is the nodal officer for the group. The second group will on Sunday visit north Chennai and the affected parts in Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Vellore districts. On Monday, the it will visit the cyclone-hit areas in Vellore and Tirupattur districts, before reaching Chennai the same evening. Both teams will hold discussions with State government officials in Chennai, on Tuesday morning, and, later, will have a debriefing session with the Chief Minister. The inter-ministerial team will return to Delhi on Tuesday evening.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin’s poser to CM on farm laws||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday questioned AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on various aspects of the three farm laws against which farmers from the northern States are protesting in Delhi. “Is Mr. Palaniswami aware that agriculture is a State subject and the Centre passed legislation in Parliament in a rush, that too during the pandemic? Will the ‘fake farmer’ Palaniswami show whether any of the three farm laws ensured Minimum Support Price to the farmers?” Mr. Stalin asked in his letter to party cadres. He said the farm laws were favouring corporates, which can decide to whom the farmers can sell their produce and wondered if Mr. Palaniswami was aware of the provisions of the three laws.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Navy Week observed||As part of the Indian Navy Week celebrations, Rear Admiral Puneet Chadha, Flag Officer Commanding, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Naval Area (FOTNA), and other senior officers from the Armed forces laid wreaths at the War Memorial in Chennai on Friday, paying respects to soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the nation. A motorcycle rally from Chennai to various Navy units across Tamil Nadu was flagged off by Rear Admiral Chadha. The five-day motorcycle expedition will cover Nagapattinam, Rameswaram, Thoothukudi and Tiruchi districts and will return on December 9. “The expedition is aimed to showcase the Indian Navy among the citizens and encourage the younger generation to choose the Indian Navy as a career option,” an official release said. The first edition of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Navy Day Run/Ride 2020 is also being organised, the release added.
05 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||492 personnel inducted into Air Force||A total of 492 personnel, who completed their training in two institutes, were inducted into the Air Force during a ceremony at the Air Force Station at Avadi on Friday. They completed their training at the Mechanical Transport Training Institute (MTTI) and Air Force Police & Security Training Institute (AFP&STI). Air Commodore Dinesh Singh Dagar, Air Officer Commanding, Air Force Station Avadi, was the reviewing officer of the combined ceremonial passing out parade, which was held observing all COVID-19 precautions. Two trainees from Afghanistan too completed their training as part of the Indian Technical and Economic Co-operation Programme of the Union Ministry of External Affairs, an official release said. The 492 personnel were from trades such as automobile technician, automobile fitter and Air Force police and others. Trophies for Best in Trade were awarded to LAC Suman Pradhan, LAC Akash Bhadauriya & LAC Roopak Kumar Singh, Best in General Service Training trophies were awarded to AC Deepak Singh, LAC Parminder & AC Amiyendu Modak and Best All-Rounder trophies were awarded to LAC Suman Pradhan, LAC Akash Bhadauriya & LAC Aman Kumar Saini respectively, it added.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More suburban trains to be run from Dec. 7||Southern Railway will be increasing the number of suburban services in the city from December 7. The proposal to increase the train services to 320 from 244 comes in the wake of the Chennai division revising the peak and non-peak hours time limits effective from Monday. In a release, the Southern Railway, by revising the peak hour timing, would be allowing more women who do not come under the essential services categories to travel by the trains. As per the latest guidelines, women would be allowed to travel by suburban trains throughout the day except during peak hours — 7 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. Monday to Saturday. Previously, the Southern Railway had fixed the peak hour timings from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. Children under 12 years accompanying women will be permitted to travel during the non-peak hours.
05 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||The Chennai Air Customs seized 706 g of gold, worth Rs. 35.5 lakh, at the airport and one passenger was arrested on Thursday. Syed Abuthahir and Jahubarali Abdul Kader came from Dubai and were held on suspicion. It was found they had six bundles of gold paste in their rectum. Abdul Kader was arrested.
05 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cement company pays Rs. 45 lakh compensation for causing pollution||Madukkarai Cement Works,, the Coimbatore-based plant of cement major ACC Limited (ACC), paid an environmental compensation of Rs. 45 lakh for violating air pollution norms, said an official of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control (TNPCB) here. P. Manimaran, District Environmental Engineer (DEE), Coimbatore South, told The Hindu that the company remitted the fine within the prescribed time based on the order dated November 20. The TNPCB order said that it investigated a telephonic complaint received from the residents of Kurumbapalayam village on June 6 and 18, this year. During investigation, TNPCB noticed fugitive emissions in the clinker storage yard during the unloading of clinker from wagon, fly ash silo, cement bag conveyor and all around the premises during vehicle movement, said the order. The DEE issued a letter on June 18 instructing the unit to take air pollution control measures, it said. As per the order, TNPCB further received an online complaint regarding fugitive emissions from Rajeshselva of Kurumbapalayam village, which is located adjacent to the eastern side of the factory premises on August 3. Palanisamy from the village complained to the TNPCB on the ill-effects of the fugitive emissions from the industry on August 21. Inspection conducted An inspection carried out on August 21 found particulate matter of clinker/cement on the premises of a house in the village and a temple. During inspection of the unit, it was noticed that manual handling operations were carried out using excavator in open yard for clinker and fly ash. Based on another complaint received on August 26, an ambient air quality survey was conducted at the unit on September 18 and 19. The survey found that parameter such as Particulate Matter (PM10) exceeded the standard prescribed by the board on the scaffoldings of Patteswarar and Pattchai Nayagiamman temple, the house of M. Athavan at Kurmbapalayam and ‘D’ type quarters of the unit adjacent to the unloading bay. The board also found that the unit procured 181.442 kilo tonnes of clinker from sister concern works from May to September this year which exceeded the consented clinker procurement quantity of 94.58 kilo tonnes for five months. It issued a show cause notice to the unit on October 12 and the reply submitted by the unit was not satisfactory. Later, the Revenue Divisional Officer (Coimbatore South) held a peace committee meeting with the public, officials from TNPCB and the Police Department. A joint inspection was conducted on November 6 in which various non-compliances were observed. An officer of the rank of Joint Chief Environmental Engineer worked out the environmental compensation as per an order of the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal based on ‘Polluter Pay Principle’. Apart from directing the unit to pay the environmental compensation, TNPCB has also directed it to comply with 19 instructions for air pollution control and monitoring within a month. Though The Hindu contacted ACC through an email on Thursday, to check if the firm had to say anything on the order, there was no response after 24 hours.
05 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shops shut opposing move to draw water from River Bhavani for various schemes||Traders in Mettupalayam, Sirumugai and Karamadai downed shutters on Friday, in response to a call given by the Mettupalayam Kudineer Thitta Pathukappu Kuzhu opposing the move to draw water from River Bhavani for the Pilloor III and Tiruppur IV drinking water supply schemes. T.T. Rangasamy, who coordinated the protest, said it was to draw the State Government’s attention and see reason in their demand that the water drawing points for the schemes be shifted downstream, near the backwaters of the Lower Bhavani Project reservoir. There were 20 drinking water supply schemes in operation with River Bhavani as source. They drew 106 million litres a day (MLD). The proposed Pilloor III scheme for Coimbatore city and the Tiruppur IV scheme for areas with the Tiruppur Corporation limits would draw another 295 MLD and 195 MLD respectively. In all, the pumping of 596 million litres water a day from the river that too near Mettupalayam would deprive the residents of the town and Sirumugai and Karamadai of their share of water. The data he had obtained using the Right to Information Act showed that in the last 30 years, the maximum flow the river had seen was 22,000 million litres, which was in July 2009, and minimum was 74 million litres in April 2000. When the flow was less than the need for various water supply schemes and when the Pilloor shutter remained closed, all would suffer. But, it the Government were to draw the water downstream, near the reservoir, everybody would stand to gain as the total demand of 596 MLD would only be a fraction of the reservoir’s holding capacity and that water could be stored there as well.
05 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Various events mark Navy Day||Indian Naval Station (INS) Agrani, the leadership training establishment of the Indian Navy based at Red Fields in Coimbatore, organised various events to mark the Navy Day on Friday. Volunteers from the Navy Wives Welfare Association, Coimbatore organised an outreach programme titled ‘Dream Catchers’ wherein they conducted special classes for the children of domestic helps as the schools remain closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Outreach programmes were also organised for orphanages and old-age homes, a release said. At INS Agrani, all service and civilian personnel participated in the wreath-laying ceremony and observed two minutes of silence to honour the sacrifices of soldiers. On Wednesday and Thursday, events such as felicitation of ‘Veer Naaris' (widows of soldiers) and sapling plantation drives were organised, according to the release. Navy Day is celebrated every year to mark the attack on Karachi harbour by the Indian Navy on December 4, 1971 during the India-Pakistan War.
05 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two-day CII education conclave begins||A two-day national higher education conclave organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, National Higher Education Conclave 2020 – Transformation and Challenges in Higher Education – New Normal and Beyond, began on a digital platform on Friday. In his inaugural address of the conclave, which is in its fourth edition, Vedprakash Mishra, Pro Chancellor and Chief Advisor, Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences, said it was a cause for concern that budgetary allocation for education, which was supposed to be at 6% of the GDP, decreased over the years. The Union Government that allotted money had now started saying that it would allocate funds to the extent of so many crores. And, the appropriation for higher education within the allocation for education had diminished further. There had been a similar reduction in allocation for research but fortunately private funding had come in. It was high time that the Government started taking cognisance of private funding and granting the place it deserved. Mr. Mishra said he was apprehensive of the Government’s move to usher in multi-disciplinary approach in professional higher education, particularly in medicine, as suggested in the New Education Policy 2020. AYUSH (Indian system of medicine) and Allopathy should be different steams and they should not be brought together in the undergraduate medical degree programme, he said. R. Nandini, chairperson, National Higher Education Conclave 2020, said the event had been going on for the last four years and this year the COVID-19 pandemic had thrown new challenges to higher education institutions. S. Malarvizhi, co-chairperson, said the conclave would help students, faculty and institutions alike. Ganesh Kumar J., chairman, CII Coimbatore Zone, welcomed the gathering. Arjun Prakash, vice-chairman, proposed a vote of thanks.
05 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TPDK cadre stage protest||Members of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) led by its general secretary K. Ramakrishnan staged a protest in front of the Doordarshan office on Balasundaram Road on Friday condemning the Centre’s move to broadcast news bulletin in Sanskrit. Mr. Ramakrishnan said the government wasted tax-payers’ money by broadcasting a daily 15-minute bulletin in the language that was not in use. Within a few minutes of their protest, the City Police removed them from the place.
05 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||HMK to offer ‘unconditional support’ to Rajinikanth||Hindu Makkal Katchi (HMK) leader Arjun Sampath has said that his party will offer “total and unconditional support” to actor Rajinikanth, who has announced floating a political party in January 2021 ahead of the Assembly elections. Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, he said that Mr. Rajinikanth’s call of ‘change of rule, change of politics’ is acceptable to the HMK as it has been supporting the actor’s political plunge for the past three years. “Tamil Nadu must be released from the Dravidian movement, for which [Rajinikanth] will carry out the works,” Mr. Sampath said, criticising the previous DMK and AIADMK governments. The HMK will campaign for Mr. Rajinikanth’s proposed political party in all 234 Assembly constituencies without forming any alliances, he said. Regarding criticisms of the actor floating his party barely five months before the Assembly elections, Mr. Sampath asserted that the proposed party will manage to win the election “comfortably” in the short span of time. He further claimed that there are no “crucial differences” between the spiritual politics proclaimed by Mr. Rajinikanth and the Hindutva ideology as both are “beyond caste and religion.” However, he insisted that there will be “no organisational connection” between the proposed party and the BJP, even though they might agree on certain policies. “He has not joined the BJP, which is an all-India party. He is starting the party to serve the people of Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Sampath said.
05 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hike in raw material prices hits wet grinder units||Steep increase in prices of raw materials used by engineering units in the recent weeks has hit hard pumpset and wet grinder manufacturing units here. According to K.V. Karthik, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers' Association, the manufacturers have increased the price of the end product (pumps) by 5 % and will have to increase more to sustain. He explained that between April and September, the pumpset industry saw less than 10% decline in growth though there were no operations during April and May. The second quarter (July to September) saw good growth, especially for export orders. “The outlook for the industry was positive in the month of November,” he said. However, the spurt in raw material prices last month has dashed the hopes of the pump manufacturers, according to Mr. Karthik. Copper prices are up from Rs. 450 a kg in March to Rs. 650 a kg now, stainless steel rods from Rs. 68 a kg in March to Rs. 80 a kg now and pig iron from Rs. 30,000 a tonne to Rs. 36,500 a tonne. The cost of all materials, including packaging materials, has gone up by more than 10%. This has resulted in manufacturers increasing the prices of the end products. Almost 30% of MSMEs will be forced to stop operations if the trend continues, he said. “The association feels it is high time that the Central government intervened and stopped the sudden increase in the prices of raw materials. Ban on export of steel and iron ore can lead to lowering of steel and pig iron prices. The government should encourage export of finished value added products. This will help Indian Industries thrive,” he said. The Coimbatore Wet grinder and Accessories Manufacturers' Association members plan to increase the price of wet grinders, though the dealers and suppliers should agree to it. The units buy raw materials according to demand. “We are seeing the prices go up for the last two months, especially steel, copper, and plastic. The units are also facing labour shortage and so wages are also up,” said R. Soundarakumar, president of the Association. The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations says the industry is just reviving after lockdown restrictions. The raw material prices are up 20% to 70% now, depending on the material. Manufacturing units that took annual orders have suffered heavy loss. The micro and small industries are affected largely. The government should have a mechanism to have fixed prices for a year, said J. James, convenor of the federation.
05 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Two killed as wall collapses||Two persons, including an eight-year-old girl, died in separate incidents of wall collapse, in Cuddalore district, even as incessant rain lashed several parts of the district on Friday. According to the police, M. Sanjana alias Anusuya, was sleeping with her parents in their tiled house in Natham, when a portion of a wall, weakened by the rain, fell on her, killing her on the spot. In another incident, R. Dhanamayil, 60, of Periyakaatupalayam near Panruti, died when her house collapsed following heavy rain. Cuddalore district recorded an average of 180 mm of rainfall, with Chidambaram town receiving a maximum of 34 mm during the 24-hour period, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Friday. Kothavacherry recorded 33.5 mm, followed by Annamalai Nagar and Lalpet, with 32.9 mm and 29.5 mm respectively. Traffic hit Traffic was disrupted in Karaikadu, on the Cuddalore-Chidambaram Road, and Maruvai, on the Vadalur-Sethiyathoppu stretch, due to flooding. Several parts of Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts witnessed heavy rain, inundating low-lying areas. Tindivanam recorded a maximum of 143.20 mm, followed by Valavanur and Villupuram, with 109 mm and 92 mm respectively.
05 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Chidambaram temple flooded||Rainwater to a depth of four feet stagnated at Sri Sabanayagar Temple, popularly known as Sri Natarajar Temple, at Chidambaram in Cuddalore district on Friday, as heavy rain pounded the town. The sanctum sanctorum was marooned and thepraharamswere water-logged. This is the first time in 43 years that the shrine has been marooned, said Baskar Dikshithar, former secretary of the Pothu Dikshithars Association. The Dikshithars are the temple’s hereditary custodians and priests. “When floodwater flows into the temple precincts, it drains out in the Sivagangai tank; from there, it flows to the tank of the Thillai Amman temple through a tunnel,” Mr. Baskar Dikshithar said. “However, with the tunnel clogged, water stagnates at the Nataraja temple.” A priest said the Chidambaram municipality promised the temple management of measures to clear the blocks in the channel. Chidambaram received 34 cm of rain during the last 24 hours, leaving different parts of the town waterlogged. A flood alert has been issued to residents of 23 villages on the banks of the Lower Paravanar River at Kullanchavadi in Cuddalore district after Perumal Eri received a heavy flow with the torrential rain in the catchments. The level in the lake reached the maximum of 524 mcft, prompting the PWD to discharge 12, 000 cusecs on Friday.  This is the first time in 43 years that the shrine has been maroonedBaskar Dikshithar
05 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 40,000 moved to shelters||Cuddalore Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri has urged people living in low-lying and vulnerable areas to immediately move to the rescue centres set up by the district administration to remain safe during the next few days. Mr. Sakhamuri said that vulnerable and inundation-prone areas had been identified and relief centres set up at 441 locations across the district. More than 40,000 people have been shifted to the cyclone shelters so far, he said and added that the administration had stocked up 865 tonnes of rice and other essential commodities to provide food to those accommodated at the camps. Meanwhile, the police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel launched rescue operations in the rain-affected areas with the help of boats. A team led by Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav rescued stranded residents in Onankuppam and Kolakudi in the district, where torrential rains had left several areas marooned.
05 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works in the South Railway electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 5 in Patel Street, Chidambaram Colony, 80 Feet Road, Gandhiji Road, Periyar Nagar, SKC Road, District Police Office, Valayakarar Street, Marapalam Road, Municipal Chatiram, Kuyavan Thittu, Kallukadaimedu and Anoor Theatre Road.
05 December 2020||KANCHEEPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Three girls drown in Palar||The bodies of three schoolgirls, who were feared drowned in Palar river in Kancheepuram district, were washed ashore on Thursday. According to the police, Jeyashree, 16, her younger sister Subashree, 15, and their neighbour Ponni, 14, resided in Vinayagar Koil at Thumbavanam village in Kancheepuram district. While Jayashree was a Class 11 student, Subashree was in Class 10 and Ponni was in Class 9. On Thursday, when their parents had gone for work, their neighbour Damodraran took them to show the gushing Palar, near Valanthottam. When the girls stepped into the water to wash their feet, they slipped in the river sand and fell. Mr. Damodaran alerted the Magaral police about the incident, and the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services personnel tried to retrieve the bodies. After some time, the bodies of Jayashree and Subashree washed ashore near Kuruvimalai. A little later, the firefighters found the body of Ponni.
05 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A mixed bag for southern districts||After Cyclone Burevi weakened late in the evening of Thursday, a majority of the southern districts had a sunny and bright Friday, officials said. However, many towns received widespread rain in the evening. According to reports, many districts experienced mild rainfall. Some areas in Thoothukudi city and its periphery received rain but not as forecast by the India Meteorological Department. In fact, a majority of the towns, like Usilampatti in Madurai district and Seelapadi in Dindigul district, remained sultry till Friday noon. Due to the overnight rain, a tree had fallen near Poomparai in the upper Kodaikanal hills. It was removed in the morning. The district administration suspended traffic in the ghat section at Thursday night. However, as the cyclone weakened and there was no rain, vehicles coming from Palani and Batlagundu, which were detained at the foothills of Kodaikanal, were allowed to proceed from noon. A Kerala-registered car toppled near Perumalmalai close to the upper hills. Passersby saved the passengers. The waterfalls were getting copious water as it had rained in the interior parts. Heavy showers Ramanathapuram district, which had been at the centre of the cyclone till Thursday evening, received heavy rain. Rameswaram alone received 204 mm, according to the data released by the district administration. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, who visited the Rameswaram and Mandapam areas, appealed to the people living in the low-level areas to shift to relief centres as rain had been predicted for the next 24 hours. The district recorded an average rainfall of 53.05 mm at 16 rain-gauge stations. The incessant rain damaged the compound wall of the 300-year-old Portuguese Church at Dhanushkodi. The administration had evacuated nearly 360 people from the hamlet to a relief centre. A few parts of Thoothukudi district recorded moderate rainfall of 3 cm against the predicted 20 cm. After the rain in the morning created pools in several parts of Thoothukudi that received just 2.9 cm, civic workers pumped out the stagnant water. Though Madurai, Theni, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar and Kanniyakumari had no rain during the day, the wet spell forced the district administration to keep a close watch on low-lying areas, officials said. Vehicular movement was normal in many towns. The Madurai airport, which was closed as a precautionary measure, was opened at noon, officials said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who was in Madurai and Sivaganga during the day, left for Chennai by flight, officials said.
05 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM assures round-the-clock safe drinking water to all||The focus of the AIADMK government is to provide round-the-clock safe drinking water to all the people of the State, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Friday. Once the 76 integrated drinking water projects in the State were completed, there would be no drinking water shortage, he added. Mr. Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the Rs. 1,295.76 crore Mullaperiyar drinking water project and inaugurated 12 completed projects costing Rs. 69.11 crore in Madurai district. The Chief Minister said that while 4,900 million litres per day (MLD) of drinking water was supplied to the residents of the State in 2011, around 7,600 MLD was currently being supplied. The Union government had allocated Rs. 3,600 crore to provide drinking water connections to 40 lakh households in rural parts of Tamil Nadu. Currently, around 7 lakh drinking water connections had been completed, he added. The Mullaperiyar drinking water project, which envisages laying of pipeline from Lower Camp near Gudalur to Madurai city, would provide round-the-clock safe drinking water to the all the residents in 100 wards of Madurai, said Mr. Palaniswami. “The project will provide additional 1.10 lakh water connections to the residents of the city. The completion of the project will not only address the current drinking water shortage in the city, but will also quench the thirst of the future generations,” he added. Slams Stalin Criticising DMK president M.K. Stalin, Mr. Palaniswami said he was making unwarranted complaints against the AIADMK government while sitting at his home. But the Ministers and government officials are in the field working for the people, he added. “Our government is ready to give complete details on all the projects that we have completed during our tenure. But, the DMK president is not telling the public what their party will do for the people,” he said. He reiterated that it was because of the efforts of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa that it was possible to execute the Mullaperiyar drinking water project. The construction of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) would be completed soon in Madurai, said the Chief Minister. A total of 313 MBBS seats were secured by NEET-qualified government school students this year because of the introduction of the 7.5% horizontal reservation. “This is against six government school students who secured medical seats through NEET last year,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said it was through AIADMK government’s efforts that the ambitious Mullaperiyar drinking water project could be implemented. Minister for Municipal Administration, Rural Development and Implementation of Special Programme S. P. Velumani said that the Mullaperiyar project would address the drinking water needs of Madurai city for the next 50 years. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju said the work undertaken under the Kudimaramathu scheme had reaped benefits as most water bodies were full following the monsoon rains.
05 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai gets advanced cancer treatment facility||The Regional Cancer Centre, constructed on the premises of Balarengapuram Government Hospital here, is among the 12 completed projects inaugurated by Chief Edappadi K. Palaniswami from the Madurai Collectorate on Friday. The Centre, which is part of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), is expected to play a major role in providing advanced treatment for cancer patients at free of cost. A doctor from GRH said that around 25 patients had been undergoing treatment at the RCC for the past one month on a trial basis. The Centre has advanced Truebeam Linear Accelerator (LINAC), a device used for advanced treatment in radiotherapy. Currently equipment with lesser features were being used in treating cancer patients in many hospitals. “The Regional Cancer Centre is currently the only hospital in Madurai district with LINAC machine,” the doctor said. The LINAC machine, using high precision radiation technique, can deliver intensity modulated radiation, image guided radiation, stereotactic body radiotherapy, and stereotactic radio surgery. There are also brachytherapy machines at the RCC. “The main advantage of the brachytherapy machines is that even small-sized tumours can be treated with utmost precision,” the doctor said. “We had a trial run of the machine on Friday. We will start full-fledged treatment using the machine from Saturday,” he added. The centre will also receive a cobalt machine in a few days. There are also CT simulator and advanced dosimetry equipment available at the hospital. Dean J. Sangumani said cervical cancer could be treated with brachytherapy with less morbidity. The advanced equipment would help in treating head and neck cancer patients with less side effects. Breast conservation procedure could be done with the help of these advanced equipment. “The machines help in providing accurate treatment for patients,” he added. The GRH doctor said such an advanced treatment would cost several lakhs of rupees in private hospitals. “There is a misconception among the public that treatment at government hospitals is mediocre, which is unwarranted. More people must use the advanced equipment at the hospital, which is available free of cost too,” he added.  Boon for many It is the only hospital in Madurai district with LINAC machine  The unit also has brachytherapy machine to treat even small-size tumours  Treatment that costs lakhs of rupees in private hospitals is available for free
05 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC for dedicated wing to act on offences highlighted by media||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought a response from the State government on setting up a dedicated wing to look into and take necessary action based on offences that were highlighted by the media, including social media. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi initiated suo motu proceedings based on media reports of a Tenkasi policeman misbehaving with a woman in an inebriated state in the Sankarankoil bus stand. The video of the incident went viral. Expressing shock over the incident, the judges said that offences against women and children were increasing every day and not in all cases the police could wait until a complaint was filed to take necessary action. Instead, the authorities can keep a track on media reports, including social media, and act swiftly based on such videos and reports that highlight these offences. A separate wing should be set up for the purpose of monitoring and taking action, the judges said. The judges observed that this incident was an eye-opener and therefore the court thought it fit to initiate suo motu proceedings. The court impleaded the Chief Secretary, the Home Secretary and the Director General of Police in the case and sought their response.
05 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Duped investors told to lodge complaints||Organised Crime Unit of Crime Branch – Criminal Investigation Department has sought complaints from investors against a website-based multi-level marketing company, Click Advert Solutions, in connection with a multi-crore fraud. In a statement, its Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Muralitharan said the unit had started investigation into the fraud following a direction by the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. Stating that the investigation has to be wound up and report sent to the court by December-end, the DSP has appealed to people who had invested in the company and lost their money to lodge their complaints with the OCU CB-CID with their documents. People from various districts in the State had invested a sum of Rs. 100 to Rs. 5 lakh in this firm. Besides, the investors were encouraged to introduce new customers with a promise of providing them additional commission of 1% to 5% . The case was subsequently transferred to OCU CB-CID by the High Court Investors who had been cheated by the company can visit the OCU office of OCU CB-CID located at No. 7 Kamarajar First Street, Chinna Chokkikulam, Madurai 625 002. The OCU CB-CID officials can be contacted over 94981-06219 or 94981-54859 or 94981-80308, the statement said.
05 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin makes unwarranted complaints sitting at home’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday accused Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin of making unwarranted complaints against the AIADMK government while sitting at his home. But, the Ministers and government officials are in the field working for the people, he said at an official function in Madurai. “Our government is ready to give complete details on all the projects that we have completed during our tenure. But, the DMK president is not telling the public what their party will do for the people,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said, “the AIADMK government will win the 2021 Assembly elections.” He reiterated that it was because of the efforts of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa that it was possible to execute the Mullaperiyar drinking water project. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju also said that the party will win the upcoming Assembly elections. Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar said that preparatory measures taken by the government helped to successfully tackle the Nivar cyclone. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who attended the event, later tweeted questioning when will the practice of government functions being used to propagate views of ruling government end.
05 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No extension of interim orders: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has closed a suo motu writ petition that was initiated to extend various interim orders, in view of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown that was imposed in March. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that the principal seat in Chennai has already taken a decision not to extend the interim orders which had been granted in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Taking this into account, the judges said that the interim orders already granted in the suo motu writ petition are not extended and closed the petition.
05 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Spectacle and the speech||Posters, banners and flex boards of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and other All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leaders were erected at various locations across the city on Friday. There were decorations on a grand scale near the Collectorate and a huge model of Mullaperiyar drinking water project in front of Tamukkam grounds.     Su. Venkatesan, Madurai MP, who was present at the event in which the Chief Minister laid the foundation stone for Mullaperiyar drinking water project, later tweeted questioning when will the practice of propagating the views of the ruling party during government events end. The fear of the Assembly elections has begun for the ruling party, the tweet added.     At a time when the ‘Vetri Vel’ yatra of the Bharatiya Janata Party received flak from the ruling and opposition parties, senior AIADMK leader and MLA V.V. Rajan Chellappa presented a ‘Vel’ to the CM on Ring Road, when he was on his way to Sivaganga district.     Though the function at the Collectorate was ‘official,’ ministers never failed to shower encomiums on the CM and Deputy CM. In an apparent reference to actor Rajnikanth’s announcement on floating a political party, Minister Sellur K Raju, in his own inimitable style, said that anyone can start a party, but no can dare touch the AIADMK.     Not to be outdone, Revenue Minister R B Udayakumar said the AIADMK will win all the 10 Assembly constituencies in Madurai district and give the victory as a gift to the CM. This time it will be 10 out of 10, he said.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||6 months for delimitation exercise||The Supreme Court on Friday granted six months’ extension to complete the delimitation exercise and conduct the local body elections in nine newly-carved districts of Tamil Nadu. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde allowed an application filed by the State Election Commission to complete the delimitation exercise in these districts which was interrupted by the advent of the pandemic in March.
05 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rain inundates low-lying areas in Puducherry||Incessant rain due to Cyclone Burevi inundated several low-lying areas in Puducherry, for a second consecutive day, on Friday. Waterlogging was reported at Indira Gandhi Square, 45-feet Road, Venketa Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Chellan Nagar, Boomiyanpet, Sudhana Nagar, Pavanan Nagar, Nainarmandapam, Aravindhar Nagar and the Muthialpet area. Inundation was also reported in several rural areas in Bahour, Villianur, Nettapakkam and Madagadipet. 18.9 cm rainfall The region recorded 189 mm of rainfall, from December 3, a Revenue Department official said. Civic authorities deployed motor pumps to drain out excess water at Indira Gandhi Square, Venketa Nagar and on the 45-feet Road. Traffic snarls were reported in several parts of the town, including Indira Gandhi Square and the 45-feet Road, due to flooding. “It was almost a repeat of what happened during the rain due to Cyclone Nivar. Water started receding by Friday evening,” said Rathesh, a resident of Venkata Nagar. The Education Department has declared a holiday for all government and private schools on Saturday. Classes will not be held for students of classes 10, 11 and 12 due to the rain, a release said. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy inspected waterlogged areas in the town.  It was almost a repeat of what happened during the rain due to Cyclone Nivar. Water started receding by Friday evening Rathesh Resident, Venkata Nagar
05 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory adds 46 cases to COVID-19 tally||The Union Territory recorded 46 new cases and one more death due to COVID-19 on Friday. As many as 2,307 persons were screened for the infection. According to data released by the Health Department, a 54-year-old person with co-morbidities died at the Government Hospital in Yanam. With this, the Union Territory’s toll touched 614. Of the persons who tested positive on Friday, 20 are from the Puducherry region and the remaining from its enclaves. As many as 62 persons were discharged after treatment, the department said. 427 active cases The U.T.’s active cases stood at 427, with 153 persons undergoing treatment in hospitals, and the remaining staying under home isolation. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the region has recorded 37,165 cases of COVID-19.
05 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem city police launch ANPR cameras for traffic surveillance||Salem City Police Commissioner T.Senthil Kumar on Friday launched the functioning of the automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cameras as part of Intelligent Traffic Management System. The city police have installed 12 ANPR cameras and 12 surveillance cameras at the Five Roads junction for traffic surveillance. If a violation is spotted on the ANPR camera, an e-challan with photo will be generated and sent to the mobile number linked to the vehicle registration number. Details of fine amount, and payment link will be sent to the registered mobile phone number. Offenders could pay the fine online by clicking on the link. The details of the violation will be recorded automatically at the control room, NIC server and Regional Transport Offices. If the offender fails to pay the fine, he/she would face difficulty while reselling the vehicle or renewing the insurance. The Police Commissioner said that two personnel posted at the control room will verify the images and give clearance. As many as 20,000 violations could be recorded a day using this system.  According to police sources, vehicle owners who receive the fine alert will be given seven days time to visit the respective office and change the name of driver if the vehicle was driven by a different person. Based on how the system works at Five Roads junction, it will be extended to other points, Mr. Kumar said Mr. Kumar advised the public to adhere to traffic regulations. He said that helmet was mandatory for people riding two-wheelers, as well for those on the pillion. According to sources, steps will be taken to cancel the driving licence and vehicle registration of persons who violate rules more than three times. Deputy Police Commissioners S.Senthil (Traffic and Crime) and M.Chandrshekaran (Law and Order) took part in the launch held at the Salem City Police control room.
05 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||End adulteration, say sago manufacturers||Sago manufacturers staged a road roko in front of Sagoserve here on Friday demanding steps to prevent adulteration in sago. Members of Tamil Nadu Javarasi and Starch Urpathiyalar Sangam protested in front of the Sagoserve and demanded that action must be taken against sago mills indulging in adulteration. President of the organisation Duraisamy said that about 10 sago units in the district were indulging in adulteration and no action had been taken against them. He alleged that these units were selling sago at lower prices in other parts of the country, affecting the income of tapioca farmers and sago units here. The protesters demanded stern action against units indulging in adulteration. Later, police persuaded the protesters to disperse.
05 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation to organise health camps to contain COVID-19||The Salem Corporation will be joining hands with healthcare professionals to organise health camps to control the spread of COVID-19 in the city limits. According to a press release, the Corporation will be organising health camps along with Kaveri Hospital, Government Siddha Hospital and the Naturopathy department of the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The camps would be held on Saturdays between November 5 and 26 at various places in each of the four zones -- Ammapet, Hasthampatti, Sooramangalam and Kondalampatti. Corporation Commissioner N.Ravichandran advised the public to utilise the camps to contain the viral disease.
05 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Man waiting on the roadside gets appointment order in four hours||Even as the Chief Minister’s convoy was approaching the Sivaganga Collectorate on Friday, Edappadi K. Palaniswami spotted a differently abled man seated on the roadside on Madurai Road. When the Chief Minister enquired about his flight, the man said he was eagerly waiting to see him and hand over a petition. The man, Masthan Badusha, a graduate, requested a job. After examining the modalities, the officials recommended that the applicant can be given a job at the blood bank in Karaikudi Government Hospital. In about four hours, when Mr. Palaniswami was about to leave the Collectorate, he handed over the appointment order to Mr. Masthan.
05 December 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||He gets appointment order within hours||Even as the Chief Minister's convoy was approaching the Collectorate here, Mr. Palaniswami spotted a differently-abled person seated on the road side on Madurai Road. Immediately, when he enquired, the person said he was eagerly waiting to see him (CM) and hand over a petition. The person identified himself as Masthan Badusha, a graduate and requested a job. After examining the modalities, the officials recommended that the applicant can be given a job at the blood bank in Karaikudi Government Hospital. In about four hours, when Mr. Palaniswami was about to leave the Collectorate, he handed over the order of appointment to Mr. Masthan. Thanking the CM with folded hands, the applicant said he was grateful to the government and the officials.
05 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Major road improvement works in progress’||The AIADMK government is focussed on providing the basic needs of the people across the State, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami here on Friday. The CM who was here to review the COVID-19 situation with the officials, presided over a meeting at the Collectorate in the presence of Ministers G. Baskaran, R. B. Udayakumar, Vijayabaskar and among others. Collector P Madhusudhan Reddy and other senior officicials were present. The district had a total of 6,345 COVID-19 patients since March and 6,139 among them were discharged. As many as 125 persons had died due to the virus and about 80 were active cases. The CM's Special Grievance Cell had received 8,937 petitions from the district and 4,111 were settled by the officials. The district administration had issued 6,486 house site pattas to eligible beneficiaries in the district and out of 1,310 patta transfer requests, 784 were settled, Mr. Palaniswami said. The CM said that the government proposes to implement the Cauvery integrated drinking water project and for those habitations in the district, who could not get potable water under the scheme, the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department had through a G.O on 10.9.2020 proposed to implement a mega water supply project at Rs. 1752.73 crore. This would benefit 11.40 lakh people in the district. More infrastructure As for the underground drainage works, trial runs were on at the Sivaganga Municipality. In Karaikudi Municipality, 85% of the UGD works were completed at an outlay of Rs. 112.50 crore. The district, which was considered a dry region, has now been witnessing more green cover. Thanks to the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the government had implemented the kudimaramathu scheme here. Since the last four years, about 270 tanks had been desilted and rehabilitated close to 51,000 acres of cultivable land. The roads, which were an important infrastructure for growth in the economy, have been taken up in a phased manner. By focussing on the roads leading to the NH (383) in the district, the vehicle movement had steadily increased. For instance, the Kottampatti-Tirupattur road and Singampunari-Tirupattur widening works were on. Similarly, the Melur-Tirupattur stretch leading to the Chennai-Kanniyakumari NH was also getting a facelift at a cost of Rs. 110 crore, which included a 2.66 km bypass to Tirupattur. The district has also been provided with three high-level bridges coming up at Tirupattur-Alangudi Road, Mathur-Mulakulam Road and Aranmanai-Siruvayal Road at Rs. 20.16 crore, he said and added that under the two-wheeler scheme of the AIADMK government, those belonging to the middle and lower middle income groups have been given 50% subsidy and in Sivaganga district alone, 5,730 had benefited by receiving Rs. 14.3 crore by way of subsidy over the last three years, he added.
05 December 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||‘Panel advice on seven SC sub-sects to be sent to Centre’||In a major announcement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday said the government would recommend to the Centre to include seven Scheduled Caste sub-sects — Pallar, Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaaladi, Kadayar, Devendrakulathar and Vadhiriyar — in the Devendrakula Vellalar community. This was a long-felt demand of a cross-section of community members. The Puthiya Tamilagam party had also held agitations in support of the demand. Mr. Palaniswami told journalists in Sivaganga that following representations from various outfits and leaders on the issue, the State government had formed a one-man commission, headed by IAS officer Hans Raj Verma, in March 2019. It has accepted the recommendations of the commission and has proposed to send it to the Centre for necessary notification. On approval from the Union government, the demands would be fulfilled, he said. The COVID-19 pandemic, which had rattled the State since March, had now been brought under control, he said thanking frontline workers, doctors, officials from the Health and Family Welfare departments, experts and hospital administrators. When the numbers were low in other southern States, it was high in Tamil Nadu. Today, it was not only under control but on the road to full recovery, he said. The government had been transparent in its administration. When such was the reality, DMK leaders including party president M. K. Stalin, were levelling baseless allegations, he said. There was no need to elaborate on the 2G spectrum issue as people were aware of the beneficiaries. He reiterated that A. Raja, then Union Minister, was arrested in the case (since acquitted) when the UPA was in power. Portrait at Assembly The Chief Minister said the AIADMK government had always recognised the services of stalwarts. In line with the tradition of late leader Jayalalithaa, the life-size portraits of Omandurar Ramaswamy Reddiar, V.O.Chidambaram Pillai and Paramasivan Subbarayan would be unveiled in the Assembly soon, he added. The government had taken steps to enhance the number of seats from 100 to 150 in the Sivaganga government medical college, he said. To encourage more industries to come up in southern districts, 50% subsidy had been sanctioned on the land cost purchased for industrial purposes.  Recommendations of one-man commission have been accepted and we have proposed to send it to the Centre for necessary notification   Edappadi K. Palaniswami Chief Minister
05 December 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||‘Let Rajini first register his party’||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, reacting to actor Rajinikanth’s announcement of launching a political party, on Friday said, “Let him first register the name of his party... We will take stock of it at that time,” he told journalists when asked about the development. On Thursday, Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam had welcomed the actor's announcement and even said if there was an opportunity an alliance would be possible. When journalists questioned about this, Mr. Palaniswami said that there was nothing wrong in airing views. It was Mr. Panneerselvam’s opinion, the Chief Minister said.
05 December 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||32 migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh rescued||Thirty-two, migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh, including women and children, were rescued from two factories here after they sent an SOS to their relatives on Friday. The video clipping complaining about their plight in Sivakasi where they were staying for more than two months went viral in the social media in their State. “An NGO, Vanmugil, here was informed about this who in turn alerted us,” said secretary of District Legal Services Authority, K. Mariappan, said. Based on the direction of Principal District Judge, A. Muthusaratha, a “One-Stop Crisis team” led by Mr. Mariappan and three Judicial Officers, along with Sub-Collector, Sivakasi, C. Dinesh Kumar, and police team raided two units making cartons at Sukravarpatti and M. Pudupatti. The officials found the workers from Chhattisgarh and rescued them. The workers complained about non-payment of salary as promised by an agent, Sunil, who had brought them. “The agent had collected the salary from the factories but had not paid them as promised,” Mr. Mariappan said. As they wanted to return home, all the rescued persons were taken to a marriage hall in Sivakasi. The officials have made the agent pay their salary. They would be taken to Chhattisgarh in a bus arranged by the Revenue officials. Judicial Officers V. Paramveer, S. Santhanakumar and S. Kalyana Marimuthu, and a team of police from Anti-Human Trafficking Unit, led by its Sub-Inspector of Police, Rajeswari, were present.
05 December 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephants invade farms||Invasion of wild elephants into farms close to Adavinainar dam near Vadakarai in the district is giving nightmares to farmers in the region. Farmers said two male elephants, which are roaming around in Sennaaipoththai, Seevalaankaadu and Kuravankaadu areas, all close to Vadakarai, were uprooting coconut trees in the farms besides damaging other crops for the past three days. Agriculturist Zakhir Hussein of Vadakarai said the elephants had invaded farms of six farmers and had destroyed more than 50 coconut trees, all aged about 30 years, after smashing the solar fences that were erected around these ranches. “After resting near a stream during the day, the elephants enter the farms in the evening or at night. When farmers tried to chase the elephants back into the jungles, the animals charged at the farmers. Though we’ve informed the forest department about the elephants camping near the ranches, no action has been taken to chase the animals back into the forest,” said Mr. Zakhir Hussein, who demanded disbursal of due compensation to the affected farmers. He also said that forest department personnel should study the reasons as to why the elephants were invading farms during this season. Forest personnel said elephants that used to invade the farms during the month of December in search of coconut, fruits and sugarcane might have camped there. Steps had been taken to chase the elephants back into the forest with the help of farmers as the existing manpower in the department was not enough for this operation.
05 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone Burevi brings moderate rain to Thoothukudi district||Though the Indian Meteorological Department had sounded ‘red alert’ for the southern districts in the wake of Cyclone Burevi, Thoothukudi alone experienced moderate rainfall on Friday. As Burevi made its second landfall between Pamban and Thoothukudi after entering Sri Lanka’s Trincomallee, a few parts of the coastal district experienced decent rainfall on Friday morning. Since most of the system and rainfed tanks in the four southern districts have less than 40% of water against their maximum capacity, the farmers and the officials expected heavy rainfall so that farming operations go into top gear. The district administrations in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari had deployed men and material required for relief and rescue operations anticipating “extremely heavy rainfall”. However, Burevi deviated towards the delta districts, leaving the southern districts high and dry. The only solace was that a few parts of Thoothukudi district recorded moderate rainfall of 3 cm against the predicted precipitation of over 20 cm. As some parts of the city saw water stagnation, the Corporation personnel swung into action to pump out the stagnant rainwater. Inspecting the draining of stagnant water with 103 motors into the Puckle Channel from various parts of Thoothukudi on Friday morning, Collector K. Senthil Raj said no damage of houses or loss of life or cattle were reported from any part of the district. As 200 persons from vulnerable areas were shifted to the relief centres within in Thoothukudi Corporation, good food was served last night besides masks, sanitizsrs, mats etc. All of them returned home this morning as no water had entered their houses. Though drinking water was being supplied after proper cholorination, the residents should drink boiled water during the rainy season, Dr. Senthil Raj appealed. Fishermen of the district have been asked not to venture into the sea for fishing until further orders. In the forenoon, the sky remained overcast in the region but it turned sunny as the day progressed. Rainfall in Thoothukudi district (in mm): Vaippaar – 31, Kaayalpattinam – 30, Thoothukudi – 29.60, Tiruchendur – 24, Vedanaththam and Vliaathikulam – 12, Ettaiyapuram and Keezha Arasadi – 9, Ottapidaaram and Maniyaachi – 5, Kadambur – 4, Kovilpatti – 3.50, Srivaikundam and Kayathar – 1.
05 December 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||The Kadambur police are on the lookout for persons who murdered V. Manthiram, 80, of Veerapandian Pulikulam, while he was sleeping in his house on Friday. After the family members alerted the police, the body was sent to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar visited the spot. Kadambur police have registered a case.
05 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||The Kadambur police are on the lookout for persons who murdered V. Manthiram, 80, of Veerapandian Pulikulam, while he was sleeping in his house on Friday. After the family members alerted the police, the body was sent to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar visited the spot. Kadambur police have registered a case.
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Paddy crops inundated in parts of delta||Paddy crops were inundated in parts of the Cauvery delta districts following heavy rain for the second consecutive day on Thursday under the influence of Cyclone Burevi. Some parts of the region, including Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts, received heavy rain on Friday too. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts bore the brunt of the inclement weather, with Kollidam recording 36 cm of rain during the 24-hour period, ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday. Manalmedu recorded 25 cm, Thiruthuraipoondi 22, Sirkazhi 21, Kudavasal 20, Mayiladuthurai 19, Nannilam 14 and Tiruvarur 11. According to preliminary estimates, samba/thaladi crops planted on 30,000 hectares are believed to have been inundated in the combined Nagapattinam district (including the newly created Mayiladuthurai district), sources in the Agriculture Department said. Crop inundation was mainly reported in Kollidam, Sirkazhi, Kuthalam and Mayiladauthurai, an official said, pointing out that the crops were recently planted at most places. But the water was draining fast, thanks to the recent desilting of canals; if the water drained from the fields in the next few days, the crops could be saved, he said. But some farmers were not so confident. “Nearly 3 lakh acres planted with late samba/thaladi crops in the low-level areas could have been submerged in the entire delta region. The crop may not survive if the water does not drain within a day or two,” said Cauvery S. Dhanapalan, a farmers’ leader of Nagapattinam. In Thanjavur district, paddy crop on 8,714 hectares had been inundated as per preliminary estimates, Collector M. Govinda Rao said. In Tiruvarur district, about 4,600 acres was inundated but the figure could be higher as it continued to rain, an Agriculture Department official said. Only late samba/thaladi crops in low-level areas were inundated. Inundation was reported at a few places in Ariyalur and Perambalur too. Fifty-one huts, including 27 at Jayamkondam, were damaged in Ariyalur district. About 360 families have been accommodated in seven shelters. Cloudy skies, with light drizzle, brought some respite to farmers in Thanjavur district on Friday morning. Rain subsided in Tiruchi city too. Malaiyur received the highest rainfall of 175 mm in Pudukottai district, followed by Karambakudi with 174.80 mm. Four more die The rain claimed four more lives in the delta region. While three senior citizens died in Thanjavur district, a youth was electrocuted in Mayiladuthurai. In Thanjavur, two senior citizens, Kuppusamy, 75, and his wife Yasodha, 65, died on Thursday, after the tiled roof of their house in Siva Jothi Nagar, Darasuram, collapsed on them while they were asleep. In a separate incident, Saradhambal, 80, of Chakkarasamandham village, died after a portion of her house collapsed on her during heavy rain on Thursday. A. Sarathkumar, 28, from Keelamathur village, Mayiladuthurai district, was electrocuted early on Friday, after he accidentally stepped on a live electric wire that had snapped due to rain. With two rain-related deaths reported earlier, the total number of deaths due to the current spell of rain in the central region has gone up to six. ( With bureau inputs )
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Permanent closure of railway gate opposed||Residents of Pettavaithalai and those staying in the nearby villages have opposed the permanent closure of the manned railway gate (No.62) at Pettavaithalai situated along the Tiruchi - Karur broad gauge section. The closure of the gate that comes under the limits of the Salem railway division would adversely affect movement of general public of Pettavaithalai and nearby villages as they have been passing through the gate for several years. P. Karumpachalam, a social activist of Pettavaithalai, said the railway authorities stuck a notice on the manned gate on Thursday informing that the gate would be permanently closed from December 4 for "administrative reasons". The decision to close the gate shocked the people as this move would not only affect the movement of thousands of people to different places but also force them to take a detour of about four kilometres, he said. The closure of the gate would also affect movement of those residing in interior pockets including Sirukaadu, Banglapudur, Nachalur, Kottaiyarthottam, Sangamadai, Inungur, Mr. Karumpachalam said. About 15 Tamil Nadu State Corporation buses and private buses, ambulances and other vehicles pass every day through this gate established years ago. Farmers, traders, students and the general public would be put to severe hardship if the gate was closed permanently, he further said. As news of the closure of the gate spread, a group of people from Pettavaithalai and those in its vicinity expressed their opposition to the railway administration's move by sitting on the railway track for some time on Friday morning. They later submitted a memorandum to the Pettavaithalai railway station master urging the railway authorities not to close the gate keeping in mind the interest of the general public and allow it to function as usual. Later, the Srirangam Tahsildar came to the spot and heard the version from the public who emphasised the need to keep the gate functional. A railway official from Salem Division said the decision to close the gate had been deferred for the time being.
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Price of brinjal goes up||The price of brinjal, one of the most sought vegetables in the households, has gone up in Tiruchi market. One kg of Manapparai brinjal and Dindigul brinjal, which are preferred by the people of the region, was sold at Rs. 100 a kg in the retail market on Thursday. It was Rs. 80 a kg in the wholesale market. According to market sources, the price has been going up steadily since Deepavali. It was quoted between Rs. 50 and Rs. 60 during the festival season. The price would usually go down after the festival season. However, it has gone up to Rs. 100 a kg now. “The rate of brinjal rules abnormally high. Customers would not mind much even iif the rate is around Rs. 50-60. There are hardly any takers for brinjal at Rs. 100 a kg,” Manikandan, a grocery retail store in Cantonment in the city. The Gandhi market in the city mainly receives brinjal from Manapparai, Vaiyampatti, Dindigul, Sempatti, Vathalagundu, Palani and Kannivadi. Besides, the traders source brinjal from rural areas of the district too. However, the arrival from Dindigul and Sempatti has dried up in recent weeks due to rain. Sources in the wholesale market said that the poor arrival of brinjal had caused rise in price. The rates of other vegetables including carrot and onions, were quoted high until the whole market was functioning at G. Corner due to logistics issues. The rates of most vegetables had been stabilized after the reopening of the Gandhi Market. But, there were traders, who continued to quote high rates. The rate of brinjal would also come down in a few days.
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Government urged to regularise services||Nearly 120 members of Tamil Nadu Samagra Shiksha Special Educators Association for the Differently Abled Students on Thursday were arrested when they attempted to take out a march to Chennai urging the government to regularise their services. All the arrested were later released in the evening. While the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan scheme was introduced in 1998, teachers employed under it since then have not received any benefits and continue to work without promotion, they said. While there are over 1.5 lakh children in Tamil Nadu with special needs, there are only about 2,500 teachers. There are only five teachers per block in a district. “Our job is difficult. We work with different schools each day and, on Saturdays, we make home visits to children who are unable to attend school,” said a Tiruchi-based teacher with over 20 years of experience. They also train teachers, parents and other students on handling children with disabilities, apart from providing home-based training and grooming differently abled children identified for School Readiness Programme. While a raise was given to the special educators in 2018, irrespective of seniority, all teachers are paid the same amount. “We get Rs. 18,000, of which Rs. 2,000 is travel allowance. We worked throughout the lockdown as a preventive measure against COVID-19, as the children need help, regardless of the pandemic. Despite our long-standing demand, the State government has ignored us,” another teacher said. Special educators had planned to walk to Chennai from Tiruchi, while representatives from other districts would join them along the way.
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Further dip in fresh COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Friday recorded a further dip in fresh cases for COVID-19 with 112 patients testing positive for the viral infection. The region recorded one death, in Tiruvarur, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 79-year-old man from Tiruvarur succumbed to the viral infection with a history of Parkinson's disease at a private hospital. All districts in the region reported below 30 fresh cases for the viral infection on Friday. Thanjavur and Tiruchi reported 24 fresh COVID-19 cases. Patients in both districts were isolated cases or were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Tiruchi, two patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged. Nagapattinam reported 18 fresh cases while 13 patients tested positive in both Pudukottai and Karur. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. In Karur, residents hailing from Kulithalai, Kadavur and Thanthonrimalai tested positive. In Tiruvarur, 12 patients reported positive for the viral infection on Friday. Ariyalur reported a further drop in cases with only six fresh cases reported for the viral infection. Three of the six patients hailed from Ariyalur block, while one each hailed from Sendurai, Andimadam and Jayankondam. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, two patients tested positive, of which one each hailed from Veppanthattai and Veppur blocks.
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||15 rescue teams ready||Fifteen rescue teams comprising police personnel have been formed in coastal Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts to carry out rescue missions and evacuate people from low-lying areas in case of more heavy rain and further flooding. Inspector General of Police, Central Zone H.M. Jayaram told The Hindu on Friday that the rescue teams had been positioned at Poompuhar,Tharangampadi, Kollidam, Sirkazhi, Pudhupattinam and Mayiladuthurai in Mayiladuthurai district. In Nagapattinam district, the teams were positioned at places including Velankanni, Nagore, Keezhaiyur, Vettaikaraniruppu, Voimedu and Vedaranyam. Mr. Jayaram said in addition to the rescue teams trained in disaster management about 1,200 volunteers and 500 Home Guards have also been mobilised. He inspected various rain-hit areas in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai on Friday and said four companies of personnel from the Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force would arrive in the delta region and be utilised for rescue operations.
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||8.5 kg of gold seized from 8 air passengers||Officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized around 8.5 kilograms of 24 carat gold smuggled by eight passengers who arrived here on Friday from Dubai by IndiGo and Air India Express flights. Acting on specific intelligence, officers of DRI Coimbatore and Tiruchi units intercepted two passengers who arrived by the IndiGo flight. Subsequently, they detained six passengers, including a woman who arrived by an Air India Express flight. The officers recovered paste of a compound containing gold which was found concealed deep in their clothes. The compound seized weighed about 9.95 kg. On refining, the compound is expected to yield about 8.5 kg of gold of 24 carat valued at around Rs. 4.25 crore, said the sources.
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SOP to be followed in temple||The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the government in the wake of pandemic should by fully adhered to during the Vaikunda Ekadasi festival at the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple this year, Collector S.Sivarasu said here on Thursday. The festival is to be held from December 14 to January 4 with the important event of opening of Paramapadavasal scheduled for December 25. According to available indications, an online booking system is likely to be introduced for devotees who wish to offer worship during the festival at the temple. Speaking at a coordination meeting to discuss the arrangements to be made, Mr.Sivarasu said only devotees wearing masks would be allowed to enter the temple. Those with symptoms of COVID 19 and people from containment zones would not allowed to enter the temple. Personal distance should be strictly followed. Police Commissioner J. Loganathan, P. Jayaraman, Executive Officer, Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple, and other officials participated in the meeting.
05 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Kumbabhishekam performed||The 'kumbabhishekam' of Arulmigu Kalyana Pasupatheeswarar Temple in Karur was held on Friday by observing the standard operating procedure stipulated by the government. Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar participated. A senior Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department official said due to COVID-19 pandemic period the event was organised by observing the safety protocols. The 'Thiruppani Kuzhu' members provided masks to those who did not possess them while coming to take part in the event.
05 December 2020||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Respite from rain in some parts of central region||The easing of the heavy spell of rain in some parts of the central region on Friday brought some respite to farmers and officials. Though many parts of Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Tiruvarur districts continued to receive heavy rainfall on Friday too, the rain seem to be tapering off in Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts. In Tiruchi city, the rain spell had considerably eased with only spells of drizzle or mild showers through the day. Parts of Perambalur and Ariyalur districts received moderate rainfall. Nagapattinam Collector Praveen P.Nair, while speaking to reporters on Friday evening, hoped that the rain water would drain from the fields quickly as the rain had eased over the past few hours and there would not be much crop damage. Crop insurance coverage was almost 100% during this samba/thaladi season in the district and farmers will be eligible for compensation if there was damage to the crop. Heavy rain that lashed Thanjavur district from Wednesday led to the flooding of paddy crop at several parts of the district, including on more than 100 acres in Budalur and Thirukattupalli areas. Revenue and Public Works Department officials rushed to those places and made necessary arrangements to drain the rainwater from the flooded fields through drain channels. Earth movers were pressed into service to widen or clear the tree branches clogging the drain channels to ensure quick draining of flood water from the fields into nearby rivers. Waterlogging in residential localities in Tiruvarur Municipal area and in rural pockets in both Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts were cleared using diesel pumps or by clearing the debris and other materials from the drain channels, official sources said. While 15 cattle and 24 goats were reported killed in the rain in Thanjavur district, 29 cattle were lost due to the heavy rain in Tiruvarur district. As far as the damages to the houses, a total of 219 houses were reported to have suffered damages in Tiruvarur district, 211 dwelling units in Thanjavur district were damaged, sources added. About 15,000 people were moved to temporary shelters with the help of local bodies in Mayiladuthurai district, he said. About 50 relief centres have been set up where food is being cooked for the local communities. As many as 158 huts were partially or fully damaged as per reports reaching the authorities till 3 p.m. on Friday. Twenty-eight heads of cattle have died in the district, according to Mr.Nair. Thanjavur Collector M.Govinda Rao said paddy crop on about 8714 hectares (ha), 30 ha each of groundnut and cholam have been inundated in the district as per preliminary reports. Traffic was suspended on Natham-Azhivaical Road, Peravurani-Aranthangi Road and Chockanavur roads due to flooding. Thirty-nine relief camps have been opened and about 3,098 persons have been accommodated in them in the district, he said. Seventy temporary relief centres have been established in Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts to accommodate general public in the wake of widespread rains in the three districts. Over 2,700 persons have been accommodated in the relief centres where food and other basic facilities have been arranged by the respective district administration. Speaking to reporters after inspecting a relief centres at Amarasimendrapuram in Aranthangi taluk in Pudukottai district, the Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari said 118 houses were damaged due to the widespread rains and steps been taken to provide relief amount to the occupants. A total number of 31 relief centres had been established in the district and arrangements to provide food and other basic facilities to the 1,500 persons accommodated in them were being jointly done by officials of various government departments. She said steps would be taken to provide relief amount to the owners of 12 livestock which had died in the rains adding that relief would also be provided to the fishermen. The water bodies have witnessed a significant increase in water level owing to the heavy rains, she further said. In Perambalur district, a total number of 816 persons have been accommodated in 28 relief centres. Perambalur Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya appealed to the general public to desist from venturing into water bodies in view of the rains. A total number of 11 relief centres have been set up in Ariyalur district accommodating 425 persons. Ariyalur Collector D. Rathna on Friday inspected various lakes and said steps were being taken on a war footing to drain the water that had stagnated in residential areas and on farm lands.
05 December 2020||TIRUPATHUR,TAMIL NADU||Trees to be transplanted from Tirupathur Collectorate site||While constructing the building for a new Collector office in Tirupathur town, the district administration has decided to transplant trees that stand on the proposed site, instead of chopping them down. The Collectorate of the newly-created district of Tirupathur is located in a two-storied building, part of the old Block Development Office. The new Collectorate, to be built at a cost of Rs. 109.71 crore, will have seven floors and house over 40 departments. The Collector’s office will be on the second floor. “The building will be located on the premises of the Forest Department’s residential quarters. It is very close to the railway station and bus stop. Work is expected to be completed in a year,” said an official. Meanwhile, Tirupathur Collector M.P. Sivanarul did not want to chop down the trees on the new site to build the office. “I heard about the Coimbatore-based NGO Osai, which is involved in tree transplantation, and contacted them. We have identified 43 trees and will be spotting more,” said Mr. Sivanarul. Syed Kattuva, an environmentalist of Bharathiar University, who is part of the Marangaluku Maruvazhu Amaippu, has started the transplantation work. “Some of the tree species that we have identified are neem, pungan, udhiyan and manipungan. Most of them are herbal trees that are usually found in the forest,” he said. He said the climate, mud and species of the trees determine the success of transplantation. The team digs pits that are 10-ft wide and deep at the spot where the tree will be transplanted. “First we measure the width and height of the tree and check if it is healthy. If necessary, the branches will be pruned. The tree trunk is then covered using cow dung and gunny bags,” he said. A pit is dug around the tree and it is lifted along with the mud beneath it, called Thai Mannu , and then transported to the new site using a crane. “This process is better than chopping it off. We have done this across the country and have transplanted trees that are aged between 10 and 120 years,” he added. Mr. Sivanarul said that apart from transplantation, new trees were being planted. “We are setting up a Miyawaki forest too,” he said.
05 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Left parties protest against farm laws||Members of the Communist Party of India and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) came together for a joint protest against the three farm laws near the Kumaran Memorial here on Friday. According to the police, around 150 members of both the parties were removed and detained at a wedding hall. The protesters were released in the evening. Different protests have been held in Tiruppur since Tuesday in solidarity with the farmers protesting on the borders of Delhi against the farm laws.  Residents oppose industrial park  Residents of three village panchayats in Avinashi panchayat union petitioned the district administration to stop works to set up a SIPCOT industrial park in Avinashi on Friday. According to police sources, around 250 persons from Thathanur, Thamaraikulam and Pulippar village panchayats gathered outside the Collectorate. In the petition, they alleged that land acquisition process is under way for the construction of the industrial park, which would lead to loss of agricultural lands and depletion of groundwater.
05 December 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||16-year-old drowns in Chitteri lake||A 16-year-old girl drowned in a river in Vandavasi when she went to bathe on Friday afternoon. Three of her cousins, who went with her, are safe. According to the police, Sneha, 16, from Chennai, had been to her relative’s house at Kilkuvalaivedu in Vandavasi. She is a class 12 student. “Along with her three relatives, she went to have a bath in Chitteri lake. However, all four of them got stuck in the water and cried for help. Some villagers jumped in and rescued three of them, but Sneha drowned,” said a senior police officer. The other three were rushed to the Chengalpattu government hospital for treatment. “They are recuperating. A case has been registered and further investigation is on. There were rumours that she was taking a selfie when the accident happened. We are investigating,” added the officer.
05 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand compensation||Claiming that samba paddy cultivated on 25 lakh acres in Tamil Nadu remain submerged in rainwater, Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu has urged the government to sanction a compensation of Rs. 30,000 an acre to the affected farmers. Around 10 lakh acres of Samba crop in delta districts have been submerged in rainwater stagnated on the fields in view of the incessant heavy rain for the past three days, P.R. Pandian, president of the committee, in a press release claimed. Another 15 lakh acres of paddy crop in Kanyakumari, Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai, Pudukottai, Cuddalore, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts has also been flooded with rainwater in view of the heavy precipitation caused due to two cyclonic storms, he maintained. Apart from paddy, sugarcane, plantain and other horticulture crop have also suffered extensive damage due to Nivar and Burevi cyclonic storm systems. Thus, Mr.Pandian demanded that Rs. 30,000 per acre should be provided as compensation to the farmers who have cultivated paddy and necessary steps to be initiated to ensure that they were adequately compensated for the loss through the crop insurance scheme. Coconut, plantain and other crop cultivators should also be compensated commensurate to the loss suffered by them, he added and urged the Union Government to release Rs. 10,000 crore to the State government to extend relief assistance to the affected farmers.
05 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourist spots in the Nilgiris to reopen on December 7||Tourist spots in the Nilgiris will be opened on Monday, District Collector J. Innocent Divya announced on Friday. Speaking to reporters at the inauguration of the renovated surroundings of the Assembly Rooms theatre complex, Ms. Divya said all tourist spots, including Doddabetta Peak, the Boat House, Pykara Lake, Ninth Mile and others, will be opened to the public. “All the spots that are run by the Eco-Development Committees (EDCs) and the Tourism Department will be opened,” said the Collector. However, approval to open tourism services at Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) has not yet been granted. She inspected the Assembly Rooms theatre, which was formally opened after it closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in March. “It was decided that the more than 150-year-old heritage cinema theatre would be spruced up during its closure,” said Ms. Divya. The renovated compound wall of the theatre pays homage to iconic movies such as Ben Hur, James Bond, Enter the Dragon, The Sound of Music as well as The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. The Collector inspected the measures taken at the theatre to ensure physical distancing and to minimise the chances of COVID-19 transmission.
05 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK’s victory prospects won’t be affected by new party’||DMK women’s wing leader and Thoothukudi MP M.K.Kanimozhi on Friday refused to comment on actor Rajinikanth’s announcement about starting a political party. Responding to reporters’ questions after the ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ campaign in the Nilgiris on Friday, Ms. Kanimozhi said that the DMK’s victory prospects in the assembly elections will not be affected by any new party. “I don’t think it is necessary to discuss anyone who has not yet entered politics,” she said. Hindi imposition The MP had earlier spoken out against Hindi imposition in Tamil Nadu, stating that learning Hindi was no guarantee that people will get jobs. “During the COVID-19 lockdown, it was extremely sad and distressing to see migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar having to walk home, and all of them knew Hindi,” said Ms. Kanimozhi. She added that students who wanted to learn any language were free to do so, but it was unfair to impose a language on them“burden” them. Earlier, Ms. Kanimozhi interacted with tea estate labourers and members of various adivasi groups. She listened to their grievances and told them to wait for a few months after which, she said, the DMK would implement all the election promises.
05 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Three held for poisoning wild dogs in Mudumalai||Three persons have been arrested for poisoning five Asiatic wild dogs to death in the Vibuthimalai area of the Singara Forest Range in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in September. Forest officials identified the accused as D. Sivan, M. Ramesh and P. Madhevan, all residents of Bokkapuram. Forensic analysis In a statement, Deputy Director of MTR (buffer zone), L.C.S. Srikanth said that following the death of the wild dogs, samples from the animals’ stomach were sent for forensic analysis. The results revealed that the wild dogs were poisoned. Based on specific information, the department apprehended three persons and interrogated them. The three men confessed to having poisoned the wild dogs and have remanded them in judicial custody. Forest officials said that investigations into the death of a tigress in the same range were in progress.
05 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourist spots in the Nilgiris to reopen from Dec. 7||Tourism spots in the Nilgiris will be opened from Monday, District Collector J. Innocent Divya announced on Friday. Speaking to reporters at the inauguration of the renovated surroundings of the Assembly Rooms theatre complex, Ms. Divya said that all tourist spots, including Doddabetta Peak, the Boat House, Pykara Lake, Ninth Mile and others, will be opened to the public. MTR awaits approval “All the spots that are run by the Eco-Development Committees (EDCs) and the Tourism Department will be opened,” said the Collector. However, approval to open tourism services at Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) has not yet been granted. She inspected the Assembly Rooms theatre, which was formally opened after it closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in March. “It was decided that the more than 150-year-old heritage cinema theatre would be spruced up during its closure,” said Ms. Divya. The renovated compound wall of the theatre pays homage to iconic movies such as ‘Ben Hur’, ‘Enter the Dragon’, ‘The Sound of Music’ as well as ‘The Good, the Bad and the Ugly’. D. Radhakrishnan, honorary secretary of the Assembly Rooms, along with trustee Rajesh Nahar, was present at the event. The Collector inspected the measures taken at the theatre to ensure physical distancing and to minimise the chances of COVID-19 transmission. Ms. Divya was also given a tour of the cine museum at the theatre.
05 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone Burevi disappoints||Even as all precautionary measures were in place, Cyclone Burevi failed to bring significant rain to Virudhunagar district on Thursday. The average rainfall in the district was only 3.83 mm after all the 12 rain gauge stations recorded only 46 mm till Friday morning. The highest rainfall was only 14.40 mm that was reported in Kariyapatti followed by Virudhunagar 8.30 mm. No untoward incident was reported in the district due to rain, according to an official of Department of Fire and Rescue. Even as the district was hopeful of getting good rainfall that would fill many of the tanks that had poor storage, widespread drizzling with intermittent steady showers were reported in the district later in the day. The drizzle that started at around 4 p.m. continued till late in the night. “With the rain prediction still holding good, we have not lowered our guards and are keeping a close vigil,” Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, said. Among the eight minor dams in the districts, only three dams were getting meagre inflow. While Kovilar was receiving 66.75 cusecs, Periyar was getting 20.22 and Sasthakoil 10 mm. The State Government on Thursday had declared a public holiday for Virudhunagar district on Friday in anticipation of heavy rain.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 139 cases, one death||Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 139 fresh positive cases on Friday, which took the overall tally to 49,291 cases. The death of a 74-year-old man took the district’s toll so far to 616. Out of the total cases so far, 47,712 have recovered and 963 are active cases. On Friday, 111 patients were discharged upon recovery Tiruppur district reported 61 fresh cases, raising the tally so far to 15,638. Of these, 14,903 have recovered and 525 are active cases. Fifty-five patients were discharged from various hospitals on Friday. Erode had 49 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 12,603. While 45 persons were discharged, 436 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 142. Salem reported 75 fresh cases, 72 of which were indigenous cases. The three other patients returned from Namakkal and Coimbatore. In the Nilgiris, 45 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 7,533. The death toll in the district stood at 42 on Friday. The district administration said 198 people were undergoing treatment. Namakkal reported 18 cases. Six patients returned from Salem, Karur and Kallakuruchi. Krishnagiri recorded 27 new cases and 18 persons were discharged on Friday. The total number of positive cases so far in the district is 7,460 and 162 are under treatment. Dharmapuri recorded 12 new cases and 10 persons were discharged on Friday. The number of cases so far is 6,124 and 128 people are under treatment.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Left parties protest against farm laws||The cadres of the Communist Party of India and Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Friday staged demonstrations across districts in western region in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi against the farm laws. The protests in Hosur, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri saw the participation of the various wings of the CPI(M) including the All India Kisan Sabha, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Democratic Youth Federation of India and All India Democratic Women’s Association.  Protesters removed In Erode, over 220 cadres of the Left parties staged a road roko near the Head Post Office on Gandhiji Road. Led by R. Badri, State Committee Member, CPI (M), and K.R. Thirunavukarasu, Secretary, Erode South District, CPI, the cadres alleged that the three laws were brought in to benefit industrialists in the country and to harm the farmers. The protesters were removed by the police and lodged in marriage halls. In Salem, members of the Students Federation of India and various Left parties protested in front of Indian Post office near Old bus stand here and demanded repeal of the anti-farmer law. Members of the Students Front of India staged a road roko at Mettala in Namakkal.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Rights and duties are equally important’||Emphasising that rights and duties were equally important, Madras High Court Judge Justice N. Kirubakaran said, “When you talk about rights, you should also speak about duties. While rights are being celebrated, duties are forgotten,” the judge said. Justice Kirubakaran was addressing advocates at the Constitution Day celebration organised by the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Bar Association (MMBA) held recently via video conferencing. The framers of the Constitution thought that the citizens would do their duty first and then claim rights. But, the reverse was happening. We have to work together for the development of the nation, the judge said. Pointing out the fact that a number of protests were taking place in the State over various issues, he said that while it was good that people were aware of their rights, opposing everything will lead to no development and unemployment crisis. Lamenting that people were still divided over caste, religion and language and politicians were taking advantage of this, Justice Kirubakaran said that people should be treated equally and the government should play a role model in this regard. He expressed displeasure over the fact that social media platforms were being abused and misused in the name of freedom of expression. Touching upon alcoholism, the judge said that it was ruining families.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Burevi weakens into depression, moves slowly||It pushed moisture into the land and brought heavy rain. The outer feeder bands of the stagnant system brought rain to Chennai too. More than 50 weather stations received heavy rain of up to 12 cm during the past 24 hours till Friday morning. A total of 11 stations recorded very heavy rain, and five places received extremely heavy rain of more than 24 cm. Kollidam in Nagapattinam district received 36 cm. Only the south extreme regions like Kanniyakumari and some Western Ghats areas, including Coimbatore, are yet to get sufficient rain. “In a single day, the weather system helped to bring the State’s rain deficit down to a mere 2% from 12% the previous day. Tamil Nadu’s overall rainfall is now 36.2 cm against its seasonal normal of 37 cm since October 1,” Mr. Balachandran said. On the heavy rain that extended to the northern parts too, Mr. Balachandran said the vertical wind shear (a sudden change in the direction or the speed over a short distance in the atmosphere) had shifted the rain bands from the main weather system. “This system has extensively covered the central and south parts and also impacted the northern region,” he said. Chennai and Ennore received 2 cm of rain till 7 p.m. on Friday. The IMD has forecast that moderate rain, which may be heavy at times, is likely to occur in Chennai for two days. Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj noted that this system was unusual in that there were no clouds over the nearest areas like Kanniyakumari or Tirunelveli. There was a disconnect between the centre of the storm and the rain clouds. Besides the wind shear that pushed clouds towards the north, the weather system too tilted to the north with height owing to a colder temperature prevailing in northern India. “Cyclone Nivar gave rain along its track. This system gave more rain and covered more areas.” The system was stationary for hours, possibly because it was trapped in the calm region of the upper troposphere, where winds would be weak, he said.   In a single day, the weather system helped to bring the State’s rain deficit down to a mere 2% from 12% the previous day
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode records 49 new cases and two deaths||Erode reported 49 new cases of COVID-19 and two deaths due to the infection on Friday. The new cases took the district’s tally so far to 12,603. With the two deaths, the toll now stands at 142. While 45 persons were discharged on Friday, 436 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem reported 75 fresh cases, 72 of which were indigenous cases. The three other patients returned from Namakkal and Coimbatore. In the Nilgiris, 45 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 7,533. The death toll in the district stood at 42 on Friday. Namakkal reported 18 cases. Six patients returned from Salem, Karur and Kallakuruchi. Krishnagiri recorded 27 new cases and 18 persons were discharged on Friday. The total number of positive cases so far in the district is 7460 and 162 are under treatment. Dharmapuri recorded 12 new cases and 10 persons were discharged on Friday. The number of cases so far is 6124 and 128 people are under treatment.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||cinema arts events||Coimbatore Cinema Baba Complex, Ph: 2472275 Archana AURO 3D TDX KAVAL THURAI UNGAL NANBAN - 11 a.m., 2.30, 6.30 p.m. Darsana A/c NUNGAMBAKKAM - 11 a.m., 2.30p.m., 6.30 p.m.
05 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hebbalkar slams BJP; terms holding meetings a gimmick||Laxmi Hebbalkar, MLA and Congress leader, has criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for holding its core committee meeting and State executive committee meeting as a political gimmick. “The BJP government in the State has not been working for the welfare of the farmers and other disadvantaged communities at all,” she told journalists at her home office. Seeking compensation “The government has failed to provide compensation to farmers who suffered huge losses in 2019 and 2020. Several thousand families have lost their houses, but did not get money to rebuild them. Public infrastructure like schools and roads have been damaged, but they have not been repaired or rebuilt. Farmers who have lost crops in succession have not been compensated. But the State government is not bothered. Leaders in the government are worried more about party affairs than governance,” she said. “I have gone to Bengaluru several times seeking funds for reconstruction of flood-affected villages. But Ministers have sent me back saying there is no money. But the BJP has money to organise such events. That is ironic,” she said. She accused the government of failing to release compensation to weavers, craftsmen, fishermen, animal farmers, silk rearers, and others who suffered in the lockdown. “All they have got are empty promises. The government promised to help weavers by buying saris from them. But the promise was not kept,” she said. She asked the State government to explain how many families were the beneficiaries of the CM’s fund and other incentives announced during the lockdown. Winter session She objected to the government failing to hold the winter session in the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi in 2019 and 2020. If this continues, then the Legislative House will remain unutilised. The government should take immediate steps to see that the winter sessions are regularly held in Belagavi, she said. “I neither welcome nor oppose the BJP holding its meetings here. It is an internal matter of the party. But its leaders should take into consideration, all other factors,” she said. She said that the resignation of Krishna Angolkar, zilla panchayat member from the Congress, and his plans to join the BJP would not affect the Congress in any way. “He had never supported me in my bid for the Assembly. I have several enemies in the party. He was one of them. I have always been fighting them,” she added.
05 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cabinet expansion after consultations: CM||Cabinet expansion will be taken up after consulting with senior leaders of the party, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said in Belagavi on Friday. “Our high command has sent a message about the Cabinet expansion in the Karnataka, through Arun Singh, national general secretary. I will discuss various issues with him and then decide on it. This will be done soon,” the CM said after his arrival at Sambra airport for the party core committee meeting. Mr. Yediyurappa said the meeting on Friday and the State Executive committee meeting on Saturday would discuss issues related to selection of candidates for the two ssembly by polls and the Lok Sabha by poll from Belagavi. It would also focus on the Gram Panchayat elections, he said.
05 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘B.C. Patil should withdraw statement’||“B.C. Patil, Agriculture Minister, should withdraw his controversial statement on farmers,” Eeranna Kadadi, BJP Raita Morcha president and Rajya Sabha member, said in Belagavi on Friday. Mr. Kadadi, who was here to participate in the party core committee meeting, said that Mr Patil’s reported statements describing farmers as ‘cowards who could not care of their families’ was not acceptable. “It is uncalled for. He should realise that being the Agriculture Minister, he should not make such statements. Mr. Patil should withdraw his statement,” he said. Statement opposed Ramesh Jarkiholi, Minister for Medium and Major Irrigation, said he would oppose Mr. Patil’s statement. “I don’t know in what context he made that statement. But I oppose it strongly,” he said. Lakshmi Hebbalkar, MLA and Congress leader, also criticised Mr. Patil’s statement saying he had insulted the farm fraternity that was feeding the country.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court direction to hold civic polls in only 198 wards causes a stir||The Karnataka High Court’s direction to hold elections to 198 wards of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council has caused a stir within the civic body. While some welcomed the HC’s direction, others questioned how the polls can be held for just 198 wards, when as per the recent amendment to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, the city has 243 wards. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty held that the amended law to increase the number of wards to 243 will not apply for the present election. Former Congress councillors Abdul Wajid and M. Shivaraju, who had filed a PIL challenging the government’s decision to defer elections to the BBMP council, welcomed the judgment. Mr. Shivaraju alleged that the government was trying to weaken the local bodies by postponing the polls. “The judgment is a victory for us. The term of the previous council ended on September 10 and polls should have been held before the end of the term. The BJP government delayed the delimitation and finalising reservations since they (party) were not interested in holding elections,” he said, and pointed out that earlier the BJP had put off polls to the civic body for over three years. Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy, also a member of the Joint Legislature Committee on BBMP Bill 2020, said the government would appeal against the High Court order in the Supreme Court. However, urban experts pointed out that the BBMP has once again missed the bus for some much-needed reforms. Mathew Idiculla, research consultant at Centre for Law and Policy Research, said that the court’s directions under normal conditions would be welcome. However, in the case of the BBMP, it is far from optimal. “As per the existing law, BBMP has 243 wards. How can polls be held for just 198 wards? That apart, the new Bill will take time to be finalised. The government cannot make that the ruse to put off polls,” he said. He also pointed out that unlike in other States, such as Kerala and Gujarat, all decisions pertaining to delimitation, reservation for local bodies are taken by the State government and not the State Election Commission. V. Ravichandar, urban expert, said Bengaluru needs deep decentralisation in terms of right sized ward units and appropriate integration of all parastatal agencies. “The current KMC Act doesn’t serve the purpose of managing Bengaluru, which needs a governing architecture to manage the multiplicity of agencies. A large metropolis like Bengaluru needs a separate law,” he stated. If the elections are held for 198 wards, the imbalance across the wards will worsen. “The 110 villages are still struggling. Much of the growth has happened outside the Outer Ring Road. It has clearly not worked in the last 10 years and the problem will be compounded in the next five years,” he said.  The city is in need of governance reforms. But, that should not become a basis for not holding polls on time. However, whether elections can be held only for 198 wards, when the KMC Act has been amended to increase the number of wards to 243, has to be explored legally Mathew Idiculla, research consultant at Centre for Law and Policy Research   This is not the first time that the city has missed the bus for much-needed reforms. The BBMP Restructuring Committee had recommended a change in governing architecture to manage the multiplicity of agencies, among other things. But the recommendations went into cold storage V. Ravichandar, urban expert   We will explore legal options. A decision will be taken by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Bengaluru Development portfolio, and a meeting with city MLAs and Ministers will be convened in a couple of days S. Raghu, Chairperson, Joint Legislature Committee on BBMP Bill 2020
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Central nod for national project status for Upper Bhadra||In what could bring cheer to farmers in the parched central Karnataka region, the Upper Bhadra project has received approval from the Centre to be declared a “national project”. The two-decade-old project, now estimated to cost Rs. 21,450 crore, will be the first from the State to receive the national project tag and will now receive the bulk of the funds from the Centre. The Upper Bhadra project is designed to irrigate 2.25 lakhhectares in Chitradurga, Davangere, Tumakuru, and parts of Chikkamagaluru. Only projects covering over 2 lakh hectares under drip irrigation qualify to receive funding from the Centre if they receive national project status. “The Central Water Commission (CWC) has approved the national project status for Upper Bhadra and the technical advisory committee meeting this month will approve it. The State Finance Department’s concurrence will be issued shortly,” said Lakshman Rao Peshwe, MD of Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam Ltd. (VJNL). Since 2015, when the State first sought national status for the project, work has been on to seek approval from various departments. “To meet the parameters to qualify for national project status, no-objection certificate is a must from 12 departments. Over the past two years, NOC has been obtained from eight departments; NOC had been obtained from four departments earlier,” Mr. Peshwe said. Conceived in 2000, the project received administrative approval in 2003 at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,813 crore. The project cost escalated over the years because of land acquisition issues, delay in securing forest clearances, increase in extent of command area, cost escalation, introduction of GST, and change of character from flow irrigation to drip irrigation. At present, just about 16% of the total work has been completed. Funds from Centre “With the Upper Bhadra project getting national project status, the Centre is expected to provide about Rs. 16,125 crore of the Rs. 21,473 crore cost. The funds could start flowing in as early as January 2021, and the project could be completed in about three years,” Mr. Peshwe said. While the total project cost is Rs. 21,473 crore, that includes drip laterals. The CWC has finalised the project cost at Rs. 16,125 crore. The drip laterals work, to establish a wide network for drip irrigation, is estimated to cost Rs. 5,348 crore. In preparation of the ground for fund release from the Centre, the VJNL board recently approved a proposal seeking the Finance Department’s concurrence on the cost appraisal of the project worked out by the Central Water Commission. It has sought the government's approval for revising the cost of the project based on the cost appraisal arrived at by the CWC. Once it is approved, a Government Order will come through, which will be sent to the Centre as concurrence.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Number of booths may cross 10,000’||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has followed directions issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) and published the final voters’ list, said civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the launch of an awareness campaign on Friday, he said, “There are 7,500 booths. However, given the pandemic and subsequent directions of the election commission, additional booths have to be set up wherever the number of voters exceeds 1,000. Going by that yardstick, the number of booths may increase to more than 10,000,” he noted.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NABARD signs pact with SBI on rural projects||NABARD, Karnataka regional office, Bengaluru, on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the State Bank of India (SBI), Bengaluru, for providing financial aid to beneficiaries of Tribal Development Fund, Watershed Development Fund, Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs), and self-help groups SHGs. The MoU aims to benefit 4,5000 beneficiaries of 260 FPOs in 28 districts, 8,500 beneficiaries in 20 districts of 70 watersheds, and 15 Tribal Development programmes (wadis) along with SHGs, and joint liability groups (JLGs) through e-shakti (digitisation) in the State. The MoU was signed by Niraj Kumar Verma, chief general manager, NABARD, and Abhijit Majumder, chief general manager, SBI. Under e-shakti project in 29 districts of Karnataka, 3,02,614 SHGs had been digitised and 2,81,755 SHGs were credit linked. Each branch of SBI in rural and semi-urban areas would strive to finance 50 JLGs and SHGs annually. NABARD would extend grant support for promotion of JLGs, said a release. The combined effort could be a potential gamechanger in facilitating integrated development of the agriculture sectors and contribute significantly towards economic growth, said Mr. Verma.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Toyota places 20 more staffers under suspension||Toyota Kirloskar Motor said on Friday that it was forced to initiate disciplinary action against 20 more of its employees, by placing them under ‘Suspension Pending Enquiry’ with immediate effect. The auto major had initiated disciplinary action against one of its employees’ union officer bearers, followed by 39 others, who were involved in a series of disruptions that violated the company rules, and had decided to place all 40 of them under Suspension Pending Enquiry (SPE) on November 6 and 12, 2020 respectively. “However, in light of continued acts of misconduct and indiscipline based on preliminary evidence, the company was also forced to place another 20 members on SPE,” a TKM spokesperson told The Hindu . Some members have indulged in serious acts of misconduct, such as abusing and threatening colleagues by going to their houses; blocking and threatening at the entry gate; indulging in activities to damage the company’s reputation in media and social media, and also defaming and abusing officers of the company in public. This has forced the management to issue further orders of SPE, according to a statement put out on the factory premises at Bidadi. “All team members hereby informed and cautioned to desist from activities of the above nature and not to indulge in any acts of misconducts, which will be viewed seriously and strict disciplinary action will be initiated against such erring Team Members,” said company General Manager, Employee Relations, Shreenivasa P. Gotur in the statement. TKM further clarified that SPE is neither a punishment nor a loss of job but a standard legal measure to ensure free and fair enquiry of the misconduct of an employee by a third-party investigator, During this period, the employee is eligible to receive legally designated subsistence allowances which is a portion of his salary. Even as the stalemate continues for almost a month now, Toyota announced the resumption of production, to ensure business continuity and support market demand, with the help of supervisory, other staff and workmen.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Special train services extended by nine trips||The services 03209 and 03210 Danapur-Yeshwantpur and Danapur Superfast Special Express (bi-weekly) trains have been extended by nine more trips. According to the South Western Railway, Bengaluru division, the first extended service from Danapur was from November 30 and the last service will be on December 28. The first extended service from Yeshwantpur will start from December 3, and the last service will be on December 31.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex-councillor in police custody||Former councillor A.R. Zakir, who was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) in connection with the violence in D.J. Halli on August 11, was remanded in police custody till Tuesday. He was produced in a city court on Friday. He has been chargesheeted by the CCB for allegedly playing a key role in mobilising people and instigating violence against Pulikeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, along with former mayor and ex-councillor R. Sampath Raj.
05 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Conference||The Centre for Law and Policy Research will organise its flagship conference — TRANSFORM: 4th International Conference on Transgender Rights and the Law — on Saturday and Sunday. It will be held at Bangalore International Centre, No. 7, IV Main, II Stage, Domlur.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex-cop dies||A retired sub-inspector was killed in an accident near Nelamangala on Thursday night. The deceased, Ramamurthy, 61, had retired in January 2019.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panchayat poll may be hit||If the ban on all public, religious and political events from December 20 till January 2 is implemented, campaigning for the second phase of gram panchayat polls that will be held on December 27 is likely to be hit. Expressing displeasure over the State Election Commission (SEC) announcing the polls despite the Health Department’s request seeking postponement, Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said: “I had written to the SEC informing about the TAC’s view that the polls may lead to door delivery of virus. If the elections were not held till March, certain things could have been controlled. We tried from our side but it is unfortunate that our request was not considered.” The SEC has announced polls to 5,762 gram panchayats in the State in two phases on December 22 and 27, after the High Court had asked it to announce the schedule. Admitting that a large number of people are gathering at political events ahead of the gram panchayat polls, the Minister added: “We politicians and all political parties need to understand our responsibilities.”
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM appeals to outfits to withdraw bandh call||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday made an appeal to Kannada organisations not to go ahead with the Karnataka bandh on Saturday against the formation of the Maratha Development Corporation. Speaking to mediapersons here, Mr. Yediyurappa said: “I appeal to everyone, including Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha leader Vatal Nagaraj, not to trouble people with the bandh. It is not required.” ‘Making every effort’ The Chief Minister said he was making every effort to take all the communities along and underlined that he was doing everything to give prominence to Kannada language. “I have given prominence to Kannada and I am ready to do whatever is required to make Kannada prominent,” he said. Several pro-Kannada outfits have been opposing the formation of the Maratha Development Corporation, which was announced by the State government on November 14 and had earmarked Rs. 50 crore for the “overall development of Maratha people”.
05 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Court allows CCB to take hair samples of actors||A court on Friday permitted the CCB to collect hair samples of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjana Galrani, who were arrested in a narcotics case.
05 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Murder case cracked||Alur Police have cracked the murder of a woman reported at Eshwarahalli in Alur taluk on October 11. The police arrested C.R. Manjunath, husband of the deceased, on Thursday. A body was noticed in a heap of sand at Eshwarahalli on October 11. B.A.Yusuf, a contractor who had stocked sand for construction work, filed the complaint after he spotted the decayed body. Alur police took up the investigation. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, on Friday, said police enquired with residents of nearby villages about missing persons. Finally, they found that Sumitra, 30, was missing. Upon interrogating her husband Manjunath, the police got to know that he murdered her on July 19 this year, and buried her body in the sand. Manjunath, a daily wage worker, married Sumitra about 13 years ago in Bengaluru. The couple had two children. The couple had differences in the recent days and had heated arguments often. Manjunath allegedly murdered her by hitting her with a piece of wood.
05 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Revanna wants Minister to apologise||Coming down heavily on Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil for his recent comment on farmers, former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has said the Minister should apologise for his statement. At a press conference in Hassan on Friday, Mr. Revanna said the Minister’s statement showed his arrogance. “Farmers are the backbone of the country. Nobody should pass such comments on farmers. He should apologise for his statement”, he said. The Minister had said farmers who committed suicide were cowards. Further, Mr. Revanna alleged that corrupt officers have been appointed as special land acquisition officers in Hassan and that they were good at manipulating documents related to the reported irregularities in granting land to those who lost land in the Hemavati River Project. Mr. Revanna demanded that the Deputy Commissioner take all the documents into his custody.
05 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Media must sustain trust, be the voice of the people: Horatti||Basavaraj Horatti, MLC and former Minister, has said that people still had faith and trusted the media more than governments and the media had the responsibility to sustain this by becoming voice of the people. He was addressing a gathering of journalists and their families after presenting various awards at the award presentation programme organised by Dharwad District Union of Working Journalists (DDUWJ) in Hubballi on Friday. Mr. Horatti said that when the governments and elected representatives failed to respond to their grievances and aspirations, people approached the media seeking justice mediapersons should work towards retaining that trust. Referring to the ‘black sheep’ in the media, he said that like other fields, there were bad elements in media too and because of them, journalism had earned a bad name. Those in the field should take steps to remove these bad elements and rectify the mistakes, he said. Mr. Horatti said those in the government should also respond to the issues concerning the welfare of the journalists. He assured that he would take up the issues pertaining to journalists at the government level. Shivanand Tagadur, president, Karnataka Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), emphasised on the need for eliminating elements involved in ‘blackmail tactics’. He said the main objective of journalism was to become the voice of the voiceless and that journalists should understand this and work accordingly. On KUWJ activities, he said that that the union had taken steps to extend a helping hand to journalists in distress, especially those who had lost employment due to COVID-19. Steps to get assistance to the family members of journalists who died in accidents and due to health issues were being taken by KUWJ, he said. MLA Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and MLC Srinivas Mane lauded the contribution of journalists towards nation-building and in raising socially relevant issues that needed government attention and consequently finding solution to the problems. Journalists awarded Earlier the dignitaries honoured journalist Hanumath Hugar and his wife with a lifetime achievement award. The annual awards for journalists in various categories were given to Jayashri Walwekar, Prabhakar Nayak, K. Pramod, Nagaraj Hegde Matigar, Manjunath Hugar, Prakash Shet, Krishini Shirur, Harsha Kulkarni, Vinayak Pujari, Naveen Paradeshi and Narayanagouda. On the occasion, senior journalists Amaregouda Gonawar, Basavaraj Havaldar and Vidya Kodlekere, who recently received various awards, were felicitated. Meritorious children of working journalists who scored high marks in various examinations were honoured with cash prizes on the occasion.
05 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Relay hunger strike from today||Seeking fulfilment of various demands pertaining to school teachers and private educational institutions, various organisations led by former Minister and MLC Basavaraj Horatti will launch a relay hunger strike in Dharwad from Saturday. Karnataka Rajya Madhyamika Shala Noukarara Sangha, Private Educational Institution Employees and Management Boards Coordination Committee, and other organisations have jointly planned the relay hunger strike to press for their various demands, which they say have been pending since long. On Saturday, Mr. Horatti, accompanied by teachers and employees of private institutions from Gadag, will launch the agitation in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad. Mr. Horatti said the strike was being launched as repeated pleas to the State government over pending demands had made no impact. The main demands of the organisations are providing grant-in-aid to all permanent unaided educational schools and colleges that meet the required criteria; implementation of the recommendations of Basavaraj Horatti Committee on Notional Increment; abolition of the new pension scheme and reinstatement of the old pension scheme’ extension of ‘Jyoti Sanjivini’ scheme to aided educational institutions; release of salary grants to N.A. Muttanna Memorial Police Children Residential School and reopening of the school; implementation of Vaidyanathan Committee Report in total; immediate withdrawal of the order on stopping recruitments of teachers; extension of all benefits provided to government employees to employees of private aided educational institutions and others. Various district units of Madhyamika Shala Noukarara Sangh and other organisations will participate in the agitation by turn, the organisers said.
05 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Priyank Kharge seeks White Paper||Claiming that the State’s financial situation is on the verge of collapse, former Minister and Congress leader Priyank Kharge has demanded that the State government release a financial White Paper. Addressing a press conference in Kalaburagi on Thursday, Mr. Kharge stated that the government does not have funds to pay the salaries of employees in various departments. The State government is reeling under a massive debt burden and is expected to borrow Rs. 33,000 crore this fiscal year. So he demanded the government bring out a White Paper on the State’s economy. Taking a dig at Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan’s recent statement over releasing huge funds to all gram panchayats, Mr. Kharge said that despite the financial constraints, Mr. Narayan has promised to allocate Rs. 1.5 crore each to all 6,000 GPs in the State. As many as 14,500 guest lecturers have not been paid their salaries since March and the government has not taken any decision regarding the regularisation of services of guest lecturers working in 428 colleges across the State. He also rapped the government for slashing funds allocation to Special Component Plan (SCP) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) from Rs. 30,000 crore to Rs. 20,000 crore, the government has not yet released the special grants of Rs. 2,000 crore allotted in the budget for the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board. The estimated loss of Rs. 688.34 crore incurred by the recent floods has not yet reached the victims, he added.
05 December 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Man dies in accident||Basavaraj Amarapur, Head of the Electrical and Electronics Department, PDA Engineering College, died when two cars collided head-on near Aurad village on the outskirts of Kalaburagi city on Friday. His wife and daughter were seriously injured. The incident occurred when the family was travelling to Hyderabad for his treatment. The other car, coming from the opposite direction was travelling from Hyderabad to Kalaburagi. Police officials from Traffic station-2 visited the spot and registered the case.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DC: Regularise unauthorised auto parks if they don’t trouble others||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Friday directed the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) and the Mangaluru City Traffic Police (MCTP) to regularise all those unauthorised auto parks (autorickshaw stands) that do not cause inconvenience to general public. Chairing the Dakshina Kannada Regional Transport Authority (RTA) meeting here, Dr. Rajendra was responding to demands from autorickshaw owners and drivers’ associations about auto parks in the city. The associations said Mangaluru Smart City Ltd., (MSCL) was pulling down even authorised parks thereby severely inconveniencing drivers and owners. The DC said such parks that do not obstruct movement of pedestrians and vehicles may be regularised. The associations said they had demanded over 320 authorised parks in the city for over 7,000 autorickshaws, but only about 250 were regularised. The remaining should be regularised, they said adding their voices were not being heard in the MSCL works. Responding to this, Dr. Rajendra said he would invite representatives of the associations to the next meeting of the citizen action committee of MSCL. Whatever existing facilities in the city have to be accommodated within the Smart City plan and decisions would be taken accordingly, he said. The ssociations also expressed their concern over the plying of electric autorickshaws in the city. A representative said operators were adaptable to change. They changed from petrol to LPG and were ready to go for electric autos or even the CNG. However, an existing permit holder should be allowed to swap the permit to the new one, he asked. Another representative pointed out that transport department officials themselves did not have clarity on issue of permits to e-autos. Officials say e-autos do not need permits while the Motor Vehicles Act mandates every public transport vehicle should have permit to transport passengers. Dr. Rajendra directed Regional Transport Officer and RTA member-secretary R.M. Vernekar to get the issue clarified. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad, MCC Deputy Commissioner Santhosh Kumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Nataraj, and others were present.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fund-raising drive for Ram temple to begin on January 15||Seer of Udupi Pejawar Mutt and one of the trustees of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra  Vishwaprasanna Tirtha said here on Friday that the fund-raising drive to build the Ram temple at Ayodhya will commence across the country on January 15, 2021. It will go on for 45 days till February 27. Speaking after inaugurating the office of “nidhi samarpana abhiyan” to raise funds at Kadri in the city, the seer said that an individual can contribute a minimum of Rs. 10. There is no maximum limit. Each house can contribute a minimum of Rs. 100. The volunteers will visit doorsteps of people to collect the funds during the 45-day period, the seer, who is the only trustee from south India, said. He said that the trust has decided to raise funds from all as it should become a temple for common persons. Funds from the rich can be collected to build the temple. But common persons should contribute. The seer said that the temple will be the symbol of pride and respect of Hindus. “People can contribute voluntarily,” he said. M.B. Puranik, executive president, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, South Karnataka, said that if the rich only contributed it will not be a temple for the common people. For example, the Lakshmi Narayana Temple in Delhi is still known as Birla Mandir. Later replying to questions by presspersons, the seer said that cow slaughter should be banned.  The seer said that there should be a law to curb exploitation of women both physically and economically.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Marina proposed at Malpe Padukere beach||Home Minister and Udupi in-charge Basavaraj Bommai has said that funds will be released shortly to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) to construct a marina at Malpe Padukere beach in Udupi. Speaking at a function to dedicate a Rs. 2-crore tourism development project near the Malpe sea walk on Thursday, the Minister said that constructing a marina could help in the docking of small cruise vessels at Malpe. It will also help in promoting tourism and related commercial activities in the district. The Centre will be requested to sanction funds for the proposed marina project. A technical feasibility study will be done on setting up cable car facility at the beach. Mr. Bommai said that the district administration should have an exclusive logo to promote tourism in Udupi district. A master plan should be prepared for promoting beach and temple tourism. A vision document should be prepared to boost tourism. The tourism task force should be made more creative. He said that the administration has been instructed to submit proposals for the development of minor fishing ports in the district. The 5-km stretch of National Highway 169A between Karavali Junction and Malpe will be developed as a four-lane road. Approvals have been given to release Rs. 91 crore for the proposed project which is expected to commence within a year. The Minister said that the Goa model of coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) rules are likely to be implemented in Karnataka. The draft on the same is awaiting the approval of the Union government. If the same is approved there will be some relaxations in CRZ rules which will help for the promotion of tourism too. The tourism attractions dedicated on Thursday comprised an amphitheatre, a garden, a children’s play area, a pathway, seating arrangements, parking area, and five cement sculptures of a Garuda in Yakshagana style, a fisherman rafting a traditional boat, fishermen towing a fishing boat to the shore, a fish, and a cat.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Hadinabala Sripada Hegde dead||Yakshagana artist from the Badagu Thittu school Hadinabala Sripada Hegde passed away at a private hospital in Udupi late on Thursday. He was 67 and is survived by his mother, wife, and two sons. He was recovering from a head injury which he had suffered in a road accident about one-and-a-half years ago. As a professional artiste he had toured in various Yakshagana meals for four-and-a-half decades. He had toured in Yakshagana melas of Gundu Bala, Amruteshwari, Hiremahalingeshwara, Perdoor, Bachchagaru, Saligrama, Mandarthi, and Keremane. Condoling his death, president and secretary of Udupi Yakshagana Kalaranga M. Gangadhar Rao and Murali Kadekar said that he had carved a niche for himself by performing some puranic roles. He was the recipient of the Yakshagana Kala Ranga Award.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fire in Karkala TMC dumping yard||Smoke has engulfed several places in the surrounding areas of Karkala in Udupi district as the government’s dumping yard at Kariyakal has caught fire. The smoke has engulfed places like Kariyakal, Miyar, Sanoor, Nitte, Pulkeri, Kalikamba, Danashale, and Anekere affecting residential areas, according to reports reaching here. In a letter to the Deputy Commissioner of Udupi G. Jagadeesha, the Swaccha Karkala Brigade said that the fundamental right of the people of Karkala to a clean environment should be protected by the government. The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board too should take necessary measures, the letter said. Sources said that the same dumping yard of the Karkala Town Municipality caught fire this March and later had come under control. Now again local people are suffering. The fire is yet to be doused and the smoke has affected senior citizens.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex-Mayor Krishnappa Mendon no more||The former Mayor K. Krishnappa Mendon died here on Friday. He was 88 and is survived by his wife and two daughters. Mr. Mendon, from the Congress, was the Mayor of Mangaluru in 1993. He was elected to the Mangaluru City Corporation council four times since 1983 from Alape ward. Mr. Mendon had also served as the president of the Karavali Credit Cooperative Society.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Todikana Vasanth Bhat passes away||Founder-president of Dakshina Kannada Oil Palm Growers’ Association Todikana Vasanth Bhat passed away on Friday. He was 70 and is survived by his four children and wife. Mr. Bhat, from near Sullia, was instrumental in introducing oil palm cultivation in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. When many tracts of arecanut plantations in DK were destroyed by the yellow leaf disease, he took up with the government the initiative of introducing oil palm in such plantations replacing arecanut palms. Being an oil palm grower himself, he got involved in creating awareness on oil palm cultivation in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. He had been admitted to a hospital in Sullia three days ago where he died on Friday, sources said. The Sullia Taluk Oil Palm Growers’ Association has called a meeting to condole his death at APMC yard in Sullia on Saturday at 10 a.m.
05 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Accused who eluded police caught after 15 years||The city police have arrested an accused who had eluded the police for the last 15 years. Praveen, 40, of Meepaguri Madoor Road, Kasaragod was arrested on Friday by a special team formed by Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash. “Youth on the run since 15 years involved in rioting in 2005 caught by Mangaluru city police. Better late than never. Crime never pays,” the Police Commissioner tweeted. A police release said that a gang of five attacked a private bus conductor on a trivial issue in 2005. A case had been filed at the Mangaluru South Police Station under IPC Section 143, 147, 341, 323, 506 along with 149. While police had arrested four of the accused, the fifth one, Praveen, was at large. He was 25 years old then.
05 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The music fountain and laser show at Kadri Park (former deer park) has been reintroduced from this month. The shows will be organised only on Saturdays and Sundays from December 5. The shows had been suspended earlier due to the lock down and to prevent the spread of COVID-19.       Department of Minorities Welfare has invited applications for granting special incentive to those students studying D.Ed and B.Ed. Each student will get Rs. 25,000. Apply by December 11. Details can be had from its office in Pandeshwar.     Mangalore Management Association will hold its annual general meeting at SDM College of Business Management, M. G. Road here on December 16 at 6.30 p.m. It will be the 41st meeting.
05 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA to venture into low-cost group housing||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will make a renewed bid to venture into low-cost group housing scheme on the lines of apartments built by the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). Senior MUDA officials including its chairman M.V. Rajiv visited a few BDA flats in Kengeri on Friday to apprise themselves of the construction and the plans are to replicate such models in Mysuru as well. Mr. Rajiv said there was a land crunch in Mysuru and the city’s horizonal expansion could not be sustained infinitely as people were wary of commuting long distances from the city. Besides, MUDA had a pending list of nearly 1.5 lakh site applicants all of whom could not be provided with sites. Hence group housing and vertical growth model with multi-storeyed apartments was the only way forward and the MUDA was serious about it The MUDA delegation was led by the Mysuru district in-charge Minister S.T.S omashekar and comprised MUDA Commissioner Natesh and senior BDA engineers and officials. The delegation also sought information pertaining to civic amenities provided in the apartment complexes including UGD, open spaces and parks, roads, installation of rain water harvesting system etc. Mr.R ajiv said it is the first time that the MUDA was venturing into low-cost housing and it would benefit the commoners. The plan is to construct 2-BHK and 3-BHK flats on the available MUDA plots within the city. The proposed entry of MUDA into construction of luxury apartments which was mooted a few years ago but never really took off, has been dropped. Mr. Rajiv said the MUDA plans to construct about 6,000 to 8,000 housing units under the current plan and make it available to the public at an affordable price. Low cost need not be confused with low quality and it would be attractive, he said and pointed out that there was adequate land to take up such construction along the periphery of the Outer Ring Road (ORR). This is not the first time that the MUDA had announced its intention to promote group housing and opt for vertical growth model to overcome land scarcity. A similar scheme was announced more than 3 years ago but the government stipulated new norms and pegged MUDA’s investment in it at no more than 15 per cent. This meant that the rest of the funding had to come from the house aspirants and the project remained grounded. MUDA tried to overcome the cash crunch arising out of the norms by toying with the idea of creating a few luxury apartments for the middle and higher income groups so as to cross-subsidise the cost for low-cost apartments but it never took off. Meanwhile, other officials in the MUDA said plot development and creation of new layouts will not be dispensed by the MUDA as there are people with higher income preferring independent plots for construction.
05 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tobacco Board assures farmers of talks with traders||Chairman of Tobacco Board Y. Raghunadha Babu has assured the tobacco farmers of Mysuru region that he will soon convene a meeting with traders and convince them to increase the price of tobacco they were purchasing from the farmers. Mr. Babu was addressing tobacco farmers, who had gathered at the Regional Office of Tobacco Board in Mysuru on Friday, to voice their concern over the falling prices of the commodity ever since the auction season began in early October. He expressed confidence that merchants and representatives of global cigarette manufacturing companies will honour the Board’s appeal and urged the tobacco farmers not to panic. Farmers in Mysuru region were up in arms against the government over the collapse of tobacco prices, particularly the medium and low grade varieties, making a huge dent in their earnings. The low grade variety of tobacco, which used to fetch more than Rs. 100 per kg, is now less than Rs. 70 to Rs. 80 per kg, which had substantially brought down the average price of tobacco during the ensuing season, the farmers complained. Though Mr. Babu attributed the fall in prices to poor global demand for tobacco in the light of COVID-19, the farmers said the traders were exploiting the situation to increase their profit margins at the expense of the farmers. A large percentage of tobacco cultivated in Karnataka is exported abroad, particularly to the European countries, which are presently reeling under the impact of COVID-19, which affects the lungs. The medical fraternity is also cautioning the public against smoking, which also affects the lungs, he said. However, Mr. Babu said the situation in Karnataka was still not as bad as the condition of tobacco farmers in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, where auction season had coincided with the peak of COVID-19 in April. The Andhra Pradesh government was forced to intervene in the market and purchase about 13 million kg of tobacco through Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing Federation (Markfed). Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, who also participated in the meeting, said traders were not even maintaining the prices they offered at the start of the auction season, let alone increasing them. He urged the Board Chairman to hold the traders accountable to the prices they had quoted while giving an indent at the time of crop size fixation. The Board, based on the indent submitted by the traders, had fixed the crop size for Karnataka at 88 million kg. But, in view of excess production, the tobacco output is expected to cross 95 million kg this year. With the traders refusing to purchase low and medium grade tobacco, Mr. Simha said the farmers are forced to incur additional expenditure on transport of rejected tobacco bales from the auction platforms back to their farms and bring them back repeatedly. Former MP C.H. Vijayshankar, who was also participated in the meeting, urged the Board authorities to ensure that the tobacco auction season culminates by February and not stretched till April-May next year. Manjunath, Regional Manager of Tobacco Board, Mysuru, said a total of 24 million kg of tobacco had been auctioned till now.
05 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah cautions Kurubas||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Friday cautioned the Kurubas against efforts to divide the community. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, he alleged that the RSS had hatched a conspiracy to divide the Kurubas who had placed their trust in him. “They want to weaken Siddaramaiah politically in the process”, he said and added that BJP leader K.S. Eshwarappa, who was batting for the inclusion of Kurubas in the list of Scheduled Tribes (ST), was a “puppet” in the hands of the RSS. If Mr. Eshwarappa were to be serious about securing the ST tag for Kurubas, the BJP government in the State, in which he is a Minister, should secure approval for the same in the Cabinet and send the recommendation to the Union Government, which is also represented by the BJP. “Where is the need to launch a struggle by holding conventions and padayatras for the same?”, he asked. Mr. Siddaramaiah was speaking after rejecting an appeal made by BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath asking him to lead the struggle for securing Kurubas the ST tag. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Vishwanath sought to remind Mr. Siddaramaiah of the admiration the Kuruba community for him and even cited how some of them had even sold their livestock and donated the money for his election campaign. “What have you given back to the community?”, Mr Vishwanath sought to know. Reacting to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s stand that there was no need for a struggle to secure a ST tag for Kurubas, Mr. Vishwanath said nothing comes without a struggle.
05 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MCC resolves against water tariff hike||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) council has resolved against the proposed hike in water tariff for domestic use which had come under stringent criticism. The MCC had proposed to increase the tariff across all categories by 50 per cent to 60 per cent but the move met with stringent opposition from the councillors. They said there were commercial connections which had defaulted on payment and the same could be recovered. The MCC also agreed for a 20 per cent hike for commercial category. At the council meeting held on Friday the elected representatives cutting across party lines argued for plugging leakages and ensuring that the defaulters pay up to make up for the revenue deficit. The councillors argued that the MCC was supplying water to villages outside the corporation limits but the consumers were not being charged for it.
05 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Monkeys rescued||Activists of People For Animals (PFA) rescued nearly 15 monkeys that were trapped in a cage and meant for relocation outside the city limits, recently. The incident came to light when a few members of the public noticed the monkey capture operation in Siddarthanagar area. Kokila Jain and Ajay of the PFA said the monkeys were trapped in a cage and appeared in state of shock and disoriented. When questioned, those engaged in the capture operation said they were authorised by the Mysuru City Corporation. The activists contacted the MCC authorities and got the animals released.
05 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Two-phase polls in 176 GPs in Raichur district||Election for 176 gram panchayats in Raichur district are going to be scheduled in two phases, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has told The Hindu.  The district has a total of 179 GPs. But, two are facing election due to cases pending before the court and the term of one GP will end by 2021. Thus, 176 GPs are facing election, he said. The election for 96 GPs will be held in the first phase on December 22 and while for 80 GPs in the second phase on December 27. Raichur with 34 GPs, 31 GPs in Deodurga taluk, 17 in Manvi taluk and 14 in Sirwar taluk will face elections in the first phase.
05 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Voters’ list for GP elections finalised, says Cholan||The final list of voters eligible to vote in the Gram Panchayat elections, scheduled to be held in two phases on December 22 and December 27, is ready, P. Rajendra Cholan, Special Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike (BBMP) and Observer of voters list for Yadgir district, has said. Chairing a meeting related to voters in Yadgir on Friday, Mr. Cholan said that as many as 9,96,446 voters are eligible to vote to elect 2,291 representatives in 119 GPs in the district. Of the 9,96,446 voters, 4,97,902 are male while 498,534 are female, Mr. Cholan added. Yadgir taluk has total 1,57,555 voters for 22 GPs, 1,06,109 voters in Gurmitkal for 17 GPs, 1,57,596 voters in Shahapur for 24 GPs, 94,991 voters in Wadagera taluk for 17 GPs, 1,19,332 voters in Shorapur taluk for 21 GPs and 1,15,744 voters in Hunsagi taluk for 18 GPs respectively, he said. Mr. Cholan said that all preparations are in full swing to conduct fair and proper elections as per guidelines issued by the EC. R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner; Shilpa Sharma, CEO; Prakash Rajput, Additional Deputy Commissioner; Shankar Gowda Somnal, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub division; and tahsildars of all taluks were present.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bandh: ‘Loss to small traders may be considered for compensation’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday observed that even small traders, including those depending on roadside business for their livelihood, may be considered for awarding compensation payable by the organisers of bandh in case of loss of business caused due to activities related to bandh call. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty made these observations orally while hearing PIL petitions related to violation of COVID-19 norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in public places. “Business of small traders has already been affected due to the pandemic and now the bandh call by political parties will make them face more loss,” the Bench observed orally. Stating that it cannot pass any interim order on the bandh call as the Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha, which had called for bandh, is yet to respond to court’s notice, the Bench said that any loss caused due to the bandh call can be considered by appointing claims commissioners as per the Supreme Court’s guideline as a separate batch of PIL petitions related to legality of bandh calls are pending before the High Court. As per the apex court’s judgment, organisations responsible for bandh call are liable to to pay damages caused to private and public properties and individuals. Strict action Meanwhile, the Bench directed the State government to initiate strict action of imposing fine on individuals and higher penalty on organisers of rallies as part of the Karnataka bandh on December 5, if they violate COVID-19 norms. Meanwhile, noticing that the State government has not come out with any action plan to deal with the rallies during bandh, the Bench directed the government to invoke provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Regulations, 2020, against the organisers of rallies in case of violation of mask and social distancing norms as the State is witnessing a rise in COVID-19 positive cases from the last couple of days. Also, the Bench directed all the main political parties, the BJP, the Congress, and the JD(S) to submit actions taken by them to ensure that regulations are strictly followed during rallies while asking the CPI(M), which claimed to have taken steps to follow regulations during rallies, to furnish the documents in support of its claim.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP launches awareness campaign||The number of COVID-19 positive cases may be on the decline, but the BBMP is taking no chances. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta and Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Friday launched the ‘3Ws Campaign’ – Wear your mask, Wash your hands and Watch your distance – to create awareness among citizens. After the launch, Mr. Prasad said the civic body was committed to combat the pandemic with the Partnership for Healthy Cities, a global network of cities supported by Bloomberg Philanthropies with the World Health Organisation and Vital Strategies, a global health organisation. Mr. Gupta said that some cities, where citizens had slacked off from wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently, were now witnessing a second wave of infections. “We must strictly follow all protocols and guidelines prescribed by WHO to check the spread of the pandemic,” he said. As directed by the Centre, Mr. Prasad said a list of people, mostly frontline health workers, has been drawn up. “Though a list of 1.35 lakh people is ready, we are prepared to administer the vaccine to 25 lakh people in the city,” Mr. Prasad added. The BBMP had arranged for 150 ice-lined refrigerators and asked the State government to provide 35 more to increase storage facilities.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Hold polls to 198 wards’||A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty delivered the verdict on separate PIL petitions filed by the SEC, two former councillors M. Shivaraj and Abdul Wajid, and Ravi Jagan, a resident of Kalyan Nagar. The Bench held that the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (third Amendment) Act, 2020, which increases number of wards of the BBMP and allows the government to set up panels for delimitation of wards in all corporations, would not apply to the elections of the corporations which ought to have been held as per the mandate of Article 243U the Constitution before October 3, 2020, when amendment Act came into force. Stating that the laws made by the State legislature cannot defeat the purpose of the constitutional mandate of holding elections to the corporations before expiry of their term, the Bench said allowing elections after creation of 243 wards as per the new law would ‘infringe’ on the constitutional provisions. Allowing the process of increasing the number of wards may lead to a situation of not holding elections even till September 10, 2021 though election was due much before September 10, 2020, the Bench observed. Background The SEC on January 24, 2020 had filed a PIL in the High Court seeking directions to the government to complete the processes of delimitation of wards as per the 2011 census and fixing caste-based reservation for wards at the earliest to enable the Commission to complete elections before the term of BBMP’s council ended on September 10. Though the High Court had asked the government to complete both the process by April 1, the process were postponed due to lockdown imposed in view of COVID-19 pandemic besides delaying hearing before the court. Once lockdown was relaxed, the government notified delimited wards on June 24 and published the draft reservation on September 24 while simultaneously moving an amendment for the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act in the legislature to increase number of wards in the BBMP. After the legislature approved the amendment, the government on October 14 increased wards to 243 and set up a committee to carve out the new wards. The SEC sought court’s permission to conduct elections to BBMP keeping number of wards as 198 while ignoring increase in number of wards.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Arun Singh’s first visit to State stirs up activities in BJP||The arrival of Arun Singh, the new in-charge of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) affairs in the State, has stirred up the party, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his detractors are all set to make their case. Mr. Yediyurappa is keen on getting a green signal for the much delayed Cabinet expansion/reshuffle. He is lobbying hard to get the names of his loyalists — defectors N. Nagaraju (MTB), Muniratna, R. Shankar, and C.P. Yogeeshwar, MLC — cleared for the expansion exercise. He is also keen on dropping a few Ministers, sources close to him said. However, the two-day visit of Mr. Singh is expected to be stormy, as the old guards of the party are deeply unhappy over recent developments in the government and is expected to complain against alleged one-upmanship by the Chief Minister and lack of consultation on even politically sensitive administrative matters, sources said. Several senior leaders are upset over the recent formation of caste-based development corporations and attempts to tinker the reservation matrix that have opened Pandora’s box. These leaders are also expected to raise the issue of recent appointments to boards and corporations and how the party was not taken into confidence. The issues were reportedly discussed at the core committee meeting held on Friday night, sources said. However, the meeting was yet to conclude while going to print and no further details were available. Meanwhile, the State executive meet is scheduled to be held in Belagavi on Saturday. Laws against cow slaughter and ‘love jihad’ will be the main issues to be discussed, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said. He told journalists in Belagavi on Friday that the party would also discuss issues like the byelections to Basavakalyan and Maski Assembly seats, Belagavi Lok Sabha seat, and the gram panchayat polls.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bandh call by Kannada outfits unlikely to affect life in State||The bandh called by Kannada organisations against the formation of the Maratha Development Corporation on Saturday is expected to elicit a mixed response, with normal life remaining largely unaffected. Several key organisations like Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) led by T.A. Narayana Gowda, which initially opposed the bandh call, has only extended moral support. KRV, with the largest cadre base, has instructed its members not to participate in enforcing a bandh, but has planned a protest at the Chief Minister’s residence, sources said.  However, Vatal Nagaraj, president of the Kannada Okkoota, said several organisations have lent their support. He warned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa against suppressing democratic protests through the police. Meanwhile, the State government has been firm on not letting the bandh impact normal life. Mr. Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai have directed departments, including the police and transport, to foil the bandh call, sources said. Bengaluru city Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said there will be deployment across the city and anyone trying to force a closure of any establishment or affecting normal life will be severely dealt with.  All forms of public transport will function normally, sources said. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) have decided to run services as usual. Namma Metro services will also operate as usual, sources in Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. said. Cabs, auto services However, cab and auto services may take a partial hit in the city on Saturday, as a section of cabs and auto unions have supported the bandh call and have decided to stay off roads. Hotels and restaurants will remain open, said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Federation. “We are yet to recover from the losses we suffered during the lockdown and cannot afford to support a bandh. We will function on Saturday across the State,” he said. Malls may remain closed at least for the first half of Saturday. “Malls are usually the soft targets for stoning and vandalism during such bandhs and protests. So, we will mostly remain closed in the first half and take a call whether to open or not by Saturday afternoon depending on the situation. Already reeling under losses due to the pandemic, we do not want to lose a weekend,” a mall owner, who did not wish to be named said.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||RERA-K orders promoter to register ‘old project’||In a recent order being hailed for protecting the rights of homebuyers, the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA-K) has directed a promoter to register the project under RERA, apart from adhering to other demands of homebuyers. The promoter has been asked to register the project with the Authority within 60 days as the project was not completed “in all respects as on the date of the commencement of the Act”. Penalty proceedings have been initiated as the application for registration was not filed on time. Taking up complaints of lack of BWSSB and Bescom connections, the Authority has ordered the promoter of Platinum City to provide these facilities, apart from obtaining A khata and Occupancy Certificate. If the promoter fails to comply with the directions, which include forming the association of homebuyers as well as providing car parking space, penalty proceedings will be initiated, the order says. The complainants had alleged that they were dependent on temporary electricity connections, the cost of which is higher. “No official connection has been taken from BWSSB. No handing over of the common areas has been made. No Occupancy Certificate has been obtained,” they had alleged. The promoter said that the project cannot be brought under the purview of the RERA Act as it was completed before the Act came into force, and the apartments were sold 10 years ago. The promoter had also deemed the complaint “frivolous and without jurisdiction”. M.S. Shankar, general secretary, Forum for Peoples Collective Efforts (previously Fight for RERA), said homebuyers welcome this “landmark judgement”. “This order should deter similar illegal behaviour by the erring builder community. This is the first RERA-K judgment in which showcause notice was issued for non-registration of project. It is a landmark judgement by the three-member bench in favour of homebuyers where the buyers have been residing for 10 years,” he said.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BDA officials accused of preparing illegal site allotment documents||Four Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) officials, including a deputy secretary, are being questioned for their alleged role in an illegal site allotment scam. Their role came to light after the BDA Task Force and the police, on Friday afternoon, carried out a raid on a private office on Cunningham Road where illegal site allotment letters were being prepared. According to officials, the raid took place at the office of Redhan – The Cinema People. Police investigating the case said they have detained the owner of the office, Inder Kumar, who was present at the time of the raid. BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev told The Hindu that the accused officials were planning to prepare site allotment documents for 123 sites in various layouts formed by the BDA. “They had already printed allotment letters for 60 sites. An entire team was involved in the scam,” he said, and identified the accused as Deputy Secretary Shive Gowda, tahsildar Kamalamma and clerks Sampath Kumar and Pavithra, who work in the TDR section of the BDA. “We were alerted about this fraudulent practice. We kept a watch on the accused for 15 days with the help of the police before the office was raided. BDA documents required for issuing allotment letters, including maps, were seized,” said the Commissioner. They accused reportedly prepared allotment letters for sites measuring 20x30, 30x40 and larger sizes in various layouts. The market value of each site ranges from Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 2 crore, said officials. “I got information that the Deputy Secretary had collected Rs. 20 lakh per site. Prima facie, it is evident that they are involved in illegal deeds for monetary gain. The police investigation will reveal the details,” Mr. Mahadev added. During the raid, officials found a letterhead of the BDA Commissioner. The police have also raided the residences of the officials. “Action will be initiated against the accused officials based on the police investigation and a report will be submitted to the government,” Mr. Mahadev said.  I got information that the Deputy Secretary had collected Rs. 20 lakh per site H.R. Mahadev, Commissioner, BDA
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. told to re-build homes of slumdwellers||Observing that the State government prima facie failed to uphold the fundamental right to shelter of Sunday Bazaar slumdwellers in Kacharakanahalli whose huts were burnt by miscreants, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the government to construct temporary structures on the same government land besides paying around Rs. 14,000 as compensation for loss of goods. However, the court made it clear that providing of temporary structures does not create any right to stay on that land if they had encroached on government land. The government is free to take action for illegal occupation, the court said.. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the interim order on a PIL petition, suo motu initiated by the court on a letter by Vaishali Hegde bringing to the court’s notice the burning of huts of slumdwellers in March this year when the inmates had left for their native places. The direction for reconstructing the structures on the land were issued as the government had not bothered to provide shelter or rehabilitation till the court took suo motu note.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||1,247 new cases, 13 deaths in State on Friday||The State on Friday reported 1,247 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,90,360. With 13 deaths, the toll rose to 11,834. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 877 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,53,461 . Of the remaining 25,046 active patients, 287 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.27 %, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.04%. Bengaluru Urban reported 620 cases, taking its tally to 3,72,582. With eight deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,170. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 19,268. As many as 98,049 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 86,744 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,15,09,892.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Silken touch||
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to revise syllabus of diploma courses||The syllabus of diploma courses in the State will be revised as per the job potential in the competitive market, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan here on Friday. After a meeting with members of the Legislative Council on issues related to teachers and graduates, Mr. Narayan said the present diploma courses are not helping students get jobs in the market. Though 40,000 students obtain diploma degrees every year, nearly 20% of diploma-holders have not been getting jobs, he said. The syllabi will now to revised based on the needs of the industries and the market. It will be revised based on the New Education Policy-2020 after wider consultations, he said. Though there is no financial implication owing to the implementation of the NEP, the government has to frame new laws for it. The Deputy Chief Minister said the new laws would be introduced after discussions in the State Cabinet.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No night curfew||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Friday that the State government has ruled out imposition of night curfew as recommended by the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). “For now, there is no such plan,” he told mediapersons when asked if the State government was thinking about bringing back night curfew. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai too had clarified on Thursday that the government has no plan of introducing night curfew. In an advisory submitted to the government on November 30, the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has warned that a second wave of COVID-19 was expected during January-February 2021.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  District administration: International Day of Persons with Disabilities, Deputy Commissioner’s office hall, 11 a.m.  Nehru Yuva Kendra, Mangaluru: International Volunteers’ Day, P. S. Yadapadithaya, Vice-Chancellor, Mangalore University inaugurates, K. V. Rajendra, Deputy Commissioner, presides, University College, Hampankatta, 10 a.m.
05 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Polls will change course of State politics, says Thushar||The 2020 local body polls will change the course of State politics, Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) president Thushar Vellappally has said. Mr. Vellappally, who is also convener of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) State unit, said the people would teach the Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF) and those parties involved in political trade-off a lesson. “Both the BDJS and the NDA are engaged in wiping them out,” Mr. Vellappally said. Foundation day The BDJS will mark its fifth foundation day on Saturday. Mr. Vellappally said that both the ruling and Opposition fronts were scoffing at the Union government. “They have failed to convince the Centre on the State’s needs. On the other hand, the BDJS leadership met Union Ministers with an aim to protect the interests of the State. We have made effective interventions on matters such as agriculture subsidies, road development funds, setting up of IIT, AIIMS and so on,” he said. On the growth of the party, he claimed that the party had grown into a force to be reckoned with in State politics in a very short period of time. BJP has aided growth “Becoming an ally of the BJP and a constituent of the NDA has aided the growth of the BDJS. The BDJS-BJP alliance has benefited both parties. The massive jump in the NDA’s vote share in the last year’s Lok Sabha elections is a reflection of it. It shows in which direction the Kerala politics is heading,” he added.
05 December 2020||Kannur,KERALA||New team begins probe into Palathayi case||A new investigation team, which is investigating the Palathayi sexual abuse case involving a school teacher, has collected a blood-stained tile from the teachers’ wash room for forensic examination. Following a High Court order, the team led by the Taliparamba DySP had taken over the investigation from the Crime Branch and begun a separate investigation. The team arrived at the school to check if there was any scientific evidence. The victim’s second statement was that the abuse took place not in the children’s wash room but in the toilet used by the teachers. The forensic team reportedly found blood stains on the tiles in the toilet. These tiles were taken and sent for scientific testing. The blood sample of the child was also collected by the investigating team. According to the statement of the child, the teacher Padmarajan sexually abused her last March. family had approached the High Court against Inspector General of Police G. Sreejith, who was overseeing the Crime Branch investigation.  CBI probe sought Meanwhile, Padmarajan’s wife has sent a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, requesting a CBI probe in the case.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fronts intensify poll campaign||With less than a week to go for the local body polls, the poll managers of the political fronts are busy intensifying their campaigns. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], the leading partner of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which claimed to have gained an upper hand in the local bodies of the district during the 2015 polls, hopes to repeat its performance besides winning back the Kochi Corporation, which it lost to the Congress a decade ago. The warring factions in the Congress have buried the hatchet and put up a joint fight this time in the district. The realisation that the survival of the party and not group affiliations was important had dawned on the party rank and file, said a senior Congress leader. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has fielded double the number of candidates compared to the last election, hopes to wrest power in a few municipalities besides becoming the principal opposition in a few others. Going by field reports, said CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan, the LDF would win over 60 of the 82 grama panchayats and 10 of the 13 municipalities, besides winning back the Kochi Corporation. Corruption, inefficiency and the failure of the Congress-led regime to take forward the infrastructure projects in Kochi Corporation would turn the tide, he said. Though a bit worried about the presence of rebel candidates in the seats contested by front partner Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in West Kochi and some of its own candidates, Dominic Presentation, the newly appointed district chairman of the UDF, hoped to repeat the party’s performance in Kochi Corporation and other local bodies of the district. UDF would get over 40 seats in the Corporation, he said. Unity was visible in the rank and file and the organisational machinery was working overtime to take the campaign to the voters, he added. BJP district president S. Jayakrishnan said the party was hopeful of wining at least 25 grama panchayats and four municipalities. The party would emerge as a force to be reckoned with in the Kochi Corporation too, he added.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Close battle on the cards in 13 municipalities||The rival fronts appear evenly poised in the electoral battle for 13 municipalities in Ernakulam. The United Democratic Front (UDF) was leading with a slender margin of one municipality after it had won seven in the elections held in 2015. However, the reversal of fortunes at Koothattukulam favoured the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to lead the overall tally by 2018. Besides Koothattukulam, the Left front was ruling the councils in Muvattupuzha, Angamaly, Eloor, Perumbavoor, Thripunitura and Thrikkakara at the end of the term of the outgoing councils. The UDF was in power in six municipalities such as Aluva, Kalamassery, Kothamangalam, Piravom, North Paravoor and Maradu. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had increased its presence in various divisions while it was the Opposition in Thripunitura, leaving the Congress in the third place in the previous election. The Congress-led UDF, which had witnessed its traditional strongholds crumbling in the 2015 election, has pinned high hopes on the anti-incumbency factor in the civic bodies where the LDF was in power. From having ruled 10 municipalities in 2010, the UDF had to face setbacks in Thripunitura, Perumbavoor, Angamaly and Eloor in 2015.  The LDF exuded confidence of improving its tally. However, anti-incumbency sentiment remains a worry for the CPI(M)-led front in some of its traditional strongholds such as Muvattupuzha. The BJP is hopeful of making dents in the prospects of both the UDF and LDF across municipalities. In 2015, the BJP had 23 councillors across seven municipalities.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A campaign without flex boards||Spotting the face of the Congress candidate on flex boards and graffiti in Ward 16 of the Angamaly municipality would be almost impossible. In this fierce poll battle, it may seem incredible to many and may definitely raise eyebrows among some. However, Shiyo Paul, former municipality chairman, remains confident. “It was a conscious decision to do away with flex boards and wall graffiti in view of the pandemic. I wanted to avoid the expenditure, especially amidst the financial crisis triggered by the COVID-19 situation,” he said. A member of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, Mr. Paul said he knew the electorate at close quarters and was not worried about not having flex boards or graffiti in every nook and corner of the ward. “We have also avoided mike announcement while promoting maximum house visits and one-to-one interactions with the voters,” he said. His poll managers have been sending his photos and vote requests through WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Mr. Paul, who is among the potential candidates for the chairman’s post if the United Democratic Front (UDF) wins, said the campaign expenses he had saved would be donated to charity.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays government decision to bar PwC||The Kerala High Court on Friday stayed for one week the State government order barring Pricewaterhouse Coopers Private Ltd (PwC) from participating in government projects for two years and refusing to extend a contract relating to the Kerala Fibre Optics Networks (K-FON) project with the PwC. Justice P.V. Asha passed the stay order on a writ petition filed by Rakesh Kaul Panjabi, a partner of the PwC, challenging the government order. The petitioner pointed out that the government had decided to bar/blacklist the petitioner company on the ground that the company did not perform a comprehensive background check, including the educational qualifications of an individual in the PMU Space Park. The company had been the management consultant for the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited’s (KSITIL) space park project. Swapna’s posting The government took the decision in the wake of allegations that it was the PwC that had cleared the appointment of Swapna Suresh, an accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, as operations manager of the space park. It was allegedly based on the recommendation of the Chief Minister’s former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar. It was found later that Swapna’s graduation certificate was a bogus one.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval demo held in Ernakulam channel||In view of the pandemic, the customary operational display associated with the Navy Day celebrations was held in the Ernakulam channel opposite the naval jetty on Friday. The demonstration comprised simulated combat beach recce and assault by Marine Commandos (Marcos) using inflatable watercraft, special ops demo by the Marcos team, boarding and search of suspected vessels, helobatics by ALH and Chetak helicopters, slithering operations and fly-past by assorted fixed wing aircraft and helicopters. Eight ships of the Southern Naval Command undertook various demonstrations. Explosive ordnance disposal team’s detection and safe disposal of explosive device and a continuity drill by a 30-member team from INS Dronacharya added to the attractions. Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, witnessed the event.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||BJP manifesto offers free vaccination||The BJP-led NDA will provide free COVID-19 vaccination and insurance coverage for all city residents and set up an Armed Forces Medical College in Kochi if it comes to power in Kochi Corporation. A Surat-model waste treatment plant, septage treatment facility, implementation of e-governance programme, development of satellite towns around Kochi, development of city markets into high-tech ones and setting up of solar farms have found place in the poll manifesto that was released on Friday. The development of Old Railway and Harbour stations and a programme for mosquito eradication were among the poll promises released by party leader A.N. Radhakrishnan.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||486 COVID cases reported||A total of 486 people were confirmed positive for SARS-CoV2 in Ernakulam while 440 patients recovered on Friday. The source of infection of 119 of the new patients remained untraced. There were seven health workers among the newly infected. Mulavukad, with 20 new cases, recorded the most number of cases in the district, followed by Pallipuram (19), Asamannur, Kalamassery, and Vadakkekkara (15 each), and Thrikkakara (14).
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||3,865 poll materials seized||A total of 3,865 poll campaign-related materials that violated the model code of conduct have been seized by the defacement squads led by tahsildars. The seized materials included posters, flex boards, banners, boards, flags, and graffiti. The most number of violations were in Kanayannur taluk (908). A total of 606 material were seized from Kochi taluk while 779 were removed from Aluva, 345 from Kunnathunad, 646 from Muvattupuzha, 437 from Kothamangalam and 144 from Paravur taluk. A communication from the district information office said that notices, posters, and graffiti on walls or on the premises of government offices, material that caused nuisance to the public and material displayed in private property without permission amounted to violation.
05 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One held on charge of job fraud||The Central police on Friday arrested a person on the charge of cheating job aspirants across the State of lakhs of rupees by promising them job visas. The arrested man was identified as Shihab, 29, of Sulthan Bathery in Wayanad. He used to run a firm, C4 Carrier Infinity Unity Pvt Ltd, on M.G. Road since 2015 offering student visa and other education-related services. Since last year, the accused started collecting money from job aspirants by promising job visas to Denmark, Norway, and Canada without licences. The victims realised that they had been cheated when the accused repeatedly failed the promises. Following this, they started lodging petitions in their respective police stations. The accused used to run branches at Kacheripady in Kochi, Thrissur, and Sulthan Bathery. Cases have been registered in all these places. The Central police alone have registered nine cases. The accused sneaked out of the State and was in Bengaluru, Chennai, and Mumbai. A team led by Inspector S. Vijayasankar, sub inspectors Vipin Kumar, Thomas Pallan, and Sunil Kumar, assistant sub inspector Gopi, senior civil police officers Aneesh, Ignasius, and Godwin, and civil police officer Baiju made the arrest. He will be produced in court on Saturday.
05 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||High Court initiates suo motu proceedings on temple entry||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday initiated a suo motu proceeding based on news reports that Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran’s wife and her retinue had entered the Nalambalam of the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple violating the COVID-19 restrictions. When the case was taken up for hearing, counsel for the Guruvayur Devaswom brought to the notice of the court a petition pending before a single judge in the matter. The petition had sought a directive to the police to register a case and seize the unedited CCTV footage. According to reports, on the day of Ekadasi and the next day, the Devaswom chairman along with the wife of the Minister and two other VVIPs, including two Devaswom managing committee members, and the Devaswom Commissioner had entered the Nalambalam despite the ban on entry into the shrine.
05 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vijayaraghavan flays UDF||The United Democratic Front (UDF) is engaged in a smear campaign against Kerala’s pro-people governance, said Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan here on Friday. Speaking at Janavidhi-Thaddesheeyam 2020, a discussion series organised by the Kollam Press Club, he said: “this local body polls will witness a battle between development and gossip.” Alleging that the UDF had joined hands with communal forces, he pointed out that the front now considered unjustifiable opportunism as its major strength. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the UDF manifesto that did not carry a single line against the Bharatiya Janata Party was proof enough. “On the other hand, they also formed an election tie-up with the Welfare Party of India. How can they justify this political stand? The UDF is just trying to cheat the people of Kerala.” He observed that two UDF MLAs getting arrested on graft charges was a clear indication of the political decay of the UDF. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan forwarding a breach of privilege notice against Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac to the Privileges and Ethics Committee was part of the procedure, he maintained.
05 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||At 570, Kottayam sees a spike in new cases||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to increase rapidly with 570 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Friday. Of the new cases, 559 persons contracted the virus through local contact while 11 cases came from outside the State. The new cases also included 59 children and 92 persons aged above 60.  With 500 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,989 active cases. Contact cases  Alappuzha district logged 394 COVID-19 cases on Friday. The new cases include 376 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission while the source of another 14 people remains unknown. Three persons who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 548 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,623. 662 recover in Kollam Kollam district reported 318 new COVID-19 cases, five deaths, and 662 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 314 contact cases, two NRIs, one person with no known source, and one health worker. A 33-year-old Ayalamon resident is the case with no known source. The health worker who tested positive is from Patharam. The district currently has 14,894 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,76,263. While 1,451 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 1,15,741 primary and 9,935 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present, Kollam has 3,647 active cases. 2,236 active cases As many as 163 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta district on Friday. Of the new cases, 148 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 48 persons were yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Pallickal reported 12 cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with eight cases. With 287 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,236 active cases.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kollam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)
05 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beaches, public parks reopened in Kozhikode||All the beach destinations and public parks in Kozhikode district were reopened to visitors on Friday considering the improving COVID-19 situation. Police squads from various stations have been deployed at the sites to control crowd and enforce safety protocol. District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) officials said more cautionary boards explaining safety protocol would be placed at the reopened sites including the Kozhikode beach and Vadakara sand banks. Disinfection work would be carried out at regular intervals by trained staff, they said. Spot action An official attached to the Tourism Department said screening measures would be intensified at all the destinations. Spot action would be initiated against those who turn up without wearing masks and flouting physical-distancing norms, he said. According to officials, traders will also be screened for the safety of visitors. Elderly persons with lifestyle diseases and children below 10 years would be discouraged from visiting the spots. They also made it clear that the situation would be reviewed further on the basis of newly reported cases and test positivity rate. Though beaches had been opened earlier as part of a trial, poor cooperation on the part of the public in complying with safety protocol forced the authorities to revoke the decision. Kappad beach was one such destinations, where many persons reportedly contracted the virus following the increase in the number of visitors. Many cleaning labourers had been quarantined after confirming the viral infection. Meanwhile, the reopening of some of the parks and eco-tourism spots turned out to be a rewarding experience for the authorities as well-informed visitors strictly followed the safety guidelines. Moreover, the presence of sufficient number of security personnel and the online entry fee payment system made their task easier.
05 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Railway rolls out new signal systems in Malabar||The Palakkad Division of the Southern Railway has begun the process of installing more signalling systems in north Kerala to improve the speed of trains in the sector. R. Bhaskaran, Principal Chief Signal and Telecommunications Engineer, Southern Railway, inspected a new Intermediate Block Section (IBS) at Mahe railway station recently. On commissioning, the facility will be helpful for operations in a larger way, officials said. At present, an express train from Mahe to Vadakara takes 10 minutes to clear the section. For passenger and goods trains, it takes 12 to 14 minutes. Once IBS is rolled out at Mahe and Vadakara, an express train will take less than five minutes to proceed from Mahe to Vadakara or vice versa. In the case of passenger and goods trains, it will be six to seven minutes. The IBS facility was in the final stage of execution, officials said. To improve operational efficiency, the Palakkad Division had commissioned an IBS between Tikkotti and Vadakara in September last week. The signalling arrangement introduced in the section bifurcates the 12.61-km-long block section between Tikkotti and Vadakara. This helps in avoiding detention of trains on both sides, besides ensuring punctuality and enhancing line capacity in the section. Prior to the introduction of IBS, express trains took 10 minutes, while passenger trains took 18 minutes (including stoppage time at the two halt stations in the section), whereas goods trains required 13 minutes to pass through the section between Tikkotti and Vadakara. Officials said that the IBS facility between Tikkotti and Vadakara was the sixth in the division. It is available on Kanjikode - Walayar (in B-line ghat section), Palakkad Junction - Parli, Parli -Lakkidi, Payyannur - Charvattur, Kanhangad - Kottikulam and Kumbla - Manjeswaram sections.
05 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Clean Kerala starts garbage collection from Haritha Senas||The Clean Kerala Company has started collecting different types of waste materials from Haritha Karma Senas in Kozhikode district. The company has brought out a price chart of around 20 types of waste materials that it would collect. The first handover took place in Kodiyathur grama panchayat on Thursday in which 660 kilograms of plastic covers collected and segregated by the Haritha Karma Sena was handed over to the company. Members of Haritha Karma Senas in all local bodies in the district were trained on collection and segregation of waste in October under the aegis of the Haritha Keralam Mission, Suchitwa Mission, Kudumbashree Mission and Clean Kerala Company. The training sessions were mostly online while there were also some practical sessions. Haritha Keralam Mission District Coordinator P. Prakashan said that the handover of waste from other local bodies would also begin soon. The price of materials would be remitted into the account of the Mission by the Clean Kerala Company, which in turn would be handed over to respective Haritha Karma Senas. The procedure will ensure an additional revenue for Haritha Karma Sena members besides collection of waste from houses and establishments. Meanwhile, the company has brought out a calendar for the collection procedure in the district. Materials like paper, plastic, and plastic covers will be collected every month. Footwear, bags and thermocol will be collected in January, April, July and October while mirrors, glass and glass products will be collected in February, May, August and November. e-waste (tube lights, CFL and batteries included) will be collected in March, June and December while medicine strips will be collected in January, March, June, September and December. Waste cloth will be collected in April and September.
05 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police book six persons for attacking newly-wed youth||The Koyilandy police on Friday booked six persons on the charge of attacking a newly-wed youth and smashing his car following a dispute over his marriage at Naderi on Thursday evening. The attack was allegedly masterminded by the bride’s uncles who made their entry with swords and iron rods. Police sources said the youth, who had married his lover under the Special Marriages Act, was attacked while he was on the way to the bride’s house along with some of his friends and relatives for solemnising the wedding the religious way. According to the police, the solemnisation event was fixed following a cordial invitation from the bride’s family and to amicably settle the disagreements. However, the bride’s two uncles spoiled the plan and resorted to a street attack, the police said. The youth and some of his close friends suffered minor injuries in the incident. The attackers withdrew from the scene after some of the local people came to the rescue of the victims. The Koyilandy police said they had identified two main suspects in the incident and a search was on for them. They refuted the allegation by the youth’s relatives that the investigation into the incident was delayed to facilitate the attackers’ escape.
05 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 773 new COVID-19 cases||Kozhikode district recorded 773 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, of which 738 were local transmission cases. The source of infection of 19 cases could not be traced. As many as 554 people were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Friday. The number of COVID tests done in Kozhikode district has crossed eight lakh. So far, 8,06,671 samples were tested, and results were available for 8,03,573 samples. In Malappuram Malappuram registered the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State on Friday when 943 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. District officials said that 903 of them had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. In Wayanad A total of 180 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday. Of the new cases, 178 persons were infected through local contact.
05 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fellowship for paediatrician||T.P. Ashraf, district president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics, and Paediatrician at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, has been chosen for the award of Fellow of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (FIAP) in 2020. The award will be presented at a conference of paediatricians to be held in Mumbai in February 2021. He has been chosen based on his performance as the superintendent of the Institute for Maternal and Children’s Health in Kozhikode, executive director of the State Social Security Mission, and the first project director of State Initiative on Disabilities, besides his academic achievements, a press release said.
05 December 2020||Neyyattinkara,KERALA||No clear favourite at Neyyattinkara||In contrast to the grey skies above, Neyyattinkara town is awash with colourful posters and hoardings of candidates contesting the elections from its 44 wards. Ear-popping mike announcements add a dash of excitement to the somewhat tepid campaigning in the midst of COVID-induced restrictions. Taking a break from campaigning in the CPI(M) office, former party area secretary P.K. Rajmohan, who is leading the Left Democratic Front (LDF) machinery, says they are asking the public for a mandate of more than 25 seats so as to provide stable governance. ‘Blocking development’ The 2015 council led by the LDF, he says, was hobbled by the Congress and BJP blocking development projects. Hence, many of the LDF’s ‘dream’ projects, such as an electric crematorium, could not be realised. With a majority, the LDF will be able to take up unfinished business. “Anti-incumbency is not very evident in Neyyattinkara,” says Mr. Rajmohan, who is contesting from the Moonnukallinmoodu ward. District Congress Committee general secretary and former councillor Jose Franklin, contesting from the Muttakkadu ward, is set to start the seventh round of campaigning. A front runner for the chairperson’s post, he is confident the United Democratic Front will wrest the municipality from the LDF with 25 to 30 seats. ‘Promises not kept’ “The past five years have been marked by betrayal of promises, particularly on the electric crematorium. Decentralised waste management, bus service for the town, Perumpazhathoor Junction development, steps for Karamana-Kaliyikkavila road development to reach Neyyattinkara, market development – none of these have been realised.” Mr. Franklin points out that the land acquired by the LDF for the electric crematorium is in a colony. “We will set up crematorium in an unpopulated site. Mini-waste-management plants will also be set up,” he says. Shibu Raj Krishna, BJP candidate at the Rameswaram ward, says his good work in neighbouring Amaravila last time will catapult him to victory. He also claims that Nadar voters will back him owing to his development agenda. “Look at the condition of the roads in the ward. Even the anganwadi here does not have its own building. Various projects are not reaching the people. In the municipality, 50% of the annual Plan allocation has not been utilised.” All three coalitions admit intense triangular contests in wards such as Koottappana, Vadakodu, and Rameswaram. Both the UDF and the LDF are unanimous that the BJP will not retain even half the seats it won last time. The ‘Modi factor’ is dismissed without a second thought. However, the BJP hopes to win at least 12 seats this time. “Even if we do not win, we will decide who comes to power,” says Mr. Krishna.
05 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Voters should sanitise hands before and after polling||Voters will have to sanitise their hands before and after casting their votes in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Health officials will sanitise the hands of the voters when they enter the polling booth. After polling, the voters will have to use the sanitisers kept inside the booth. There will be five polling officials in a booth. When the presiding officer will be in charge of the entire booth and the law and order there, the first polling officer will scrutinise the voter’s identity proof. The second polling officer will mark the voter’s attendance, offer the voter’s slip, and apply the indelible ink on the voter’s finger. The third polling officer will verify the ink on the voter’s finger and activate the electronic voting machine (EVM) for the voter to vote. The fourth official will be an assistant. None will be permitted to enter the polling booth other than the voters and those with the passes issued by the Election Commission. District Collector D. Balamurali appealed to the people here on Friday to cooperate with the polling officials to ensure free and fair election. He asked the political parties to issue badges and identity cards to their workers. The slips issued to the voters should be in white paper and should not carry any symbols or names of candidates. The Election Commission has banned the use of masks with the name or symbol of any political parties within 100 metres of the polling station in municipal limits and within 200 metres of the polling station in panchayats. Sale of liquor has been banned for 48 hours until the polling ends, and on the day of counting. Mr. Balamurali said that crowding should be avoided near polling booths, and around the booths set up by the political parties. The camps set up by the candidates should be luxury-free and should not distribute any food items.
05 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||447 cases in Palakkad||Palakkad district registered 447 new COVID-19 cases and 444 recoveries on Friday. When 234 of the new cases had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, the source of infection could not be traced in 201 cases. Among the new cases were six health workers and six persons who came from across the border. Officials said that 4,630 persons were currently under treatment for COVID-19 across Palakkad. Quarantined Most of them, however, were at their respective homes. Nearly 14,000 people were quarantined across the district.
05 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||KC(M) split may turn the tide||If one strictly goes by the number of seats it has secured in the council over the last two-and-a-half decades, the United Democratic Front (UDF) should not have much of a problem in retaining the Thiruvalla municipality in the coming local body election. But with a recent split in the Kerala Congress (M) and the subsequent changes in coalition dynamics, the challenge faced by the traditional favourite has become much tougher this time. Of the seven wards in which the splinter factions of the KC(M) are facing off, only one seat favoured the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the previous polls. For a civic body having just 39 wards, the battle between the arch-rivals will be crucial in setting the final tally for both coalitions. The KC(M), which had 10 seats in the outgoing council, became the lead partner of the ruling UDF after the High Court disqualified two Congress councillors for whip violation. When the party split vertically a few months ago, seven of them chose to stand by P.J. Joseph and the rest switched sides to the LDF with Jose K. Mani.  Rebel issue “The overall mood is in favour of the UDF, but the presence of rebels in a handful of seats and the unending disputes between the P.J. Joseph faction and the Congress have become a headache,” admits a top UDF leader. The LDF, which had just nine members in the previous council, looks to pull off a turnaround on the back of a high-intensity campaign focussing on the welfare measures of the State government. The presence of the Mani faction, which contests in nine seats, is crucial for the coalition. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), which contests in 19 seats, has fielded several Independents this time. The Communist Party of India has four candidates. The Janata Dal (S) has been given five seats and the Nationalist Congress Party and Loktantrik Janata Dal, one seat each. “The entry of the Mani group has become an added advantage, especially in areas where the Left parties have not been able to consolidate their position,” says CPI(M) district secretary K.P. Udayabhanu.  Strong presence The BJP, which won four seats last time, commands a strong presence in over 50% of the wards and looks to improve its tally. Among the candidates are four former municipal chairpersons, and three of them belong to the KC(M).
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aggregator licence to hit KSRTC badly||The Centre’s decision to allow private bus services on any routes without permits will alter the public transport scenario and hit the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) which is trying to emerge from the red. The monopoly now enjoyed by State transport undertakings such as the KSRTC on inter-State routes would go when Section 36 of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, notified by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), is implemented. MoRTH has asked the Chief Secretaries of all States to follow the guidelines. The Motor Vehicle Aggregator Guidelines, 2020 has been issued as per the requirements and provisions of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 and the amended Section 93 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. With this, private bus operators can take aggregator licence and run inter-State services. No permit system The existing permit system will become invalid. All-India tourist omnibuses will now be able to ferry passengers by issuing tickets online and providing better services. As per the guidelines, the licence issued by the State government is a mandatory pre-requisite for permitting business operations by the aggregator. The aggregator licence, priced at Rs. 5 lakh, is for five years. Companies having 100 buses and 1,000 other vehicles can apply for licence after paying the deposit. However, MoRTH has claimed that the proposed guidelines will ensure regulation of aggregators, compliances with regard to vehicles and drivers, aggregator app and website, manner of fare regulation, drivers’ welfare, service to citizens’ parameters, and safety. State to oppose it A high-level meeting chaired by Transport Minister A. K. Saseendran on Friday took stock of the situation arising out of the MoRTH notification and decided to inform the Centre of the State's opposition. A three-member committee with the Secretary, Transport, State Transport Commissioner and Chairman and Managing Director, KSRTC, has been set up to work out the guidelines protecting the interest of the State. The committee will meet on Wednesday.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||When the polling booth itself comes calling the voter at home||Perhaps for the first time in an electoral process after the outbreak of COVID-19, the polling booth itself is coming to the houses of those who tested positive and those who have been in home quarantine. Over the past two days, Special Polling Officers (SPOs) attired in protective gear have been fanning out across wards where the first phase of the local body polls are scheduled on December 8 to record the votes of those who are forced to stay indoors due to the virus in special ballots. For the SPOs and Special Polling Assistants (SPA), deployed from government departments, this is a novel experience, one in which they need to take a level of extra care, for their own safety. The process “We have been asked not to remain within the PPE (personal protective equipment) for more than five hours. So, we call the respective voters beforehand, fill in their forms and get the accurate directions to the house before we start our journey. Once we reach the house, the signatures are affixed on the papers and the ballot paper is handed over to them. They mark their votes, put it inside a ballot cover, seal it and drop it inside a large cover that we carry with us, to avoid any kind of contact with the voter. This large cover is then sealed and dropped in a box kept with the returning officer,” says an SPO deployed here. Those who require time According to the officers, most of the voters have been sure about their votes and returned the ballots immediately. For those who require some more time to take their decision, there is the option of sending it by post, but it is not often encouraged as this entails breaking the quarantine. Each team has an SPO, an SPA, and a police officer for their security cover and a driver. The teams were provided training for two days over the weekend. Still, on the first day of field visits on Monday, health officials were at hand to help them. Covering 20 voters “On the first day, we ended up working for close to seven hours as we were still getting used to this, but from the second day we were able to complete the assigned voters within five hours. On a given day, a team can reach around 20 voters. But there are cases where there are five voters in quarantine in a single house. All of the voters we have met till now have cooperated well,” says a polling officer. The SPOs visit the houses of those who have tested positive the previous day. The special votes can be cast by those who are tested or placed in quarantine till 3 p.m. on the day before polling. Those who test positive after 3 p.m. have the option of going to the polling booth directly, wearing a PPE, in the last hour of polling.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll campaigning to end tomorrow||The campaigning for the December 8 local body polls in the district will come to a close at 6 p.m. on December 6. The jamboree which marks the end of the open campaigning, will not be held, given the COVID-19 scenario. District Collector Navjot Khosa has urged political parties to refrain from such celebrations involving crowds. Action would be taken against candidates who violate the prohibition on ‘kottikalasham.’ The Collector also requested candidates to avoid rallies over the next two days. Once open campaigning ends, political workers who have arrived from elsewhere for campaigning should leave the wards. This is not applicable to the candidates or election agents. The anti-defacement squads have so far removed 23,329 unauthorised campaign materials in the district, Ms. Khosa said. Liquor ban A liquor ban will be imposed in the district for 48 hours from 6 p.m. on Sunday in view of the December 8 elections. The ban will be in place on December 16, the counting day, also, Ms. Khosa said. December 8 will be a holiday in the district for all educational institutions, government, semi-government and public sector institutions. Establishments that accommodate polling stations will have a holiday on December 7 and 8. Institutions which house the distribution centres for polling materials will have holidays from December 6 to 9.
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Disease transmission stays low||Kerala’s COVID-19 curve remains on an extended plateau, as the low level of disease transmission has continued throughout the State over the past one month, with the test positivity rate remaining steady between 9% and 11%. While new cases have generally begun to show a declining trend, there has been no let-up in the mortality. The State is now bracing for another peak, with disease monitoring indicators in some northern districts showing a spike. On Friday, Kerala reported 5,718 new cases when 57,456 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 6,25,767. The test positivity rate was 9.95%. With 5,496 more patients recovering and getting discharged from hospitals, the State’s active caseload has now dropped to 61,401. So far, 5,61,874 recoveries have been reported in the State. 29 deaths The addition of 29 more deaths to the official death list on Friday has taken the State’s toll to 2,358. Malappuram reported seven of these deaths, Kottayam six, Kollam five, Ernakulam and Kozhikode three each, Thrissur and Wayanad two each and Thiruvananthapuram one. According to official data, 867 COVID-19 patients in the State are at critically ill and being treated in ICUs in various hospitals, with 215 requiring ventilator support. Outside State Of the 5,718 new cases reported on Friday, 5,623 are locally acquired infections, with the authorities unable to establish the epidemiological link in 572 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection was 60. In 95 cases, health officials have reported a history of travel outside the State. Among districts, Malappuram reported 943 cases, Kozhikode 773, Kottayam 570, Thrissur 528, Ernakulam 486, Palakkad 447, Alappuzha 394, Kollam 318, Thiruvananthapuram 279, Kannur 275, Idukki 216, Wayanad 180, Pathanamthitta 163 and Kasaragod 146 cases.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special voters will have to buy own PPE kit||Special voters who will be permitted to visit polling booths to cast their vote in the local body elections will have to buy their own PPE (personal protective equipment) kit if they are not hospitalised or quarantined in a government-run establishment. Electors who test positive or go in quarantine after 3 p.m. on the day prior to the elections can cast their vote directly at the booths at the fag end of polling. They will have to reach the booth before 6 p.m. They will be provided PPE kit if they are staying at a government-run establishment, including government hospitals. A special voter who is quarantined at his own residence will have to equip himself with a PPE kit. Also, “special voters staying at any place other than government hospital shall reach the polling station to exercise their vote by themselves. They should not stop in between the travel from home to the polling station. The driver should also wear a PPE kit while taking the patient. There should not be any bystander accompanying the patient in the same vehicle”, says the guidelines issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) in this regard. Special voters who have not yet received special postal ballots should contact the returning officers or assistant returning officers concerned. The commissioner has directed secretaries of local bodies to publish the contact numbers of the officers concerned. The step has been taken to ensure the time-bound completion of the distribution of the special ballots.  Ballot distribution The distribution of the ballots is progressing in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki which go to the polls in the first phase of the elections on December 8. The special ballots on which the voters have marked their preferences should be handed over to the returning officers. Only those postal ballots that are received before 8 a.m. on December 16 will be counted. The fresh election schedule for five wards in Kollam, Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kannur districts where the polls have been cancelled following the deaths of candidates will be announced later.
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Acceptance to UDF’s anti-graft stance: KPCC||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran has said the anti-corruption platform of the United Democratic Front (UDF) has resonated strongly among voters and will help the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) coast to victory in the local body elections. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ramachandran said the corruption scandals that had dogged the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and also the leadership of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] had vexed traditional Left Democratic Front (LDF) voters. They wanted to punish the CPI(M) for misusing their mandate for private profiteering.  Voters disenchanted The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was not a credible alternative for most, given its brand of majoritarian politics. Hence, voters disenchanted with the CPI(M) would choose the UDF. The absence of rebel candidates had helped the Congress approach the polls on full sail. Influential social organisations had no dispute with the UDF’s political stance. Voters had an added incentive to pitch for the UDF’s development agenda. They had witnessed at close quarters how public works ground to a halt after the government slashed Plan funds. Unfinished civic projects littered the State; monuments to the LDF’s incompetence. Mr. Ramachandran dismissed the suggestion that the UDF’s anti-corruption slogan would sound hollow at the hustings given the bribery charges against a galaxy of top Congress leaders. Bogus charges The Vigilance, headed by the LDF, had found the allegations raised by bar hotelier Biju Ramesh baseless. The CPI(M) had attempted to breathe life into the bogus charges in a vain attempt to retard the momentum of the UDF campaign. The CPI(M) was also prosecuting a campaign of vendetta against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala for exposing corruption at the level of the CMO. The distribution of social welfare pensions, executing development works, providing free ration, modern health care and education were the bounden duties of the State. The CPI(M) had mistakenly calculated that such governance claims alone would catapult it to victory. Antipathy to corruption and political issues would inform voters in the polls. The CPI(M) had underestimated the groundswell of opposition it faced at the hustings. Mr. Ramachandran said the sly insinuation that the Indian Union Muslim League would dislodge the Congress as the dominant partner in the UDF and that the party was in secret alliance with the political arm of the Jamaat-e-Islami, Welfare Party of India, would not pass muster with Kerala’s secular voters. The Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) would have no impact on the electoral prospects of the UDF in central Travancore.  Unfinished civic projects litter the State; monuments to the LDF’s incompetence
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Candidates threatened, alleges TVM||All major political parties should ensure equal rights for all candidates, including Independents, to campaign and put an end to attacks against Independent candidates, Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM) president S.N. Raghuchandran Nair and general secretary M.S. Venugopal said in a joint statement here on Friday. They alleged that attempts were being made to force the TVM candidates to withdraw from the race using threats and by destruction of campaign material. The direct appeal was being made to various parties as the police or the Election Commission did not have the adequate personnel to deal with these issues, they said.  Major parties asked to ensure equal rights for Independents.
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RGCB’s second campus ready, says Minister||The second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) is ready for dedication to the nation, Union Minister for Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan announced here on Friday. “I am happy to announce that this research facility will be named Shri Guruji Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar National Centre for Complex Disease in Cancer and Viral Infection,” he said, while addressing a curtain-raiser session of the sixth edition of India International Science Festival (IISF). Innovation hub The upcoming campus will be a knowledge centre and hub for mid- and high-level innovation, founded on deep and advanced level technical platforms, and multi-disciplinary courses that will seed growth and innovation, the Minister said in his video message. He added that it is envisaged to be developed in three phases. Dr. Harsh Vardhan said the campus would strive for a state-of-the art ‘Advanced Centre for Molecular and Cellular Therapeutics’ to offer cutting edge technologies, therapies, clinical trials for cancer vaccines and immunotherapeutics. It would also have facilities for therapies such as stem cell replacement, gene therapy, molecular tumor, targeting and imaging. The Minister said the second campus would offer to investors, entrepreneurs, biotech and bio pharma companies a research facility incorporating a unique “test and prove” platform. It would provide all pre-clinical, analytical, toxicological and biological assays to validate a biotech or biological products, besides offering incubation facilities for start-ups. The Minister said India was poised to overcome the hurdles posed by the outbreak of the COVID-19.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Livelihood issues will be focus of elections: Baby||Calling the upcoming local body elections a contest between the Left Democratic Front's politics of development and the rumour-mongering of the United Democratic Front and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby has expressed confidence that the results will be a huge blow for the Opposition fronts. Addressing a meet-the-press programme organised by the Kesari Memorial Journalist Trust here on Friday, he said livelihood issues and the government's efforts in improving the basic infrastructure would be the focus of the polls. Accusing the UDF leadership, including the Indian Union Muslim League, of going soft on the BJP, he said the Congress did not even mention a word against the Narendra Modi government in its manifesto. “The UDF has realised which way the wind is blowing after the LDF made gains in byelections and parties from the front joined the LDF. They have now begun building alliances with parties such as the Social Democratic Party of India and the Welfare Party of India. They also have an understanding with the NDA,” he said. On raid on KSFE On the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (VACB) raid on Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) offices, he said it was part of routine raids which happened across various departments. The LDF had given full independence to the Vigilance and would not use its officers politically.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||279 cases, 451 recoveries||The district reported 279 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, while the number of new recoveries stood at 451. The active case pool in the district stands at 4,034. The death toll, meanwhile, climbed to 559 with one more recent death attributed to the virus. The deceased was identified as a 70-year-old woman from Mannanthala. Of Friday’s caseload, transmission through local contact accounted for 174 cases. The list also included eight healthcare workers. On Friday, 2,101 persons were newly quarantined in the district. At present, 32,132 people are in quarantine in the district, including 32,031 persons in home isolation and 101 in institutional quarantine. As many as 1789 persons completed the observation period without developing any symptoms.
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NTSE stage one exam postponed||The National Talent Search Examinations (NTSE) 2020-21 stage-one examination that was scheduled to be held on December 13 has been postponed to December 17 in view of the local body elections, a statement from the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) here on Thursday said. For details, call 0471 2346113, 9633244348, 9744640038; visitwww.scert.kerala.gov.in; or e-mailntsescertkerala@ gmail.com
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Videography of polling process||Candidates and political parties can demand videography of the polling process in booths which do not have the Election Commission’s official webcasting or videography. The expenses will have to be borne by the candidate.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rajdhani to terminate at Nizamuddin||The New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Rajdhani triweekly special (02432/02431) will originate from and terminate at Hazrat Nizamuddin from December 29 and 31 instead of the New Delhi railway station. Railways have revised the schedule in view of the train originating and terminating at Hazrat Nizamuddin.
05 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Department of Factories and Boilers wins award||The Department of Factories and Boilers, Kerala, has bagged the Skoch Semi-finalist Order of Merit for the web-enabled risk weighted inspection scheme implemented by it. Director P. Pramod received the award at a presentation ceremony held online, a release here said.
05 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus Two SAY revaluation result out||Results of revaluation of the Plus Two higher secondary Save-A-Year (SAY)/Improvement examinations held in September have been published. The results are available on the portalwww.dhsekerala.gov.in, a statement here said on Friday.
05 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||UDF promises care, development||The United Democratic Front (UDF) manifesto for the Thrissur Corporation that was released here on Friday focusses on development and care. The manifesto, with the headline ‘Our Own Thrissur’, promises projects to overcome the alleged stagnation in development that was witnessed in the last five years of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) rule. Garbage management Priority will be for making Thrissur a clean city. The manifesto promises an action plan with centralised and decentralised modern scientific methods to make Thrissur a litter-free city. A waste treatment plant will be installed for this. Modern garbage collection centres will be set up and modern technology will be utilised for waste management. Parking/transportation Parking for four-wheelers has been a huge problem in the city. Facilities, including multilevel parking systems, will be introduced to find a solution for the issue. A master plan will be implemented to develop all roads in the 55 divisions of the Thrissur Corporation. A special system will be formed to acquire land for road development. Two ring roads will be formed for better connectivity. The first ring road will be formed connecting West Fort, Punkunnam, Patturaikkal, Zoo, East Fort, Ikkanda Warrier Junction, Veliyannur, Railway station, Puthole, and Sankarayyar Road. The second ring road will connect Koorkkanchery, Ayyanthole, Puzhakkal, Viyyur, Peringavu, Kuttanellur and Kuriayachaira. A modern wholesale market will be formed at Mannuthy to check the traffic block in the city. City bus service is another offer in the manifesto. Modern sewage treatment systems, cycling-sharing centres at main city points and solutions for water logging are other promises. The manifesto also offers a public contact programme led by the Mayor on every Monday at the Corporation office. Such programmes will be conducted at division levels once in a month. A women-friendly city, modern library, aquarium at Nehru Park, shared auto system, modern butcher shops, smart schools, modern fish market, street food hub, autism parks, and mini markets are other ideas put forward by the UDF manifesto. T.N. Prathapan, MP, released the manifesto. District Congress Committee president M.P. Vincent presided.
05 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Elderly couple found dead||An elderly couple were found dead at their house at Kolangattukara, near here, on Friday. The deceased were identified as Pullokkaran Paul, 65, of Kannapuzha, and his wife Shobhana, 59. Bodies of both were found hanging in the bedroom of their house early on Friday. Paul and Sobhana used to make bakery items at home and sell them in the market earlier. However, they were not doing that of late. The reason for taking the extreme step is not known. For suicide-prevention counselling, call Disha 1056.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||528 cases reported in Thrissur||There are 528 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Friday while 377 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,458 active cases in the district and 97 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 61,542 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 54,627 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 512 people, including seven health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them, 78 patients are above the age of 60 and 35 children are below the age of 10. In all, 4,195 patients are under home observation. In all, 258 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Friday. A total of 5,410 samples were collected for test on Friday.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cyclonic campaigning||
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New campaign vehicle||
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Navy skills||
05 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demarcation of A.P. border with Karnataka begins||Anantapur Joint Collector Nishant Kumar on Friday supervised the ongoing demarcation of the Andhra Pradesh-Karnataka border in the D. Hirehal Reserve Forest (Ballary RF on the Karnataka side) Area where Survey officials have been on the job for the past one week demarcating the actual border by planting survey stones. Revenue Divisional Officer Ramamohan, Survey and Land Records Assistant Director Maschendra Nath, and Assistant Geologist G. Krishnamurthy explained to the Joint Collector about the process and progress of the work. The Supreme Court in September 2018 had put the ball in the court of the Union government regarding the implementation of the report of the Surveyor General of India over demarcating the Inter-State Boundary (ISB) between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh passing through the Ballari/D. Hirehal Reserve Forest. The current exercise by the State survey officials of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh is resultant of this order pronounced by a two-judge bench comprising Justice Madan Lokur and Justice Deepak Gupta, which was hearing an SLP 7366-7367/2010 of the A.P. government against the Obulapuram Mining Company (OMC). The company had been fighting charges of illegal mining in the forest lands on the Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border for a long time.
05 December 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wedding rush picks up in city||Lack of ‘muhurtams’ after January 9 is making parents of prospective brides and grooms to prevail upon ‘purohits’ (priests) to finalise the wedding dates. The lockdown imposed in March this year, and the subsequent restrictions on social gatherings to check the spread of the coronavirus have made several families postpone the marriages of their children. There was a spurt in weddings during the last couple of months with ‘purohits’ saying that there are no ‘muhurtams’ during the period between January 9 and April-end. Those who postponed their wedding due to COVID-19 and also those who are planning to getting married in February and March, 2021, rushed to the priests to fix an auspicious time to tie the knot. Generally, Telugu weddings are not performed after ‘Nelaganta’, which falls a month ahead of Sankranti, i.e., on December 16. “Owing to the pandemic, several weddings are cancelled during the past five to six months. With no ‘muhurtams’ till May, the parents of prospective brides and grooms are agreeing to perform the weddings, even after ‘Nelaganta’ this year. The last auspicious ‘muhurtam’ is January 9,” says Muralikrishna, joint secretary, Uttarandhra Archaka Sangham. “The maximum wedding ‘muhurtams’ are generally fixed during Magha and Phalguna masams, which are considered auspicious . This year, there are no ‘muhurtams’ during these two months in view of moodam,” he says. The challenge before the parents of prospective brides and grooms is whom to invite in view of the restrictions on the number of guests, in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. Further, it is difficult to estimate the number of invitees who would attend the wedding. “Our convention centre has a capacity of 2,000. We have a provision to split the hall but the restrictions on the number of invitees and pandemic threat is making clients to think twice before booking the hall. Though we are getting only 30% of what we used to get in the past, we are making the premises available with the hope of retaining our clients,” says Gouri Shankar, General Manager of Vizag Conventions, located beside the International Cricket Stadium at P.M. Palem. “We have a sitting capacity of 1,000 persons. We are spending Rs. 2.5 lakh on salaries and Rs. 1 lakh on power a month. Though we are having good bookings, we are unable to meet the expenses in view of the restrictions on guests,” says Anil Kumar, proprietor of A 1 Grand, a convention centre, beside the Rushikonda Beach.
05 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple seeks mercy killing of daughter||A couple from Neeruguttavaripalle locality of Madanapalle town on Friday approached the local court, appealing for euthanasia for their seven-year-old daughter, said to be suffering from cerebral palsy since birth. Ramakrishna and Geetanjali of Cherlopalle village of Gurramkonda mandal got married a decade ago. They later moved to Madanapalle for eking out livelihood. Ramakrishna works as a construction worker. Their daughter, Nagarani, showed signs of cerebral palsy when she was born. The child was taken to the Government Hospital at Tirupati for treatment. The couple told the media at Madanapalle that in the last seven years, they kept visiting the government and private hospitals in various cities for providing treatment to the child. Having disposed of their little properties, the couple was left with no funds to cater to the medical bills of the child. The condition of the girl at present is such that she is still fed milk in a bottle, as she showed no signs of any mental or biological growth. The couple said as they were no longer able to look after the child and provide her any treatment, they took a decision to seek euthanasia for the child, submitting the appeal at the II Additional District Judge court at Madanapalle. Past cases The Madanapalle division witnessed four such cases wherein parents approached the court for mercy killing to their sick children. In 2016, a three-year-old girl, who was suffering from a serious cardiac ailment, was provided with medical care by the then TDP government, and this led to her total recovery. In the same year, a teenage girl succumbed to cancer a couple of weeks after approaching the court pleading for grant of euthanasia.
05 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain lashes eastern mandals of Chittoor dist.||Heavy rain lashed eastern mandals of Chittoor district on Friday, while the administration has alerted the field staff of revenue, police and fire departments in vulnerable mandals in view of the ongoing impact of the Burevi cyclone. According to information, the BN Kandriga mandal received the highest rainfall of 64.2 mm, while Gudupalle mandal received the lowest of 1.4 mm. In the western mandals, KV Palle recorded 29.4 mm. Irrigation officials on Friday morning lifted four crest gates of the Araniyar project and released flood waters in Picthatur mandal. Officials said that in view of the constant rains due to the cyclonic effect, the water level has been under constant watch. Villagers in the nearby areas were cautioned and told to avoid negotiating the overflowing streams. The Satyaavedu police have kept vigil at the causeway on the Nagalapuram-Uttukottai stretch on the Chennai NH and have been monitoring the vehicular movement due to overflowing of the rivulet. The fire department personnel cleared the uprooted trees at a couple of locations in Satyavedu mandal. Meanwhile, several streams in Puthalapattu, Irala and Somala mandals were seen with cascading waters. The region witnessed a parched scenario since 2015.
05 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Techie from Chittoor ‘ends life’ in U.S.||A woman techie, Premalatha (32) of Bandarlapalle of Puthalapattu mandal in Chittoor district, allegedly committed suicide at her home in New Jersey in the U.S. on Tuesday last. The incident came to light on Friday. According to information, Premalatha had married Sudhakar, a software engineer in the U.S., in 2016 and moved there in 2017. Sudhakar is a native of Pullaiahgaripalle village of Chandragiri mandal. The woman’s family members from Puthalapattu mandal on Friday gave a representation to Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, requesting him to intervene in the matter and help bring the body to the native place for last rites. The deceased woman has a son. Her father Devarajulu Naidu of Puthalapattu is a farmer. The family members expressed doubts about the death of Premalatha.
05 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online sex racket busted||The cyber crime team of the APCID reportedly busted an online sex racket by simultaneously raiding hotels in Vijayawada and Tirupati. The alleged kingpin was arrested at Visakhapatnam. The CID sleuths shared the technical inputs through a decoy operation at Vizag, Vijayawada and Tirupati simultaneously. On Friday, a victim was caught at a hotel and the alleged organiser managed to flee. The police sent his photo to CID police in Visakhapatnam. The CID team caught him at his house along with another girl. The case was handed over to Two Town police station in Visakhapatnam.
05 December 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attack on Nani: police to grill former Minister||Tension prevailed at the house of former BC Welfare and Fisheries Minister Kollu Ravindra in the town on Friday when Telugu Desam party activists thronged his residence following information that police met Mr. Ravindra to question him on the attack on Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani). It may be recalled that a mason, Badugu Nageswara Rao, allegedly attacked the Transport Minister with a trowel at his residence on November 29. However, Mr. Nani escaped unhurt and the police arrested the accused in the case immediately. The Chilakalapudi police, who are investigating the case, filed a petition in court seeking custody of the accused, which granted permission to question Nageswara Rao on December 3 and 4.  Based on information provided by the accused, the police questioned a few TDP activists and the family members of the accused. Machilipatnam Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) M. Ramesh Reddy served notice on Mr. Ravindra in the case. With news being spread that the former Minister was being taken into custody in the case, the Telugu Desam Party activists rushed to Mr. Ravindra’s house. Time sought Speaking to The Hindu , Superintendent of Police(SP) M. Ravindranath Babu said that a notice had been served on the former Minister under Section 91 Cr.P.C., and asked him to share information on the incident. The former Minister assured the police officers of cooperating with them in the case, but sought some time, the Superintendent of Police said. “We watched the CCTV footage and call data of Nageswara Rao and the investigation officers are questioning the Opposition party leaders and the suspects. We served notice on Mr. Ravindra as part of the investigation,” said Mr. Ravindranath Babu.
05 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 death takes toll to 1,076 in South Coastal A.P.||The death toll due to coronavirus increased slightly to 1,076 in South Coastal Andhra pradesh as one more patient succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The toll remained unchanged at 578 in Prakasam district, while one fresh death in SPSR Nellore district took the toll to 498. Fresh cases declined to a new low of 43 in the region, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Friday night. With this, the overall case count remained at 1,24,678. The number of active cases declined further to 1,021 as 89 patients were cured of the disease during the period. As many as 1,23,079 patients had so far won the battle against the dreaded disease. As a result, the recovery rate improved further to 98.71%. Meanwhile, launching the e-hospital management system at the Government General Hospital here, Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar said the system would go a long way in fighting against COVID-19 and other diseases. “It is a workflow based ICT solution covering major functional areas like patient care, laboratory services, document information exchange, human resource and medical records management,” he observed.
05 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks probe into land grabbing||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has asked the district administration to conduct a high-level inquiry into the alleged land grabbing in Etcherla constituency where property prices are skyrocketing following rapid industrialisation. Party district secretary Bhaviri Krishnamurthy, CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao and others, who participated in an agitation at Chilakapalem of Etcherla constituency on Friday to highlight the land grabbing issue, alleged that the lands of Dalit families and migrated labourers were being targeted. “The realtors, who want to develop new ventures, have been threatening the downtrodden sections to vacate their lands immediately. It is highly unwarranted. Both police and revenue departments failed to protect the poor,” said Mr. Krishnamurthy. Dalits’ protest In another protest, Dalit families of Ranasthalam mandal of Srikakulam district urged Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas to protect their lands at Bantupalli village of Ranasthalam mandal from influential persons and ruling YSRCP leaders. Dalits -- Tompala Veerappadu, T.Chinnam Naidu, T. Ankamma, T. Ramanamma and others -- said that the government allotted 4.10 acres of land in survey numbers 197/1,2,3 forty years ago to ensure livelihood with cultivation in D-patta lands. They alleged that the influential persons grabbed land worth Rs. 40 crore in Bantupalli village adjacent to the National Highway-16. “The local revenue officials remain silent though our names were included in the revenue documents. We request the National Commission for Scheduled Castes to do justice since cultivation of cashew crop is the only livelihood for us. Truth would come out if the inquiry is done by the highest authority,” said T. Chinaramudu. Ranasthalam Tehasildar M. Sudha Rani said that inquiry was going on with regard to land disputes in Ranasthalam mandal.
05 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD mulls growing divine floral gardens||The Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanams (TTD) is planning to develop Sri Venkateswara Pavitra Udyanavanam (divine floral gardens) atop the sacred hill abode of Lord Venkateswara as part of its efforts to enhance the aesthetic beauty of the town. Accompanied by Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy and a host of senior officials, TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Friday inspected Gita gardens, Dharmagiri, Silathoranam and Padmavati areas to explore the feasibility of developing the floral gardens. The gardens will be exclusively developed in an area of ten acres with floral plants that are used in the daily worship of the presiding deity. Later, the EO inspected Kakulakonda area where a solar power plant is proposed to be set up in an area of 20 acres.
05 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan Kalyan talks tough as YSRCP cadres block his road to Nivar-affected village||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan has issued a stern warning to the ruling YSRCP leaders and functionaries against targeting his party activists. “I will not keep quiet if the YSRCP leaders resort to attacks,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said during his visit to Poyya village of Thottambedu mandal in Srikalahasti constituency on Friday. The JSP chief visited the village as part of his whirlwind tour of the flood-ravaged Chittoor and Nellore districts. What provoked Mr. Pawan Kalyan was a protest staged by the YSRCP cadres, who reportedly blocked the road in a bid to prevent his entry into the village to interact with the villagers. As the situation appeared to go out of hand, the police intervened and asked the JSP team to hold the interaction outside the village. Visibly perturbed over the incident, the JSP leader, Mr. Pawan Kalyan, said the party cadres would maintain restraint with due respect towards democracy. “I am here to instil confidence in the farmers and extend support to those who have lost everything under the impact of Cyclone Nivar. But I am not the kind of person to fear if they resort to attacks. We will revolt and show what we are,” he said, and added that his party’s aim was to ensure a decent price to the farm produce and make agriculture profitable to the peasants. Though the tour started amid incessant rain right from Tirupati, the Jana Sena Party president was extended a rousing reception at Renigunta, Yerpedu and Srikalahasti. Party workers followed his vehicle in sizeable numbers. Leaders belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Jana Sena Party’s alliance partner, also joined to welcome Mr. Pawan Kalyan.
05 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ORI a treasure trove of knowledge, says SVU V-C||With a vast and impressive collection of ancient books and palm leaf manuscripts, the Oriental Research Institute (ORI) is a treasure trove of knowledge, said Sri Venkateswara University(SVU) Vice-Chancellor K. Raja Reddy. Prof. Reddy, who was sworn in at a brief ceremony recently, visited the ORI building on the varsity campus on Friday and the manuscript library. The Vice-Chancellor said he was taken by surprise when he found the publication on Sanskrit grammar by English scholar William Carey written way back in 1806, an 1814 work on Telugu grammar, the manuscripts written on ivory sheets and palm leaves, Buddhist Tripeethikas, Kaifiyats and Raja Yogamrutasaaram. Hailing the collection, Prof. Raja Reddy called the ORI as the ‘jewel in the varsity’s crown’.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLAs suspended for disrupting House proceedings||Ten Telugu Desam Party MLAs were suspended from the Legislative Assembly on Friday for the fifth consecutive day for disrupting the proceedings of the House by raising slogans standing at the Speaker's podium, on the last day of the winter session. Soon after the session started, the TDP MLAs went to the Speaker’s podium and raised slogans demanding payment of pending bills under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) for 2018-19, leading to a pandemonium. The Speaker then adjourned the House. Immediately after the House resumed, the TDP leaders were on their toes and repeated the act of going to the well of the House and raising slogans in support of their demand. Condemning their conduct in the House, Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah said charges of corruption in the MNREGA works were being probed by the Vigilance Department and that the payments would be cleared based on the probe report. He moved a motion for the TDP leaders’ suspension to facilitate discussion on important issues on the agenda for the day. Speaker Tammineni Seetharam suspended Opposition MLAs K. Atchannaidu, V. Ramakrishnsa Babu, D. Bala Veeranjaneya Swamy, B. Ashok, Nimmala Rama Naidu, Yeluri Sambasiva Rao, Mantena Ramaraju, A. Satyaprasad, V. Jogeswara Rao and G. Buchaiah Chowdary. Bills passed amid din Amidst the din created by the TDP MLAs’ protest, The Andhra Pradesh Appropriation Bill, 2020 was passed. The Bill, moved by the Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath, was passed by voice vote. The House also passed The Andhra Pradesh Value Added Tax (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, The Andhra Pradesh Value Added Tax (Third Amendment) Bill, 2020 and The Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments (Amendment) Bill, 2020, moved by the Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Excise and Commercial Taxes K. Narayana Swamy.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly resolves against holding local body elections in February||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly has adopted a resolution stating that the situation is not conducive for conducting the local body elections in February 2021 as has been decided by the State Election Commission (SEC) and that suitable legal provisions be incorporated in the AP Panchayat Raj Act, 1994. In the resolution, which was moved on Friday by Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas towards the end of a discussion on ‘Aarogyasri - containing coronavirus’ and endorsed by Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, it was mentioned that the government communicated to the SEC that it would be imprudent to schedule any election at a time when COVID-19 was in a resurgent mode and that the State was obligated to ensure the health of its citizens and not initiate any activity that would jeopardise their lives and health. The government observed that it should not be seen as a competitor to the functioning of the SEC, especially when it was their joint responsibility to conduct the elections. It contended that the SEC’s notification was in disregard of the prevailing situation and would have a deleterious effect on the conduct of the elections, the turnout of voters and endanger the health of people at large. The government pointed out that in Telangana, Section197 (6) of the Panchayat Raj Act mandates that the local body election schedule should be decided by the SEC in concurrence with the State government, but the AP PR Act did not have such a provision, the resolution observed. ‘SEC’s unilateralism’ The unilateralism of the SEC in Andhra Pradesh had been noticed even by the Supreme Court, which directed that further decisions, after the initial postponement of elections, be taken in consultation with the State. The perfunctory manner in which the SEC brushed aside the concerns raised by the government was not in spirit with the Constitution and the statutes, the resolution said. “The concern for public health cannot be a subject matter of competitive assessment and the State’s bona fide opinion on such matters cannot be ignored,’ it asserted.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan slams TDP on pension scheme||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday accused the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) of unleashing a disinformation campaign against his government's welfare programmes like the pension scheme and YSR Cheyutha by distorting facts. Citing what he called 'utterly distorted' reports appearing in a section of media on the pension scheme he had announced during his padayatra, he said the government was bound by its promises. “Next year on July 8, which happened to be YSR jayanthi, the pension amount would be increased by Rs. 250, in 2022 another Rs. 250 and in 2023, yet another Rs. 250, taking the total sum to the promised Rs. 3,000,” he explained. He played an old video clip of his election speech made at Kuppam and a few other places in the House to substantiate his claim that he had never deviated from his promise on the pension scheme. The Chief Minister said his objective was to mitigate the financial woes of the sections that needed assistance. Contrary to the YSRCP ideals, he said, Mr. Candrababu Naidu government had issued a GO just two months before the elections on enhancement of pension to Rs. 2,000. He said currently, more than 61 lakh beneficiaries were receiving a pension of Rs. 2,250 with the allocated funds for the purpose to the tune of Rs. 1,448 crore. Unable to digest the fact that despite financial problems, the government had not compromised on any of its promises, the TDP was resorting to a disinformation campaign using a few vernacular media organisations, said the Chief Minister. YSR Cheyutha He said same was the case with the YSR Cheyutha programme launched with the aim of equipping women from the SC, ST and Minority communities with financial aid. “Under this scheme, a financial benefit of Rs. 75,000 is provided to the women who belong to the 45-60 year age group, over a period of four years in equal instalments of Rs. 18,750 each year.”
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speaker moots ‘strict rules’ for smooth conduct of business||The TDP’s conduct in the Legislative Assembly on all the five days of the winter session came in for sharp criticism by the ruling YSRCP MLAs in the House on Friday. Speaker Thammineni Seetharam said he would like to put in place certain “strict rules” for smooth conduct of the proceedings henceforth with the permission of the House. Pointing that the TDP MLAs had to be suspended on all five days, he called it a “very bad precedent.” “The Opposition leaders have the right to make their voices heard and the Floor of the House is meant for that purpose. But there are certain rules to be followed. Creating pandemonium will not serve any purpose,” he said, adding that there were serious issues to be discussed and instead of taking part in the discussions, the Opposition chose to skip the sessions. The Speaker said suspending members everyday was not a happy experience, but he was left with no choice. Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu alleged that the TDP was keeping off the House as part of a pre-mediated plan as they did not have answers to the issues raised by the government. He said the TDP chose to “get suspended” on the day as it knew that as part of the discussion on AP-Amul project, the “irregularities” resorted to by Heritage, a company owned by Mr. Chandrababu Naidu’s family, would come to the fore. He also alleged large-scale mismanagement of funds under “Neeru-Chettu”.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six COVID-19 deaths reported in State||The State witnessed six more COVID-19 deaths and 599 new infections in the past day as of Friday morning taking the toll to 7,020 and tally to 8,70,675. Moreover 913 patients recovered and the recovery rate remains at 98.46%. The total number of recoveries increased to 8,57,233 leaving 6,422 active cases in the state. The death rate continues to be 0.81%. The overall positivity rate of the tests slightly came down to 8.46% as the number of tests conducted increased to 1.029 crore. In the past day 63,406 samples were tested whose positivity rate was 0.94% which is one of the lowest daily positive rates in several months. Krishna continues to report more deaths as it report two in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor, Guntur, Kurnool and Nellore which report only death each. The remaining eight districts reported no new deaths. The district wise new infections are as follows: Krishna (115), Chittoor (92), West Godavari (85), Guntur (71), East Godavari (60), Srikakulam (41), Kadapa (25), Anantapur (24), Nellore (23), Prakasam (20), Visakhapatnam (22), Kurnool (13) and Vizianagaram (8).
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Heritage share price might have been rigged on the bourses’||Asserting that the partnership with Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Amul) will make dairy farming a profitable business for nearly 30 lakh women, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has accused his predecessor N. Chandrababu Naidu of killing cooperative dairies in the State to benefit private ones such as Sangam, Visakha and Jersey and his own Heritage Dairy. He said the consistency with which Heritage shares traded at high prices whenever Mr. Naidu was in power made one wonder if his company, which flourished at the cost of Chittoor dairy and many small milk unions, resorted to rigging on the stock exchanges. Making a statement in the Legislative Assembly on ‘Dairy industry in AP — partnership with Amul’ on Friday, Mr. Jagan said Mr. Naidu had intentionally brought A.P. Mutually Aided Cooperative Societies Act (APMACS) and absorbed six district milk unions into it (APMACS). Of late, Visakhapatnam, Guntur and Prakasam districts cooperative milk unions metamorphosed into private companies. In what was a clear abuse of his official position as Chief Minister, Mr. Naidu had facilitated a loan arrangement for farmers with Bank of Baroda with a rider that they should supply milk to Heritage. Amul, with which the Andhra Pradesh government entered into an MoU on July 21, would pay at least Rs. 5 more than the existing price per litre of cow and buffalo milk and distribute the profit as bonus to farmers.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Revenue deficit exceeds ceiling prescribed by 14th Finance Commission’||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has pointed out that the revenue deficit of Andhra Pradesh has exceeded the ceiling (zero revenue deficit) prescribed by the 14th Finance Commission despite release of post devolution revenue deficit grant. The revenue deficit during the year 2018-19 was Rs. 13,899 crore. The State government tabled the CAG report for the year 2018-19 in the Assembly on Friday. As per the report, the fiscal deficit was Rs. 35,467 crore, an increase of Rs. 3,086 crore compared to Rs. 32,381 crore in 2017-18. The percentage of fiscal deficit to the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) decreased from 4 to 3.80 in 2018-19, but exceeded the 14 Finance Commission target of 3 and the target of Medium Term Fiscal Policy Statement. The revenue deficit and fiscal deficit were understated by Rs. 1,544 crore and Rs. 462 crore respectively on account of misclassification, short contribution of government’s matching share towards NPS and non-discharge of interest liability on untransferred NPS balance. Effectively, there was a revenue deficit of Rs. 15,443 crore and fiscal deficit of Rs. 35,930 crore. The revenue expenditure for the year 2018-19 was Rs. 1,28,570 crore, an increase by Rs. 7,356 crore over 2017-18 and that was within the budget provision. The capital expenditure was Rs. 1,9976 crore and increased by Rs. 6,485 crore. The CAG recommended that the Finance Department rationalise the budget preparation exercise so that the gaps between the budget estimates and actuals were bridged.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shun use of drugs, focus on studies, youth told||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has appealed to the youth not to attract towards drugs and other intoxicants and focus on achieving their goals. He was inaugurating a campaign against drugs and other sedatives for master volunteers, being organised by Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, here on Friday. Mr. Imtiaz said if any person was addicted to drugs, the victim can not come out and would spoil the life. The Collector appealed to the master volunteers to identify the vulnerable areas, prepare an action plan, coordinate with Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and submit report to the government. Mr. Imtiaz appealed to the volunteers to rope in anganwadi workers, teachers, ASHA workers, DWACRA group members and others to launch a massive campaign at public places. “The trainees should identify the risk groups such as dropouts, vagabonds, streetchildren, unemployed youth and students and focus on educational institutions,” he said. A task force was set up to keep a tab on drug rackets, said City Police Commissioner’s Task Force ADCP K.V. Srinivasa Rao. Joint Collector-II K. Mohan Kumar said that de-addiction centres have been opened at Vijayawada and Machilipatnam.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 gamblers held in raids||Special Enforcement Bureau Additional Superintendent of Police M. Sathi Babu and his team conducted raid on a house at Krishnalanka and arrested nine persons on charges of gambling. The SEB personnel seized Rs. 76,000 cash, four two-wheelers and seven mobile phones from the accused, the police said. In another incident, the Eluru Rural police conducted a raid in Gudivaka Lanka village on Friday, and arrested nine suspected gamblers. They seized Rs. 1.44 lakh from their possession.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIE to consider exemption from attendance||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) will consider grant of exemption from attendance to private candidates (without college study) to appear for the Intermediate Public Examinations to be held in March 2021 with Arts combinations, on payment of exemption fee of Rs. 1,300. BIE Secretary V. Ramakrishna said the exemption fee should be paid through DD from any nationalised bank in favour of the Secretary, Board of Intermediate Education, AP, Vijayawada and payable at Vijayawada, Krishna district. The applicants can make the payment without late fee till December 12 and with a late fee of Rs. 200 up to December 24. Incomplete applications and application without enclosing original qualifying exam certificate(s), transfer certificate and migration certificate together with eligibility certificate in respect of candidates who passed the qualifying exam other than SSC of Andhra Pradesh will be rejected without any further correspondence.
05 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan breached people’s trust, says Naidu||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the Ministers and the YSRCP legislators are launching a counter-offensive if anyone points out that the government has miserably failed in fulfilling its electoral promises, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged. “People have realised the true colours of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy as his 18 months of misrule has left nightmarish experiences for them,” Mr. Naidu said while addressing the media on Friday. The Chief minister breached the trust of the people by going back on his promise that there would not be any upward revision in taxes if the YSRCP was voted to power, he said. Property tax “From effecting a hike in power tariff to RTC fares to property tax, the government has burdened the people,” he alleged. “What has happened to the promise of zero taxation? Liquor prices have been increased by over 300%. Assigned lands are being snatched away from the poor. More than 90% of these landowners are SCs,” Mr. Naidu said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had talked about creation of jobs for the youth by forcing the Centre to accord Special Category Status to the State, Mr. Naidu said, and added, “But now, there is no talk about job creation.” The Chief Minister owed an apology to the people for failing on all fronts.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated heavy rainfall likely||The deep depression over the Gulf of Mannar close to the Tamil Nadu coast remained stationary during the past 12 hours and lay centered 40 km southwest of Ramanathapuram, about 70 km west-southwest of Pamban and 160 km northeast of Kanniyakumari on Friday. The deep depression is likely to remain stationary over the same region and weaken into a depression during the next 12 hours. Thereafter, it will move slowly across Ramanathapuram district in Tamil Nadu towards south Kerala and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area during the subsequent 24 hours. Under the influence of this system, heavy rainfall is very likely to occur over South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. Distant cautionary signal number one (DC-I) was kept hoisted at Visakhapatnam, Machilipatnam, Nizampatnam and Krishnapatnam ports. Signal number one (DC-I) with section signal number four was hoisted at Kakinada and Gangavaram ports, according to the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayurveda surgery row: IMA to stage protests on December 8||The Indian Medical Association(IMA) has demanded immediate withdrawal of the notification of the amendment to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act on post graduate Ayurveda surgery and the NITI Aayog committee for integration of different systems of medicine. On the call given by the national IMA, demonstrations in small groups of 20 participants will be held, strictly following the COVID-19 protocols, from 12 noon to 2 p.m. on December 8. All non-essential and non-COVID services would be withdrawn from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on December 11, N. Subrahmanyam, president and P.A. Ramani, IMA Visakhapatnam, president, said in a statement here on Friday. The notification of the amendment to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act on post graduate Ayurveda surgery and the entitlement to study and practise independently have to be seen as another step in advancing and legitimising mixed system of medicine. They noted that the notification allows Ayurveda doctors to do 58 types of surgeries, including various abdominal operations, various ENT and eye operations.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homage paid to martyrs||Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer, Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, paid homage to service personnel who made the supreme sacrifice in various actions, including in the 1971 War, at the Navy War Memorial here on Beach Road on Friday, on the occasion of Navy Day, by laying wreaths. Floral tributes were also placed by District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, and Vice Admiral V.K. Namballa (Retd), president, Navy Foundation. A 50-men guard of honour was paraded on the occasion. The Guard also performed the ‘Salami Shastra’ followed by ‘Shok Shastra’, on the solemn occasion. While the bugler sounded the ‘Last Post’, a two-minute silence was observed. Navy Day is observed every year on December 4, in commemoration of Operation Trident, when the Missile Boats of the Indian Navy attacked Karachi harbour, paving the way for a victory for India during the 1971 Indo-Pak war.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for ‘Margasira Masotsavam’, officials told||Joint Collector R. Govinda Rao asked the officials to make elaborate arrangements for the ‘Margasira Masotsavam’, scheduled to began at Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple, Burujupeta, here from December 15. Conducting a coordination meet with the officials from various departments here on Friday, Mr. Govinda Rao stressed the need to ensure COVID-19 safety protocol is followed on the temple premises. He said that all the departments could come together and work to ensure hassle-free ‘darshan’ for the common man at the temple. Temple Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi said that devotees should reserve a slot for themselves initially and they will be allowed for ‘darshan; only if they bring the reserve slot slip. She said that slot slips can be bought at Ambikabagh temple (Jagadamba Junction), Sri Jagannadh Swamy temple, JN Chowltry, Main Road and Kotha Road. Devotees will not be allowed without mask and without slot slip, she informed. “Keeping in view the pandemic, ratha yatra, cultural programmes and annadanam have been cancelled,” she said. Assistant Commissioner of Police (L&O) S. Sireesha, Inspector of One Town police station, M. Venkata Narayana, and others from various departments were present.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eruption of flames from pipe creates panic||Mild tension prevailed after flames erupted from a pipe followed by thick smoke billowing out at an industry in Malkapuram area here on Friday. As the smoke was visible from the terraces of houses, people living in residential areas in the vicinity panicked. They heaved a sigh of relief after police informed them that there was nothing to worry about and it was just a regular smoke released into the atmosphere. Meanwhile, the body of 35-year-old Ramesh Kumar Tagore, a native of Bihar, a contract worker, who died in a wall collapse at an industry on Thursday night at Malkapuram, was retrieved from the debris. The body was sent to post-mortem. Police said that autopsy is yet to be conducted since his family members have not reached the city. It may be remembered that two persons were also injured in the incident.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Music and dance festival from today||Tarakeshwar Foundation will be organising three musical concerts and one dance programme at Annamayya Vedika here on Saturday evening and Sunday. On Saturday, a violin solo will be given by Avireddy Satya Vishal from 5 p.m., followed by a Kuchipudi dance programme by Rachana Vepa. On Sunday from 6 a.m. Guntuku Venkata Rao will give a concert on Mridangam and in the evening from 5 p.m. a sarod and violin jugalbandi will be given by Arnab Bhattacharya and Pappu Gyandev.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Educate people on welfare schemes, Collector tells village/ward secretariats||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that the staff of village/ward secretariats should educate people on various welfare schemes of the State government. The Collector inspected the secretariat at Maddi village in Padmanabham mandal, and the proposed layout for distribution of house sites to the poor, on Friday. Later, he inspected the secretariat and Rythu Bharosa Kendram (RBK) at Gandhavaram.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two special trains to run with old timings||Train no. 02887/02888 Visakhapatnam-Hazrat Nizamuddin-Visakhapatnamn Special Express will run with old timings and 02857/02858 Visakhapatnam-Lokamanya Tilak Terminus-Visakhapatnan Special Express will run with old timings due to technical reasons, according to an official release.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||59 kg ganja seized, 10 arrested in raids||Officials from Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raids at several places and arrested 10 persons, including three women, for allegedly procuring, transporting and selling ganja in special drive. SEB Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Ajitha said that information can be given directly through emailsebvspcity@gmail.comor through WhatsApp no: 9493336633.
05 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soft skills play key role in moulding personality of students: V-C||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, released a book titled ‘A Complete book on Soft Skills’ jointly authored by P. Bobby Vardhan (retired) and Challa Krishnaveer Abhishek, Soft Skills Trainer of Andhra University, at the Academic Senate Hall on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, the V-C said that the soft skills play a significant role in moulding the personality of students and make them a complete person useful to the nation.
05 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sufficient groundwater in Vizianagaram till 2025: study||A study taken up by the government recently showed that there is enough groundnut water in the district to last till 2025. Availability of sufficient quantity of groundwater would be a blessing for farmers in the absence of assured irrigation sources from major rivers. Around 1,00,181 hectare meters (ham) groundwater is being recharged every year and consumption is only 21,107 ham in 34 mandals. The extraction is only 21.1 percent, which means the district is considered safe as far as its groundwater level is concerned, according to the latest survey report. The extraction of groundwater is low in a few areas, such as Gummalakshmi Puram (2.5 percent) Bondapalle (7.2 percent) Lakkavarapu Kota (7.5 percent) and Komarada (8.6 percent). Farmers mostly depend on rains for irrigation in those areas. Lack of financial resources to dig borewells is said to be the reason for reduced extraction of groundwater in these mandals, mostly in tribal belt. However, the usage is relatively more in places like Sringavarapu Kota (56.1) Garividi (45.9), Kothavalasa (43.9) Vizianagaram (24.3) where domestic and industrial consumption have been going up in the last few years. The groundwater department has set up piezometers, a device that is used to ascertain the pressure of water, in nearly 50 places to study the groundwater level in the district. Following a suggestion from Collector Hari Jawaharlal, the department’s Deputy Director K.S.Shastry and other officials have taken up another study on groundwater resources near tanks which have been revived in all 34 mandals. The government is hopeful that more crops can be grown in and around major tanks with the quick recharge of groundwater. The Collector said the farmers would be able to generate decent and assured income by growing commercial crops in and around tanks.
05 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Store raided, cases booked||Sleuths of the Legal Metrology Department booked 14 cases on a mart located near R and B junction, Vizianagaram, for alleged violation of MRP and packaging rules and regulations. The teams, led by Legal Metrology Deputy Director N. Janardhana Rao and Assistant Controller S.M. Radha Krishna, conducted checks in the mart. According to them, many rice bags did not have MRP and packing dates. Mr. Radha Krishna said that 14 violations would entail separate cases as per the procedures of the department. Assistant Controller S. Visweswara Rao and inspectors were present during the raids.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State gearing up to vaccinate 1 crore people||The focus remained on tracing, testing and treating people showing symptoms. The number of deaths could be curtailed to single digit from a peak of a few hundreds reported every day at the height of the pandemic. So far, 7,014 persons died and the number of active cases stood at 6,000-plus. The mortality rate was 0.81% compared to 1.46% at the national level, he said. The Chief Minister said the government had come a long way from the desperate stage where it had to send samples to the National Institute of Virology in Pune and wait for days to know the test results, to having 150 laboratories churning out reports on an hourly basis. This facilitated the conduct of 1.02 crore tests. The government had taken over 243 hospitals, which included more than 120 private ones, for exclusively tackling the virus. Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections, which cost Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 17,000 apiece respectively were stocked in all hospitals. As far as the infrastructure needed for vaccination drive is concerned, 4,065 cold chain units and 25 refrigerated vehicles have been arranged, and it has been contemplated to train the accredited social health activists in administering the vaccine to supplement the efforts of auxiliary nurse midwives. In addition to government and private hospitals, 15 COVID care centres are functional.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grabbing the attention||
05 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Birth waiting rooms at public healthcare facilities||As part of efforts to reduce maternal and infant mortality, plans are afoot to set up birth waiting rooms at various public healthcare facilities in the district to improve access to prompt and comprehensive maternal health services for pregnant women, said Vakati Karuna, Commissioner, Public Health and Family Welfare, Telangana. Addressing the officials of the District Medical and Health Department at a review meeting held at the Collectorate in Kothagudem on Friday, she said special focus should be laid on high risk pregnant women, mainly those suffering from anaemia in the remote areas of the district, to ensure increased access to timely maternal health services to them. She asked the officials to prepare data of high risk pregnant women village-wise and ensure nutritious diet to them under Aarogya Lakshmi scheme and provide them timely access to institutional deliveries at the public health facilities. A collaborative approach will help achieve the desired results, she said, underlining the need for a joint campaign by the District Rural Development Agency, the education, the women and child welfare among other allied departments in coordination with the health department to create awareness about the diagnosis, therapeutic and nutritional awareness interventions to prevent anaemia among pregnant women in the predominantly tribal populated district. Referring to the ambitious plan to launch tele-consultation services across the State in a big way, the commissioner wanted the officials to ensure internet connectivity to all the public health facilities in the district. Outlining various interventions to bolster public health infrastructure, she said efforts are on to expand the Telangana Diagnostic initiative aimed at providing modern diagnostic services at the State run hospitals to facilitate early diagnosis and referral treatment. A plan is on the anvil to set up a palliative care centre in the district to offer services for patients suffering from life-threatening illnesses, she said. Collector M V Reddy, Additional Collector D Anudeep, Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Bhadrachalam, Project Officer P Gowtham, and others were present. Sources said that the meeting reviewed the ongoing measures to stem the spread of COVID-19, prevent seasonal diseases and effective implementation of various health schemes. The issues such as shortage of medical staff mainly nurses and full time specialist doctors at government area hospital in Bhadrachalam reportedly figured during the deliberations of the meeting.
05 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mayor election: TRS in catch-22 situation||Though the mayoral election is months away and provides sufficient time for the single largest party TRS to weigh its options, with just 55 seats in its kitty, the party has no other option but to depend on others. The BJP has 48 seats and AIMIM has 44 seats out of the 150-member Council. However, with 45 ex-officio members (MPs, MLAs and MLCs), who are eligible to vote in the GHMC council meetings, the total strength of the Council goes up to 195. To secure majority and seek the Mayor post, any party has to get 98 votes. The TRS with 31 ex-officio members and 55 corporators will still be short of the magic figure. In the present scenario, it has to either take the help of AIMIM that has 44 seats. However, in the present circumstances that alliance will only give scope to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to further attack the ruling TRS as it had been doing throughout the GHMC election campaign. The other option is to take outside support of the AIMIM but that still will attract criticism from the BJP which the TRS cannot afford as of now. In that scenario, the AIMIM might bargain for the Deputy Mayor post or sharing the Mayor post between the two as was done by the Congress and AIMIM after 2009 GHMC elections. The only other option for the TRS is to ally with the BJP, which is highly unlikely after the high decibel elections where the two parties had accused each other of vitiating the peaceful atmosphere of Hyderabad. The TRS, however, has some breathing space with two more months to go for the Council to complete its term. Even the TRS working president, K.T. Rama Rao looked in no hurry on this when media questioned him on Friday night. “We still have lots of time to discuss and decide on it,” he said.
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS’s face saving victory amid BJP’s hour of glory||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi failed to hit a century which it hoped to achieve. But the party managed to secure 55 divisions, a number which is well short of the magic figure of 75 in the 150 strong civic body. The Bharatiya Janata Party continued its surge in the GHMC polls proving that its recent win in Dubbak by-election is not a fluke. The victory just short of 50 seats, one-third strength, has come as a double bonanza for the party, which is still celebrating its Dubbak victory. The win will be cherished by the saffron party as it has improved it’s performance manifold as compared to the four seats it won in the previous GHMC polls in 2016. Wake up call As the final figures of the poll performance emerge, the results should become a wake up call for the ruling party, which conceded as many as 44 seats, little less than half of its 2016 strength to rival parties, the BJP in particular. The results came as a booster dose for the BJP (48 seats) which set its eyes on becoming a major player in Telangana by the Assembly elections in 2023. An analysis of the party-wise performance shows a variety of reasons for this outcome. Firstly, the less than two-week campaign period saw the BJP triggering nationalistic fervour and launching a no-holds-barred attack on the TRS-MIM combine. The ‘unholy nexus’, as the BJP leaders termed the unofficial understanding between the two parties, was played to the hilt by State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay, who almost single handedly brought down to the ground the father-son duo of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao. Communal polarisation coupled with seething anger against the government for its alleged failure to come to the rescue of the people during the recent unprecedented floods in the city and criticism over the manner in which flood relief was distributed in select areas impacted the prospects of the TRS. The BJP successfully attracted the voters with its aggressive campaign style and played with élan the communal card, which was ably backed by the high profile visits of national leaders, including Home Minister Amit Shah, national BJP chief J.P. Nadda and others. Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS) was another issue that seem to have dented the TRS prospects in the city outskirts. Certain divisions in the constituencies on the city outskirts clearly returned BJP nominees. Even in some flood-hit areas in the L.B. Nagar Assembly constituencies, the TRS paid a price for mishandling the relief operations. TRS’s development agenda failed to match the aggressive campaign of BJP leaders. The TRS fell into the trap of the systematic and strategic campaign of the BJP leaders and ended up trying to give clarifications on the accusations levelled against it. Another factor that resulted in the poor show of TRS in L.B. Nagar and Maheshwaram Assembly constituencies was the strong backlash from a dominant forward caste community. There is a talk that these communities, traditionally Congress supporters, decided to vote for the BJP. Defections Defections of two Congress legislators to the TRS also did not go down well with the electorate, it was pointed out. The Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) continued to hold sway over its Old City strongholds but ended two short of its 2016 tally of 44 seats. It also managed to bring the minority community into its fold after repeatedly raking up the threats held out by the BJP to indulge in surgical strikes. However, the biggest loser in this election is Congress which ended up in the fourth place winning merely two seats. The two seats also had something to do with the campaign launched by the Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy, who had assumed the responsibility of being the star campaigner. The poll debacle had a fall out with the State Congress president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy quitting his party post owning moral responsibility for the poor showing. MIM support Overall, the results has landed the TRS in a spot. Although it has emerged as the single largest party, even with the support of the ex-officio members, it will fall short of the required majority. The question will be whether its friendly party MIM will bail it out by extending support? And whether the TRS and the MIM which repeatedly asserted that the election was a contest between the two parties join hands in taking over the reins?
05 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New dynamics catch TRS on the back foot||The disappointing results for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) are an indication of growing resentment in a new era of poll campaign that the TRS has not seen since the new State was formed. This was the first election since 2014 where the sentiment was not the poll plank. It was also the first election where the campaign narrative was not set by TRS chief and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao but the Opposition parties. It was also the first election in separate Telangana where the presence of Congress, Telugu Desam Party and the Left parties was diminished with their space taken away by the ruling party itself and perhaps the first election in Telangana where religion and nationalism dominated the campaign bringing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) into play. In the backdrop of such a scenario, the TRS had to contest the elections in an entirely new space and narrative to which it is not used to. Yes, Telangana sentiment has not lost the steam but pitted against the hyper-nationalistic and religious sentiment raked up by the BJP the sentiment got overshadowed. Some key issues that the TRS totally failed to realise for the poor show not lay just in the city but also across the State. One of them is the Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS) that had angered the middle and lower middle classes given the huge burden put on them, and that too at a time when they are in financial distress. The issue was also a major factor in Dubbak by-poll. And their anger was silent. TRS’s proximity to the AIMIM and the perceived arrogance of Owaisi’s party in the Assembly and outside was successfully exploited by the BJP. People have come to believe that MIM and TRS were transferring each other’s vote wherever they required for mutual benefit. And this vexation was silent again. Inability to deliver the double bedroom houses as promised repeatedly also spoiled the party’s image while there was a proper channel for students and youngsters to let out their anger in the form of BJP that believed in aggression and creation of a new narrative to push the TRS on the back foot. The overtly ‘misuse’ of official machinery and the police’s stranglehold on the civil society is another allegation that the party ignored and failed to tackle. When the strong BJP used this plank to counter attack the government, a section of the society could do nothing but to agree. TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao led a spirited fight back on the nationalistic and religious narrative but the real people’s issues that TRS was ignoring all these days were not on his radar too. And as several TRS party leaders agree, the party did not sense the danger signals from Dubbak by-poll too. GHMC elections may be a shocker but the fact remains that people have not rejected the party outright. Neither have they accepted the BJP totally. The gaping gap can be still plugged.
05 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State gears up to host 80 diplomats on Dec. 9||The city is all set to host a big delegation of foreign dignitaries on December 9 to familiarise themselves with the COVID-19 vaccine development being undertaken here. The visit forms part of External Affairs Ministry's efforts to familiarise the ambassadors and high commissioner's of around 80 countries about some key research and development activities being done in the country. The team is expected to visit the facilities of Bharat Biotech International and Biological E Limited where work on the COVID-19 vaccine is under progress. COVID-19 protocols  Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar presided over a meeting with an advance team including Chief of Protocol Nagesh Singh and other senior officials on Friday to discuss the arrangements that should be made in connection with the high profile visit. The officials were asked to make foolproof arrangements duly following COVID-19 protocols during the visit. He wanted five well equipped buses along with a special medical team to be put in place. Presentation A presentation should be made to showcase the State's potential in production and supply of the vaccine incorporating the Pharma City and Genome Valley, he said.
05 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||When saffron surge turned social media into a war zone||The saffron surge on Friday morning turned social media into no-holds-barred war zone as the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation election results began trickling in. It began when the first trends were aired by national channels that showed the Bharatiya Janata Party leading in an unbelievable 88 wards. The trend continued till 12 noon. The cheering and celebrations began in the right earnest in Mumbai when BJP biggie Kirit Somaiya tweeted: “Hyderabad me jeet hamari hai, agle saal Mumbai ki bari hai’. Even Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut took potshots at the Congress, saying BJP is entering new territories when the trend showed the party was leading in 72 seats. Calling the celebrations premature, social media user Aslam Zaid tweeted: “34 lakh ballot votes yet to be counted. BJP took lead in 1920 postal votes and national media declared them winners. Zara sabar rakho baba, yeh Hyderabad hai yahan dulhe ka dastar aaqir mein bichta …!! (Have patience. This is Hyderabad, where the groom’s food is dished out at the end). As the national media splashed the news of BJP’s good showing, dozens of memes as well as jokes were shared on social media, ranging from renaming Hyderabad’s biryani to renaming the Indian Premier League team. However, the memes didn’t age well as the results started trickling in by 1 p.m. But the 1375% increase in seat shares of BJP changed the social media mood to we-told-you-so in the BJP camp, while the TRS swung to incumbency-worked-against-us trope. As the last of the results trickled in, there were three parties claiming victory and celebrating with their cadre.  34 lakh ballot votes yet to be counted... national media declared them (BJP) winners. Zara sabar rakho baba, yeh Hyderabad hai yahan dulhe ka dastar aaqir mein bichta …!! Aslam Zaid, Social media user
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bandi Sanjay basks in BJP success||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was surely going to improve its tally from four in the GHMC this time. Yet, not even senior leaders expected the near half-century mark as counting trends began to trickle in even as late as Friday afternoon. In becoming the second largest party in the capital’s local body, the party’s giant stride of growth has been pretty rapid starting from the four seats it won in the Lok Sabha elections last year. Party leaders were actually apprehensive about the prospects when polls were announced all of a sudden and that too amid the long weekend holidays where Telugu people troop to their native places. However, this and the usual low poll percentage did not dent its chances as the party seems to have wrested the traditional vote bank of Telugu Desam, Congress and even the TRS. While top leaders were huddled in the State office in Nampally, watching the results unfold, and celebrated with slogans and sweets as the clear trends came by, there was no doubt in anyone’s mind that this poll has established party president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s credentials as a leader. Once a low profile municipal corporator from Karimnagar, he grew up from the ranks of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and had earlier unsuccessfully contested Assembly elections in 2014 and 2018. If Dubbak Assembly by-poll win gave a heft, it was during GHMC poll campaign that he came into his own and was successful in energising the party cadre with his fiery oratory skills, fighting spirit and making no bones about his saffron leanings. “Our president has been an ideal match for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his son Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao. His speeches laced with local adages and issues homed in the message forcing TRS to scare people about riots, bandhs and curfews,” said senior leaders, pleading anonymity. Party sources claim ‘surgical strikes’ in Old City to weed out illegal immigrants statement was “not at all planned”. But, requesting Home Minister Amit Shah to offer prayers at Bhagyalakshmi temple in Charminar, incidentally declared ‘illegal’ by Archaeology Survey of India, was definitely planned to fan religious fervour. His appointment as party president ignoring claims of senior leaders and political heavyweight turncoats from other parties was initially greeted with skepticism. However, within a short time, the 49-year-old has turned out to be the leader to watch in the coming days.  There was no doubt in anyone’s mind that this poll has established party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s credentials as a leader.   There was no doubt in anyone’s mind that this poll has established party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s credentials as a leader.
05 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth blames media for party’s poor show||TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy blamed the media for deliberately sidelining the Congress, accusing the media outlets of falling to the ‘packages’ given by the TRS and the BJP. At a press conference, he said during the entire election campaign, the Congress was ignored and the media tried to project the elections as a fight between the BJP and the TRS and this was done for obvious reasons. The fourth estate failed to question the government and give space to the opposition parties that were agitating against the government and its policies since time, he said. Mr. Reddy, whose party could secure just two seats and that too in his Malkajgiri constituency, said despite the not so encouraging performance, the party improved its vote share compared to the previous GHMC elections when it also won two seats. He said the BJP could increase its vote share only marginally from the previous elections when it contested in association the Telugu Desam Party (TDP). While Congress contested alone and garnered more than 10% in the last elections, he said. He alleged that crores of money was spent by both the TRS and the BJP, while Congress could fight only with the support of its committed cadre. Instead of appreciating our effort, it is unfortunate that the media is projecting as if we are finished. Congress party can never be finished, he said.
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress decline continues with poor show, Uttam quits||As being feared, the political graph of the grand old party of India, Congress, continues to go down further in Telangana with two back-to-back poor shows – the by-election for Dubbak Assembly constituency first and now in the GHMC elections, indicating the fast-changing political landscape in the State. Stung by the pathetic show in GHMC election, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy was quick to resign from his post on Friday. According to insiders, he quit the post due to increasing pressure from within the party for change of guard. The party’s State headquarters, Gandhi Bhavan, wore a deserted look from the beginning of the counting process on Friday morning, as the party rank and file had no hopes, whatsoever, in spite claims made for the consumption of the media by a few leaders here and there. As the celebrations in the nearby State office of BJP, just a stone’s throw away from Gandhi Bhavan, picked up with the declaration of ward-wise results one-by-one, the silence in the corridors of Congress office stretched further. Unable to show any improvement in its performance of 2016 when the party had won only two seats, the party struggled to make its presence felt in this election with the BJP hogging the limelight, taking the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) head-on and could win only two seats again this time. Interestingly, the GHMC ward – A.S. Rao Nagar and Uppal – fall in the Malkajgiri Parliamentary constituency represented by working president of Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) A. Revanth Reddy. Dejected by the party’s performance, Mr. Revanth Reddy blamed it on the media. He alleged that “media was sold out to ‘packages’ highlighting the TRS and BJP. It also created a narrative that GHMC election is only a fight between TRS and BJP”. He, however, claimed that the party had improved its vote share this time compared to 2016. A few senior leaders of the party, unwilling to come on record, felt that infighting and lack of leadership had cost the Congress dear this time. Although no national-level leader was roped for electioneering in GHMC polls, all the top names of TPCC had participated in campaigning but had clear lack of cohesion and coordination. “Besides, a sense of lack of dependability on Congress leaders is also one of the major reasons for the party’s poor show given the fact that one of the two corporators, who had won last time, had defected to TRS. Later, seven of its 12 MLAs also defected to the ruling party, denting the psyche of party supporters badly,” another senior leader said. Meanwhile, former Chevella MP Konda Vishveshwar Reddy took to social media to say the least about the likely future of the Congress in the State. He said, “Postal ballots (in GHMC election) reflect the opinion of employees and the elderly. Two things are clear, general public are against TRS and they feel only BJP can take on TRS and not Congress.”
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Martyrs remembered on Navay Day||The 49th Navy Day was observed in a poignant ceremony with naval officers paying their homage to the martyrs at the War Memorial in Parade Grounds on Friday. Commodore (Retd) A.V.S. Madhava Rao laid a wreath on behalf of the naval veterans. Station Commander (Navy) Rear Admiral V Raja Sekhar, VSM, then laid a wreath. Traditional ceremonial guard was not paraded this year taking cognisance of prevalent COVID-19 protocols. It was on this day in 1971 that an anti-ship missile was fired on Karachi harbour during Indo-Pakistan war on the night of December 4-5 and inflicted heavy damage on Pakistani land assets. Outreach to the community in the form of assistance to orphanages, blood donation and audio/video displays at prominent public places would be part of the Navy Week activities, a press release said.
05 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||We expected 20 to 25 more seats: KTR||Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) working president and Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao said the party fell short by 20 to 25 seats than their expectations in the GHMC election results. In a brief media conference on Friday night, Mr. Rao said they lost several seats with narrow margins but yet the party emerged as the single largest. For example in BN Reddy Nagar it lost by a just a few votes, and in around 10 to 12 seats the gap was just in hundreds, he said. Visibly dejected A visibly dejected Mr. Rao said the party would discuss and analyse why the desired outcome was not achieved and thanked the party workers for their hard work, and also the people for choosing TRS as the single largest party. On the issue of mayoral candidate, he said there is still time to think over it as the existing body has two more months to go. No questions He did not take any questions from the media on the results or the post-poll scenario.
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC suspends SEC circular on ballot mark||A circular issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) hours before polling began in GHMC elections on Friday attracted wide attention with BJP leaders securing an order from the Telangana High Court staying it, while the SEC filed an appeal, which is likely to be heard on Saturday. Two persons, K. Anthony Reddy and K. Surender, both from BJP, filed the writ petition by moving a House Motion in the High Court. The petitioners challenged the SEC’s circular which stated that all ballot papers of GHMC polls having a ‘distinguished mark’ other than that of cross-mark of rubber stamp were valid. They contended that declaring ballot papers having ‘distinguished mark’ as valid was against already announced standard procedures. ‘Vague circular’ Describing the circular as vague, the petitioners stated that the SEC deliberately refrained from explaining what exactly was the ‘distinguished mark’. Seeking to set aside the SEC’s circular, the petitioners requested the court to order for a judicial inquiry by retired High Court judge into the alleged malpractices of the SEC. The SEC’s counsel G. Vidyasagar Rao, however, contended that the said circular was issued to clarify doubts raised by polling staff, who stated that they were supplied with marking instruments which were different from the arrow cross-mark rubber stamps. The SEC noticed this and changed the marking instruments. By then, already some voters had cast their votes and hence the SEC had to issue that circular, Mr. Rao told the court. After hearing contentions of the petitioners and the SEC’s counsel, the single judge suspended the SEC’s circular. He directed the SEC to keep the ballot papers having ‘distinguished mark’ separately.
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘People gave a saffron strike’||Jubilant Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders confessed that the performance of the party in the GHMC polls was much more than their very “own expectations” and saw this as a clear signal of people’s decisive vote against the “arrogant, corrupt and dynastic rule of the Telangana Rastra Samithi (TRS)”. “The party winning more than 45 seats, after the recent Dubbak by-poll victory, meant ‘Sir, Car and Circar will not return’”, exclaimed party chief and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday night. “Car got punctured in Dubbak, now it is dented, and next, it will be in workshop during the Assembly elections. The countdown has begun,” he remarked at a press conference. “We planned a surgical strike but the people gave a saffron strike,” he exulted, flanked by Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, National OBC president K. Laxman, vice president D.K. Aruna and others. “I bow my head to the people of Hyderabad and thank my party leaders and cadre for this performance. It came much against the odds as TRS had spent crores of rupees and supplied liquor, with the police looking the other way. The blatant misuse of official machinery making a mockery of democracy was apparent.” Mr. Sanjay Kumar took pot-shots at the State Election Commission and Director General of Police. “I dedicate the victory of our candidates to the SEC for trying his best to help TRS by issuing midnight orders and allowing inexperienced polling officers. The DGP directed the police not to take action against those indulging in physical attacks against our cadre,” he alleged. The results show BJP popularity’s was on the ascendancy while that of the TRS was sliding. “Our sun is rising whereas TRS has a son stroke. People taught a lesson to the nephew (Harish Rao) in Dubbak and now to the son (KTR). TRS vicious propaganda against us by trying to scare people of religious strife, issuing fake letters with forged signatures and calling Prime Minister Modi names, did not work as people did not believe them,” he said. The BJP president thinks the mandate given for “self-respect and development” puts onerous responsibility on the party and it will strive to live up to it. “TRS-MIM with their brute majority were more focused on commissions and underhand deals without proper discussion on people’s issues. We will ensure these are prioritised,” he promised. Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy accused the government of holding polls “without proper arrangements, not allowing Opposition adequate time and usurping all the hoardings” yet the party triumphed as the TRS was “fast losing people’s confidence while we are strengthening as never before.” “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao used every trick in the book to try and win the elections but people gave him a resounding slap by reducing TRS seats drastically. This puts us in a strong position for the next Assembly elections,” said senior leader Vivek Venkatswamy.
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No loss, no gain for MIM||The result for All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in GHMC polls was more of a reflection of Congress - Rashtriya Janata Dal alliance in Bihar Assembly elections. Just as the poor performance of Congress, which did the RJD in, the AIMIM seemed to have lost substantial ground here mainly due to its understanding with the TRS. The failures of TRS rubbed the AIMIM though the latter party was on a strong wicket, thanks to the polarisation of elections by the BJP. In the end result, it was no loss-no gain for the AIMIM though many initially believed the party’s tally would go up by leaps and bounds. It was expected that the AIMIM’s strength lied in the emergence of BJP as a force to divide voters on communal lines but the party failed to capitalise on it owing to its tie-up with the TRS, sources said. They added that the the recent distribution of Rs. 10,000 per family as flood relief in Old City was an example of how the AIMIM lost out. The money was distributed in Old City with TRS and AIMIM as co-sponsors but many people did not get it. This had obviously left many a people disheartened. The understanding of AIMIM and TRS was to have a friendly contest, which was mutually beneficial. By splitting the votes of the majority community, it was felt the TRS could help in the victory of the AIMIM in Old City. But, the strategy did not work out, which was evident from the loss of AIMIM in two divisions each of Yakutpura and Karwan, where the party had its MLAs. However, the AIMIM managed to win all the divisions in Charminar, Chandrayangutta, Bahadurpura and Nampally, which were also represented by it. The AIMIM would have gained much more in minority dominated areas of the city without the truck with the TRS, sources added.
05 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||631 turn COVID positive in Telangana||Telangana recorded 631 COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the total to 2,72,123. While 57,405 people were examined, results of 658 are awaited. Two more COVID-19 patients died. Thursday was the third day when more than 50,000 tests were performed. Throughout November, the daily tests did not cross 47,000. The new 631 cases include 109 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 57 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 49 from Rangareddy, 34 from Karimnagar. Zero cases were reported in Narayanpet, four in Jogulamba Gadwal. From March 2 to December 3, a total of 56,62,711 samples were tested and 2,72,123 were found with coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 8,826 were active cases, 2,61,830 have recovered, and 1,467 have died. At the 61 government hospitals, 4,871 oxygen beds and 1,544 ICU beds were available on Thursday. And in the 220 private hospitals, 2,707 oxygen beds and 2,704 ICU beds were vacant.
05 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Funds sought to develop Nalgonda||The Bharatiya Janata Party, Nalgonda, on Friday reminded that has been two years since Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao made the promise of ‘adopting’ Nalgonda. Addressing media persons at the party office, State secretary Madhagoni Srinivas Goud said Mr. Rao in his December-3 Assembly election campaign in 2018 in the town “had promised people that he would adopt Nalgonda and turn it into a piece of gold.” “Forget development, the reality is that leaders are unable to offer the basic amenities in Nalgonda town. December 3 should be observed as Joota Diwas,” he said. Mr. Madhagoni Srinivas Goud was joined by local and municipal leaders from the party.
05 December 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||TRS wins all three divisions in Sangareddy||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) won all the three divisions — Patancheru, Ramachandrapuram and Bharathi Nagar — in Sangareddy district under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation with a huge margin. Pushpa Nagesh Yadav from Ramachandrapuram won with 5,759-vote majority, followed by Sindhu Aadarsh Reddy from Bharathi Nagar with 4,601 votes and Mettu Kumar Yadav with about 6,800 votes from Patancheru. The party had faced a humiliating defeat in Dubbak by-election in Siddipet district, part of erstwhile Medak district. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao humbly accepted responsibility for the defeat, but none in the party was able to digest it. Soon after the results of Dubbak Assembly constituency, the notification for GHMC elections was issued. As expected, Mr. Harish Rao was entrusted the responsibility of the three GHMC divisions. It was a chance for him to prove his leadership skills despite discontent among voters at several places. He campaigned vigorously and promised people to address all pending issues post elections. The TRS was able to wrest Patanacheru seat from the Congress. It retained the seat at Ramachandrapuram where the existing coporator was replaced with Pushpa Nagesh Yadav and retained it with the same candidate, Sindhu. “Despite huge displeasure of the public and BJP’s fierce campaigning, Mr. Harish Rao was able to score a victory for his party in all three divisions. The cadre here worked with great commitment to respond to the Dubbak debacle,” said a party leader.
05 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Collector urges people to donate liberally||Additional Collector Rajarshi Shah urged people to donate liberally for ‘Sangareddy Municipality Sahaya Nidhi’ to help the needy municipal workers. In a release here on Friday, Mr Rajarshi said that a bank account was opened to help the municipal workers who need emergency funds. Sangareddy Municipality Sahaya Nidhi, account number - 920010071185794, Axis Bank, Sangareddy - will be handled by Commissioner and Municipal Chairperson.
05 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Five killed in two road accidents at Siddipet||As many as five persons were killed on the spot and several others were injured in two road accidents that took place one after the other without much gap on Friday. The injured include a circle inspector and a constable as well. According to the police, a car going to Hyderabad from Peddapally lost control and fell on the road side resulting in the death of three persons — Narasimha Reddy, his father Raji Reddy and mother Vijaya — on the spot. They belonged to Huzurabad. Reckless driving by the driver was suspected to be the reason for the accident. Lots of people gathered near the accident spot and even the Two Town police arrived there. Meanwhile, a DCM van coming from Karimnagar rammed into the crowd gathered there, injuring more than a dozen persons including Two Town Circle Inspector Parashuram Goud and constable Ashok. Two other persons – Mallesham of Ramunipatla and Ellareddy of Mandapally villages – were also seriously injured and died in the hospital while undergoing treatment. Soon after knowing about the accident, commissioner Joel Davis and ACP Rameswara Rao rushed there and supervised the shifting of the injured to hospital. All the five bodies were taken to the government hospital for post-mortem.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Civil defence volunteers, home guards to ease burden on police||At the Capital’s containment zones, more home guards and civil defence volunteers will be deployed in order to ease the burden on Delhi Police personnel, who have been busy over the past week with round-the-clock security arrangements due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation at/near almost all of the city’s access points. At a meeting convened to assess the situation related to the protest and the disruptions at Delhi’s entry and exit points, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Friday underlined the need for “human policing that was effective but not inhuman” either for the protesters or police personnel. According to Raj Niwas sources, Mr. Baijal issued directions that three to four home guards and civil defence volunteers would now assist one police personnel at a containment zone — especially with the enforcement of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and social distancing. There are almost 6,000 containment zones. A majority of Delhi Police personnel were already juggling their usual duties, including court appearances, investigation in existing cases, law & order deployment and intelligence gathering in addition to the enforcement of COVID-appropriate behaviour and issuing fines to those not complying with it on a daily basis before the farmers’ agitation added to their load, said sources. Meanwhile, Mr. Baijal told police administrators to be vigilant of the emerging situation at other city access points in addition to the Singhu, Ghazipur, Chilla and Tikri borders. Raj Niwas sources said the ground situation regarding COVID-19 was also discussed at the meeting with the Delhi Police informing the L-G that there was overall higher compliance to wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in Delhi, including its markets and wedding venues.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Supply of vegetables, fruits both to and from city’s markets dips significantly||The supply of vegetables and fruits both to and from the Capital’s wholesale markets has dipped significantly, inter-State bus services have been suspended and gridlocks have become routine on alternate routes across the city as most of Delhi’s borders are either shut or affected due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Delhi Traffic Police said the Chilla border on the Noida Link Road was shut for traffic from Noida to Delhi and the Ghazipur border was shut for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi in addition to the Tikri and Jharoda borders and National Highway 44. Access points such as the DND flyway, Apsara Border and Bhopra were open but prone to jams for those headed towards Delhi from Noida, given the volume of normal and diverted traffic while access points such as Badusarai and Jhatikara were partially open with Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8 among others available for movement towards Haryana. The daily supply of the usual 12,000 to 14,000 tonnage of vegetables to the Azadpur mandi has dipped to around 7,500 tonnes. “The daily supply has dipped by somewhere around 50% due to the situation at the borders,” said Adil Khan, chairman, Azadpur APMC. He also said the situation had affected the supply of coconut water, apples and sweet lime from Delhi to other States. “Coconut water is supplied across northern India from Azadpur. Given the situation, very little stock of such items, if any, is making its way from here to other States,” he said.  DTC services The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) announced the suspension of its inter-State bus services due to the shut borders which would, the public transporter said, could only resume after the situation normalised. Services to Gurugram and Bahadurgarh had already been suspended on November 27. As many as 104 DTC buses operate on the route towards Gurugram and Bahadurgarh from different depots in the city.
05 December 2020||NEW Delhi,||‘No licence issued under land pooling policy’||In view of fraudulent cases where developers and promoters mislead homebuyers into investing in the Land Pooling Policy (LPP), the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday reiterated that it has not issued any licence or approval to housing projects in any zone under the policy. “It is informed that DDA at present is inviting online applications from the landowners for expressing willingness to participate in the land pooling scheme in five zones falling in 95 urbanised villages having 109 sectors. A sector would qualify for the next step of implementation of scheme if minimum 70% contiguous land is made available through pooling and all the landowners form a consortium on the issue of notice by DDA,” the urban body said. It added: “Any person interested or being promised any land or apartments under any land pooling scheme must go through the instructions and details about the DDA’s Land Pooling Policy so as to safeguard public interest and avoid any trap.” The DDA also urged homebuyers, who have invested in “fraudulent land pooling schemes”, to approach the Delhi Police Economic Offence Wing and file complaints against fraudsters.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Metro to assist NMRC on phase 2 project||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Friday signed an agreement with the Noida Metro Rail Corporation under which the DMRC will provide services to NMRC as General Consultants (GC) or Project Management Consultants (PMC) for its Phase 2 project from Noida Sector 51 to Greater Noida Sector. The public transporter in a statement said: “As per the agreement, DMRC will assist and guide NMRC in preparation of completing bid documents for various system packages contract award process, management of system contracts and proper integration of all new line systems with the existing Aqua Line [Noida-Greater Noida] metro systems.” The statement added that DMRC will also provide suggestions to the NMRC in value engineering and cost optimisation for all work contracts along with proof checking and approval of designs. Responsibilties “The DMRC will also be responsible for construction supervision and independent quality and safety monitoring of all contract packages besides testing and commissioning of the entire systems work and equipment and guiding for regulatory clearances for systems contracts,” it read. The Phase 2 project of the NMRC will be an extension of the Auqa Line from Sector 51 to Greater Noida Sector 2. The corridor is proposed to be 9.6 kilometre-long consisting of five stations.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress asks CM to provide farmers with basic amenities||The Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar on Friday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, asking him to provide basic civic amenities like sanitation, mobile bio-toilets, COVID-19 testing centres, health facilities, water and food to the protesting farmers from across the country. Mr. Kumar said the government has been making tall claims without doing anything at the ground level to alleviate the suffering of the farmers. He asked the Chief Minister to instruct the departments concerned to provide all the necessary civic facilities to the protesting farmers, till their demands are met.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Editors Guild issues advisory on stir coverage||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Friday urged media organisations to refrain from labelling farmers as “Khalistani”, “anti-nationals” and other such terms so that the protests are not delegitimised. The EGI asked media organisations to display fairness, objectivity and balance in reporting. In a statement issued, the Guild said, “The EGI is concerned about the news coverage of the farmers’ protests in the national capital, wherein certain sections of the media have been labelling them as “Khalistanis”, “anti-nationals” and other such terms to deligitimise the protests without any evidence or proof. This goes against the tenets of responsible and ethical journalism.”
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Verbal assurances on MSP not enough, protest will continue till R-Day: BKU||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday declared that the ongoing farmers’ agitation would continue till Republic Day. BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the Centre’s verbal assurances on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) were just not enough. Besides, he warned of a ‘march to New Delhi’ on the eve, or morning, of Republic Day before the farmers would take part in the ceremonial parade on Rajpath in their tractors. If they are stopped, there will be chaos, Mr. Tikait told The Hindu . Strong message Though they would probably leave the Capital to tend to their fields the next day, their struggle till then would be a lesson in “the power of the average farmer and their unity”, which would serve and inform the next generation of farmers in the country, he said. “We have come here looking for a government that stays within the confines of New Delhi. There are many more farmers waiting to join us, and we will not leave till we make this absent government aware of the issues faced by farmers at the grassroots,” Mr. Tikait said at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border in Ghazipur. He added that ‘mere words’ on the MSP were not enough and a new ‘Agriculture Act’ was the need of the hour and the recently-enacted laws needed to be repealed. “We are here and we will decide the day we leave, not the government. We will march to Delhi on January 26 to become a part of the Republic Day parade. If they stop us, there will be chaos,” Mr. Tikait warned. Some, though, detached themselves from the cluster around Tikait, whose father is credited for bringing the Capital to a grinding halt within a week during the Boat Club agitation of 1988 almost 32 years ago to this day, to make calls asking for more provisions, especially tractors, to be dispatched towards National Highway-24.  A little away, graffiti christening the venue ‘Kisan Kranti Gate’ on the pillars supporting the NH-24 flyover was being neatly repainted on a white background. On the flyover, speeches recalled the sacrifice of farmers who died during similar agitations across the country over previous decades among a gathering that stretches across more than a kilometre. “I am getting call after call from home telling me about the condition of my son who has recently fallen ill. But I can’t leave. I will stay here as long as our leaders want us to remain here. We have come too far to go back without the result we need,” said Vijay Kumar, a farmer from Sravasti near Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh. “We have come here leaving our fields, crops and families behind because this sacrifice is needed, because we are talking about the interests of each and every farmer in the country for times to come. We will stay here as long as it takes for us to achieve that,” asserted Rajvir Chaudhary from Meerut.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping watch over Capital||
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||Miscalculated MVA’s strength: Fadnavis||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday said that it miscalculated the strength of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) while heading into the Maharashtra Legislative Council polls “The results of the six Council seat elections are unexpected to us. We miscalculated the strength of the Maha Vikas Aghadi. Now we know how big a fight they can put up together. We will prepare better for the next polls,” former chief minister and Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said. The BJP has managed to win only one of the six Council seats. It has also ceded the Nagpur and Pune graduate constituencies to the MVA. The party had never lost the Nagpur seat since 1958, while the Pune seat was earlier held by the BJP State president Chandrakant Patil. Mr. Fadnavis, however, took the opportunity to take potshots at the Shiv Sena. “The party with the Chief Minister has not managed to win a single seat,” he said. He was referring to the defeat of the Sena candidate from the Amravati teachers’ constituency at the hands of the Independent candidate, Kiran Sarnaik. In reply, Sena leader and State Transport Minister Anil Parab said the BJP should not bother about the future of the Sena. “The Amravati seat was never with the Sena. It was won by an Independent even before and this time too an Independent has won. The MVA has gained huge success and it will continue this performance in the future,” Mr. Parab said.
05 December 2020||MUMBAI,||BEST adds 26 electric buses to its fleet||Twenty-six AC electric buses have joined the fleet of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking, with Tata Motors Ltd delivering the first batch of 340 buses under the Central government’s FAME II initiative. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray flagged off the 25-seater Tata Ultra Urban 9/9 electric AC buses at Nariman Point on Friday. The delivery marks the commencement of the BEST’s first-ever gross cost contract electric bus service. The remaining buses are lined up to be delivered in phases as per schedule. Tata Motors said it would build, deploy, maintain and operate the charging infrastructure and the buses across four BEST depots: Backbay, Worli, Malvani and Shivaji Nagar. Girish Wagh, president, Commercial Vehicle Business Unit, Tata Motors, said, “The electric buses have been specially designed keeping the comfort and convenience of Mumbaikars in mind, including a “lift mechanism” for differently-abled travellers.”
05 December 2020||MUMBAI,||IKEA to open store in Navi Mumbai on Dec. 18||Swedish home furnishings retailer, IKEA, will open its new store in Navi Mumbai on December 18. The over five lakh sq. ft store will be IKEA’s second store in India after it opened its Hyderabad store in August 2018. Located on the Thane-Belapur Road, close to Turbhe station, customers will now be able to test, try and purchase popular products such as BILLY Bookcase, MALM Bed, EKTORP Sofa, the company said. To provide a safe shopping experience amid COVID-19, the company will be taking a number of extra precautions apart from its global best practices and relevant learnings from its Hyderabad operations. To ensure physical distancing, the company will initially have a cap on the number of visitors through prior registration on its website, by which customers will be allotted a day and time slot to visit the store.
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||Price of Remdesivir injection fixed at Rs. 2,360 in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Friday fixed the price of Remdesivir injection, used for treating criticalCOVID-19cases, at Rs. 2,360 apiece. The government has also put together a list of 59 pharmaceutical outlets where it can be purchased, covering all the major cities, towns and districts, said Dr. Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, public health and family welfare. “The injection is available free of cost in the State-run hospitals. But private hospitals are also treating COVID-19 patients,” he said. “The price of a single dose of the injection is fixed at Rs. 2,360,” Dr. Vyas added. The Food and Drugs Administration has issued an order accordingly, he said.
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||PNB scam: no bail for top official||A special CBI court on Friday rejected the bail plea of Vipul Chitalia, vice-president of the Gitanjali Group of Companies, who was arrested in the multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam. Mr. Chitalia, who was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation in March 2018, had filed a bail application for the second time. Special CBI judge V.C. Barde rejected the application.
05 December 2020||Pune,||Recoveries rise in Maharashtra||Recoveries continued to outweigh cases with 6,766 patients being discharged across Maharashtra on Friday as opposed to 5,229 fresh COVID-19 cases. The total case tally now stands at 18,42,587, with the number of active cases coming down to 83,859. The cumulative recoveries have reached 17,10,050, with the State’s recovery rate inching towards 93%, rising to 92.81%. As many as 127 deaths were reported, taking the death toll to 47,599. “Of a total of 1,11,32,231 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,42,587 (case positivity rate of 16.55%) have returned positive with over 73,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate stands at 2.58%. Pune district reported more than 800 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,56,501, while 25 deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,532. As per district administration figures, the active case figure has dipped slightly to 11,166, while its recovery rate incrementally rose to 94.35%. Over 800 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 813 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,84,509, of which 13,754 are active. With 14 more fatalities, the city’s death toll rose to 10,945. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 570 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,15,735, of which 4,498 are currently active. Nine deaths took the total death toll to 3,021. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported four deaths as its cumulative death toll remained constant at 1,687. As many as 128 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 53,020, of which 1,995 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 45 cases and eight deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 48,825, of which just 429 are active. Its cumulative death toll now stands at 1,723. Kolhapur district reported just 11 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 48,606, of which just 110 are active ones. The total death toll still remains constant 1,647. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 487 cases and three deaths as its total case tally reached 106,761, of which 2,594 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,739. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported a little over 40 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 55,207, of which only 1,131 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,416. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 5,47,504 people across the State were in home quarantine and 5,567 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
05 December 2020||London,||U.K. drugs regulator defends fast pace of vaccine approval||Britain’s medicines regulator insisted on Friday its world-first approval of the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine met all safety standards, after officials in Europe and the U.S. queried the rapid process. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on Wednesday announced emergency approval for the vaccine’s general use against COVID-19, and the government plans to start rolling it out next week. Any vaccine “must undergo robust clinical trials in line with international standards”, the MHRA said in a statement. “No vaccine would be authorised for supply in the U.K. unless the expected standards of safety, quality and efficacy are met.” Leading U.S. infectious disease scientist Anthony Fauci on Thursday said the MHRA had “rushed through that approval”, but later apologised. “I have a great deal of confidence in what the U.K. does both scientifically and from a regulator standpoint,” Mr. Fauci, who leads the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told the BBC. “Our process is one that takes more time than it takes in the U.K. And that’s just the reality,” he said. “I did not mean to imply any sloppiness even though it came out that way.” MHRA chief executive June Raine previously insisted that “no corners had been cut” in vetting the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. With Britain transitioning out of the European Union, the U.K. regulator obtained an exemption from the EU’s medicines agency, which has stressed it prefers to wait for further review and consultations across the 27-nation bloc. Britain plans to distribute an initial batch of 8,00,000 doses starting next week, prioritising care homes. Vaccine nationalism The MHRA said it was able to move quickly after launching a rolling review of data provided by Pfizer and BioNTech as human trials proceeded, rather than waiting for all the data to be compiled at the end of the trials. “COVID-19 vaccines, including this one, are being developed in a coordinated way that allows some stages of this process to happen in parallel to condense the time needed, but it does not mean steps and the expected standards of safety, quality and effectiveness have been bypassed,” it said. Approval is expected this month by both the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency. Some British Ministers have strayed into anti-EU jingoism after London beat Brussels to approving the Pfizer-BioNTech jab. Education Secretary Gavin Williamson said the U.K. was first because it was “a better country”.
05 December 2020||Beijing,||China turns on ‘artificial sun’||China successfully powered up its “artificial sun” nuclear fusion reactor for the first time, state media reported on Friday, marking a great advance in the country’s nuclear power research capabilities. The HL-2M Tokamak reactor is China’s largest and most advanced nuclear fusion experimental research device, and scientists hope that the device can potentially unlock a powerful clean energy source. It uses a powerful magnetic field to fuse hot plasma and can reach temperatures of over 150 million degrees Celsius, according to the People’s Daily -- approximately ten times hotter than the core of the sun. Located in Sichuan province and completed late last year, the reactor is often called an “artificial sun” on account of the enormous heat and power it produces. Chinese scientists have been working on developing smaller versions of the nuclear fusion reactor since 2006.
05 December 2020||San Francisco,||U.S. sues FB for favouring immigrants||The Trump administration on Thursday sued Facebook, accusing it of discriminating against American workers by favoring immigrant applicants for thousands of high-paying jobs. The Department of Justice’s lawsuit opens a new front in the administration’s push against tech companies — and in its clampdown on immigration — as President Donald Trump enters his final weeks in office. The suit concerns more than 2,600 positions with an average salary of some $156,000, offered from January 2018 to September 2019. “Facebook engaged in intentional and widespread violations of the law, by setting aside positions for temporary visa holders instead of considering interested and qualified US workers,” assistant attorney general Eric Dreiband, of the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, said in a statement outlining the department’s allegations. The internet giant reserved positions for candidates with H1-B “skilled worker” visas or other temporary work visas, the department said. Facebook “channelled” jobs to visa holders by avoiding advertising on its careers website, accepting only physically mailed applications for some posts, or refusing to consider U.S. workers at all, according to the suit. The unusual move to file a lawsuit — with the Justice Department pivoting suddenly away from simply discussing their concerns with Facebook — could be seen as a rush to hit the courts before Mr. Trump leaves the White House in January. The California-based social network planned to continue cooperating with the department as the case plays out. Restrictions rejected The lawsuit was filed just two days after a U.S. federal judge blocked rule changes ordered by Mr. Trump that made it harder for people outside the country to get skilled-worker visas. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Bay Area Council in Facebook’s home state of California and others had sued the Department of Homeland Security, arguing that the changes rushed new restrictions through without a proper public review process.
05 December 2020||Doha,||West Asian nations, U.S. signal progress to resolve Qatar crisis||Rivals Qatar and Saudi Arabia, along with neutral Oman and Kuwait, said on Friday progress had been made towards resolving the Gulf crisis that has pitted a regional group of nations against Doha. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said he hoped Washington could broker a resolution but cautioned he was “out of the prediction business in terms of timing”, signalling a breakthrough may not be imminent. Kuwait’s Foreign Minister Sheikh Ahmed Nasser al-Mohammed Al-Sabah, whose country is leading mediation efforts, said all sides had expressed keenness for a “final agreement” during recent “fruitful discussions”, which have included the U.S. Qatar and Saudi Arabia’s Foreign Ministers, along with Oman’s Foreign Ministry, tweeted similarly worded statements thanking Kuwait and the U.S. for their efforts to resolve the spat — but gave no further details. Saudi Arabia led its allies the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt to cut ties with Qatar in June 2017, accusing it of backing radical Islamist movements and Iran, charges Doha denies. They subsequently forced out Qataris residing in their countries, closed their airspace to Qatari aircraft and sealed their borders and ports, separating some mixed-nationality families. “Right now, there are some movements that we hope will put an end (to) this crisis,” Qatar’s Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani said at the Mediterranean Dialogues forum in Rome, without giving details. Later at the same event, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al-Saud said a “final agreement looks in reach”.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump raised $207.5 mn since election||Even in defeat, President Donald Trump continued to raise money at some of the fastest rates of the year, pulling in $207.5 million in the month since Election Day along with the Republican Party as he made baseless claims of voter fraud to undermine the legitimacy of the election. Mr. Trump’s campaign apparatus has continued to aggressively solicit donations under the guise of supporting his various legal challenges to the election of Joe Biden, but as of now 75% of donations goes to a new political action committee that Mr. Trump formed in mid-November, up to the PAC’s legal limit of $5,000. The other 25% goes to the Republican National Committee. Only if a donor gives more than $6,000 do any funds go to Mr. Trump’s formal “recount” account. His campaign did not release a breakdown of how the $207.5 million was divided. The funds are split among the new PAC, called Save America, the RNC and two committees operated jointly by the party and the campaign, with some money going toward paying off Mr. Trump’s campaign debts. “These tremendous fundraising numbers show President Trump remains the leader and source of energy for the Republican Party,” Bill Stepien, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, said in a statement. Mr. Trump, who has not formally conceded the 2020 race but has begun talking about running again in 2024, has repeatedly challenged the presidential results in court with virtually no success. In his statement, Mr. Stepien added the money “also positions President Trump to continue leading the fight to clean up our corrupt elections process in so many areas around the country, and to build on gains from the 2020 elections...” Mr. Trump’s next political steps are much discussed in both parties, and his nonstop fundraising in the month after his loss at the polls ensures his new political operation will continue to be well-financed.NY Times
05 December 2020||WASHINGTON,||China poses greatest threat to U.S., says intelligence chief||China poses the greatest threat to America and the rest of the free world since the Second World War, outgoing National Intelligence Director John Ratcliffe said on Thursday as the Trump administration ramps up anti-Chinese rhetoric to pressure President-elect Joe Biden to be tough on Beijing. “The intelligence is clear- Beijing intends to dominate the U.S. and the rest of the planet economically, militarily and technologically,” Mr. Ratcliffe wrote in an op-ed published on Thursday in The Wall Street Journal . “Many of China’s major public initiatives and prominent companies offer only a layer of camouflage to the activities of the Chinese Communist Party.” “I call its approach of economic espionage ‘rob, replicate and replace,’” Mr. Ratcliffe said. “China robs U.S. companies of their intellectual property, replicates the technology and then replaces the U.S. firms in the global marketplace.” In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying dismissed the editorial as a further move to spread “false information, political viruses and lies” in hopes of damaging China’s reputation and China-U.S. relations. ‘Lies and rumours’ “It offered nothing new but repeated the lies and rumours aimed at smearing China and playing up the China threat by any means,” Ms. Hua said at a daily briefing on Friday. “It’s another hodgepodge of lies being produced by the relevant departments of the U.S. government for some time.” Trump administration officials have been stepping up their anti-China rhetoric for months, especially during the presidential campaign as President Donald Trump sought to deflect blame for the spread of the coronavirus . On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump warned that Biden would go easy on China, although the President-elect agrees that China is not abiding by international trade rules, is giving unfair subsidies to Chinese companies and stealing American innovation. The Trump administration, which once boasted of warm relations with Chinese President Xi Jinping, also has been ramping up sanctions against China over Taiwan, Tibet, trade, Hong Kong and the South China Sea. It has moved against the Chinese telecoms giant Huawei and sought restrictions on Chinese social media applications like TikTok and WeChat. Mr. Ratcliffe, a Trump loyalist who has been accused of politicising the position, has been the nation’s top intelligence official since May. In his op-ed, he did not directly address the transition to a Biden administration. Trump has not acknowledged losing the election.
05 December 2020||Washington,||‘U.S., Huawei in talks over official’s return’||The U.S. government is discussing a deal with Chinese tech giant Huawei that could see its detained finance chief Meng Wanzhou allowed to return to China, the Wall Street Journal said. Ms. Meng was arrested in Vancouver in 2018 on a U.S. warrant and is fighting extradition to the US over charges Huawei violated American sanctions on Iran, in a case that has plunged Canada-China relations into crisis. Under a “deferred prosecution agreement” with the U.S. Department of Justice, Ms. Meng would admit to some of the fraud and conspiracy charges related to the alleged violations by Huawei, the Journal said on Thursday. Both sides are hoping to reach agreement before the end of the administration of President Donald Trump, although Meng is reluctant to agree on a deal that would see her admit wrongdoing, the Journal said, citing sources. Huawei and the Department of Justice both declined to comment when reached by AFP.
05 December 2020||Chittagong,||Dhaka ships Rohingya to low-lying island||Bangladesh transported more than 1,600 Rohingya refugees to a low-lying island on Friday in the first phase of a controversial planned relocation of 1,00,000 people. Almost a million Rohingya — most of whom fled a military offensive in neighbouring Myanmar three years ago — live in squalid camps in south-eastern Bangladesh. Any return to Myanmar appears unlikely for now. Dhaka wants to move 1,00,000 of the refugees to Bhashan Char.
05 December 2020||Istanbul,||Erdogan hopes France will ‘get rid of Macron’||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Friday he hopes France will “get rid” of his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron as soon as possible, in the latest salvo in an escalating war of words between the two leaders. “Macron is a trouble for France. With Macron, France is passing through a very, very dangerous period. I hope that France will get rid of Macron trouble as soon as possible,” Mr. Erdogan said . Turkey and France are embroiled in a series of disputes, from tensions in the eastern Mediterranean to the contested Nagorno-Karabakh region. And the spat has risen to new levels in recent months as France has moved to crack down on Islamist extremism after several attacks on French soil. Mr. Erdogan has repeatedly suggested that Mr. Macron get “mental checks” and urged the Turkish people to boycott French-labelled products. On Friday, Mr. Ergodan said France should get rid of Mr. Macron “otherwise they will not be able to get rid of yellow vests,” referring to the protest movement that began in France in 2018. “Yellow vests could later turn into red vests,” Mr. Erdogan said, without elaborating.
05 December 2020||Washington,||Biden Fauci||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden on Thursday said he had asked the government’s top infectious disease specialist Anthony Fauci to remain in his post and join his COVID-19 team after he takes office. Mr. Fauci is a member of the U.S. President Donald Trump administration’s Coronavirus Task Force.
05 December 2020||New York,||United Nations, United States, Dec 4, 2020 (AFP) -||The head of the World Health Organization warned on Friday that the poor risk being “trampled” as wealthy nations roll out COVID-19 vaccines, which he said should be a public good. Speaking at a virtual UN summit on the pandemic, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the world was seeing “light at the end of the tunnel”. “But let me be clear. We simply cannot accept a world in which the poor and marginalised are trampled by the rich and powerful in the stampede for vaccines,” Mr. Tedros said.AFP
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||How dearth of data killed a healthy diet||Twenty-year-old Afsana’s baby is due in a month. Afsana conceived just 10 days after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Afsana and her family of nine live a hand to mouth existence and the pandemic has only worsened their woes. The expectant mother is anaemic, having survived along with her family on just chapatis and red chilli paste on most days. Afsana’s husband, brother-in-law and father-in-law, the three breadwinners of the family, work at the local stone quarries in Derwala village in Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan, where they live. They had no work for nearly three months, from April to June. Though work has picked up slowly since then, their daily earnings are as low as Rs. 150 on a good day. They survive on the wheat supply from the public distribution system. “Only if we go out in the day to work can we buy pulses, sugar and milk for our evenings. There is barely enough to last us a day,” says Mohammad Rafiq Bhati, Afsana’s brother-in-law. Afsana has already undergone blood transfusion four times. Her eyes are listless. She has been called again to the primary healthcare centre on December 9 for a check-up. The Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan, a scheme of the Union Health Ministry, aims to provide quality antenatal care, free of cost, to all pregnant women in the country on the ninth of every month and also a minimum package of antenatal care services to women in their second/ third trimesters of pregnancy at designated government health facilities. However, Afsana’s take-home rations as part of anganwadi services have been irregular. Of the eight months of her pregnancy, she has received 6 kg worth of monthly entitlement (1.5 kg wheat, 1.5 kg rice and 3kg pulses) only for four months. The supply of these, too, has been erratic as anganwadi workers have to wait for the stock to accumulate sufficiently before disbursing it. Though the aim of the programme is to ensure adequate nutrition for expectant mothers, this food has been used by all the members of Afsana’s impoverished and hungry family. While Afsana, as the expectant mother of her first child, is also entitled to receive a total of Rs. 5,000 in multiple tranches under the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, a scheme of the Ministry of Women and Child Development, she has still not got any benefits. Her sister Ruqsar Bano says no one has come to collect documents or even asked them to submit the papers at the anganwadi centre. “We have completed the paper work. We are waiting for the government to release her claim,” says Rekha Sharma, a local ASHA worker. Afsana, shy and reticent, wishes she had the money to buy vegetables and fruits. The delivery of nutrition services to the poor in India has been brought to a halt or slowed down due to lack of online data, a problem caused by poor Internet and server issues. This has not only affected the beneficiaries, but also the anganwadi workers. It has also caused frustration among those working towards addressing India’s malnutrition, poverty and health issues. The lack of publicly available nutrition data is not only affecting India’s nutrition goals but is also pushing States into thinking of ways of setting up their own systems to tackle the problem. In Jhunjhunu, a vague memory An IT-based nutrition monitoring system called the Integrated Child Development Services-Common Application Software (ICDS-CAS) was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Jhunjhunu on March 8, International Women’s Day, in 2018. Under this system, anganwadi workers log the details of the beneficiaries and daily activities to enable monitoring at the district, State and Central levels for improvement in the quality of delivery of services. However, in this village, ICDS-CAS is only a vague memory for most. “Two years ago, we were given tablets and smartphones. But when we had Internet issues, those were taken away,” says Rekha. She and her team of one anganwadi worker and one anganwadi helper have been working overtime, about eight to 10 hours a day, conducting surveys on COVID-19 patients and ensuring social distancing at Panchayat elections, among other duties. A phone may have helped teams like hers at the block and district levels fill the gaps in programme implementation. The ICDS-CAS was the mainstay of Poshan Abhiyaan, approved by the Union Cabinet in December 2017 at a budget outlay of Rs. 9,000 crore. Half of this was to be funded by the Indian government and the other half through a loan from the World Bank. Poshan Abhiyaan strives to improve nutritional outcomes for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers by reducing undernutrition, bringing down anaemia, and increasing birth weight. As the aim of Poshan Abhiyaan is to reach 10 crore beneficiaries at 14 lakh anganwadis, the government set up the ICDS-CAS to ensure swift tracking and effective implementation. Under the ICDS-CAS, anganwadi workers are provided mobile phones, and anganwadi supervisors, tablets. Anganwadi workers enter details of daily activities, including photo evidence of the opening of anganwadis; attendance of children; details of food, weight and height; etc. These are then monitored at five levels — first by the anganwadi supervisor and then at the block, district, State and Central levels. The assessments and feedback from these levels are provided to the workers. Service delivery is thus tracked and informed decisions taken based on the assessments. Plugging gaps in Churu Churu, a district located three hours from Jhunjhunu, paints a different picture. It is among the nine districts where the ICDS-CAS has been implemented. The use of technology and the monitoring of activities through mobile phones allow block-level supervisors to extend support to anganwadi workers and plug gaps from time to time. Sunita is full of praise for the local anganwadi in Gajsar village in Churu. “Food was being delivered regularly. We often ask when they will open the anganwadi so that the children get hot meals and remain busy,”” she says. Before the lockdown, the Rajasthan government also attempted weekly menus which included milk, fruits, and a mixture of rice and lentil, but this was discontinued during the lockdown. Sunita’s immediate neighbour Amina Bano, who has a six-year-old grandson Shoaib, says, “We are happy with the anganwadi as children get to learn some numbers and alphabets.” Here, the efficient monitoring system ensures that if there is a lag in ration supply at the anganwadis, programme supervisors at block levels are alerted and supply is restored. Smartphones distributed to anganwadi workers also help to alert them when vaccinations are due. They are also able to maintain a list of the malnourishment levels of the entire village population. The phone helps them identify children at risk of being malnourished as well as those already stunted or wasted. Those at risk of being malnourished are highlighted on the app in yellow and those already stunted/wasted are marked in red after the anganwadi workers log in the height and weight details of the children. Sanju Devi, the local anganwadi worker, shows her phone: two of the 20 children registered with the anganwadi where she works are in the red category and need special interventions. Internet issues However, server issues and Internet problems plague the system here, too. Also, smartphones which were given to the workers to simplify their tasks have doubled their work. Workers are now expected to note down details not only in their phones but also in registers. In Churu, the server has been down for over two months. Since the ICDS-CAS platform is common for the whole country, this means that monitoring activities across more than 26 States where the ICDS-CAS is running have been hampered. “For the past two months, they have been logging details in their phones as well as in registers, so there is duplication,” says Mohammed Mushtaqeem Khan, District Co-ordinator, National Nutrition Mission. “They usually use the phone to upload photos of children attending the anganwadi. Photos can’t be misused as they are uploaded directly on the app and can’t be saved in the phone’s gallery. This avoids a situation where an anganwadi worker clicks photos for the entire week on the same day. We also use the photos to do surprise checks and contact the beneficiaries and their parents to receive feedback. The technology has helped the parents become more aware too. They often use these occasions to tell us if they have been receiving less than what they are entitled to get.” The collapse of the system also means that the anganwadi workers are the hardest hit. “The anganwadi workers’ incentives have been delayed at a time when the pandemic has resulted in their work increasing manifold. The system helps automatically calculate an anganwadi worker’s incentives through the activities logged in by her. But since that is not possible now, they haven’t received their incentives for the past two months. The State government is devising a new parameter to overcome this problem,” he says. Experts say on the condition of anonymity that the server crash is a result of the government’s lack of preparedness to deal with a massive amount of data (nearly seven lakh out of 14 lakh anganwadis where the ICDS-CAS have already been implemented) and cloud storage and managing the entire architecture including hardware and software. The technology support has alternated between the National Informatics Centre and Tata Consultancy Services in the recent past, while it was earlier handled by the U.S.-based Dimagi. Lack of data Even before the server problem, unavailability of data from an expensive technology system set up primarily to improve service delivery caused anger among implementation partners, researchers, nutrition advocates and public health experts. This happened at a time when warnings were issued about the likelihood of an additional 10,000 under-five deaths per month globally and of 6.7 million more children suffering from wasting, a strong predictor of mortality, due to the pandemic. “The strength of India’s future will be determined by the health and nutrition of its babies today. The government deploys significant resources and hundreds of thousands of front-line anganwadi workers across the country, who work every day, including through the pandemic, to reach some of India’s more vulnerable citizens. As an example, Poshan Abhiyaan disseminates over 10 nutrition-related messages across more than 20 platforms. But what is the reach of platforms and messages? Have pregnant and lactating women’s nutrition behaviours changed over time? How has all of this been changing during the pandemic? It is very important to track progress, understand gaps, and acknowledge and reward heroic efforts. Without live information systems like the CAS, many key decisions will be made without robust evidence,” says Divya Nair, Director, IDinsight. “The less said about ICDS-CAS, the better. The data have not been available, and we can’t use the software tool the way we would like. So, we use our application called Sampark, where we log the data of children, mothers as well as the status of welfare schemes such as PDS, BPL, labour cards accessible to beneficiaries...,” says a representative of the Madhya Pradesh government.  Dr. Vandana Prasad, a public health expert, Joint Convenor of the People’s Health Movement-India (Jan Swasthya Abhiyan) and a member of the Steering Committee of the Right to Food Campaign agrees. She says, “ICDS  is important because it caters to the entire life cycle of pregnant women and lactating mothers, adolescent girls and  children between the age of six months and six years, by making direct interventions. It also provides a platform for delivering health services. Data are critical to any programme, especially nutrition programmes. During a pandemic we need more data, not less. Data are critical as people are at a higher risk now, they are severely vulnerable. All public data need to be made public. Data must be open for evaluation so that there are no cover-ups.” The problem of lack of access to data is also faced by State governments. Many States, including Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh, are known to have written to the Centre raising their concerns  about unavailability of data for programme implementation and review. “The guidelines for a supplementary nutrition programme allow States to decide what food they would like to distribute, but the ICDS-CAS is a common application for the entire country which doesn’t allow us the flexibility to record and monitor data as per the specifics of our scheme. We have written to the Centre raising this issue and demanded that all data be put in the public domain so that there is transparency and accountability. If we want the data of the past two or three months, for instance, to study the impact of our interventions, we don’t have them,” says Rajasthan’s Women and Child Development Secretary, Krishna Kant Pathak. “There are no data available. We have requested the Central government for access, but beyond their templated dashboard, nothing is available to us. We haven’t even received a response from the Centre,” says Annapurna Garu, Joint Project Co-ordinator, National Nutrition Mission. When the scheme was designed and being implemented, it was driven by a spirit of co-ordination and co-operation, explains one the chief architects of the Poshan Abhiyaan at the Centre, on the condition of anonymity. “We often wrote letters and communicated over the phone to address the problems expressed by the States. Data, too, were always discussed at meetings where different non-government stakeholders were present as well. It is not true that data were meant to be kept under lock and key because of privacy issues. There are enough ways to mask the identity of the beneficiaries,” he says. Need for convergence States demand not only the Centre’s co-operation but also harp on the need for convergence between the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Women and Child Development’s ICDS through a common data portal. “There is a need for convergence. The Pregnancy, Child Tracking and Health Services Management System, for example, can give us data about a woman becoming pregnant. We can then use this to transfer their entitlements through the Pradhan Mantri Matritva Vandana Yojana, a maternity benefit scheme,” says Pathak. Since the Centre has failed to do this, the Rajasthan government is now planning to launch an AAA app or the ‘Auxiliary Nurse Midwife, Anganwadi and ASHA’ app, to ensure that all three of them are connected through the same tool. Andhra Pradesh, too, says that a pre-existing app called NutriTask, which was put aside after the ICDS-CAS was concieved, may now be revived. Ironically, a month before the launch of Poshan Abhiyaan, the Union Women and Child Development Ministry had written to the State Chief Secretaries to ensure a “single point of impact for all nutrition-related schemes” through the ICDS-CAS and advised them to “phase out State-/ UT-level initiatives to enable a synergised approach, avoid replication, and achieve the overall goals of the Mission.” But three years later, things seem to be moving in the opposite direction as several States are keen to develop their own software modules. “The accountability system is enormously centralised and top-down and is focused on surveillance of anganwadi workers. This is risky during a crisis like a pandemic or a flood because it means that the local community is not taught to take ownership of nutrition services and trained to monitor service delivery. To me if you want accountability, you could have a mother’s group that can monitor whether or not an anganwadi is functioning, whether the supplies are there, whether an anganwadi worker is providing those supplies to children or not. Local mothers’ groups and panchayat committees can play not just an inspectorial role, but also a supportive role,” says Jashodhara Dasgupta, social researcher on gender, health and rights, and convener of the Feminist Policy Collective. The ICDS-CAS harps on accountability of the person at the ground level instead of addressing other systemic, she says. “Anganwadi workers are treated as voluntary workers as they are considered to be part-time workers, and they live close to the houses they monitor. They are underpaid, overworked and deprived of social protection. So why are we so hooked to their accountability when there are inadequate budgets, delays in disbursal of cash benefits, lack of data, etc.? The entire system is intent on policing her,” Dasgupta says. “There is a strong case against centralisation of data systems. The systems must be flexible and in tune with local interventions. They must also be available to the front-line workers as well as at the local level for analyses and execution of corrective measures, and not just to programme developers. After all, it is an anganwadi worker who can take corrective steps immediately. Data systems should also be built with local participation and consensus. The Centre can facilitate setting this up locally and providing a supportive role to ensure capacity building for effective use of data,” Prasad contends.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The many layers to agricultural discontent||At a kisan rally in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh on February 28, 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of his vision of doubling the income of India’s farmers by 2022. Subsequently, several central leaders and even official committees have reiterated this tall promise. Probably, one of the measures that the Union government proposed to sub-serve this end was in the form of the three Farm Bills in September 2020 — by liberalising access to agricultural markets, removing existing barriers to storage of agricultural produce, and facilitating contract-farming. In the process, the regulatory role the state played hitherto with regard to these issues was watered down to a great extent. While these measures have been defended on the basis of slogans such as ‘One Nation, One Market’, they appear to be more directed to scoring brownie points in the ‘Ease of doing business’ index (the present regime has scored impressively well here in the last couple of years). Probably, more policy measures were in the offing to sub-serve this objective. The response Paradoxically, organised farmers’ bodies are not in sync with the reasoning of the government. It is necessary to point out that a wide spectrum of the political Opposition in Parliament offered strong resistance to these Bills; some State governments even enacted their own Bills that were largely directed against the key provisions of the central farm Acts even though the constitutional status of these enactments is highly dubious. One of the oldest members of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the Shiromani Akali Dal, walked out of the alliance in protest against these Bills. Even if we set aside the complex and multi-pronged challenges that rural India confronts today, there is a substantial body of studies that demonstrates how the vagaries of the market and the role of the middlemen reinforce agrarian distress in India. Although a body of piecemeal legislation and regulative processes have been put in place over the years in response to these issues — these include a few Pradhan Mantri yojanas — several key concerns of farmers have gone unattended. States have a pivotal role However, these issues and the relation across them vary remarkably across the different regions of India and in terms of the different produce. While we can debate the constitutional provisions with regard to the respective domains of the State and the Union with regard to agricultural marketing, there is little doubt that issues affecting the farming community have a far greater bearing on the States relative to the Centre. Ideally, given its immediacy, the States are the apt agencies to respond to a host of concerns faced by the farming community, which includes agricultural marketing. While enacting the Farm Bills, the Centre extended little consideration to the sensitivity of the States, leave alone consultation, although some of them made their opposition to the Farm Bills quite explicit. The three Acts that are the focus of the farmers’ agitation, and which farmers have demanded be repealed, bear differently on the different strata of the farming community and in different regions. APMC as cushion In the very high-stake and large-scale farming in Punjab and Haryana, for instance, weakening the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system by subjecting it to competition — and its resultant bearing on Minimum Support Price (MSP), particularly on crops such as rice and wheat — is seen by the farmers as a threat to an assured sale of their produce at a price. This system provides a cushion, wherein the farmer can anticipate the cost of opting for these crops and tap the necessary supports through channels he has been familiar with. Subjecting this system to the vagaries of a competitive market, including storing and contracting of the produce, where he would eventually be beholden to the large players, including monopolies, are prospects that a farmer detests even though he is aware that the middleman is not a saint. While elsewhere in the country the dependence on the APMC system is variegated, and where several States have redefined the role and place of this system over the years, there is widespread apprehension that the measures proposed by the Farm Acts in addition to the existing agrarian distress, are only going to make the lot of the farmer even more precarious. All across the country, the farming community is prone to sympathise with the demand to scrap the new laws, as they have little to offer to them in a positive sense. Movements and an evolution But the way the three Farming Acts were enacted, tends to crystallise a common sympathy across the farming community in India. Initially, there were ordinances that were passed when there was little urgency for these measures. After three months, when they were brought as Bills before the Houses, there was hardly any consultation with farmers’ organisations. They were rushed through the Houses of Parliament by paying little heed to the issues they raised. Farmers in India, have now shown that the saying, ‘they cannot govern themselves. They have to be governed’ is way off the mark. India’s farmers are a constituency deeply aware of their interests and challenges before them and are sensitive to developments elsewhere. In this context it is important to recall the powerful farmers’ movements that sprouted across India from the 1970s, led by such iconic leaders as M.D. Nanjundaswamy, Sharad Joshi, and Mahendra Singh Tikait, which claimed to speak not merely for farmers but to the rural segment as a whole. Even though they were clearly directed by the concerns of the relatively better-off farmers, they attempted to reach out to the farming community as a whole. There were major differences within these movements, and a few stances of some of them were definitely archaic and poorly thought over, but they presented a platform for discussion and debate beyond their immediate concerns. The organisations that these movements set up have undergone much change and a split today. But they have also learnt much in the process. While in some parts of the country the class and caste divide are still sharp, in other places, farmers’ organisations have not shied away from critically engaging with class, caste and gender concerns, although it has not made a substantial difference to the prevailing configuration of these relations. The very fact that a social reality is widely accepted provides space for policy intervention. The Farm Bills have ignored that the rural is a vibrant space in India, with ‘elective affinities’ binding its vast expanse. The farming strata Clearly, the rich farmers — those with large holdings and produce for the market — are spearheading the present stand-off against the Farm Bills, as it affects them very deeply. But farming distress is shared in common by the different strata within the farming community, even though it has a differential impact on them. It is important to bear in mind that the rich farmer has also reinforced his position enormously in the rural over the years after the Green Revolution and farmers’ movements of the 1970s. They have also invested their surplus in agri-business and clearly hold access to the wider economic and institutional domains. The lower strata of the farming community is invariably beholden to the rich farmer not merely for employment but also to access resources and services. There is very little autonomous organisation of the former in much of the country except caste. Therefore, when the die is cast on issues such as the Farm Acts, there is little doubt where the lower strata of the farming community would throw in their lot with. Valerian Rodrigues was a professor at Mangalore University and Jawaharlal Nehru University
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A regressive agenda, a new low in governance||In November 2020, even as the COVID-19 case tally in the State of Uttar Pradesh went past the half-a-million mark in total, its government promulgated an ordinance to combat the perceived threat of “love jihad”, a pejorative term used by the religious conservatives to describe inter-faith relationships and marriages. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020 (https://bit.ly/37zFQ8W andhttps://bit.ly/2JRFpOQ)must be criticised for setting up multiple barriers to inter-faith marriages and providing expansive powers to District Magistrates under the guise of prohibiting “unlawful conversions”. But the real and lasting impact of the ordinance must be measured in terms of the communal disharmony it sows and outright denial of agency to young women and men. It is trite that the law, in its present form, is regressive, ultra vires and must be consigned to the bin of legislative history. Upholding a right The government of Uttar Pradesh drew strength from a judgment delivered recently in the Allahabad High Court by Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi in Priyanshi @ Km. Shamren and Others v. State of U.P. and Another 2020. Here, while refusing a prayer for police protection by a woman who had converted from Islam to Hinduism, the High Court observed that conversion “just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable”. Fortunately, the effect of this observation was short lived, as another numerically superior two-judge Bench of the same High Court declared this to be bad law. Setting down the correct position in the case of Salamat Ansari And 3 Others vs State Of U.P. And 3 Others 2020, the Allahabad High Court held that “neither any individual nor a family nor even the state can have an objection to the relationship of two major individuals who out of their own free will are living together”. In doing so, the High Court has upheld the right of a person to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion professed by them as something which is intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty, guaranteed to every person under Article 21. Aiding social change Historically, intermarriages — be it inter-caste or inter-faith — have been advocated as an effective tool to break social barriers and repair societal divisions. Babasaheb Ambedkar and Periyar E.V. Ramasamy placed a premium on intermarriage as much as they did on inter-dining. In Annihilation of Caste , B.R. Ambedkar argues that inter-dining had not been successful in killing the spirit of caste and that the “real remedy is intermarriage”. Similarly, in his book, Women Enslaved (translated by G. Aloysius), Periyar traverses further to say that “no third person has any right to constrain or decide” the coming together of two people. Periyar sought to provide and protect the agency of women in making life choices as a pathway to achieve a liberal society. The Self Respect Conference held in Chengalpet, Tamil Nadu, in 1929 passed resolutions allowing women to file for divorce and to remarry. Periyar recast marriage as “life partnership agreements” wherein the two partners would come together on equal terms, and conducted thousands of self-respect marriages. In 1967, the Government of Tamil Nadu amended the marriage laws to allow self respect marriages within the Hindu Marriage Act. The most reliable statistical data shows that less than 5% of Indians have intercaste marriages and less than 3% have interfaith marriages. In spite of being a rare phenomenon in society, interfaith relationships have attracted a disproportionate amount of attention of the right-wing political class. Lawmakers in the Bharatiya Janata Party have actively spearheaded communal campaigns and stoked fear on this issue across the country. The bogey of “love jihad” plays right into hands of those with communal and patriarchal mindsets. It is no less crime to stop an inter-faith marriage than it is to abet an “honour killing” (https://bit.ly/2IgeLz0 and https://bit.ly/2JNMekM). The Kerala instance In 2017, the High Court of Kerala had cautioned against the use of the term “love jihad” to refer to interfaith marriages (https://bit.ly/33L7LS5). In the controversial ‘Hadiya case’ ( Shafin Jahan v. Asokan K.M. , 2018), the Supreme Court of India was called to assess the allegation that Hadiya (born Akhila) was deceived into marrying a Shafin, a Muslim man (https://bit.ly/33KtVDZ). In this case, the Court held that “The strength of the Constitution lies in the guarantee which it affords that each individual will have a protected entitlement in determining a choice of partner to share intimacies within or outside marriage” and laid emphasis on the point that the “right to marry a person of one’s choice” is integral to Article 21. It would seem that these observations and diktats have not persuaded the government of Uttar Pradesh to see constitutional sense while promulgating the said ordinance. Various sections of the ordinance are in outright violation of the Constitution of India. For instance, Section 12 of the ordinance flips the burden of proof onto the person who has converted or caused conversion of religion to establish and prove that there was no force, fraud, misrepresentation, undue influence, coercion or allurement involved. Any conversion for the purpose of marriage can be declared void under Section 6 of the ordinance. Under Section 3 of the ordinance, the scope of which the aggrieved person may lodge a complaint against any conversion of religion is expansive to include parents, brother, sister, or any other person who is related to him by blood, marriage or adoption. Read cumulatively, this ordinance invades privacy, deepens communal divides, advances patriarchy and eliminates agency (https://bit.ly/3g8RUlg). As such, the ordinance is a manifestation of an exclusionary and regressive agenda, which presents a new low in governance for the government of Uttar Pradesh and therefore, must be allowed to be part of the modern political discourse. Not only does the ordinance violate fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but it is also in conflict with existing personal laws. While playing to the ‘Hindu Rashtra’ gallery, the government of Uttar Pradesh has abandoned all semblance of secularism and constitutionalism. Manuraj Shunmugasundaram is an advocate and spokesperson of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Trust deficit||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a federation of around 500 farmer organisations, has resolved to intensify its agitation against three farm laws hurriedly enacted by the Centre. After dismissing the protests as ill-informed and motivated initially, the Centre has offered to make some changes to the laws, but the farmers have now called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8. Thousands of farmers camping on the outskirts of the national capital are sceptical of the government claim that these laws would make agriculture more lucrative and secure by allowing market forces to play. The fear that the new regime will dismantle the system of procurement under Minimum Support Price (MSP) and leave farmers at the mercy of corporations is real. Responding to concerns, the Centre has suggested safeguards to prevent land alienation via contract farming; strengthening the State-run mandi system and ensuring its equal footing with private buyers through equalising taxes; allowing grievance redress in civil courts rather than just in the offices of Sub-Divisional Magistrates; and ensuring proper verification of private traders. It has not, however, offered a legal guarantee of MSP and the question of power subsidies also remains contentious. The Narendra Modi government has a declared policy of ensuring farm prices that are at least 50% more than the input costs. This has remained more an intent than reality, and the discussion has also been muddled by the government’s refusal to include rental value of the land in input costs. Agriculture has to remain environmentally sustainable and remunerative for farmers. Significant challenges have emerged with regard to these benchmarks, though India has ensured substantial food stock and a robust distribution mechanism that covers the entire country. There is a strong case for reworking the incentive structures and cropping pattern in order to account for changes in water availability and changing dietary requirements. The problems faced by farmers are by no means the same across India. But a sense of hostility from the state and market is now pervasive. Changes in land acquisition laws and the general thrust towards industrialisation together with the pressure on agriculture subsidies have increased the feeling of vulnerability of farmers in recent years. The abrupt changes in the sector brought in through the three laws have aggravated the trust deficit of the government. The combative attitude of the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party towards criticism worsened it further. Food security is considered a component of national security by all countries. The Union Agriculture Minister has said the government has no ego. The Centre must strive for reaching an agreement with the farmers that addresses their concerns.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Star turn||Veteran Tamil actor, Rajinikanth, added expectations to years of suspense over his plan of forming a political party, by his tweet on Thursday, that he will launch the party in January. After his announcement in December 2017 that he would form a political party in time to contest in all 234 Assembly constituencies of Tamil Nadu in 2021, his tweets, brief observations and curt replies to journalists’ queries, in the last three years, did not present any coherent view about his policies and programmes. On many occasions, he was seen to be a supporter of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On a few other occasions, he sought to distance himself from the party. Mr. Rajinikanth, who has been talking of “spiritual politics”, has, however, chosen to mention, in the tweet, secularism as one of the guiding principles of his new organisation. Regardless of the eventual outcome of Mr. Rajinikanth’s political project, his move has the potential of facilitating the emergence of a credible third force in the State, where all attempts, since 1977, have ended in failure. At a time when the composition of the coalitions headed by the two big parties, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) is considered a settled matter, Mr. Rajinikanth’s entry might now provide greater room for smaller parties to negotiate into an alliance. Without doubt, there exists a vote share of 10% to 15%, which can be called independent of the influence of the two principal players, going by the data of votes secured by non-AIADMK and non-DMK formations in the last four decades. Mr. Rajinikanth may be tempted to corner the support of this vote bank, but this vote bank is not homogeneous, but one of diverse social, economic, and political composition. Very much like M.G. Ramachandran, M. Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa, Mr. Rajinikanth is banking heavily on the intangible asset of charisma. Even some of his poorly made films have made money because of a huge fan following. But this is no guarantor of success in elections in Tamil Nadu. Also, Mr. Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s no-nonsense functioning, as Chief Minister, coupled with his relatively low profile, has helped the AIADMK recover some of the lost ground. The DMK’s M.K. Stalin passed his first major test, post-Karunanidhi, by registering a landslide victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha election in the State. Notwithstanding all the challenges that he may have to face, Mr. Rajinikanth, by stitching up the right combination of political forces and declaring adherence to long-cherished ideals of the State such as a development-oriented all-inclusive approach, welfarism and social justice, can possibly provide a stiff fight to the established players.
05 December 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI tightens oversight of NBFCs, UCBs||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday announced the introduction of risk-based internal audit norms for large urban cooperative banks (UCBs) and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), as part of measures aimed at improving governance and assurance functions at supervised entities. The RBI also moved to harmonise the guidelines on appointment of statutory auditors for commercial banks, UCBs and NBFCs in order to improve the quality of financial reporting. Observing that the growing significance of NBFCs and their interlinkages with different parts of the financial system had made it imperative to enhance the sector’s resilience, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said, it had been decided to put in place transparent criteria for the declaration of dividends by different categories of NBFCs.  Systemic risk potential “Further, the current regulatory regime for the NBFC sector, built on the principle of proportionality, warrants a review,” Mr. Das said. “It is felt that a scale-based regulatory approach linked to the systemic risk contribution of NBFCs could be the way forward,” he added. The RBI would remain strongly committed to preserving the stability of the financial sector and would do whatever was necessary, the Governor asserted. “While we are constantly focussed on strengthening the regulations and deepening our supervision, financial sector entities like banks and NBFCs should also give highest priority to quality of governance, risk management and internal controls,” Mr. Das stressed. “They are the first line of defence in matters relating to financial sector stability,” he said. With a view to deepening financial markets, regional rural banks would be allowed to access the liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) and marginal standing facility (MSF) of the RBI, as also the call/notice money market. Secure digital payments To significantly improve the ecosystem of digital payment channels with robust security and convenience for users, the RBI has proposed to issue Digital Payment Security Controls directions for the regulated entities. “These directions will contain requirements for robust governance, implementation and monitoring of certain minimum standards on common security controls for channels like Internet and mobile banking and card payments,” he said. Justifying the RBI’s action on HDFC Bank, he said there was a need for all banks and financial entities to invest more in their IT systems so that public confidence was maintained. On an RBI panel’s recommendation that corporates may be allowed to open banks, Mr. Das said, “The report of the internal working group is now in the public domain. We will receive comments. After getting comments from various stakeholders we will examine the whole matter and take a considered decision. That is how it stands”. He also indicated that the crisis at Punjab & Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC) appeared headed for an early resolution based on a positive response from prospective investors.
05 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Accommodative’ stance to help revive durable growth: bankers||The decision of the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee to continue with its accommodative stance this fiscal as well as the next would ensure sustainable economic growth, bankers said. “The RBI policy of maintaining the status quo was expected but the continued forward guidance of an extended accommodative stance will continue to serve the markets well,” State Bank of India Chairman Dinesh Khara said. IBA Chairman and Union Bank of India’s MD and CEO Raj Kiran Rai G said that the RBI had clearly indicated continuation of accommodative stance during the current financial year and into the next financial year to revive growth on a durable basis while containing inflation in the prescribed range. “This gives clarity to the market on the rate front. Evolving macroeconomic dynamics augur well for maintaining the status quo on policy rates,” he said. Punjab National Bank’s MD and CEO CH.S.S Mallikarjuna Rao said the elevation in consumer prices had been acknowledged by the RBI as a sign of economic activity getting normalised, which could lead to increase in demand.  HDFC Bank’s Chief Economist Abheek Barua said the absence of any major liquidity absorption measures in the midst of a prolonged inflationary episode and the upward revision of both growth and inflation forecasts were somewhat puzzling.
05 December 2020||Chennai,||LIC’s online policy sales rise 128%, says MD Kumar||Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) has posted a 128% growth year-on-year in online sales of insurance policies during this fiscal up to October, and settled maturity claims and survival benefits worth more than Rs. 57,000 crore, said Managing Director Raj Kumar. The insurer has been resilient during COVID-19 times, reaching out to people, he added. Alternative payment channels such as Google Pay and PhonePe witnessed ‘a huge response’ during the pandemic with more than 42% of the premium being collected via the digital route, he said. In all, 72% of the premium collections occurred outside of the traditional cash counters in offices. Thus, digital route had gained popularity during the pandemic, he added. Till November, LIC recorded an investment income of more than Rs. 1.49 lakh crore, registering a growth rate of 20%. It had booked Rs. 25,000 crore in profit via stock trading, Mr. Kumar said in a statement.
05 December 2020||mumbai,||Supply-side issues fuelling inflation, says RBI’s Patra||RBI Deputy Governor Michael Patra on Friday said supply-side issues, including profit maximisation at retailers’ end, are hurting the inflation situation, which has breached the central bank’s comfort level in the past few months. There is a window for cooling off in prices presented by the softness in vegetable prices in winters and arrivals of the kharif or summer crop, Mr. Patra said affirming the RBI is watchful of the demand-side issues.  “At current time, our assessment is that the large part of inflation pressures are emanating out of supply-side disruptions (like) at the level of retailer, very high margins being charged by the retailers and some amount of indirect taxes,” Mr. Patra told reporters. He added, “if supply-side management is timely and effective, you will see the trajectory of inflation completely changing.”
05 December 2020||COIMBATORE,||Ministry seeks proposals for technical textiles body||The Ministry of Textiles has invited proposals to constitute a dedicated export promotion council for technical textiles. Exporter associations and trade bodies registered under the Companies Act or Society Registration Act can submit proposals by December 15, the ministry said. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, in its meeting held in February this year, gave its approval to set up a National Technical Textiles Mission, with a four-year implementation period and a total outlay of Rs. 1,480 crore, to position the country as a global leader in technical textiles. The export promotion council for technical textiles is one of the components of the mission. K.S. Sundararaman, chairman of Indian Technical Textile Association, said annual technical textile exports are now worth Rs. 14,000 crore. The government is looking at explosive growth in the sector. Most of the exporters of technical textiles currently go through export promotion councils for other products. A dedicated council for this sector will be beneficial, he added. Confederation of Indian Textile Industry’s chairman T. Rajkumar said that the government had set a target market size of $350 billion for technical textiles by 2024-2025 from the current $167 billion for the textile and clothing sector. The decision to set up a dedicated export promotion council is a step in the right direction. he added.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Liberty to start Thyssenkrupp asset review||The Liberty Steel Group, owned by metals tycoon Sanjeev Gupta, on Friday said it would soon begin a detailed due diligence of the steel assets of Thyssenkrupp in Europe. In October, the U.K.-based Liberty Steel had made a non-binding indicative offer to Thyssenkrupp to acquire the German steel major’s assets in Europe. “Thyssenkrupp and Liberty Steel Group have agreed to enter a further process phase. Liberty Steel will shortly begin a detailed due diligence and thus gain insight into key business data of Thyssenkrupp’s steel business,” Liberty Steel said in a statement.
05 December 2020||new delhi,||Moody’s cuts Vedanta’s parent ratings||Moody’s Investors Service has downgraded the corporate family rating of Vedanta Resources Limited to B2 from B1 citing persistent weak liquidity and high refinancing needs. Moody’s has also downgraded the ratings on the senior unsecured bonds issued by Vedanta Resources and those issued by Vedanta Resources Finance II Plc. and guaranteed by VRL to Caa1 from B3. “The downgrade primarily reflects the holding company VRL’s persistently weak liquidity and high refinancing needs amid growing signs of an aggres sive risk appetite, with implications for financial strategy and risk management, said Kaustubh Chaubal, a Moody’s vice-president.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Diesel rises, petrol nears Rs. 83 in Delhi||Diesel price on Friday crossed Rs. 73-a-litre in Delhi and the petrol rate neared Rs. 83 after the 12th increase in the last fortnight. Petrol price was raised by 20 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise in line with the firming international oil rates, according to a notification from oil marketing companies. Petrol price in Delhi rose to Rs. 82.86 per litre from Rs. 82.66. Diesel rate went up from Rs. 72.84 to Rs. 73.07. In 15 days, the petrol price has gone up by Rs. 1.8 per litre and diesel rate has risen by Rs. 2.61. Rates vary from State to State depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Stocks rally on RBI’s stance, GDP outlook||The Sensex rallied 447 points to close above the 45,000-level for the first time on Friday, tracking strong buying in financial stocks after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) left interest rates unchanged for the third straight time amid persistently high inflation, but said the economy was recuperating fast and would return to positive growth in the current quarter itself. The broader NSE Nifty touched a new high of 13,280.05 during the session, before finishing 124.65 points, or 0.95%, higher at 13,258.55 — its record closing high. Rate-sensitive banking, financial, realty and auto stocks rallied after the policy announcement. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising about 4%, followed by UltraTech Cement, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel, HUL, SBI, L&T, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank. The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) “decided to continue with the accommodative stance... as long as necessary - at least through the current financial year and into the next year,” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said. ‘Dovish commentary’ Gaurav Dua, Head - Capital Market Strategy and Investments, at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said growth remains high on the priority of RBI. “The commentary is dovish in spite of the elevated level of inflationary pressure. It essentially means the liquidity situation would be comfortable and interest rates likely to remain soft in the near term,” he added.
05 December 2020||Chennai,||Paysharp to offer flat-tariff plan||B2B payments provider Paysharp is planning to expand its offering by providing enterprise-grade support so that businesses need not hold back on digitalisation for lack of a seamless payment solution. On offer now is a Rs. 12 flat charge for all transactions beyond Rs. 2,000, it said, adding this was less costly for users than paying a percentage per transaction.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Investors binge on Burger King India IPO; offer gets subscribed over 156 times||Investors seem to have fully savoured the Burger King India IPO, with the share sale getting subscribed by a massive 156.65 times on the last day of the offer on Friday. The portion meant for qualified institutional buyers was subscribed 86.64 times, non-institutional investors 354.11 and retail investors 68.15 times.The Rs. 810-crore IPO included a fresh issue of shares worth Rs. 450 crore.PTI
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Franklin Templeton MF to issue notice to seek consent of unitholders shortly||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund has said it would seek the consent of unitholders shortly for winding up of six debt schemes. It also assured investors that voting for an orderly winding up did not mean a lengthy wait for return of funds. The Supreme Court had on Thursday asked the fund house to initiate steps within a week to call a meeting of unitholders to seek consent for closure of the six MF schemes.pti
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||MobiKwik raises Rs 52 cr from HT group, Kris Gopalakrishnan’s family office||Fintech firm MobiKwik on Friday said it had raised Rs. 52 crore in funding, led by Hindustan Media Ventures, the investment arm of HT Group. The funding round also saw participation from Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan’s family office, Pratithi, as per a statement. The fresh capital will be used for growth in all key business segments of the company, it added.PTI
05 December 2020||Canberra,||Chahal for Jadeja as ‘like-for-like’ triggers a debate||A concussed Ravindra Jadeja was replaced by Yuzvendra Chahal in the first T20 International against Australia here on Friday with both making match-winning contributions much to the frustration of the home side. “Ravindra Jadeja was hit on the helmet in the final over of the first innings of the first T20I. Yuzvendra Chahal will take the field in the 2nd innings as a concussion substitute. Jadeja is currently being assessed by the BCCI Medical Team,” read a BCCI post on its Twitter handle after India’s innings. Animated Langer Australia head coach Justin Langer was seen having an animated conversation with match referee David Boon on the sidelines but it was not known whether it had anything to with the decision to allow Chahal as a concussion substitute. “Their doctor had ruled Jadeja out due to concussion. You can’t be challenging a medical expert’s opinion,” said Australia captain Aaron Finch after the match. His teammate and all-rounder Moises Henriques was a bit more forthcoming on the frustration felt by the team. “A decision was taken that there was a concussion and we are fine with that. But was there a like for like replacement? Jadeja was more of an all-rounder, and he had done his batting. Chahal is a bowler,” he said in the post-match press conference. After being hit on the helmet, Jadeja seemed fine and walked back to the dressing room, prompting a bit of chatter among the commentators on the severity of his injury.  Late on Friday night, the BCCI confirmed that Jadeja will miss the remaining two T20Is. The statement added that the all-rounder will remain under observation and will be taken for further scans if required based on the assessment on Saturday morning. Shardul Thakur has been named as his replacement. In July last year, the ICC had allowed like-for-like concussion substitutes in case a player got hit on the head. “The Match Referee should consider the likely role the concussed player would have played during the remainder of the match, and the normal role that would be performed by the nominated Concussion Replacement,” the ICC rule states.
05 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Kalighat gets the better of Town||Kalighat Club depended on Prinan Dutta and Jayojit Basu’s half-centuries to beat Town Club by 14 runs in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Friday. Asked to bat, Kalighat posted 149 for four before restricting Town to 135 for seven. Century stand Openers Dutta (56, 51b, 6x4, 1x6) and Basu (51, 51b, 3x4, 2x6) forged a 112-run stand. Dutta preferred the onside, while Basu chose both to send the wayward deliveries to the boundary. The partnership ended when left-arm spinner Aritra Chatterjee bowled Basu in the 16th over. Dutta was bowled by medium-pacer Mohammed Kaif while accelerating. The solid platform laid by the two helped Kalighat set a target of 150. Town was off to a fine start as Kazi Saifi (41, 29b, 5x4, 1x6), who hit Amit Kuila for successive fours in the first three deliveries of the innings, and Avijit Singh (32, 34b, 4x1, 1x6) gathered 73 runs in 10 overs. Medium-pacer Satyaki Dutta delivered a double blow by removing Avijit and Kazi in consecutive deliveries. Pankaj Shaw’s effort (26, 20b, 2x4, 1x6) was in vain as Kalighat sustained pressure to keep Town at bay.  The scores: Kalighat Club 149/4 in 20 overs (Prinan Dutta 56, Jayojit Basu 51) bt Town Club 135/7 in 20 overs (Kazi Saifi 41, Avijit Singh 32, Satyaki Dutta 3/31, Amit Kuila 2/27).   On Thursday: East Bengal 118 in 20 overs (Shreyan Chakraborty 2/17, Saikat Banerjee 2/20) bt Calcutta Customs 77 in 17.4 overs (Prosenjit Das 33, Sujit Yadav 3/13, Arnab Nandi 2/15, Akash Pandey 2/20) .
05 December 2020||SYDNEY,||Not practical to ban switch-hit: Taufel||Former ICC Elite Panel umpire Simon Taufel feels it will not be practical to outlaw the switch-hit shot, adding that it’s “impossible” for the on-field umpire to monitor the batsman for change in grip or stance. Earlier this week, former Australian skipper Ian Chappell had suggested the ICC to ban switch-hitting saying the shot is “blatantly unfair” to the bowlers and the fielding team. A switch hit involves a batsman changing the order of his hands (from left-handed to right handed grip or vice-versa) after the bowler has already started on his run-up. Art, not science “The game of cricket is not a science, it’s an art. We’re not perfect,” the former ICC Elite Panel umpire was quoted as saying by Sydney Morning Herald . “When we say that we want to ban that type of shot how does the umpire officiate that? It’s impossible,” Taufel added. The Australian, who umpired 74 Test matches and 174 ODIs before quitting in 2012 and was named ICC Umpire of the Year for five consecutive years from 2004 to 2008, said on-field umpire already has to make several decisions. “The umpire has an enormous number of decisions — front foot, back foot, protected area, seeing where a ball is hit — it’s impossible to have an official then watch for the changing of the grip or stance. “It’s an impossible ask for a standing umpire to make that determination,” Taufel said. “We can’t make a law that we can’t apply,” he added. Chappell had expressed his reservations about the switch hit saying “(Switch-hitting) is amazingly skilful, but it’s not fair. On the other hand, Australian all-rounder Glenn Maxwell, who regularly plays the switch-hit effectively, had defended it
05 December 2020||Madrid,||Under-fire Zidane refuses to give up||Real Madrid coach Zinedine Zidane takes his side to Sevilla this weekend after insisting he has no intention of resigning despite a disastrous recent run. Madrid has won just once in LaLiga since October and crashed to a 2-0 defeat at Shakhtar Donetsk in the Champions League on Tuesday, meaning it must beat Borussia Monchengladbach next week to advance from the group stage. In LaLiga , Real has drawn with in-form Villarreal, was edged out at lowly Alaves and was hammered at Valencia since its last league victory, leaving the champion in fourth place, seven points off leader Real Sociedad.  “I have the strength needed to turn the situation around and I am going to give everything to do that, so are the players,” Zidane said after the loss in Ukraine. “We have to lift ourselves up and think about the next match. We’re on a bad run, there’s nothing else to do other than think about the next match and move on. “In difficult moments, you have to show character,” he added. Spanish press reports have linked former Tottenham boss Mauricio Pochettino and ex-Madrid forward Raul forward to the Frenchman’s job. Ramos’s clarion call According to AS, Real’s captain Sergio Ramos called a squad meeting this week, exhorting his team-mates to give “an extra push until the end of the year.” “This is Real Madrid, gentlemen. Together, we’ve come out of worse,” Ramos reportedly said ahead of the trip to the Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan Stadium where it has lost on six of its last eight visits. Saturday’s hosts went unbeaten in the Spanish top-flight throughout November, hitting form after a sluggish start to the season under former Madrid boss Julen Lopetegui. Spain playmaker Suso is set to return for the Europa League champion after being sidelined for six weeks with a muscle injury. Hitting form Meanwhile, Joao Felix, the Atletico Madrid attacker, is on the verge of already equalling his goal tally for last season, when he hit nine, finally showing justifying his €126 million fee. The price tag for his move from Benfica made him the second most expensive teenager in history, behind only what Paris Saint-Germain paid for Kylian Mbappe. In his first season at Atletico, Felix appeared to feel the burden of the transfer fee and his progress was also hampered by missing 13 games through injury. On Saturday, Atletico hosts Real Valladolid and a win could send it top temporarily with Sociedad playing Alaves a day later.
05 December 2020||TOKYO,||Olympics to cost extra $2.4 billion: organisers||The coronavirus-delayed Tokyo Olympics will cost at least an extra $2.4 billion, organisers said on Friday, with the postponement and a raft of pandemic health measures ballooning an already outsized budget. Tokyo 2020 said an additional $1.5 billion would be needed for operational costs related to the delay, with another $900 million in spending on coronavirus countermeasures for the Games next year. The costs could rise further, with Tokyo 2020 saying it will release an additional $250 million in “contingency” funds to help cover the expenses. The extra costs come as organisers and Olympic officials work to build enthusiasm and momentum for the first Games postponed in peacetime, insisting that the massive international event can go ahead next year even if the pandemic is not under control. But more spending could further harden public opinion in Japan, where polls earlier this year showed a majority of people think the Games should be postponed again or cancelled together. The additional costs will be split between the national government, the city of Tokyo and the organisers.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Chhetri seals it in BFC’s favour||A Sunil Chhetri spot-kick decided a tense Chennaiyin FC-Bengaluru FC tie and brought his team its first win of the 2020-21 ISL campaign at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim, Goa, on Friday. Substitute Edwin Vanspaul brought down BFC forward Cleiton Silva with a sliding tackle. Chhetri converted in the 56th minute by hitting the ball low into the bottom-left corner, past Vishal Kaith’s outstretched arm. The loss was Chennaiyin’s first of the season after a win and a draw. At the outset, BFC showed more urgency than it had in its opening two games. Dimas Delgado, who made his first start, was to lend the so-far lumbering BFC midfield some direction and incision. A through-ball in the second minute to set Silva free was indicative of this. Thapa hobbles off But the game soon turned feisty, with Chennaiyin creative midfielder Anirudh Thapa at the receiving end. Two challenges from Ashique Kuruniyan forced Thapa to hobble off, replaced as early as the 16th minute by Vanspaul. Chennaiyin, however, retained its shape, with the attacking duo of Lallianzuala Chhangte and Rafael Crivellaro keeping the opposition defenders busy. BFC made multiple forays into the opposition half, but couldn’t break through and often backpedalled to safety. Minutes after the break, Chennaiyin conceded a dangerous free-kick at the edge of the box on the left flank but BFC wasted it with an over-elaborate manoeuvre. Deepak Tangri came close for Chennaiyin, but his header was well saved by BFC goalie Gurpreet Sandhu. Tackles flew and tempers raged, but clear-cut chances were few and far between. Delgado’s long-ranger, two far-post volleys by Chennaiyin’s Fatkhullo Fatkhuloev, and a drive from distance by BFC’s Erik Paartalu were the notable ones. Chennaiyin’s appeal for a penalty in the 69th minute when Crivellaro’s header appeared to strike Kuruniyan’s hands fell on deaf ears.  The result: Chennaiyin FC 0 lost to Bengaluru FC 1 (Chhetri 56-pen) .
05 December 2020||HAMILTON,||Williamson hits a Test-high 251||Captain Kane Williamson scored 251, his third double century and highest Test score, before making an assertive declaration at 519 for seven, on the second day of the first Test against the West Indies, here on Friday. Williamson waited for allrounder Kyle Jamieson to post his maiden half century before declaring with about 26 overs left in the day’s play. At stumps, West Indies, hit by minor injuries to batsman Darren Bravo and wicketkeeper Shane Dowrich, was 49 without loss. Dogged batting Kraigg Braithwaite (20) and John Campbell (22) batted doggedly through the late afternoon to ensure the tourists went to stumps without losing a wicket. The second day was highlighted by Williamson’s superb innings. He batted almost 10-1/2 hours, struck 34 fours and two sixes to eclipse his previous highest score of 242 against Sri Lanka at Wellington in 2015. Williamson is only the third New Zealander after former skippers Brendon McCullum and Stephen Fleming to score three double centuries in Tests. He resumed Friday at 97 not out and reached his 22nd century from 224 balls. New Zealand’s commanding total mounted as he passed 150, then 200 from 369 deliveries.  Reprieve Williamson had a lucky break on 221 when he was caught behind by stand-in wicketkeeper Shamarh Brooks from Roach’s bowling. The dismissal was annulled when the television umpire found Roach had over-stepped. Jamieson, whose previous highest score was 49, reached his half century from 62 balls with five fours and two sixes.
05 December 2020||Canberra,||Substitute rule worked for us, says Kohli||India captain Virat Kohli was quite pleased that the concussion substitute rule worked out well for his side even though there were no plans to play Yuzvendra Chahal, who proved to be a match-winner after replacing Ravindra Jadeja in the first T20 International against Australia here. Chahal turned out to be the perfect concussion substitute after an injured Jadeja did his part with the bat in India’s impressive 11-run victory. “There were no plans of having Yuzi (Chahal) in the game. Jaddu (Jadeja) got a knock on the side of the head and was a bit dizzy and still is,” Kohli said at the post-match presentation. “Concussion replacements are a strange thing, today it worked for us maybe another time he wouldn’t have found a like-for-like,” he added. “In Australia, you need to play hard and show intensity till the end. He (Jadeja) batted beautifully in the last game. Natarajan is coming on well, he can be an asset for us in white-ball cricket. (Deepak) Chahar bowled well too. Chahal got us back in the game. Hardik’s catch was a game-changer as well,” Kohli said. Man-of-the-moment Chahal said having not made the original playing eleven, there was no pressure on him when he came on as a concussion substitute. “There was no pressure for me when we were batting and then suddenly I got to know I was going to play. I have played so many games so I was mentally fit,” he said. Chahal said after a below-par outing in the ODI series, he picked up some tricks from rival leg-spinner Adam Zampa. “In ODIs, I flighted the ball a lot, but here I just saw the way Zampa bowled, I tried to do the same.”
05 December 2020||Paris,||Spurs through despite draw||Premier League leader Tottenham struggled to gain the draw it needed in Linz, finishing 3-3 on Thursday thanks to two penalties and securing a place in the knock-out rounds of the Europa League. The result in Austria ensured that Antwerp — which beat Ludogorets 3-1 — will also advance from Group J with only first place in the group at stake when they meet next week. Elsewhere in the early games, Braga, AC Milan, Lille, Villarreal, Dinamo Zagreb and Red Star Belgrade ensured their places in the last 32 with one round of group games still to play. They join Leicester, Arsenal, Hoffenheim and Roma who had already qualified. For the first time in 270 days, fans were back inside a Premier League ground as Arsenal welcomed 2,000 supporters into the Emirates for its routine 4-1 win over Rapid Vienna. The sparse crowd in a 60,000 capacity stadium, were well distanced between two stands and in high spirits despite the Gunners’ poor form of late in the English top-flight. Despite Arsenal having already booked its place in the knockout stages, demand from fans to be one of the lucky few back through the gates crashed the club website on Saturday morning. In Group H, AC Milan fell two goals behind at home to eliminated Celtic but rallied to win 4-2 and advance. Milan is second in the group, one point behind Lille which also came from behind to win at home. In Group G, Leicester fielded a weakened side against Zorya in the Ukraine and lost 1-0. Villarreal secured first place in Group I as Samuel Chukwueze scored the only goal away to Sivasspor in Turkey.  Important results: Group A: Roma 3 (Mayoral 44, Calafiori 59, Dzeko 81) bt Young Boys 1 (Nsame 34).   Group B: Arsenal 4 (Lacazette 10, Pablo Mari 18, Nketiah 44, Smith Rowe 66) bt Rapid Vienna 1 (Kitagawa 47).   Group C: Nice 2 (Kamara 26, Ndoye 47) lost to Bayer Leverkusen 3 (Diaby 22, Dragovic 32, Baumgartlinger 51).   Group F: AZ Alkmaar 1 (Martins Indi 54) drew with Napoli 1 (Mertens 6); Real Sociedad 2 (Bautista 69, Monreal 79) drew with Rijeka 2 (Velkoski 38, Loncar 73).   Group G: Zorya Luhansk 1 (Sayyadmanesh 84) bt Leicester City 0.   Group H: AC Milan 4 (Calhanoglu 24, Castillejo 26, Hauge 50, Diaz 82) bt Celtic 2 (Rogic 7, Edouard 14).   Group I: Sivasspor 0 lost to Villarreal 1 (Chukwueze 75).   Group J: LASK Linz 3 (Michorl 42, Eggstein 84, Karamoko 90+3) drew with Tottenham Hotspur 3 (Bale 45+2-pen, Son 56, Alli 87-pen).
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Seek an Acharya||A story in the Santi Parva of Mahabharata illustrates the importance of keeping the mind under control, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. There was a sage doing tapas in his ashram in the forest. There was a dog in the ashram, which adored the sage and never harmed anyone. One day a leopard entered the ashram and wanted to kill the dog. Sensing this, the dog ran to the sage. The sage turned the dog into a leopard, so that it would not have to fear the intruder, and the two leopards became friends. Soon after, a tiger entered the ashram and the dog was again afraid. The sage turned the dog into a tiger. But, the dog changed its gentle ways and began to kill other animals. Then an elephant threatened the tiger and the dog which had become a tiger went back to the sage for help. He now turned it into an elephant, and it joined an elephant herd. One day a lion threatened the elephants and the dog went back to the sage and he turned it into a lion. But a sarabha came to the forest and the dog was again fearful. The sage turned it into a sarabha. The dog then thought, “This rishi changed me into many animals. What if he uses his power to turn some other animal into a sarabha? Then I will be challenged by that new sarabha. So it is best to kill the rishi.” The rishi could read the thoughts of the dog, and said, “You have no gratitude, although I helped you. So, I am going to turn you into a dog again.” The story shows how the dog was not able to keep its svabhava intact, but kept changing. If a dog finds it so difficult to control its mind, how much more difficult it must be for humans to do so. The only option for us is to seek an Acharya, with whose help we can attain moksha. Acharyas are like a boat that helps a drowning man.
05 December 2020||CAPE TOWN,||First S. Africa-England ODI postponed||The first One-Day International between South Africa and England, scheduled to be played at Newlands here on Friday, has been postponed after a South African player tested positive for COVID-19. Cricket South Africa made the announcement just over an hour before the day-night match was due to start. According to a statement from Cricket South Africa and the England and Wales Cricket Board, the unidentified South African player’s positive status emerged from tests conducted after his team’s final scheduled practice on Thursday. The first match will now be a day-game in Paarl on Sunday, when the second match was scheduled. The second match will be a day-night game at Newlands on Monday, with the series concluding as scheduled with another day-night match at Newlands on Wednesday. The series forms part of the International Cricket Council’s World Cup Super League.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Sneha Singh wins title||Sneha Singh of Hyderabad won her second pro-title when she notched up a four-shot clear victory with rounds of 71, 72 and 74 for a total of one-over par. The 16-year-old amateur dominated from first day of the tournament in a competitive field which also included Vaani Kapoor and Diksha Dagar. Mixed bag In the final round, Sneha had bogeyed the first, 11th, 14th and a triple bogey on the sixth hole, but made birdies on second, seventh, 10th and the 15th to recover smartly. “I was playing after nine months because of the pandemic break and also because I had to focus on academics. I practised for a few days before coming here and am glad with this performance,” Sneha said. She thanked NMDC for the support and also the management of her school Delhi Public School for letting her train and compete under the watchful eyes of her father-cum-coach Sanjay Kumar Singh. “Yes, my dream is to win big tournaments for India,” she concluded.  I was playing after nine months because of the pandemic break Sneha
05 December 2020||Kochi,||Radhakrishnan is new National chief coach||Almost six months after Bahadur Singh’s exit, the Athletics Federation of India confirmed Radhakrishnan Nair as the National chief coach on Friday. The 62-year-old from Kerala, a World Athletics Level-5 coach, had been the acting chief coach since July. “We are happy we will be able to maintain continuity of our planning since Radhakrishnan has been the deputy chief coach for seven years now,” said AFI president Adille Sumariwalla. “We are particularly pleased that his ideas of implementation of modern coaching methods and the use of sports science in the development of young athletes have worked well.”
05 December 2020||Hyderabad:,||Sri Aneesh and Jalani emerge winners||Sri Aneesh and P. Jalani finished winners in the cadet category for boys and girls respectively in the super league of the Telangana State inter-district table tennis championship here.  The results: Super league: Cadet boys (first round): Sri Aneesh (SPHS) bt V. Manohar (GSM) 11-8, 11-0, 11-4; Aneesh bt M. Karthik Teja (Prott) 12-10, 11-8, 10-12, 12-10; Aneesh bt M. Dharma Sai Teja 11-6, 11-5, 11-6.   Aneesh bt Nishant (MLR) 11-3, 11-9, 11-3; Aneesh bt M. Devansh Singh (AWA) 11-2, 8-11, 11-8, 7-11, 11-4; Aneesh bt Jaffar Hussain (LBS) 7-11, 9-11, 11-7; 12-10, 11-8.   Second round: Karthik bt Nishant 11-7, 13-11, 11-8; Karthik bt Devansh 11-5, 11-8, 11-4; Karthik bt Jaffar 11-7, 11-8, 11-3.   Karthik bt Nishant 11-3, 11-9, 11-3; Karthik bt Manohar 11-1, 11-3, 11-9; Karthik bt Akshay Khajandar (AWA) 11-8, 9-11, 11-7, 11-4; Karthik bt Dharma 11-3, 11-1, 11-3.   Final list of qualifiers for Nationals: Aneesh, Karthik, Akshay, Jaffar, Akshay, Devansh, Dharma, Manohar and Nishant.   Cadet girls: P. Jalani (VPG) bt B. Sri Vidya (GSM) 11-2, 11-3, 11-8; Jalani bt Rahamath Unnisa (YMCAXTTA) 11-4, 11-1, 11-0; Jalani bt Aniyah Anand (Prott) 11-6, 11-6, 11-8.   Pragyansha Patra (VPG) bt Chaitra (APG) 11-3, 11-5, 11-6; Pragyansha bt Vatsala Tirunagar (HPS) 11-3, 11-7, 11-9; Pragyansha bt Vidya 11-8, 11-6, 11-4; Satya (GSM) bt Chaitra 14-12, 11-6, 11-5; Satya bt Vidya 11-7, 11-2, 11-7.   Satya bt Aniyah 11-7, 11-4, 11-6; Vatsala bt Aniyah 11-8, 11-6, 11-9; Vatsala bt Unnisa 11-8, 11-6, 11-8; Vatsala bt Chaitra 11-4, 11-7, 11-5.   Vatsala bt Vidya 11-2, 11-4, 11-9; Unnisa bt Aniyah 11-9, 11-7, 11-4; Unnisa bt Vidya 11-5, 11-9, 12-10; Unissa bt Chaitra 13-11, 5-11, 11-5, 11-8.   Aniyah bt Vidya 11-8, 11-8, 8-11, 8-11, 11-4; Aniyah bt Chaitra 11-9, 6-11, 13-11, 5-11, 11-9; Vidya bt Chaitra 12-10, 11-5, 11-6.   Final list of qualifiers: Jalani, Pragyansha, Satya, Vatsala, Unnisa, Aniyah, Vidya and Chaitra .      Andhra Cricket Association named Bommanna as trainer and K. Ashok as physio for the on-going coaching camp for the seniors at the ACA Cricket Academy in Vizianagaram. It may be noted that the Ranji probables are undergoing the camp ahead of the next season.
05 December 2020||GOLD COAST (Australia),||Mujeeb in hospital after testing positive||Afghanistan cricketer and Brisbane Heat import Mujeeb Ur Rahman has been taken to a Queensland hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. The 19-year-old spinner, the World’s No. 2- ranked Twenty20 International bowler, was in hotel quarantine on the Gold Coast south of Brisbane after arriving in Australia last week. Mujeeb reported symptoms of the illness and has since been placed in the care of Queensland Health to complete his recovery.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 08:24 IST,||Sudoku - December 5, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Delhi by the lake||Think of Delhi, and you picture parks or monuments. And when the parks come with the monuments, there is nothing quite like it! Sunder Nursery in the heart of the city, is a combination of both. Some of you may remember the time when it was merely a large government nursery, and keen gardeners went there for their seasonal saplings and seeds. It is now the most ‘happening’ place in Delhi, ever since the complex was renovated some years ago. In COVID-19 times, its open-air environment has also been especially welcoming. Of course, in Delhi these days, if there is a picturesque spot, can food be far behind? Think of Mehrauli-Qutb and Hauz Khas Village. So, I wasn’t surprised when I heard that a restaurant had opened at the nursery. It is called Fabcafé by the Lake, and is a part of the Fabcafé chain. It has a seating arrangement in the open air to enable people to sit at a distance from one another. The café at Sunder Nursery is indeed at a beautiful location. It is open from 8 am to 6 pm (Ph no: 7428899692) and has breakfast fare, snacks, regional dishes, and beverages on the menu. The menu, however, can do with some tweaks. A young friend, for instance, says she would have liked some finger food like sandwiches that are ideal for a picnic spot. What’s interesting is that Fabcafé outlets now deliver food (through their website fabcafe.menu and delivery services) and have a pick-up scheme, too. You order and a tray is prepared that you take away and eat at leisure. The food is packed in brown paper bags and comes on a biodegradable tray, along with disposable cutlery, mouth fresheners and tissue. I started with the salad — roasted sweet potato cubes, watermelon, organic salad greens and pumpkin seeds in a zesty citrus dressing (Rs. 369). I love shakarkandi , and later thought I could have made a full meal out of the salad. I moved to a triangle of a paratha (Rs. 120) that had been prepared with various kinds of seeds and wholewheat. It was wafer thin, had the aromatic flavour of ghee and went rather well with chicken tikka makhni (Rs. 520) — juicy chicken pieces in a well flavoured butter-chicken-like sauce. The gravy was not too sweet, nor too tangy, and not heavy either. The coastal chicken (Rs. 540) consisted of tender pieces of chicken in a tasty, coconut-based sauce. What disappointed me was the chicken biryani (Rs. 610 for 500g). It had been cooked with Basmati rice, and flavoured with desi ghee, saffron and kewra , but somehow the rice had not soaked in the flavours of the meat. The dessert — a deliciously soft almond-espresso cake -- was vegan (as I learnt later), but I loved it: it was moist, full of nuts, and had a nicely coffee-bitter taste that I enjoyed. For my tea that evening, I had their baked samosas (Rs. 200 for four). We are a samosa family, and I love all kinds — with potatoes in their skin, cauliflower florets, minced meat, dal, even kheer. This was baked, so I didn’t feel guilty about biting into it. The stuffing — chana dal, potatoes, green peas — was delicious, and the crust was seed-laced and nicely crisp. This came with three kinds of chutneys: a green coriander one, a tangy red sauce and a tomato-based one. The pandemic has taught us that having a meal in the open air and in picturesque surroundings with good food can raise one’s spirits. What else can one ask for? The writer is a seasoned food critic
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Delhi||
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Hidden gems off the highway||As we choose road trips within the state over air travel, how about getting off that highway to include our traditional crafts? The craft councils have tried to support these artisans, but plan workshops and do your bit to keep these endangered crafts alive. PS: while on road trips, here’s a reminder that our sanctuaries are opening shortly. Poetry in stone  Thoda Goundampalayam in Namakkal district,   400km from Chennai  This village in Namakkal district is the heartbeat of the maavukkal (soapstone) carving industry in Tamil Nadu. K Kandaswamy, 60, has been working on soapstone since he was 10 and today, only about 20 families in the village keep the tradition alive. During lockdown, many of his creations such as apple jars, plates and lamps were bought by craft lovers in Coimbatore, under the aegis of Crafts Council of Tamil Nadu (CCTN). Food blogger Shanthini Rajkumar (@pink.lemon.tree), a patron of his art, realised that the texture makes for great food props. “I enjoy cooking and serving in traditional cookware and it struck me that they look great in photographs too,” she says. A few decades ago, Kandaswamy was sent by the Crafts Council of India (CCI), headquartered in Chennai, to the Regional Design and Technology Development Centre in Bengaluru to learn new techniques. “While it did not reap immediate benefit, today that helps the artisan because there’s an explosion of interest in traditional cooking and utensils,” says Gita Ram, President, CCI. Closer to Chennai, near the Ayyanar temple in DakshinaChitra, sculptor P Thirupathi, 36, works on stoneware utensils. His workspace at Thoda Goundampalayam is strewn with mortars and pestles, candle holders-cum- urulis and vessels to set curd in, besides the regular paniyaara kuzhi and kalchatti . The lockdown was especially hard on these artisans — the CCTN assisted Kandaswamy by organising a sale of his stock and ensuring the money went directly into his account. CCI also stocks their products at Kamala store. For Thirupathi, it was especially tough as DakshinaChitra (where he retails) was closed for months. He now conducts workshops — you can sign up to watch how they make everything from chutney bowls to larger chattis that range between half a kilogram and 4 kg. Lakshmi Ramachandran of CCTN says they are working on getting these artisans to design wall murals in stone, as seen in Sanjeevi Nagar near Auroville. “We have to try something new so they can sustain themselves,” she says.     Floral curtains made with tuberoses, parrots crafted from fronds and rose petal art… these are just a few creations Coimbatore’s garland makers are known for. They grace stately weddings and high society events even in New Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad. A Murugan, 46, of Sri Murugan Flower Decorators (9443390983), has been tying flowers in varied patterns and colour combinations for 30 years. The CCTN-trained artisan will not only show you around his shop in Gandhi Park, but also customise a workshop for Rs. 1,000. “What I know, I should pass on. If people bring flowers, I will teach them innovative methods of stringing them,” he says. Why a holiday to learn floral art? Because it is deeply therapeutic to work with flowers and you help the artisans who have suffered due to the lockdown. Plus, you return home with a better understanding of our craft traditions. Some of the designs, with flowers tied in banana stem fibre, go back decades. Blooms like orchids, and petals of rose and gerbera came much later. “We source flowers from Ooty, Kodaikanal, Hosur and Bengaluru,” says Murugan, whose business is slowly picking up after months of low sales. There are about 150 others like Murugan who tie up with wedding planners. Their unusual combinations can, in a way, also be attributed to the CCTN, more specifically to two elderly women Kamala Sivasubramaniam and Indra Venkatswamy, who spearheaded the show ‘Pushpanjali’, an offering of flowers, in Coimbatore more than 15 years ago. The two women loved garland making and experimented with patterns. Venkatswamy’s daughter, Vijayalakshmi Rudrappan (who runs wedding decor enterprise, Krishna Parijata), remembers visiting Thailand with her mother a few years ago. Later, the CCTN arranged for local artists to train with Phubast Chesdmethee, a floral designer and consultant from there. In 2018, he taught them to work with shenbagam (champak), erukkampoo (calotropis) and nandhiyarvattai (pinwheel jasmine). “We innovated. In Thailand, they work with a needle and thread. Here, we work with our fingers and naaru ,” says Rudrappan. With the closure of the flower market due to Covid-19 restrictions, these artists have been accommodated at the spacious grounds of Devanga Higher Secondary School.  Adventures at sea Fresh Fins, Hanif Mohammed Q’s lockdown venture to get fish home delivered, now has a new addition. With his ocean adventure club, Southfin, based in Kovalam, Chennai, he aims to get children and adults engaged in outdoor, ocean-specific activities: sport fishing, surfing, diving, kayaking, whale watching, turtle walks, and more. Bookings will start next week.9696089696    Why visit a sanctuary? District Forest Officer Tiruvarur, Dr K Arivoli says sanctuaries are treasure troves of stories — of migratory birds such as the Siberian crane that fly thousands of kilometres, of an ecosystem that’s finely balanced by Nature. “If you listen to these stories, you’ll naturally be drawn to sanctuaries and be involved with its residents and visitors. You will have more awareness about the universe we occupy. You just have to nudge people and show them what Nature offers; they’ll pick up and walk far ahead of us,” he says.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A little India in London||Priya Ahluwalia and Supriya Lele, two British designers of Indian descent, have been making waves in the fashion industry this year. Both were finalists for the LVMH Prize 2020. Lele was chosen for “associating her Indian heritage and British cultural identity alongside her passion for minimalism” (see box on left). Ahluwalia’s use of vintage and deadstock material, updated using textile techniques, got her noticed at London Fashion week 2018. Extending their connect to the sub-continent, they’ve now compiled photo books that explore their roots. “I have the best memories of visiting India. I really do feel at home there in a strange way,” says Ahluwalia, whose eponymous label is synonymous with bombastic knits, fabulous jumpers and kitschy trucker-jacket suits. Born to a Nigerian father and an Indian mother in Britain, the multi-cultural 27-year-old's sense of style draws inspiration from a wide mood board, including her Punjabi grandfather’s vintage 70s silhouettes. She has warm memories of her “papaji’s” house in Chandigarh where they “drink tea and chat into the night”. She adds, “I have also visited different parts of India and my clearest memories from all of them is the delicious food!” These and other travels have informed her mood board, be it the contrasting sand on the beaches of Lagos or the sound of a market in the sub-continent. “All of this filter into my work consciously or not, as it is my lived experience,” she explains. After a blistering two years where she hardly had time to breathe, 2020 has been a time of introspection. Ahluwalia took the opportunity to showcase her Punjabi life in London’s Southall through a 3D and VR exhibition based on her second self-published book,Jalebi.“The aim was to celebrate Southall and all the beautiful nuances of the diversity it represents,” she says. Spending time in the South Asian hub, known popularly as Little India, made her realise that highlighting and championing such a diverse community was important. The book, now available for pre-order, features fashion and documentary-style photographs of street views and stores shot by Laurence Ellis, alongside Ahluwalia’s family photographs. You also get to meet her grandmother, as she shares stories from India to Britain. She believes the pandemic has made her more confident. “I am resilient and much stronger than I ever thought. I also noticed the importance of community and have championed that in my work this year and I will continue to do so moving forward,” she concludes. Jalebi is available for pre-order at approximately Rs. 3,500 on ahluwaliastudio.com
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Jungle rules apply||Welcome to our Forest Lodge. Now that you are released from your cages, the wildlife joins us in inviting you to share our wide, open space. Please do take note of our ground rules.  Do not wear the bedsheets. We understand that your clothes have shrunk during the lockdown; we sympathise that your buttons don’t button up, your zips don’t zip up, but please do not walk around in our towels or bedsheets.     Hunting is discouraged. The wild animals are used to a free run of their land. They may get excited at the sight of a fattened meal. Though our notices, like this one, across our property discourage them from hunting you, we cannot guarantee they will obey these rules. Do not tempt the hosts.     Do not drink up the hand sanitiser. We provide only one bottle per room per day.     There are no share buttons. We know that you have been in a chicken coop for the last eight months, with views of your neighbour’s kitchen. But please refrain from taking videos while running on our rolling hills, or rolling in our running streams. You are not a part of our attractions.     Please do not hoard. There is no need to rush and stack up on things before someone else finishes them off. We will not run out of leaves, twigs, sunlight.     The umbrellas are for everyone’s use. Overcome by the joy of making new friends after ages, please resist the urge to throw yourself at or hug other guests. The large pointy umbrellas may officially be used by them to poke you back into safe-distancing.     Masks save lives. They stop you from arguing, yelling and scaring the animals away, overeating or drinking the hand sanitiser — and accidentally swallowing some of the flying insects. Save their lives!     We apologise for our low-tech. The birds do not come with volume control buttons. The sound of rain on the tiled roof has no mute option. The only web series is courtesy our many spiders. You cannot book a sunrise. Or pre-order a sunset. Or reschedule a storm. The mosquitoes refuse to obey safe-distancing rules. The bats deny responsibility for Covid-19. The deer refuse to keep appointments on time. The long-distance calls are mating calls, so be careful whom you respond to. Enjoy your stay! Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||What Goa’s locals want you to know||It is just past 10 am on a weekday and the whitewashed laterite steps leading up to Panjim’s 16th century Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception Church are crowded with tourists. There are groups of men dressed in identical Goa T-shirts and slicked back hair. Young women in sundresses and straw hats angle their cameras for the best selfie. Others hold wriggling babies while husbands and fathers cross the road to get a good group shot. Very few are wearing masks or keeping up the sham of social distancing (from other groups or each other). The scene is similar across all tourist hotspots in the state. Neither the heat nor the coronavirus are a deterrent. People having a merry time is not a bad thing; hundreds of businesses around Goa are welcoming paying visitors after a spectacularly dismal year. But in the middle of a pandemic, we local residents find ourselves fretting over the inconsiderateness of these guests to our city.  Keep those masks on  In May, Goa’s Chief Minister Pramod Sawant urged tourists not to come if they were planning to stay in a hotel. The state’s limited health system then couldn’t handle an influx of positive or asymptomatic leisure tourists, in addition to the rising number of locals infected with the virus. Now that tourism has resumed across the country, visitors cannot be kept at bay. But can they be expected to be responsible travellers? Even if the number of people testing Covid-19 positive in the state is slowing down, Goa still has the highest number of deaths per million in India. As a family, we have tried to be scrupulous in our care. My 11-year-old son has not met his friends since March. He is bored, lonely and fed up. My 88-year-old mother-in-law, a practising doctor, stays at home instead of attending to her patients. And like most of our neighbours and friends, we avoid crowds, practise social distancing and wear masks every time we leave the house. Why should it be any different for people visiting our neighbourhood? Tourists in Goa pretend as if the virus does not exist here, as if entering the state’s borders immediately makes them immune! Tune into social media and you’ll find ‘mask-less’ updates from actors, models, well-known journalists and other privileged folks from around the country who have escaped their homes (and in some cases fled from Europe and the UK) to be ‘safe’ in Goa.   The sea does not kill the virus  What is it that gives people this feeling of security to be so blatantly inconsiderate? Local resident and independent cartoonist Angela Ferrão blames the state government. “They have endlessly promoted Goa as just a setting,” she says. “They never mention the people who have created this beautiful vibe, along with respect for nature. [People believe] everything goes here.” With nearly 2,000 people across the state still in home isolation, one cannot afford to be cavalier. When visitors pose mask-less against our front doors, exalting over the beauty of our homes and architecture, they forget that they are putting us at risk with their behaviour. I wonder if the Panjim mayor Uday Madkaikar’s new rule — to photograph and fine violators — will help. Not everybody is badly behaved, of course. Noted architect, and curator of the Houses of Goa museum and the Mario Miranda Galleries, Gerard da Cunha says, “All visitors to the museum and the galleries have to wear face masks, which they invariably do.” Local residents who depend on tourism for their livelihood have to weigh the consequences of health versus business. But what do you compromise on? Carlos Noronha, owner of Panjim’s popular Caravela Cafe and Bistro, says business is booming. “We have a prominent notice about masks displayed on our door. Most Indian tourists either wear masks or put them on when we ask them to. It is the foreigners who create the biggest problem and argue with us,” he says. The cafe, which is set to open a new branch on the beach belt later this month, now has a strict ‘no mask no service’ policy; they turn away anyone who doesn’t comply at the door. Several countries across Europe have gone back into lockdown for the second time after a dramatic rise in the number of cases. Goa, and indeed, India, cannot afford another crisis. If you’re travelling for leisure or work, whether to Goa or elsewhere, please be considerate of the residents. Put on your mask, wash your hands and keep your distance. We’ll all be glad you did so next year.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||On the road again||Last Sunday, on Karthigai Deepam, Tamil Nadu’s festival of lights, we decided to go for a drive after dusk, as a grey-blue night prepared to descend and a slightly watery pre-Poornima moon hovered above. We were on the outskirts of Chennai, driving on interior village roads that unspooled lazily along paddy fields and lines of palmyra standing guard. Every hundred metres or so, as we crossed a hamlet, the darkness would be punctured by pinpricks of light from the myriad earthen lamps that flickered outside huts, lined walls and streets, framed kolams or festooned temples. Traversing the soft grey gloaming that festive evening illumined by tiny flames and serenaded by cicadas and frogs was quite magical. Driving holidays are my favourite. Bundled into a car, your many essentials and must-carries jammed into the back seat, like a tortoise carrying its home, off you head into the unknown. As we look a bit askance today at the idea of sharing the insides of a sealed aluminium container with hundreds of sneezing and sniffling others some 30,000 feet in the air or using iffy toilets and god-knows-when-they-were-washed blankets in trains, many people are just driving off to Kochi or Coonoor if they want to get away. I approve. One of my nicest memories is of taking our beat-up Fiat and eight-month-old infant and heading to Goa, driving on and off the ferries that connect the islands, parking in dark green village roads for makeshift lunches and Cerelac breaks. Or the time when five of us, on a driving vacay in Rajasthan, hurtled over Jaisalmer’s dusty yellow roads to get to Sam in time for the sunset. That done, we found a tiny restaurant on a hill that overlooked the blue cityscape spread below and ate dal bati churma . There’s always something just a little bit unpredictable about getting on the highway and heading off, and the unpredictability factor was much higher a few decades ago. Our car was not exactly state-of-the-art nor were the roads and none of us had seen a motel or highway inn outside of Hollywood movies. And there was certainly no GPS. You took your chances. You carefully followed the NH or SH numbers you had traced on the map and then you met a truck driver at the dhaba who told you about a wonderful shortcut, only forgetting to mention that it crossed a dry riverbed. So, there you were, your car stuck in the mud, dusk well underway, and no signs of life as far as the eye could see. Until a bunch of farmers, resplendent in white dhotis and short kurtas, sickles held casually aloft shoulders, came by and laughingly pulled the car out and set it back on the road. On the map you marked the little towns where you would stop for the night and once you reached began the search for a hotel or lodge that looked halfway habitable. Lunch was mostly impromptu, at whatever roadside dhaba popped up when you got hungry, but sometimes the best and safest thali would be the Veg Refreshment Stall in the town’s railway station. Some of the most unforgettable meals were unplanned, like when we were driving through Madhya Pradesh and our car broke down. By the time we temporarily fixed the leaking radiator (with chewing gum) to get us to the nearest town, it was well past 3 and we were starving and there wasn’t a single place open. Finally, in desperation, we stopped at a tiny ramshackle stall, the owner asleep on a charpoy . We woke him up and without a grumble he agreed to cook us something. The rough bhindi fry, the chopped onions, the dal and phulka smelt of heat and dust that day and tasted like manna. There’s something about these off-track drives that is satisfying in an elemental way — I feel intimate with the earth, with the fields and trees that race past, with the sunlight pouring into the windshield. It’s impossible to fret about deadlines when you’re on a country road and you have to stop the car for a herd of goats to move lugubriously out of the way, their bells ringing, the shepherd clucking, the whole process taking many slow minutes. You just wait. And watch. And breathe. And the pandemic and anxiety and stress seem very far away. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Have chalk, will travel||In March, when 14-year-old Macaire Everett began drawing on her driveway in Libertyville, Illinois, little did she think that her artwork would get her brother and her an invitation to Live with Kelly and Ryan , one of the most watched talk shows during the pandemic. What started out of boredom has since grown into a project on the ‘gram that is closely followed by an ever-growing online community (21,000 and counting on @macairesmuse). Macaire began drawing to entertain her 9-year-old brother, Camden, after the pandemic cancelled their spring travel plans. Chalk sketches of balloons soon gave way to gondola rides in Venice and swimming with the penguins in Antarctica, with Camden stepping into each drawing, infusing them with life and motion. The children, who have never travelled outside the United States, have now gone on a spate of adventures thanks to her fertile imagination. “I don’t think it is something we can get bored of, as there are so many possibilities for where Camden can travel and things he can do,” she says, of what was initially supposed to be a 100-day project. “We have many plans and we get requests from all over the world — India, Norway, Japan, Mexico, Scotland,” she adds. The siblings spend a lot of time doing research on what they should create next. “We try and choose sights that are colourful, fun, interesting, and something we haven’t done before,” she says. Places with great architecture also pique their interest. Through Macaire’s drawings, Camden has visited the Taj Mahal and the two hope to feature one of India’s other sights soon. Each drawing — measuring 12x16 feet — takes her four to five hours to finish. “Chalks are really good to draw with and it is easy to go over something that I don’t like,” she says. Once done, Camden gets into position and their father captures the scene using a drone. Dad is not only the photographer, but also in charge of power-washing the driveway to give Macaire a clean ‘canvas’ for her next inspiration. When it rains, they move to the basement of their house. The duo enjoys interacting with children from across the globe. One of their recent highlights: interacting virtually with sixth graders from Norway. While all the attention is welcome, Macaire says they haven’t let it supersede their sense of wonder and adventure. “It’s grown on me,” she concludes.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||#backinbusiness||When the pandemic hit, Instagram went back to its roots: being a platform where people were sharing the food they had cooked or baked. Meanwhile, the hospitality industry turned to wellness — live sessions with yoga instructors, mental health conversations, work from home tips. But when travel restrictions were laid down indefinitely, they were in dire need of content not just to keep their social media handles active, but also to stay fresh in people’s memories. More so for single-owner properties that have carved a niche for themselves with their signature menus, personal attention and Insta-friendly interiors. At The Bangala in Karaikudi — known for their home-style, traditional Chettinadu cuisine — the daily menu is decided based on the produce from their garden. During lockdown, the Facebook page had notes on their single-origin spices and coffee. A video of the charismatic founder Meenakshi Meyyappan, 86, discussing Chettiar history with Live History India was a popular addition. “We’re encouraging guests to recreate the dishes from our cooking sessions, and share videos and photos of their efforts. Same for those who own The Bangala Table cookbook,” says manager Yacob George, who also handles the property’s social media. Going forward, we can expect live cooking sessions with their in-house chefs, but there will be no influencers or self-appointed food historians. “Our USP is the authentic Chettinad experience brought by our staff. We would like to highlight that,” he explains. At Arjun Motha’s Aqua Outback in Tuticorin, apart from kite surfing and kayaking, post-pandemic offers include celebratory dinners and seafood specials. Anantya Resorts near Kanyakumari shared IGTV videos of their signature dishes like karimeen pollichathu and Kerala chicken roast. Always marketed as a photo-op destination, their new floating breakfast, ideated by directors Lakshmy Ashok and Lavanya Ramachandran, is served in the pool villas overlooking Chittar Lake. At Svatma in Thanjavur, general manager K Sridhar says traditional variations of immunity-boosting juices were a big hit, as were live cooking sessions with their chef, Raghu Babu, and nine varieties of sundal for Navratri. Now that they are open for business again, they will continue sharing food-related posts as they have brought in more interest, adds Sridhar. Even if you choose not to travel and experience these culinary delights in person, tune into the social media platforms to get your fill.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Eye on the South||After months of #throwback pictures from holidays on the ’gram, social media is now abuzz with #covidtravel shots. Local economies need the boost, no doubt, but we recommend treading with caution. Places like the Maldives have been rolling out the red carpet and scores of our celebrities (mostly Bollywood) have been busy sharing pictures of themselves at the choicest properties. The key is for destinations to have very strict protocol in place, to ensure it is being followed and to place heavy penalties in the event of breaches, observes Divia Thani, Editor,Condé Nast Travel. Public health experts say you should wear a mask outside, especially if you are going to be near other people. To that effect, with all roads leading to Goa, let’s hope the Corporation of the City of Panaji’s aggressive drive to fine offenders will lead to better behaviour. If the sunshine state is on your itinerary this season, read on for what its residents have to say. Make time for the undisturbed South with some of Goa’s best-kept secrets. Also in our South India special: how to make a boat on your next Kerala vacay, help Coimbatore’s garland makers and plan that next motorcycle holiday.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Trip||Touch Guard  This handy tool, made of non-porous brass, can be used to open doors and lever-type handles. In brass, matte black and rose gold finishes at Rs. 499 on brassley.com. Paranoid air-traveller? The Seat Sitters pack comes with seat and tray table covers, masks, wipes and sanitiser. Rs. 2,100 on seatsitters.com
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The post-Covid workplace blueprint||The pandemic has disrupted our work life over the last few months. While many have welcomed the work-from-home (WFH) set-up, in spite of the convenience of not having to commute, WFH could lead to isolation and anxiety in the long run. This working system is not sustainable in terms of our productivity, health and well-being. Surveys conducted globally report that most people would like to return to their offices but they expect their workspaces to be better than how they were a few months ago. As much as it is inevitable that we will eventually return to the physical office sooner than later, it is also clear that it will be very different from what we would have been used to. New practices, protocols and emerging technologies will be brought in as a result of our learnings from the pandemic and rising concerns about hygiene and social distancing. The design of our new offices can no longer be based only on space segregation and furniture layout. It needs to go beyond these factors and respect personal preferences of employees and for allow multiple opportunities to connect with others too. This can be done by arranging individual desks as multiple hubs that could function as breakout spaces. These areas could provide users with an interesting setting that would foster creativity and allow for positive social interaction. Air purifying plants could serve as green screens and provide a barrier between the hubs and workspaces. In addition, large screen monitors could be installed in these zones for virtual meetings. Another realisation many have had over the last few months is that maintaining a connect with the environment is crucial. It has been noted that adequate natural light and ventilation not only lead to a productive work environment, but help prevent the spread of infection as well. Pockets of the outdoors could be brought within indoor spaces to provide relief and act as the hubs mentioned earlier. A few of these hubs could also extend outside and serve as meeting spaces, a shift from air-conditioned spaces to naturally ventilated ones. Multifunctional and flexible furniture arrangements could also mean the use of such spaces for individual work if required. In high-rise buildings, balconies or covered terraces could also be designed to serve this purpose. It is clear that climate change is real and will most likely bring about more diseases in its wake, some of which could be more severe that the one we are facing now. It is imperative that we take both, the pandemic as well as the environment into consideration when we get ready to move forward to a ‘new normal’ in our work environments over the next year or two.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm   Adequate natural light and ventilation not only lead to a productive work environment, but help prevent the spread of infection as well
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||On India’s Model Tenancy Act||The rental market in India has long been fragmented and underdeveloped, invariably creating pressure on the overall real estate market. The leasing and renting of residential properties still fall under the purview of the Rent Control Act, with each State having its own version. With the lack of a proper legislation, tenant-landlord conflicts are quite common, leading to lengthy litigation. Interestingly, despite acute housing shortage, there are over 1.10 lakh homes lying vacant in the country’s urban areas. And the absence of a sound rental policy is the key reason for this. Therefore, the immediate implementation of a sound rental policy is a must. The Model Tenancy Act, 2020 aims to bridge the trust deficit between tenants and landlords by clearly delineating their obligations. To ensure speedy redressal of disputes, it also proposes to establish a Rent Court and Rent Tribunal to hear appeals for matters connected to rental housing. Ultimately, the creation of rental housing stock will help students, working professionals and the migrant population (especially in COVID-19-like exigencies) to find accommodation. Once implemented in all fairness, it will benefit one and all. Why we need it Paradoxically, even while there is acute housing shortage in India, the vacancy levels of homes have been on the rise. According to the National Census, vacant houses comprised around 12% of the total share of the urban housing stock. These homes in urban areas could clearly feed the rental market across the country, but various factors have created roadblocks. These include the lack of a sound rental policy, low rental yield accrued from residential properties (averaging not more than 3% in major cities) and lack of demand in far-flung areas due to connectivity and physical infrastructure issues. The pandemic also saw lakhs of migrant workers return to their home towns. The key reason for their return was the non-availability of affordable accommodation in cities amidst almost zero income. For migrants Acknowledging the plight and mass exodus of countless workers from cities during the lockdown, a new scheme for the urban poor under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) — Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) — was unveiled. Due to ample employment opportunities in major cities, a majority of the rural workforce moved to the cities in the pre-Covid-19 era. However, the absence of affordable rental housing here led to mass exodus of these migrants who had zero income during the lockdown. Thus, the government had to shift gears of their Housing for All initiative and include affordable rental housing as a part of it. Under the scheme, government-funded housing in urban cities is being converted into ARHC via the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model and government housing complexes lying vacant will be converted and rented out to migrants at concessional rates. At the onset, the government plans to use approx. one lakh unused housing units built under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) and the Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) — the previous government’s urban upgrade and housing programmes — to provide rental housing. The monthly rentals for homes under ARHCs are likely to be fixed between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 3,000. Besides addressing the woes of urban migrants (a person or group of people/ families of EWS/ LIG categories), it will also aid in fulfilling the government’s ambitious initiative of Housing for All by 2022. ARHC will be implemented through the following two models: By utilising existing government-funded vacant houses by converting them into ARHCs under the PPP model. Construction, operation and maintenance of ARHCs by private/ public entities on their respective vacant land parcels and plots. Individuals or groups may book their requirement via the government website (arhc.mohua.gov.in). Concessionaires or an entity may also tie up with other entities or organisations and also get migrant labours or urban poor through aggregators. The scheme is thus an attempt to bridge the shortfall of dwelling units across the country. Moreover, it will add another asset class to be considered by developers.  The Act’s salient features The government has proposed guidelines that enforce rental contracts and protect the rights of landlords as well as tenants. As per the draft Model Tenancy Act, 2020, the government has laid down various proposals. Some notable features include: After commencement of the Act, all premises (residential or commercial) shall be rented only after a written agreement on mutually agreed terms. The Act will provide for a fast-track quasi-judicial mechanism for adjudication of disputes. Security deposit has been capped to a maximum of two months’ rent in case of residential property, and in the case of non-residential property it shall be as per the terms of tenancy agreement subject to a maximum of six-months’ rent. Security deposit to be refunded by the landlord at the time of taking over vacant possession of the premises, after making due deductions, if any. The landlord is entitled to get a compensation of double the monthly rent for two months and four times the monthly rent thereafter if a tenant does not vacate the premises after tenancy has been terminated by order, notice or as per agreement. If the term of the tenancy ends at the time when locality (where rented premises is situated) experiences any unforeseeable events, the landlord shall allow the tenant to continue possession of premises for one month from the cessation of such incidents on the same terms of prevailing tenancy agreement. The tenant cannot sublet a part of or the whole property or carry out any structural change without execution of supplementary agreement between the landlord and tenant. The proposed rent authority must be informed about the rental agreement within two months of its signing. An officer of the rank of deputy collector or higher will act as rent authority to adjudicate any issue arising out of a rental disagreement. Additional Collector or Additional District Magistrate or an officer of equivalent rank shall be the Rent Court for the purposes of this Act, within his jurisdiction. District Judge or Additional District Judge to be appointed as Rent Tribunal in each district. Not without hitches While proposals of the Act have been widely welcomed, their implementation could not be so simple. The Act is not binding on the States as land and urban development remain State subjects. It is still a matter of choice for States and Union Territories to repeal or amend their existing Acts. Like in the case with RERA, the fear is that states may choose not to follow guidelines, diluting the essence of the Model Act. Another pain point could be the cap on the security deposit which is not likely to find favour with many landlords. In cities like Bengaluru, the norm is a ten-month security deposit as a two-month deposit is unlikely to cover any damage to the property or a default in rent payment by the tenant. Despite these challenges, The Model Tenancy Act must be lauded and is a step in the right direction. It provides a clear roadmap for states to follow and tweak according to their local conditions and market. It remains to be seen to what extent the States will toe the central government’s line. A fair and balanced tenancy law protecting the rights of all parties will go a long way in formalising and stabilising the rental market. If enforced in letter and spirit, it could revive the fortunes of not just the rental market but the housing sector at large.  The writer is   Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants  Continued on page 4  There are over 1.10 lakh homes lying vacant in urban India
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Picking the right office chair||Every year, the average office-going person spends approximately 2,200 hours sitting in a chair at their workstation. Even if you work from a home office, it’s important to invest in a chair that treats you well. After all, several studies have linked office chair choices to overall productivity. So what should you look for when shopping for a chair for your home office? We have eight tips to make the choice easier: The design High-end chairs tell your customers that you are a cutting-edge, luxury brand. Traditional office chairs can speak volumes about the classic nature of your business. Leather tends to convey corporate, closed board-room style; mesh and/or aluminium chairs say modern, fresh and young. Ergonomics This typically plays a central role in office chair purchase decisions, and that’s a good thing. Studies show that paying attention to this factor can go a long way toward decreasing repetitive work injuries and even the amount of sick time employees take for head, shoulder, back and arm pain. The easiest way to begin your search is by looking for a chair that is easily adjustable, especially in terms of height and seat tilt. Overall comfort Just because an office chair offers many ergonomic features — or a lot of extra bells and whistles — doesn’t necessarily mean it will feel great. This is why buying a chair without testing it is risky. One that promises lumbar support, for example, can be either highly comfortable or uncomfortable, depending on the placement, firmness and adjusting level of the support. Size Employees and workspaces come in all sizes, and office chairs need to accommodate them all. Generally, a chair’s seat should measure 15 to 17 inches from the back to the chair’s front edge. It must be long enough to fit you in comfortably. The same goes for seat width. A seat should be wide enough for your thighs to fit easily without touching the armrest bases. About 18 inches is a typical width for seats that work for a variety of users. Base stability One of the most overlooked considerations when buying an office chair is simple yet fundamental: the chair’s base. First, you can choose from chairs with wheels or no wheels. Ergonomically, wheels are recommended for ease of movement at the workstation, but a good swivel chair can also provide that addition. Overall durability Office chairs can be a significant investment, so consider overall durability. After all, chairs are usually daily workhorses, and if you must choose wisely upfront. Check for durability, strength and stability in areas such as: chair base, armrest, seat back, tilt mechanics, casters, foot ring, swivel system and long-term seating impact. The padding Many ergonomic specialists recommend variants that have padded edges on all sides and a front edge that is rounded. This type of padding helps in blood circulation to the user’s legs. But, as with many office chair features, remember that not all padding is created equal. Look for padding that is designed to allow air circulation. Test for firmness as chairs that are too soft can cause muscle strain and fatigue. Fabric Most people, when choosing fabric for an office chair, consider how well it will match the office décor and how it relates to personal likes/dislikes. But you may also need to consider whether or not the fabric is breathable and easy to clean. Cloth is ideal; fabrics like vinyl and leather tend to trap body heat and reduce air circulation.
05 December 2020||US,||Purchasing Power leases space at DLF Cybercity||-based Purchasing Power has launched its first overseas business operations in Chennai. As per a recent announcement, the voluntary benefit company in Atlanta, has leased 12,500 sq.ft. of premium office space at the DLF Cybercity. Based on a press release, among its functional competencies for Purchasing Power, the new office in the city will provide business support for e-commerce website development, mobile app development, Oracle app development, QA automation, IT and website operations, data science and engineering and business analytics. The current team comprises developers, technical architects, QA engineers, scrum masters, data scientists and engineers, and DBA and IT operations engineers.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Report on co-working segment||Savills India’s latest research report on co-working spaces — Collaborative spaces in a Dynamic World Order — highlighted the following key findings: - Leasing activity by co-working operators is expected to increase by 42% in 2021 at 4.9 mn sq.ft. over 2020 - The share of co-working space take-up in overall office leasing activity is poised to rebound to a 15% share in 2021, similar to the 2019 level - By 2022, 3,000+ co-working centers across the country are likely to offer approximately 1.0 million desks - The segment’s leasing activity is expected to see a CAGR of 29% during 2015-2022 - As of Q3 2020, Bengaluru and Hyderabad had a combined share of approximately 66% of the total leasing activity in the co-working segment. - The overall stock, expectedly, has been highly concentrated in these two cities, and approximately 51% share is expected by 2020-end.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||On India’s Model Tenancy Act||The rental market in India has long been fragmented and underdeveloped, invariably creating pressure on the overall real estate market. The leasing and renting of residential properties still fall under the purview of the Rent Control Act, with each State having its own version. With the lack of a proper legislation, tenant-landlord conflicts are quite common, leading to lengthy litigation. Interestingly, despite acute housing shortage, there are over 1.10 lakh homes lying vacant in the country’s urban areas. And the absence of a sound rental policy is the key reason for this. Therefore, the immediate implementation of a sound rental policy is a must. The Model Tenancy Act, 2020 aims to bridge the trust deficit between tenants and landlords by clearly delineating their obligations. To ensure speedy redressal of disputes, it also proposes to establish a Rent Court and Rent Tribunal to hear appeals for matters connected to rental housing. Ultimately, the creation of rental housing stock will help students, working professionals and the migrant population (especially in COVID-19-like exigencies) to find accommodation. Once implemented in all fairness, it will benefit one and all. Why we need it Paradoxically, even while there is acute housing shortage in India, the vacancy levels of homes have been on the rise. According to the National Census, vacant houses comprised around 12% of the total share of the urban housing stock. These homes in urban areas could clearly feed the rental market across the country, but various factors have created roadblocks. These include the lack of a sound rental policy, low rental yield accrued from residential properties (averaging not more than 3% in major cities) and lack of demand in far-flung areas due to connectivity and physical infrastructure issues. The pandemic also saw lakhs of migrant workers return to their home towns. The key reason for their return was the non-availability of affordable accommodation in cities amidst almost zero income. For migrants Acknowledging the plight and mass exodus of countless workers from cities during the lockdown, a new scheme for the urban poor under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) — Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) — was unveiled. Due to ample employment opportunities in major cities, a majority of the rural workforce moved to the cities in the pre-Covid-19 era. However, the absence of affordable rental housing here led to mass exodus of these migrants who had zero income during the lockdown. Thus, the government had to shift gears of their Housing for All initiative and include affordable rental housing as a part of it. Under the scheme, government-funded housing in urban cities is being converted into ARHC via the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model and government housing complexes lying vacant will be converted and rented out to migrants at concessional rates. At the onset, the government plans to use approx. one lakh unused housing units built under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) and the Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) — the previous government’s urban upgrade and housing programmes — to provide rental housing. The monthly rentals for homes under ARHCs are likely to be fixed between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 3,000. Besides addressing the woes of urban migrants (a person or group of people/ families of EWS/ LIG categories), it will also aid in fulfilling the government’s ambitious initiative of Housing for All by 2022. ARHC will be implemented through the following two models: By utilising existing government-funded vacant houses by converting them into ARHCs under the PPP model. Construction, operation and maintenance of ARHCs by private/ public entities on their respective vacant land parcels and plots. Individuals or groups may book their requirement via the government website (arhc.mohua.gov.in). Concessionaires or an entity may also tie up with other entities or organisations and also get migrant labours or urban poor through aggregators. The scheme is thus an attempt to bridge the shortfall of dwelling units across the country. Moreover, it will add another asset class to be considered by developers.  The Act’s salient features The government has proposed guidelines that enforce rental contracts and protect the rights of landlords as well as tenants. As per the draft Model Tenancy Act, 2020, the government has laid down various proposals. Some notable features include: After commencement of the Act, all premises (residential or commercial) shall be rented only after a written agreement on mutually agreed terms. The Act will provide for a fast-track quasi-judicial mechanism for adjudication of disputes. Security deposit has been capped to a maximum of two months’ rent in case of residential property, and in the case of non-residential property it shall be as per the terms of tenancy agreement subject to a maximum of six-months’ rent. Security deposit to be refunded by the landlord at the time of taking over vacant possession of the premises, after making due deductions, if any. The landlord is entitled to get a compensation of double the monthly rent for two months and four times the monthly rent thereafter if a tenant does not vacate the premises after tenancy has been terminated by order, notice or as per agreement. If the term of the tenancy ends at the time when locality (where rented premises is situated) experiences any unforeseeable events, the landlord shall allow the tenant to continue possession of premises for one month from the cessation of such incidents on the same terms of prevailing tenancy agreement. The tenant cannot sublet a part of or the whole property or carry out any structural change without execution of supplementary agreement between the landlord and tenant. The proposed rent authority must be informed about the rental agreement within two months of its signing. An officer of the rank of deputy collector or higher will act as rent authority to adjudicate any issue arising out of a rental disagreement. Additional Collector or Additional District Magistrate or an officer of equivalent rank shall be the Rent Court for the purposes of this Act, within his jurisdiction. District Judge or Additional District Judge to be appointed as Rent Tribunal in each district. Not without hitches While proposals of the Act have been widely welcomed, their implementation could not be so simple. The Act is not binding on the States as land and urban development remain State subjects. It is still a matter of choice for States and Union Territories to repeal or amend their existing Acts. Like in the case with RERA, the fear is that states may choose not to follow guidelines, diluting the essence of the Model Act. Another pain point could be the cap on the security deposit which is not likely to find favour with many landlords. In cities like Bengaluru, the norm is a ten-month security deposit as a two-month deposit is unlikely to cover any damage to the property or a default in rent payment by the tenant. Despite these challenges, The Model Tenancy Act must be lauded and is a step in the right direction. It provides a clear roadmap for states to follow and tweak according to their local conditions and market. It remains to be seen to what extent the States will toe the central government’s line. A fair and balanced tenancy law protecting the rights of all parties will go a long way in formalising and stabilising the rental market. If enforced in letter and spirit, it could revive the fortunes of not just the rental market but the housing sector at large.  The writer is   Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants  Continued on page 4  There are over 1.10 lakh homes lying vacant in urban India
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Jungle rules apply||Welcome to our Forest Lodge. Now that you are released from your cages, the wildlife joins us in inviting you to share our wide, open space. Please do take note of our ground rules.  Do not wear the bedsheets. We understand that your clothes have shrunk during the lockdown; we sympathise that your buttons don’t button up, your zips don’t zip up, but please do not walk around in our towels or bedsheets.     Hunting is discouraged. The wild animals are used to a free run of their land. They may get excited at the sight of a fattened meal. Though our notices, like this one, across our property discourage them from hunting you, we cannot guarantee they will obey these rules. Do not tempt the hosts.     Do not drink up the hand sanitiser. We provide only one bottle per room per day.     There are no share buttons. We know that you have been in a chicken coop for the last eight months, with views of your neighbour’s kitchen. But please refrain from taking videos while running on our rolling hills, or rolling in our running streams. You are not a part of our attractions.     Please do not hoard. There is no need to rush and stack up on things before someone else finishes them off. We will not run out of leaves, twigs, sunlight.     The umbrellas are for everyone’s use. Overcome by the joy of making new friends after ages, please resist the urge to throw yourself at or hug other guests. The large pointy umbrellas may officially be used by them to poke you back into safe-distancing.     Masks save lives. They stop you from arguing, yelling and scaring the animals away, overeating or drinking the hand sanitiser — and accidentally swallowing some of the flying insects. Save their lives!     We apologise for our low-tech. The birds do not come with volume control buttons. The sound of rain on the tiled roof has no mute option. The only web series is courtesy our many spiders. You cannot book a sunrise. Or pre-order a sunset. Or reschedule a storm. The mosquitoes refuse to obey safe-distancing rules. The bats deny responsibility for Covid-19. The deer refuse to keep appointments on time. The long-distance calls are mating calls, so be careful whom you respond to. Enjoy your stay! Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Hidden gems off the highway||As we choose road trips within the State over air travel, how about getting off that highway to include our traditional crafts? The craft councils have tried to support these artisans, but plan workshops and do your bit to keep these endangered crafts alive. PS: while on road trips, here’s a reminder that our sanctuaries are opening shortly. Poetry in stone  Thoda Goundampalayam in Namakkal district,   400km from Chennai  This village in Namakkal district is the heartbeat of the maavukkal (soapstone) carving industry in Tamil Nadu. K. Kandaswamy, 60, has been working on soapstone since he was 10 and today, only about 20 families in the village keep the tradition alive. During lockdown, many of his creations such as apple jars, plates and lamps were bought by craft lovers in Coimbatore, under the aegis of Crafts Council of Tamil Nadu (CCTN). Food blogger Shanthini Rajkumar (@pink.lemon.tree), a patron of his art, realised that the texture makes for great food props. “I enjoy cooking and serving in traditional cookware and it struck me that they look great in photographs too,” she says. A few decades ago, Kandaswamy was sent by the Crafts Council of India (CCI), headquartered in Chennai, to the Regional Design and Technology Development Centre in Bengaluru to learn new techniques. “While it did not reap immediate benefit, today that helps the artisan because there’s an explosion of interest in traditional cooking and utensils,” says Gita Ram, president, CCI. Closer to Chennai, near the Ayyanar temple in DakshinaChitra, sculptor P. Thirupathi, 36, works on stoneware utensils. His workspace at Thoda Goundampalayam is strewn with mortars and pestles, candle holders-cum- urulis and vessels to set curd in, besides the regular paniyaara kuzhi and kalchatti . The lockdown was especially hard on these artisans — the CCTN assisted Kandaswamy by organising a sale of his stock and ensuring that the money went directly into his account. CCI also stocks their products at Kamala store. For Thirupathi, it was especially tough as DakshinaChitra (where he retails) was closed for months. He now conducts workshops — you can sign up to watch how they make everything from chutney bowls to larger chattis that range between half a kilogram and 4 kg. Lakshmi Ramachandran of CCTN says they are working on getting these artisans to design wall murals in stone, as seen in Sanjeevi Nagar near Auroville. “We have to try something new so they can sustain themselves,” she says.     Floral curtains made with tuberoses, parrots crafted from fronds, and rose petal art… these are just a few creations Coimbatore’s garland makers are known for. They grace stately weddings and high society events even in New Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad. A. Murugan, 46, of Sri Murugan Flower Decorators (9443390983), has been tying flowers in varied patterns and colour combinations for 30 years. The CCTN-trained artisan will not only show you around his shop in Gandhi Park, but also customise a workshop for Rs. 1,000. “What I know, I should pass on. If people bring flowers, I will teach them innovative methods of stringing them,” he says. Why a holiday to learn floral art? Because it is deeply therapeutic to work with flowers and you help the artisans who have suffered due to the lockdown. Plus, you return home with a better understanding of our craft traditions. Some of the designs, with flowers tied in banana stem fibre, go back decades. Blooms like orchids, and petals of rose and gerbera came much later. “We source flowers from Ooty, Kodaikanal, Hosur and Bengaluru,” says Murugan, whose business is slowly picking up after months of low sales. There are about 150 others like Murugan who tie up with wedding planners. Their unusual combinations can, in a way, also be attributed to the CCTN, more specifically to two elderly women Kamala Sivasubramaniam and Indra Venkatswamy, who spearheaded the show ‘Pushpanjali’, an offering of flowers, in Coimbatore more than 15 years ago. The two women loved garland making and experimented with patterns. Venkatswamy’s daughter, Vijayalakshmi Rudrappan (who runs wedding decor enterprise, Krishna Parijata), remembers visiting Thailand with her mother a few years ago. Later, the CCTN arranged for local artists to train with Phubast Chesdmethee, a floral designer and consultant from there. In 2018, he taught them to work with shenbagam (champak), erukkampoo (calotropis) and nandhiyarvattai (pinwheel jasmine). “We innovated. In Thailand, they work with a needle and thread. Here, we work with our fingers and naaru ,” says Rudrappan. With the closure of the flower market due to COVID-19 restrictions, these artists have been accommodated at the spacious grounds of Devanga Higher Secondary School.  Adventures at sea Fresh Fins, Hanif Mohammed Q’s lockdown venture to get fish home delivered, now has a new addition. With his ocean adventure club, Southfin, based in Kovalam, Chennai, he aims to get children and adults engaged in outdoor, ocean-specific activities: sport fishing, surfing, diving, kayaking, whale watching, turtle walks, and more. Bookings will start next week.9696089696    Why visit a sanctuary? District Forest Officer Tiruvarur, Dr K Arivoli says sanctuaries are treasure troves of stories — of migratory birds such as the Siberian crane that fly thousands of kilometres, of an ecosystem that’s finely balanced by Nature. “If you listen to these stories, you’ll naturally be drawn to sanctuaries and be involved with its residents and visitors. You will have more awareness about the universe we occupy. You just have to nudge people and show them what Nature offers; they’ll pick up and walk far ahead of us,” he says.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||#backinbusiness||When the pandemic hit, Instagram went back to its roots: being a platform where people were sharing the food they had cooked or baked. Meanwhile, the hospitality industry turned to wellness — live sessions with yoga instructors, mental health conversations, work from home tips. But when travel restrictions were laid down indefinitely, they were in dire need of content not just to keep their social media handles active, but also to stay fresh in people’s memories. More so for single-owner properties that have carved a niche for themselves with their signature menus, personal attention and Insta-friendly interiors. At The Bangala in Karaikudi — known for their home-style, traditional Chettinadu cuisine — the daily menu is decided based on the produce from their garden. During lockdown, the Facebook page had notes on their single-origin spices and coffee. A video of the charismatic founder Meenakshi Meyyappan, 86, discussing Chettiar history with Live History India was a popular addition. “We’re encouraging guests to recreate the dishes from our cooking sessions, and share videos and photos of their efforts. Same for those who own The Bangala Table cookbook,” says manager Yacob George, who also handles the property’s social media. Going forward, we can expect live cooking sessions with their in-house chefs, but there will be no influencers or self-appointed food historians. “Our USP is the authentic Chettinad experience brought by our staff. We would like to highlight that,” he explains. At Arjun Motha’s Aqua Outback in Tuticorin, apart from kite surfing and kayaking, post-pandemic offers include celebratory dinners and seafood specials. Anantya Resorts near Kanyakumari shared IGTV videos of their signature dishes like karimeen pollichathu and Kerala chicken roast. Always marketed as a photo-op destination, their new floating breakfast, ideated by directors Lakshmy Ashok and Lavanya Ramachandran, is served in the pool villas overlooking Chittar Lake. At Svatma in Thanjavur, general manager K Sridhar says traditional variations of immunity-boosting juices were a big hit, as were live cooking sessions with their chef, Raghu Babu, and nine varieties of sundal for Navratri. Now that they are open for business again, they will continue sharing food-related posts as they have brought in more interest, adds Sridhar. Even if you choose not to travel and experience these culinary delights in person, tune into the social media platforms to get your fill.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Have chalk, will travel||In March, when 14-year-old Macaire Everett began drawing on her driveway in Libertyville, Illinois, little did she think that her artwork would get her brother and her an invitation to Live with Kelly and Ryan , one of the most watched talk shows during the pandemic. What started out of boredom has since grown into a project on Instagram that is closely followed by an ever-growing online community (21,000 and counting on @macairesmuse). Macaire began drawing to entertain her nine-year-old brother, Camden, after the pandemic cancelled their spring travel plans. Chalk sketches of balloons soon gave way to gondola rides in Venice and swimming with the penguins in Antarctica, with Camden stepping into each drawing, infusing them with life and motion. The children, who have never travelled outside the United States, have now gone on a spate of adventures thanks to her fertile imagination. “I don’t think it is something we can get bored of, as there are so many possibilities for where Camden can travel and things he can do,” she says, of what was initially supposed to be a 100-day project. “We have many plans and we get requests from all over the world — India, Norway, Japan, Mexico, Scotland,” she adds. The siblings spend a lot of time doing research on what they should create next. “We try and choose sights that are colourful, fun, interesting, and something we haven’t done before,” she says. Places with great architecture also pique their interest. Through Macaire’s drawings, Camden has visited the Taj Mahal and the two hope to feature one of India’s other sights soon. Each drawing — measuring 12x16 feet — takes her four to five hours to finish. “Chalks are really good to draw with and it is easy to go over something that I don’t like,” she says. Once done, Camden gets into position and their father captures the scene using a drone. Dad is not only the photographer, but also in charge of power-washing the driveway to give Macaire a clean ‘canvas’ for her next inspiration. When it rains, they move to the basement of their house. The duo enjoys interacting with children from across the globe. One of their recent highlights: interacting virtually with sixth graders from Norway. While all the attention is welcome, Macaire says they haven’t let it supersede their sense of wonder and adventure. “It’s grown on me,” she concludes.
05 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot asks Centre to apologise to farmers||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday asked the BJP government at the Centre to tender an apology to the farmers for their harassment during their agitation against the agriculture sector laws and repeal the three Acts, which were brought without any consultation. The Bills were passed in the Parliament “unconstitutionally, with brute majority and without any discussion”, while no consultation was earlier done with the State governments, farmers’ groups and agricultural experts, said Mr. Gehlot. On the other hand, the Opposition had demanded that the Bills be sent to a select committee, he said. “The farmers are on the roads in the entire country today... The Chief Ministers of four Congress-ruled States, including me and Amarinder Singh, had sought an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind to discuss the issue, but the request was turned down probably out of some compulsion,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. The Chief Minister affirmed that the stakeholders’ dialogue with the government must continue in the democracy. He criticised the Centre for its handling of the protests against the legislations and demanded that the laws be withdrawn without delay and an apology be tendered to the Annadata (food providers).
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi government starts enrolling heathcare workers for vaccination||Anticipating the roll-out of a vaccine against COVID-19 soon, the Delhi government has started enrolling heathcare workers in Delhi to receive the vaccination and have asked them to submit their details by midnight on December 5. The Directorate of Family Welfare, in a public notice, said that many of the registered nursing homes and hospitals have already submitted their data along with smaller unregistered clinics and called the remaining health care workers to submit their data via a link that has been provided on the website of the Delhi State Health Mission. It said that healthcare workers include medical and paramedical staffers, supporting, security and administrative staffers of all allopathic, dental, AYUSH, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic laboratories, radiology centres and other healthcare settings. The call to enrol healthcare workers for the vaccine comes at a time when Delhi has seen a downward trend in the number of daily cases, signalling the end of a “third wave” of cases. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that if the COVID-19 positivity rate in the national capital stays below 4% for five consecutive days, it would mean Delhi has been successful in combating the pandemic. He added that preparations have been made and enough resources are in place for the application as well as storage of vaccine and that Mohalla Clinics, polyclinics, dispensaries and hospitals will facilitate the application. “The positivity rate has become less than 5% as compared to the surge since November 7 which is a sign of relief as it points to perpetual declining of the effect of the pandemic in Delhi,” Mr. Jain said. On Friday, the Capital recorded 4,067 new COVID-19 cases with a positivity rate of 4.78%, which was below 5% for the second consecutive day. In the same 24-hour period, 73 deaths were reported and 4,862 patients recovered. The number of active cases in the city now stands at 28,252. The cumulative cases in the Capital stand at 5,86,125, with 9,497 fatalities and 5,48,376 recoveries. The bulletin added that 85,003 tests had been conducted in the past 24 hours, out of which 40,191 tests were RT-PCR.
05 December 2020||Guwahati,||74% turnout in Mizoram’s Lai council polls||The elections to the Lai Autonomous District Council (LADC) in Mizoram registered a turnout of 74.11% on Friday. The BJP hopes to retain the 25-member council that it got on a platter when most of the elected Congress members switched over in October. District electoral officials said the voting percentage would increase after reports from 17 remote polling stations that remained open well past sunset for people to exercise their franchise. Villagers need to cross rivers, jungles and hills to access some of these polling stations, officials said. “A majority of a total of 51,456 voters across the LADC cast their votes to elect their representatives in 25 council seats. There are 69 candidates in the fray, most of them locked in a straight fight,” a district information officer said. Only two of the seats have a maximum of five candidates each. Unlike in the past, the BJP had focussed its energy on the LADC poll in a bid to retain it. The party took over the council in October – two months before the end of the term – when most of the Congress members crossed over.  Main rival The BJP’s main rival is the Mizo National Front that rules Mizoram. The counting of votes is on December 8.
05 December 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Child rights panel summons DM, SP in girl’s murder case||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Friday summoned the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police for personal appearance before it over the issue of the kidnap and murder of a five-year-old girl in Odisha’s Nayagarh district. The girl’s murder has triggered a massive political controversy in the State. After the girl’s parents accused State Agriculture Minister Arun Kumar Sahu of shielding the accused in the case, Opposition political parties had launched a scathing attack demanding the ouster of the Minister. “Summon has been issued to District Magistrate and Superintendent of Police of Nayagarh for in person presence in the matter of kidnapping and murder of a girl child,” said Priyank Kanoongo, NCPCR chairperson, on Twitter. He said the Commission had received complaints regarding human organ smuggling.  Report sought The NCPCR had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter based on a news report that had appeared in an online portal on November 25. It had directed the Nayagarh district administration to ensure speedy investigation and submit a detailed factual report within 10 days.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Majority of ICC members should not be from same dept.’||To avoid allegations of unfairness and bias in case of complaints of sexual harassment against high-rank officers of the government, majority of Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) members preferably should not be from the same Ministry or Department, the Delhi High Court ruled on Friday. Justice Prathiba M. Singh said that persons, who have served under high-rank officers or in the same department, may face difficulty in treating the complaint in an unbiased manner. This would be in accordance with the purpose and spirit of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, Justice Singh stressed. The High Court’s remark came while adjudicating legal questions arising out of a sexual harassment complaint made by a contractual employee against Kamlesh Kumar Pandey, a Secretary-level officer, who was then the Chairman of Rehabilitation Council of India (RCI). The case of the woman was that her complaint of sexual harassment against the former Chairman was not being considered in accordance with law. She claimed her services was terminated with effect from October 3, 2018. Since RCI comes under the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), the question which came up before the High Court was whether the ICC constituted by the DEPwD would be fair and unbiased. The ICC constituted in this case consists of three officers from the same department where the former Chairman was working and one academician from Delhi University. Justice Singh noted that if the ICC consists of members, who are from the same Department or Ministry, there is every possibility of them being required to entertain and decide allegations against their own superior officer who may be able to exercise influence on them. The High Court directed that the a fresh committee be constituted by the Cabinet Secretariat, consisting of such persons who are independent and unbiased, to enquire into the allegations made by woman within four weeks. “External members are appointed on the ICC to ensure neutrality of the ICC... the age-old aphorism that ‘Justice must not only be done but also be seen to be done’ is apt in this context,” Justice Singh said. The High Court also noted that the former Chairman appears to have continued association with the RCI and the Department concerned. It remarked that he is also currently stated to be under consideration for appointment on senior level positions. “Hence, there is a greater need to ensure that the ICC is independently constituted and the inquiry is conducted fairly to both parties,” it said.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Take fresh decision on order to prohibit reopening of spas, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the city government take a fresh decision on its order to prohibit reopening of spas in the Capital due to the COVID-19 pandemic, even as salons are allowed to operate. Justice Navin Chawla said he found merit in the contention raised by spa-owners here that if salons are allowed to operate, then they too should be allowed to function. The High Court’s remarks came while hearing several persons who run spas, which have been shut since the first lockdown was enforced in Delhi. The spa-owners contended that the guidelines issued by the Centre have permitted spas to open subject to maintenance of social distancing and other COVID-19 appropriate behavior. They contended that the Delhi government was not permitting them to operate, even though saloons, restaurants and every other business has been allowed in the capital. On the other hand, the Delhi government stated it was not allowing spas to reopen in view of prevailing COVID-19 numbers in the city. It also argued that employees in spas would not be able to maintain the six feet distance, as required under the norms, from the customers. It said even the Lieutenant-Governor has declined to relax the prohibitions on the operation of spas. The spa-owners have contended that they were being discriminated against as only their businesses have not been permitted to reopen. On November 24, the High Court had posed a similar query to the Delhi government on the reason for not allowing spas to reopen, despite allowing everything else such as markets, gyms, restaurants, metro and buses in the capital. The High Court will hear the case again on December 16.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPCB calls for intensifying efforts to curb pollution||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Friday called for intensifying efforts to control air pollution due to unfavourable meteorological conditions for dispersal of pollutants over the next few days. It said that according to a forecast received from Indian Meteorological Department, air quality is likely to remain in the very poor category in the Capital. On Friday, the 24-hour average AQI based on readings from 38 monitoring stations was 382, which was in the higher end of the very poor category. The CPCB said that with incidences of stubble burning almost coming to an end and air quality continuing to remain in very poor category, it is important that local sources of pollution should be dealt with effectively. “Based on feedback received from the 50 teams deployed in the field since October 15, the major sources are open dumping of garbage, construction/demolition activity, unpaved roads/pits, and re-suspension of road dust,” it said. Pollution hotspots It added that the ‘hotspots’ are Narela, Anand Vihar, Mundka, Dwarka and Punjabi Bagh in Delhi and Faridabad, Jhajjar, Noida, and Bhiwadi in NCR. “As per the analysis and number of complaints received, south, south-west district, north, north-west, and north-east districts of Delhi and Jhajjar, Bhiwadi, Gurugram North, Gautam Buddha Nagar, and Noida in NCR are the areas that need to take actions to control air pollution due to construction/demolition activity, open dumping of garbage, road dust, and industrial emissions,” the CBCB said. It asked all state pollution control boards, civic bodies in the Capital, NHAI and other authorities to ensure that action is taken to control emissions from local sources and address complaints made on SAMEER and all social media platforms on priority.
05 December 2020||December 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Machan, again||The best part about the Taj Mahal New Delhi’s 24x7 diner Machan in its new avatar, is the invitation of the outdoors inside. So grab a seat next to the window that looks out onto the trees, enjoy the jungle theme wall (spot the tigers), the cane tree canopies, the terra cotta animal masks, even the waiters’ uniforms with tiger-stripe cravats. What’s missing from the original, launched in 1978, is the buffet, because we never imagined what dipping into a common bread basket or touching a common serving spoon meant, in pre-COVID times. Now, everything comes to the table, the mats and napkins are disposable, and sets of cutlery packaged individually. You can choose a table with clear partitions between seats, for extra caution. For breakfast, there’s a tray of cereal and juice, along with fruit, cheese and fresh bakes, before you actually get around to ordering. The idea was to keep much of what people loved about Machan, so nostalgia is a big theme. For instance, the hotel’s Chikmagalur-blend Kona Coffee is back, priced at Rs. 5 as it was in the original menu, and can be ordered between 11 pm and 6 am on a minimum order of Rs. 500 per guest. Legend has it that it was named thus because the coffee station was placed in a corner! There is the new too, so terrarium plants have replaced flowers, as a sustainable option. Most of the fresh ingredients on the menu are sourced from around Delhi, another nod to going local. The hotel also has a new-look-and-feel lobby and Emperor Lounge.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests BJP councillor in Delhi||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested Manoj Mehlawat, a BJP councillor from Vasant Kunj in south Delhi, in an alleged Rs. 10 lakh graft case. The party has suspended him from its primary membership. It is alleged that Mr. Mehlawat had demanded bribe from a person in connection with the construction of a house in the area. Acting on the complaint, the agency laid a trap and arrested the accused. Subsequently, searches were carried out. The councillor was produced before a special court that sent him to judicial custody on Friday.
05 December 2020||Lucknow,||Second FIR filed under conversion ordinance||The Uttar Pradesh police have lodged a second FIR under the newly promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. A case was registered under Sections 3 and 5 of the ordinance in Mau district in Purvanchal. In the complaint filed by a prominent gold trader at the Chiraiyakot police station, he has accused a local man of allegedly abducting his daughter on the eve of her wedding.  Kidnapping charge Additional Superintendent of Police Tribhuvan Nath Tripathi said a boy and girl from different communities in Molnaganj village had eloped. “The boy was already married,” said the officer on Friday. The FIR also invoked Sections 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. “The search for them is on. We are taking action,” said the officer.  First FIR, arrest A 21-year-old man in Bareilly, Uwaish Ahmed, had become the first person to be booked under the new ordinance. He was arrested on Wednesday. The FIR was lodged against the accused person on charges of allegedly trying to coerce a 20-year-old married Hindu woman to convert and marry him. The new ordinance makes religious conversion a cognisable and non-bailable offence, inviting penalties of up to 10 years in prison.
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||Police held insidious prosecution: Devangana to court||JNU student and Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, alleged before a Delhi court on Friday that the police had carried out an insidious prosecution against her in a case related to north-east Delhi riots. The submissions were made before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat during hearing of her bail plea in the case related to larger conspiracy in the communal violence. The police claimed in the chargesheet that Ms. Kalita, along with others, had allegedly given provocative speeches at protest sites to instigate the crowd. Prosecution will counter the arguments of the accused on Saturday. During the hearing on Friday, advocate Adit Pujari, appearing for Ms. Kalita, referred to the seizure memo files submitted with the chargesheet and said the police allegedly submitted incomplete documents deliberately to falsely show that around 300 women, who came from Jahangirpuri to Jafrabad where protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were held, precipitated the violence. He said the prosecution’s case was that these women came allegedly armed with acid bottles and chilli powder and were instigated by Kalita and others to cause violence. He said the prosecution has allegedly put selective messages from the WhatsApp chats of police officials to prove their purpose and chosen not to put on record the messages where they are aware that another kind of protests or march was ongoing by pro-CAA protestors. The police have submitted screenshots of WhatsApp group where police is closely monitoring the movement of the 300 women who came from Jahangirpuri and allegedly precipitated the riots Police has deliberately declined to place on record messages from 12:39 pm to 12:49 pm with a view to paint an incomplete picture. Police suppressed the messages that were actually talking about the violence which started at Maujpur. “This is mischievous. This is insidious. They are hiding these messages,” Pujari alleged.  The police chose to demonstrate one message to prove that women from Jahangirpuri had caused the violence, Mr. Pujari alleged.
05 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana govt. has lost support of people: Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said that the ruling BJP-JJP alliance had lost the support of the people and the House and the Congress would bring a no-confidence motion against the ruling alliance. He demanded that the Governor should convene an emergency session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha. ‘Decisive defeat’ Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Hooda said the people of the State had spoken through the people of Baroda and handed out a decisive defeat to the alliance in the by-election. “In the last week, three Independent MLAs have publicly shied away from the government. After the people, coalition government is fast losing the trust of legislators,” he said. Mr. Hooda said the farmers of the State are on the streets and the Jannayak Janta Party and Independent MLAs, who take their votes by posing as anti-BJP parties, are enjoying power. Supports for farmers “The Congress stands in support of the farmers’ demands, but the JJP and Independent MLAs who have reached the Vidhan Sabha with the vote of the farmers are standing in support of the government,” the former Chief Minister said. Mr. Hooda said some MLAs are playing a ‘double-role’ and are constantly making statements against the government and in support of the farmers’ movement, but continue supporting the government.
05 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cities with poor air quality told to sprinkle water on roads||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed all municipal bodies in the NCR and other cities, where the ambient air quality is in the “poor” category, to ensure that water is sprinkled on roads before sweeping them. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson, Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, directed that water from sewage treatment plants should be used instead of fresh water. “We direct all the municipal corporations and local bodies in the NCR, where air quality levels are normally non-compliant, and other cities with the air quality in ‘poor’ and above categories to take necessary steps to ensure sprinkling of water before sweeping of roads,” the Bench said. The green panel also directed authorities to ensure steps are taken to plant grass or raise small herbs and shrubs on the sides of pavements, roads and on open dusty areas. “The pavements may also be appropriately covered so as to prevent generation of dust and attention also needs to be given to stop burning of biomass or waste and regulate construction and demolition activities,” the NGT directed. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner R.S. Virk, seeking action to curb the impact of dust pollution arising out of dry sweeping of roads in metro cities. The petition contended that dust contributed to around 43% of the air pollution.  Pavements may be appropriately covered to prevent generation of dust and attention also needs to be given to stop burning of biomass or waste and regulate construction and demolition activities National Green Tribunal
05 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks reply on petition against CM’s ration scheme||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought response of the Centre and city government on a petition against implementation of the Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana under which packed ration would be delivered at the doorstep of eligible persons. The court issued notice to and the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation and sought their stand on the petition by an association representing fair price shop dealers. The Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh, in its plea, said that the Delhi government scheme for doorstep delivery of ration bypasses the licensed FPS dealers without amending the necessary laws – the National Food Security Act of 2013 and Delhi Specified Articles (Regulation of Distribution) Order of 1981.
05 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Farm laws death warrant for farmers’||Haryana Congress chief and former Rajya Sabha MP Kumari Selja on Friday said that the agriculture laws introduced by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre are death warrant for farmers, which will destroy the agricultural sector. ‘Loot of agri sector’ “Congress had lodged strong protest against these black laws, but in spite of all efforts of the party, this government got these black laws passed in the Parliament and paved way for its capitalist friends to loot the agricultural sector,” Ms. Selja said. She said that the legislators of the Jannayak Janta Party, the Independents and that of the BJP, who are with farmers, should withdraw their support to the State government.
05 December 2020||Guwahati,||Baghjan well abandoned||The Oil India Limited (OIL) has abandoned its blowout well in eastern Assam’s Baghjan seven months after it burst out of control and caught fire later. A statement from the oil exploration major, headquartered at Duliajan in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district, said the process of abandoning Well No. 5 was completed on Thursday evening. The well is one of more than 20 in OIL’s Baghjan Oilfield close to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in the adjoining Tinsukia district.
