05 November 2020||Washington,||Biden ahead, but no clear winner yet||With mailed-in votes still being counted in key ‘Battleground States’ through the night of November 3, neither U.S. President Donald Trump nor Democratic candidate Joe Biden emerged victorious after a fiercely fought election for the Presidency of a deeply troubled and polarised country. On Wednesday morning, Americans, some bleary eyed, some frustrated, some resigned and others hopeful, prepared for days of uncertainty and legal battles over the results. The country is in the throes of a raging pandemic with close to 2,35,000 dead and high levels of unemployment. Though local governments and the private sector prepared for civil unrest going into Election Day, no major incidents of violence were reported. Record turnout The turnout was expected to be 65% — the highest in more than 120 years as per election data tracker, the U.S. Elections Project. A record-breaking 100 million plus Americans voted early, including by mail. Despite both candidates still having a shot at the 270 of 538 Electoral College votes needed to win, Mr. Trump prematurely and falsely declared victory at 2.30 a.m. on Wednesday. “This is a fraud on the American public. This is an embarrassment to our country. We were getting ready to win this election,” Mr. Trump said, adding he would go to the Supreme Court to stop “voting” [counting]. Mr. Biden expressed optimism that he could still win the race. “I’m here to tell you tonight, we believe we’re on track to win this election,” he told supporters in Wilmington, Delaware, on Tuesday night. “As I’ve said all along, it’s not my place or Donald Trump’s place to declare who has won this election,” Mr. Biden said. “That’s the decision of the American people.” Mr. Biden’s campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon sent out an email shortly before 4 a.m. on Wednesday, saying that the Biden camp would counter any legal challenges to counting by Mr.Trump. The battle for the White House was very much still in progress close to noon on Wednesday, with results for key swing States still not declared. The Associated Press declared Mr. Biden the winner of Arizona at 2.50 a.m. on Wednesday (while some other agencies continued to show Mr. Biden in the lead but did not call the State).
05 November 2020||MANGALURU,||CM advises Siddaramaiah to stop making ‘irresponsible statements’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said here on Wednesday that the BJP will win the recent byelections to two Assembly seats and biennial elections to the four seats in the Legislative Council. Speaking to media persons at the international airport, Mr. Yediyurappa, who arrived for the BJP’s State executive and core committee meetings scheduled for Thursday, said that the Congress leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah should stop making “irresponsible statements” regarding change of leadership. Mr. Yediyurappa said that the Congress faced the recent byelections under the leadership of Mr. Siddaramaiah. “Who will have to resign or be changed, will be known once the results of the elections are announced as the Congress will lose them,” he said. “Mr. Siddaramaiah will have to speak responsibly,” he said. Meanwhile, the BJP has made elaborate arrangements for Thursday’s meetings which will take place in the home constituency of Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP from Dakshina Kannada and president of the State BJP. The State executive and core committee meetings are being held in Mangaluru, which is now the stronghold of the BJP, for the first time after Mr. Kateel took charge as the president of the State unit. Mr. Kateel has said that the two meetings will be conducted in every district headquarters henceforth, starting from Mangaluru. Ganesh Karnik, spokesperson of the BJP, said that Mr. Kateel has been touring the districts to build the party.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amarinder warns Centre of farmers’ ire||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said “no ruler should meddle in religious and livelihood issues”, and warned the Centre about the repercussions of agitations by farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws in a border State like Punjab. Capt. Singh, who launched a mission from Mahatma Gandhi’s memorial at Rajghat in Delhi to ‘save’ the farmers, accused Pakistan of trying to create trouble and its possible collusion with China. He, along with MLAs and MPs from the State, sat on a dharna at Jantar Mantar to protest against the Centre’s “step-motherly” treatment against Punjab. Though the protests were originally planned at Rajghat, the venue was shifted as the police did not give permission. The Chief Minister, who was denied an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind, hit out at Punjab Governor V.P. Badnore for sitting on the Bills passed by the Assembly to negate the three Central laws regarding agricultural produce and marketing. “The Governor has no role to play in this, he should have sent the Bills to the President, he is a mere post box in such matters, so why has he not forwarded the Bills?” Capt. Singh clarified that he did not seek appointment of the President over the law passed by the Assembly but to brief Mr. Kovind about the situation in Punjab. “He is our President, the head of our state, our country. I wanted to see him and it is my duty to brief him about the national security and food security situation in Punjab,” the Chief Minister said, adding he hoped that the President would give his assent to the Punjab Bills like former President Pranab Mukherjee, who had assented the Bills passed by BJP-ruled States under Article 254 (II). Talking about the security aspect, he said, “Pakistan is daily trying to create trouble by sending in one or two drones with weapons ... I know what Pakistan is up to as I am the Home Minister of the State.” Former Punjab Minister, Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had resigned from the Cabinet because of his differences with the Chief Minister, also took part in the protest.
05 November 2020||Amaravati,||Polavaram: State writes to Odisha, Chhattisgarh on public hearing||While the work at the Polavaram irrigation project in West Godavari district in the State is apace, Andhra Pradesh has once again written to the governments of Odisha and Chhattisgarh to conduct public hearing. Government sources say that if the States continue to ignore the decade-long suggestion over public hearing, the Centre can facilitate it on its own. According to the latest statements by Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav, the construction of Polavaram project, which began in 2004, is scheduled to be completed by June 2021. Prerequisites For the record, the public hearing and embankments to the rivers in Odisha and Chhattisgarh are prerequisites for the completion of the project. The Chatthisgah and Odisha governments are expected to build embankments across river Sabari and Sileru respectively besides conducting public hearings. Following the directions from Union Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) in 1980, 2006, 2009 and 2020, both the Odisha and Chhattisgarh governments were repeatedly requested to conduct public hearings and build embankments, but in vain. The latest letters this week to the respective States come in the backdrop of the fast-paced work at the project and the ‘friendly’ gestures of the Centre which are likely to contribute to the timely completion of the project. Speaking to The Hindu, Aditya Nath Das, Special Chief Secretary, Water Resources, said, “We’ve written in the beginning of this week to the State Pollution Control Boards of Odisha and Chhattisgarh in the prescribed format with all the necessary enclosures. The MoEF also has written to the Principal Secretaries, Water Resources, of both the States in August this year. We are expecting a positive response.” The copy of the letter stated: “In this regard, it is brought to your notice that any proposal to conduct public hearing by State Pollution Control Board by itself would not in any manner require any further orders either from the Supreme Court of India or from High Court of Andhra Pradesh, since there is no direction by any court not to conduct such public hearing.” Going by the rule book, it is given to understand that if the respective States delay the public hearing and building of embankment, the Centre is empowered to take special initiative to compete the task on its own.
05 November 2020||Choutuppal,||Former Guntur MLA’s son killed in road accident||S.K. Sharooq, 22, son of former Guntur (East) legislator S.K. Mastan Vali, was killed on the spot, when a speeding car knocked down his motorcycle when he pulled over on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) briefly, on Tuesday evening. The victim’s friend S.K. Fayaz, 22, who was riding pillion, however, escaped without injuries. Sharooq was a final year BBA student in Guntur and Fayaz was running a small business. According to Choutuppal police, the accident took place around 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday, when the duo pulled over on the highway near Dharmojigudem village cross road. They were travelling towards Hyderabad from Guntur on their two-wheeler. Police quoted Fayaz as saying that they stopped on the highway to put on a sweater as it was getting cold. A speeding red car rammed them from behind, and Sharooq died on the spot even before the ambulance arrived. Speaking to The Hindu, Choutuppal police said the driver of the car was initially identified as Ketharaju Lingaswamy, a local, and the vehicle was seized. However, inquiry revealed that the owner-cum-driver of the car was Satish, who had falsified identity information to the police. Apart from cases of negligent driving causing death, the two were booked for providing false information to the police. An investigation has been launched. The victim’s body was shifted to Choutuppal government hospital.
05 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Arnab Goswami held in 2018 suicide case||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami was on Wednesday arrested by the Local Crime Branch (LCB) of the Raigad police in a case of abetment to suicide. Two other accused, Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda, were also arrested. Later in the evening, the Alibaug magistrate court sent Mr. Goswami and the other accused to judicial custody till November 18. The police had sought Mr. Goswami’s custody for 14 days, but the court held that custodial interrogation was not required. Mr. Goswami will apply for bail on Thursday. After allegations of police assault, he was taken for a medical examination before being produced before the court. The court confiscated his wife’s phone as she was found video-recording the proceedings. While Mr. Goswami was arrested from Worli, Mr. Shaikh was arrested from Kandivali and Mr. Sarda from Jogeshwari. ‘They owed money’ Interior designer Anvay Naik, who was found dead on the first floor of his farmhouse at Kavir Village in Alibaug in June 2018, is said to have left a suicide note accusing Mr. Goswami, Mr. Shaikh of icastX/Skimedia and Mr. Sarda of Smartworks of not paying dues amounting to Rs. 5.4 crore for his interior design work, due to which his firm, Concorde Designs Private Ltd., suffered severe losses. Naik’s mother was also found dead. According to the note, Mr. Goswami owed the interior designer Rs. 83 lakh, while Mr. Shaikh owed him Rs. 4 crore, and Mr. Sarda Rs. 55 lakh. The post-mortem reports revealed that Naik had ended his life, while his mother, Kumud, had been strangulated. The police had filed a murder case. The case that was given a closure report was reopened after Naik’s daughter met the DIG and produced more evidence. The DIG initiated an inquiry against inspector Suresh Warade for closing the case “without investigating thoroughly”.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,||3 districts to benefit from paddy scheme||Palakkad, Alappuzha and Thrissur districts account for more than 70% of the 83,278 applications received so far for the Rs. 2,000 per hectare a year paddy land royalty under a new scheme being inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday. The three districts account also about 75% of the paddy area currently being considered for the royalty payment, show figures available from the Department of Agriculture. A senior official of the department says Rs. 24.69 lakh will be paid to 3,909 farmers as royalty on the inaugural day, which will be observed as royalty day across all Krishi Bhavans in the State. A total of 32,780 farmers have applied under the royalty scheme from Palakkad district. Their numbers are 16,833 and 10,401 from Alappuzha and Thrissur districts respectively. Nearly 16,000 hectares in Palakkad, 10,969 hectares in Alappuzha and 4,274 hectares from Thrissur are now being considered for the royalty payment. First in the country The Department claims that it is the first time such a scheme is being introduced in any State in the country and it is meant to encourage farmers to bring more area under cultivation and to prevent acreage now under cropping from lying fallow. Farmers engaged in paddy cultivation currently and those who cultivate short-term crops as part of rotation of crops are also eligible to be considered under the scheme. Farmers whose fields are idle now and want to bring them under cultivation on their own or any agency can also apply for being considered for the royalty payment but if the fields lie idle for the three years they will not be eligible for the royalty payment. Idukki district has seen the lowest number of applications at 245 for about 77 hectares. Kollam has generated 729 applications for 154 hectares.
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||Theatres, pools to open in Maharashtra today||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday allowed cinema halls, drama theatres and multiplexes situated outside containment zones in the State to reopen from Thursday. The establishments can function at 50% capacity and no eatables will be allowed inside. The State Cultural Affairs Department and local authorities will issue the standard operating procedure (SOP). The move to reopen theatres and multiplexes comes after a number of delegations met with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh.  As per the latest government guidelines, yoga institutes, and indoor sports facilities such as badminton, tennis, squash courts, and indoor shooting ranges outside containment zones will also be allowed to operate from Thursday. “This will be allowed with physical distancing and sanitisation measures,” the government’s guidelines said. The SOP will be issued by the Public Health Department as per the Centre’s guidelines. “Swimming pools being used for training of State-, national- and international-level sportspersons, outside containment zones, will be allowed to operate with effect from November 5. The SOP will be issued by the Sports and Youth Affairs Department,” the order said. According to sources, the State government is planning to reopen places of worship after Deepavali. No final decision has been taken yet. The Bharatiya Janata Party has been aggressively campaigning to open temples in the State.
05 November 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata announces sops for refugees, SC, STs||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced a number of initiatives for the refugee and the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) population in the State. The announcement was made hours ahead of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to West Bengal at a meeting attended by representatives of the SC and ST community from remote areas of the State. Ms. Banerjee said, “We have recognised all refugee colonies on the State government land and we are also trying to recognise the colonies on the land of the Centre and private colonies as well. We will be giving a total of 1,25,000 land pattas and today [Wednesday] we are giving away 25,000 land pattas to the refugees.” Ms. Banerjee said she was the first to give the rights to the Matua population.She also announced Rs. 10 crore for the newly announced Matua Development Board. Creating cultural boards The Chief Minister also announced that development boards and cultural boards would be created for Bauri/Dhule, Bagdis and Majhis, three ST communities so that they could preserve their cultural heritage. Ms. Banerjee also directed construction of a community hall for Chau dancers of Purulia and directed that Dokra artists of Bankura be brought under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. The Chief Minister said her government would facilitate loans through State-run cooperative banks to about two lakh people to buy two-wheelers.
05 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||12 labourers killed in Ahmedabad godown fire||At least a dozen labourers, several of them women, were killed when a portion of a chemical warehouse here collapsed following a powerful explosion on Wednesday. Many persons sustained injuries in the incident which occurred on the Pirana-Piplaj road, an industrial area located on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. Many of them are said to be in a critical condition. Rs. 4 lakh compensation President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered a investigation by Additional Chief Secretary (Labour and Employment) Vipul Mitra and Sanjiv Kumar, Chairman of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB). The State government has also announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh to the families of each of the deceased. The fire brigade personnel pulled out 18 persons from the rubble and shifted them to LG Hospital, Chief Fire Officer M.F. Dastur said. Of the 18, 12 were either declared brought dead or died of injuries shortly after getting admitted to the government-run hospital. “We are using concrete breakers to dismantle the slabs to pull out people. Till now, we have pulled out 18 persons from the debris and sent them to the hospital,” Mr. Dastur told the media at the accident site. A fire control room official said at least 26 rescue and fire fighting vehicles were pressed into service. The cause of the explosion is yet to be ascertained.
05 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||12 labourers killed in Ahmedabad godown fire||At least a dozen labourers, several of them women, were killed when a portion of a chemical warehouse here collapsed following a powerful explosion on Wednesday. Many persons sustained injuries in the incident which occurred on the Pirana-Piplaj road, an industrial area located on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. Many of them are said to be in a critical condition. Rs. 4 lakh compensation President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered a investigation by Additional Chief Secretary (Labour and Employment) Vipul Mitra and Sanjiv Kumar, Chairman of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB). The State government has also announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh to the families of each of the deceased. The fire brigade personnel pulled out 18 persons from the rubble and shifted them to LG Hospital, Chief Fire Officer M.F. Dastur said. Of the 18, 12 were either declared brought dead or died of injuries shortly after getting admitted to the government-run hospital. “We are using concrete breakers to dismantle the slabs to pull out people. Till now, we have pulled out 18 persons from the debris and sent them to the hospital,” Mr. Dastur told the media at the accident site. A fire control room official said at least 26 rescue and fire fighting vehicles were pressed into service. The cause of the explosion is yet to be ascertained.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Power tariff increased by 40 paise per unit||In a year hit by the pandemic, job losses, and pay cuts, people will now have to shell out more for electricity. The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has approved revision of electricity tariff for all the electricity supply companies (Escoms) with an average increase of 40 paise per unit, considering increase in demand and energy charges — a 5.4% average increase. The only relief for consumers is that the new tariff comes into effect not retrospectively from April, but for the electricity consumed from the first meter reading date falling on or after November 1. The order was pronounced on Wednesday virtually and is applicable for the ongoing financial year. A press release from the KERC said that the increase in tariff was necessitated owing to a year-on-year increase in the cost of power purchase and procurement of energy from new thermal and renewable energy sources. “The input costs towards operation and maintenance and borrowings for capital expenditure are also increasing year on year. Hence, in order to enable the Escoms to carry on their business of supplying electricity, which is a basic need of society, the increase in the tariff has become inevitable,” the commission said.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. to reopen schools after consulting parents||The Tamil Nadu government, which recently announced the reopening of schools for Classes 9, 10, 11 and 12, has gone back on the decision. It said on Wednesday that a consultation would be held with the parents of students and the representatives of parent-teacher associations on November 9 before a further decision is taken. Written inputs “Parents of students of Classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 could take part in these consultations and offer their opinions. Those unable to attend could send in their written inputs. Based on the decisions taken by the respective schools, the government would take a decision,” the School Education Secretary said in a statement. The statement came after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami chaired a meeting at the Secretariat with Ministers and officials concerned. The consultations would take place at the schools. The headmasters of government, aided and private schools would chair these meetings, scheduled at 10 a.m. on November 9. The decision to reopen schools on November 16 was taken following the guidelines issued by the Centre and inputs received by the teachers. DMK president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran had urged the government not to reopen schools for these classes.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘It is in public interest to set up courts to try lawmakers’||Justice N.V. Ramana, leading a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, on Wednesday said the court has only public interest and faith in judiciary in mind while pushing for the setting up of special courts to expeditiously try sitting and former MPs and MLAs accused of various crimes. “The purpose of this adjudication is in public interest and to maintain public faith in judiciary by making sure that long-pending cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs are decided without delay,” Justice Ramana explained. The Bench was considering a report filed by a committee of the Madras High Court that raised reservations over the setting up of special courts to exclusively try legislators for various offences. The committee said that special courts cannot be “offender-centric”. It reasoned, “An MP/MLA, who commits an offence under POCSO Act (or other Special Acts like Prevention of Corruption Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) can only be tried by a Special Court created under the POCSO Act (PC Act, NDPS Act) and there cannot be another Special Court exclusively for trial of an MP/MLA, who commits POCSO offence.” On this, the top court gave Madras HC counsel Anandh Kannan two weeks to respond. The committee report drew special attention from the Bench as it comes in the face of a 2017 Supreme Court order authorising the Centre to set up 12 special courts to exclusively try criminal politicians. It also comes at a time when a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Ramana, is looking at ways to expedite these trials pending for years, in some cases, for decades. More than 4,400 criminal trials are pending against legislators. Of these, more than 2,500 trials involve sitting legislators. But the Madras HC’s Criminal Rules Committee on Special Courts for Trial of Criminal Cases against MPs/MLAs, composed of Justices P.N. Prakash, G. Jayachandran and N. Sathish Kumar, said special courts cannot be set up on the basis of judicial or executive orders. The committee also raised strong reservations against setting up special courts in Tamil Nadu. “The existing court structure in the State of Tamil Nadu, which is robust, is more than enough to deal with the cases involving MPs and MLAs,” it said. Countering a submission that the High Court had stayed 92 cases filed against politicians in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Kannan said 85% of these cases dealt with defamation allegations.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Enveloped in smog||
05 November 2020||Belagavi,||DCC Bank poll contestants shift voters to resorts?||Speculation is rife that candidates fighting the Belagavi DCC Bank elections are involved in resort politics, by shifted their voters to resorts away from the district. Polling for the three contested seats in the 16-member board of directors of the bank is scheduled on Friday. The other 13 have been elected unopposed. It is said that MLA Anjali Nimbalkar had shifted her loyalists to a private resort in Maharashtra. Unverified claims put the number of her followers at 28, out of the 50 members of the Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperatives in the taluk. She is supposed to be seeking help from Ashok Chavan, her nephew and former Maharashtra Chief Minister. Her rival and former MLA Arvind Patil had ferried 20 members of Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperatives to another resort on the the Karnataka-Goa border, sources said. District BJP leaders Ramesh Jarkiholi and Laxman Savadi are helping Mr. Patil, according to the sources. Mr. Patil, however, denied the reports. “I have served as DCC Bank director for one term already. If the Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperatives members want me elected, they will vote for me. Otherwise, they will not. I cannot abduct them or keep them restrained or even keep them entertained till polling day. I don’t have that kind of money,” he told The Hindu . Dr. Nimbalkar said that she had also heard of such reports, but she was not in a position to either confirm or deny them. She expressed the confidence that she would win the polls, though she would not disclose the number of members supporting her.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Courts for trying lawmakers in public interest’||Justice N.V. Ramana, leading a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, on Wednesday said the court has only public interest and faith in judiciary in mind while pushing for the setting up of special courts to expeditiously try sitting and former MPs and MLAs accused of various crimes. “The purpose of this adjudication is in public interest and to maintain public faith in judiciary by making sure that long-pending cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs are decided without delay... It is for the public we have taken up this case,” Justice Ramana explained. The Bench was considering a report filed by a committee of the Madras High Court that raised reservations over the setting up of special courts to exclusively try legislators for various offences. The committee said that special courts cannot be “offender-centric”.
05 November 2020||Chennai,||Cyclonic circulation triggers rain in Chennai||Rainfall resumed over Chennai on Wednesday after a gap of a few days due to the presence of a weather system over the Bay of Bengal. The Meteorological Dept. has issued an orange alert, indicating heavy rainfall and thunderstorms and lightning till November 8.
05 November 2020||Kolkata,||Amit Shah arrives in WB||Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrived in West Bengal on Wednesday and is likely to visit Bankura district on Thursday, where he will hold a meeting with party supporters and representatives of different communities. On Friday, he will visit Dakhineshwar Kali temple and meet vocalist Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty.  The visit, which comes almost after a year, has assumed significance in the wake of the Assembly elections scheduled next year. But more than Mr. Shah’s organisational meetings, it is the lunch venue that has generated a lot of debate. On Thursday, Mr. Shah will have lunch at the house of Bibhishan Mandi, a tribal, at Chaturdihi village in Bankura district. On Friday, he will be at the house of Navin Biswas, a member of the Matua sect, from Jyoti Nagar in North 24 Parganas district. The symbolism behind the visit to a tribal and Matua houses is significant. The tribal population of both north Bengal and south Bengal, and Matuas voted largely in support of the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The party wants to consolidate on the support of both the groups before the State goes to the polls.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi clocks over 6,000 COVID-19 cases||Ten States and Union Territories have contributed 76% of the new confirmed COVID-19 cases, with Delhi and Kerala leading with over 6,000 cases each. Maharashtra follows them with more than 4,000, showed data released by the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. As many as 514 case fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours.
05 November 2020||Guwahati,||Assam government asks districts to step up vigil||The Assam government on Wednesday asked the authorities of districts bordering Mizoram to step up vigil as the economic blockade on NH-306 — lifeline of Mizoram — continued for the eighth day. Senior officials of the two States said efforts were on to ease tension along the 164.6-km border.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Rs. 279 crore action plan to improve air quality||If all goes as planned, citizens may be able to breathe more easily. Improving air quality in the city will be a priority for the BBMP over the next two years. An action plan for nine projects amounting to a total of Rs. 279 crore and geared towards reducing air pollution has been draw n up by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Action Plan Committee.
05 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Woman shot in head in ‘robbery attempt’||A 26-year-old woman, employed with a multina-tional company, was shot in the head in a suspected robbery bid on Golf Course Extension Road in Sector 65, Gurugram, on Tuesday night, the police said. The woman, Pooja Sharma, is undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital and is said to be in a critical condition. Ms. Sharma hails from Jharkhand.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||With 6,842 cases, Delhi sees biggest spike||The Capital recorded 6,842 new COVID-19 cases — its highest single-day jump — on Wednesday, a government health bulletin stated. Also, 51 deaths and 5,797 recove-ries were recorded. The total number of virus cases now stands at 4,09,938. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the spike could be called the “third wave” of the pandemic in the Capital.
05 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases dip to 1.12 lakh||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 recoveries again outweighed its case surge, with 8,728 patients being discharged on Wednesday, while 5,505 new cases were reported. The tally of recoveries has risen to 15,40,005, with the recovery rate at 90.68%. The total case tally in the State stands at 16,98,198, while the active cases have come down to 1,12,912. With 125 more deaths, the total death toll has reached 44,548.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Cyclonic circulation triggers sudden showers||Rainfall resumed over Chennai and its neighbour- hood on Wednesday due to the presence of a weather system over the Bay of Bengal. The Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert, indicating heavy rainfall and thunderstorms and lightning in some parts of the State till November 8.
05 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Woman bludgeoned to death by son in-law||In a gruesome crime, a man is said to have bludgeoned his 40-year-old mother in-law to death with a heavy stone at Bheemnal village in Kamalapur taluk on Wednesday. Following an altercation, the accused, Ram Prabhu Hudge, bludgeoned Lugja Bai Biradar to death when she came to resolve a marital dispute involving her daughter. Ram Prabhu Hudge was married to Renuka Biradar of Wagalgaon in Bhalki taluk of Bidar district three years ago. The couple often fought over one issue or the other, and Renuka Biradar was staying with her parents for the last few months. On Wednesday, when Renuka Biradar, along with her mother, came to her in-laws, Ram Prabhu Hudge picked up a quarrel with both of them. Lagju Bai Biradar walked out of the house to lodge a complaint against her son in-law. Ram Prabhu Hudge, however, waylaid her and killed her.
05 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Digital Life Certificate registration at home||With EPS (Employees Pension Scheme) pensioners required to submit their Jeevan Pramaan Patra- Digital Life Certificate in November and December, the Regional Office of Employees Provident Fund (EPF) in Hubballi has taken steps for the benefit of bed-ridden pensioners residing in the region.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Ganapathy case: Clean chit for George, police officers||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday quashed the entire criminal proceedings initiated against former Minister K.J. George and senior IPS officers A.M. Prasad and Pronab Mohanty for allegedly abetting Deputy Superintendent of Police M.K Ganapathy to commit suicide in July 2016.
05 November 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru gets another hospital with 40 beds||In the midst of a steady decline in COVID-19 cases and fatalities, Mysuru has got another hospital with 40 oxygenated beds for treating infected patients. The designated COVID-19 hospital had 250-bed strength besides 178 beds at the K.R. Hospital.
05 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Police to launch drive against illegal weapons||The State police will shortly launch a special drive to curb illegal arms, just as it is carrying out a drive against drug peddlers, DG&IGP Praveen Sood has said.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. launches mobile Amma canteens||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for various projects and inaugurated completed schemes. The Chief Minister also flagged off mobile Amma canteens that will visit parts of Greater Chennai Corporation and provide food to daily wage workers and those working at construction sites. He also handed over appointment orders to new recruits made for Health and School Education Departments.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Eight districts account for 60% of new cases||More than 60% of the 2,487 fresh coronavirus infections reported in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday came from eight districts, including Chennai. The State’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 7,34,429. As many as 657 persons tested positive in Chennai, followed by 220 in Coimbatore. As many as 2,504 persons, including 844 in Chennai and 240 in Coimbatore, were discharged after treatment in the State.
05 November 2020||Chennai,||Cyclonic circulation triggers rain in Chennai||Rainfall resumed over Chennai on Wednesday after a gap of a few days due to the presence of a weather system over the Bay of Bengal. The Meteorological Dept. has issued an orange alert, indicating heavy rainfall and thunderstorms and lightning till November 8.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers to block roads today||More than 600 farmers groups opposed to the Centre’s three new agricultural reform laws plan to block traffic on roads and highways between noon and 4 p.m. on Thursday in a “ chakka jam” protest. Although it is meant to be a nationwide protest, the spread may be patchy with many farmers busy with sowing activities. Farm leaders say major actions are being planned in Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. “Farmers will sit on the streets and protest peacefully to express their anger against these anti-farmer laws, and demand that the Central government repeal these laws,” said Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, who is part of the coordination committee planning the protests. “There are no blockades being planned in Delhi tomorrow. Although the Grand Trunk Road will be blocked within Haryana, there will be no blockade along Delhi borders. However, this is all in preparation for the Dilli Chalo event on November 26 and 27, when farmers will stage a protest in the capital,” he added. At a time when the Punjab government is engaged in a stand-off with the Centre over the ban on goods trains entering the State, ostensibly due to farmer sit-ins at railway lines and stations, farmer leaders emphasised that there would be no rail blockade during Thursday’s protest. Strict instructions have also been sent to allow safe passage to ambulances, other emergency vehicles, and those carrying senior citizens. “The demand is national, but the actions are localised,” said Kavitha Kruganti, a convener of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture who is coordinating protests in several southern States. “The joint protests bringing together different groups show that farmers are united in the struggle. We are also forcing more State governments and regional political parties to respond to farmers’ demands at their own level,” she added. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Bharatiya Kisan Union and Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh are some of the major federations who will participate in the protest.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||ED conducts raids at Bineesh Kodiyeri’s residence in Kerala||An Enforcement Directorate (ED) team from Karnataka raided the home of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, at Maruthankuzhy here on Wednesday. The agency had arrested Bineesh in Bengaluru on August 29 on drug trafficking-related money laundering charges. At least six ED officials, escorted by Karnataka Police and Central Reserve Police Force personnel, descended on ‘Kodiyeri’, a well-appointed house Bineesh had purchased from a ranking police officer in 2013. At the time, Mr. Balakrishnan was Home and Tourism Minister. House locked Mr. Balakrishnan was not at home when the ED came calling. The investigators found the house locked. Bineesh’s wife and in-laws arrived later and opened the house. A phalanx of television camera persons and journalists had mustered in front of the house anticipating the raid. Almost simultaneously, another ED team arrived at a car accessory showroom in Kesavadasapuram. They closeted inside the shop with its owner Abdul Latheef. The ED had said in a court filing that Mr. Latheef was a frontman for Bineesh since 2012. It had deposed that Bineesh had many such ‘benamidars’ and “created assets in their name to avoid detection” and possibly to conceal ill-gotten wealth. The ED sought the custody of Mr. Latheef to confront him with the “voluminous documents and digital evidence” its agents had ferreted out. The agency said Mr. Latheef had co-invested with Bineesh in at least two hotels and a foreign currency exchange business in Thiruvananthapuram. The ED also inspected a pharmaceutical firm. The ED reportedly verified UAFX Solutions, Car Palace, Capito Lights and K K Rocks Quarry. The ED also inspected the house of Al Jassam Abdul Jabbar in Nedumangadu, who owned expensive cars. In Kannur, the ED inspected the premises of persons associated with the Kerala Cricket Association. The ED is seeking to trace the proceeds from the alleged crime, identify diversions, single out ‘end-users’ and confiscate properties linked to laundering.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi clocks over 6,000 cases||Ten States and Union Territories have contributed 76% of the new confirmed COVID-19 cases, with Kerala and Delhi leading with over 6,000 cases each. Maharashtra follows them with more than 4,000, showed data released by the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. As many as 514 case fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours, and nearly 80% of them were concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of single-day deaths of 120, it said. The active case load stood at 5,33,787, with the active cases comprising 6.42% of the total positive cases in the country. Sixteen States and Union Territories have cases per million lower than the national average. A total of 53,357 patients had recovered and been discharged in the past 24 hours, with new confirmed cases at 46,253. Kerala was leading with more than 8,000 single-day recoveries, followed by Karnataka with more than 7,000. The country’s testing capacities have seen a rapid expansion. The cumulative tests were nearly 11.3 crore (11,29,98,959) today. A total of 12,09,609 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. Twenty-five States and Union Territories have better tests per million than the national average. Eighty per cent of the new recovered cases were concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories, the Ministry said. With a high number of patients recovering every day and a sustained fall in the mortality rate, India’s steady trend of a dip in active cases continued. The active case load was sustained below the six lakh mark for the sixth successive day on Wednesday, it added.
05 November 2020||PATNA,||Rahul takes a swipe at media and EVMs||A day before the campaign ends for the third and final phase of the Bihar Assembly election, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the electronic voting machine (EVM) was actually a “Modi voting machine (MVM)”. Mr. Gandhi alleged that Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar had betrayed the people of Bihar and had done nothing for them. Mr. Kumar, BJP president J.P. Nadda and Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav were among the other leaders who addressed public meetings and undertook roadshows on Wednesday in the Seemanchal (border) areas of northeast Bihar, where the election is scheduled for November 7. “This time, Bihar’s youth are angry and they have decided to oust the NDA government from power,” Mr. Gandhi said at a public meeting at Araria in northeast Bihar. He also took a jibe at a section of the media, calling them “ Modiji ka media ”. “Be it EVM or MVM, the mahagathbandhan [grand alliance] is going to win the election... Whether it’s MVM or Modi ji ’s media, I’m not scared of them… I’m fighting a war of ideology against this man [PM Modi],” he said. “Both PM Modi and CM Nitish Kumar had promised jobs for the youth in Bihar in their previous election campaigns… Did they give you jobs?” Mr. Gandhi asked the crowd. During the 2015 Assembly election, Mr. Kumar had sought votes against the BJP. But he “betrayed” the mandate when he embraced the BJP once again. “First he stabbed you in the back, then in the stomach… two or three times... Nitish ji didn’t stab you one time, but two or three times,” Mr. Gandhi said. At Kishanganj, Mr. Nitish Kumar listed the steps his government had taken for the development of Bihar in the last 15 years of his regime. “Development with justice” had been the mantra of his government. “We did a lot of work for the development of the State and the people… If given another chance to serve you all, we’ll bring water for irrigation to every farm and safe drinking tap water to every household,” he said. RJD leader and grand alliance’s Chief Minister face Tejashwi Yadav addressed a series of meetings, and repeated his promise to “provide 10 lakh government jobs to the youth, if voted to power.” He condemned the act of throwing onions at Mr. Kumar at a public meeting in Harlakhi (Madhubani) on Tuesday. “There is no place for such things in democracy,” he said. “Today the basic issues plaguing Bihar is padhai, dawai, kamai, sinchai aur mahangai (education, medicine, income, irrigation and price rise) and when our government comes, we will address these issues first,” he told the crowd at Dhamdaha public meeting in Purnia district. “Has Nitish Kumar done anything at all for you?” he asked as the crowd responded with a “No.” “ Tab chup-chap, Lalten chhap [then vote for Lantern silently],” he said.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Two-pronged strategy to boost rubber sector||A two-pronged strategy has been worked out by the government to increase the processing of natural rubber produced in the State from the existing 11% to 40% by 2030 and to make the State a hub for latex-based products. A CIAL (Cochin International Airpot Limited) model company, Kerala Rubber Limited (KRL), and Amul model cooperative for procurement of natural rubber from farmers figure in the flagship programme being launched. The strategy Facilitating land and industrial infrastructure at affordable price to private investors to set up projects aimed at producing high manufacturing value-added (MVA) natural rubber-based products and direct government intervention for value addition in tyre industries are the two-pronged strategy. The company that will have 26% equity participation by the government will strive to make strategic investments with the support of the private sector. It will also ensure better price realisation for farmers, develop world-class manufacturing infrastructure to promote investment, ensure seamless linkage with the proposed Amul-model cooperative for procurement, operate in the PPP (public-private partnership) mode and ensure good returns to stakeholders. A Rubber Park will be set up in 100 to 300 acres of land in Kottayam for facilitating private investment in high MVA products using RRS sheets and another one in 300 to 500 acres for latex products. Taking into consideration the growth rate, consumption of natural rubber, scope of exports and high operating margin, two value-added products namely — Off-The-Road (OTR) Tyres and Heat Resistant Latex Thread (HRLT) — have been identified to be directly manufactured and traded by KRL. A tyre research, testing and certification facility as a joint venture between the KSIDC and Rubber Research Institute of India or Indian Rubber Manufacturers Research Association has been proposed. The supply chain for procurement as well as processing of natural rubber will be done by the cooperative society, which will have a pre-defined shareholding in the KRL.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s cases cross 8,500 on higher testing||More than 60% of the 2,487 fresh coronavirus infections reported in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday came from eight districts, including Chennai. The State’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 7,34,429. As many as 657 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai followed by 220 in Coimbatore. There were 151 cases in Chengalpattu, 107 in Tiruvallur and 103 in Salem. There was a marginal rise in the number of daily cases in Erode (110), Kancheepuram (116) and Tiruppur (122) when compared to the last few days. The remaining 29 districts had less than 100 cases each. As many as 2,504 persons, including 844 in Chennai and 240 in Coimbatore, were discharged after treatment in the State. Till date, 7,04,031 persons were discharged. Presently, 19,154 persons are undergoing treatment for COVID-19. With 30 more fatalities, a total of 11,244 persons have succumbed to the infection in the State. Telangana’s COVID-19 tally touched 2,44,143 with 1,637 persons diagnosed with the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. This was the highest number of cases recorded in a day since October 13. The high incidence followed 45,526 tests being conducted, the maximum between October 13 and November 3. The new cases include 292 from Greater Hyderabad, 136 from Rangareddy, 129 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 118 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem, 101 from Nalgonda, 90 from Karimnagar and 74 from Khammam. Five cases were recorded in Narayanpet and nine in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. On Monday, 123 persons from Bhadradri-Kothagudem had tested positive for the virus. Andhra Pradesh reported 2,477 new infections and 10 deaths on Wednesday. The number of tests conducted increased to 83.35 lakh, as 75,465 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 3.28%. The overall positivity rate came down to 10%.  East Godavari reported 424 new infections, West Godavari 375, Krishna 332, Guntur 323 and Chittoor 321. Half of the active cases were in East Godavari, Guntur and Krishna districts. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 3,377 new cases and 34 new deaths. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.29%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1%. Bengaluru Urban district reported 1,953 cases taking its positive cases tally to 3,43,507. With 16 of the 34 deaths also from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 3,917. Active cases in Bengaluru, however, reduced to 18,806. As many as 1,02,503 tests were conducted during the previous day, including 75,045 RT-PCR tests. With this the total number of tests rose to 82,88,179. Kerala reported 8,516 new cases from 71,270 samples, maintaining the trend over the past few days as testing climbed to over 70,000 for the first time in weeks. The test positivity rate was 11.9%. With the addition of 28 more deaths to the COVID list, the State’s cumulative toll rose to 1,587.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru, and Thiruvananthapuram)
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||China remains quiet on Pak.’s Gilgit-Baltistan move||In contrast to the strong reaction to India’s Jammu and Kashmir reorganisation move last year, China on Wednesday refrained from voicing its opposition on Pakistan’s announced move to accord “provisional provincial status” to Gilgit-Baltistan in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). In a more muted response, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said it had “noted relevant reports” and that “China’s position on the Kashmir issue is consistent and clear”. “It is an issue left over from the history between India and Pakistan. It should be resolved peacefully and properly according to the charter, relevant UN Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements,” spokesperson Wang Wenbin said. No statement His comments came in response to questions from the Indian media at a regular press briefing. Unlike its statement on India in 2019, China did not issue a statement on Pakistan’s move to change the status of Gilgit-Baltistan, a disputed region where China is also carrying out projects under its China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) plan, which India has opposed. In August 2019, following the dilution of Article 370 and the removal of special status for Jammu and Kashmir, China said it was “seriously concerned about the current situation in Jammu and Kashmir”. “China’s position on the Kashmir issue is clear and consistent,” the statement said then. “It is also an international consensus that the Kashmir issue is an issue left from the past between India and Pakistan. The relevant sides need to exercise restraint and act prudently. In particular, they should refrain from taking actions that will unilaterally change the status quo and escalate tensions. We call on both India and Pakistan to peacefully resolve the relevant disputes through dialogue and consultation, and safeguard peace and stability in the region.” ‘Opposed to move’ China had also opposed the decision to convert Ladakh into a Union Territory. While Delhi had conveyed to Beijing that the move neither changed external boundaries nor territorial claims, China, referring to Aksai Chin, said it was “always opposed to India’s inclusion of the Chinese territory in the western sector of the China-India boundary into its administrative jurisdiction”. The move, Beijing said, “undermined China’s territorial sovereignty by unilaterally changing domestic law”. Asked on Wednesday if the difference in response suggested China did not follow “its professed neutral approach”, Mr. Wang said, “I don’t think that’s a valid statement. As I said just now, China’s position on the Kashmir issue is consistent and clear”.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC lays down guidelines for matrimonial cases||The Supreme Court on Wednesday held that deserted wives and children are entitled to alimony/maintenance from their husbands from the date they apply for it in a court of law. In a significant judgment by a Bench of Justices Indu Malhotra and R. Subhash Reddy, the top court said women deserted by husbands were left in dire straits, often reduced to destitution, for lack of means to sustain themselves and their children. The 67-page judgment by Justice Malhotra laid down uniform and comprehensive guidelines for family courts, magistrates and lower courts to follow while hearing applications filed by women seeking maintenance from their estranged husbands. The court said despite a plethora of maintenance laws, women were left empty-handed for years, struggling to make ends meet after a bad marriage. “The view that maintenance ought to be granted from the date when the application was made is based on the rationale that the primary object of maintenance laws is to protect a deserted wife and dependent children from destitution and vagrancy. If maintenance is not paid from the date of application, the party seeking maintenance would be deprived of sustenance, owing to the time taken for disposal of the application, which often runs into several years,” Justice Malhotra wrote. Usually maintenance cases have to be settled in 60 days, but they take years in reality owing to legal loopholes. To ensure that judicial orders for grant of maintenance are duly enforced by husbands, the court said a violation would lead to punishment, such as civil detention and even attachment of the property of the latter. “The order or decree of maintenance may be enforced like a decree of a civil court, through the provisions which are available for enforcing a money decree,” Justice Malhotra wrote. “The plea of the husband that he does not possess any source of income ipso facto does not absolve him of his moral duty to maintain his wife, if he is able-bodied and has educational qualifications,” the court declared. Both the applicant wife and the respondent husband have to disclose their assets and liabilities in a maintenance case. Any earlier case filed or pending under any other law should also be revealed in court. The expenses of the children, including their education, basic needs and other vocational activities, should be factored in by courts while calculating the alimony. Other factors such as “spiralling inflation rates and high costs of living” should be considered, but the wife should receive an alimony which fit the standard of life she was used to in the matrimonial home. The judgment was based on a matrimonial plea from Maharashtra on the question of payment of maintenance by a man to his wife and son under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The case had been dragging on for years. “Section 125 of the CrPC was conceived to ameliorate the agony, anguish, financial suffering of a woman who had left her matrimonial home, so that some suitable arrangements could be made to enable her to sustain herself and the children,” Justice Malhotra noted.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Centre head-hunting for J&K, Ladakh||The Union Home Ministry has written to several government departments to seek the consent of officials willing to be posted to the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The letter sent to Ministries and the departments of Railways, Defence, Commerce, Customs and Excise, Posts and Telecommunications said, that “The new Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh are beset with acute shortage of officers.” The former State of J&K was bifurcated into Union Territories on August 6, 2019. According to the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019, officers belonging to the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), the Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (IFS) in the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir “shall continue to function on the existing cadres,” till the Lieutenant Governor of J&K determines the final allocation of such officers between J&K and Ladakh. A year after the reorganisation of J&K, the cadre allocation is yet to be completed. All new recruits will be allocated the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. Now faced with shortage of officers, the MHA is asking various government departments to depute Group A service officers to the two UTs to overcome the shortage. In an office memorandum sent to the Ministry of Defence on October 26, the MHA said, “it is requested that the willingness of Central Civil Services Officers, selected through Central Civil Exams conducted by the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission), in the (I) Indian Defence Accounts Service (IDAS), (ii) Indian Ordnance Factories Service (IOFS), (iii) Indian Defence Estates Service (IDES), may please be obtained and provide the name(s) of suitable officer(s), eligible for deputation in terms of existing guidelines and willing to serve in the Governments of UT of J&K/UT of Ladakh, along with the cadre controlling authority’s consent/no objection and vigilance clearance of the officers at the earliest.” Similar communication was sent to the Railway Ministry to seek the consent of Group A service officers belonging to the Indian Railways Account Service, the Indian Railway Personnel Service, the Indian Railway Traffic Service and the Railway Protection Force for deputation to J&K and Ladakh. There are around four lakh government employees in undivided J&K. Of the 58 IAS and 66 IPS officers, nine and 16 are on Central deputation or suspension respectively. The total sanctioned strength of IAS and IPS officers in J&K is 137 and 147, respectively.
05 November 2020||CHANDIGARH/NEW DELHI,||With goods trains off track, Punjab’s lifeline cut off||Amid the continued suspension of goods trains by the Railways to Punjab, key sectors from agro-processing, engineering, hosiery, pharmaceutical, textile, power to auto components makers have taken a blow in Punjab as supply of raw material has reduced and delivery of products have come to a near halt. While the BJP-led Central government on Wednesday blamed the Punjab government’s inaction for the ongoing impasse, members of as many as 30 farmers outfits decided to allow movement of goods trains till November 20 amid the ongoing ‘rail roko’ agitation against Centre’s farm legislation. Farmers also announced to shift their ‘agitation’ from railway platforms to nearby vicinities. The Railways, meanwhile, said its losses have crossed Rs. 1,200 crore in the last month as train operations remain suspended due to farmer protests currently at about 32 places on railway premises and tracks in Punjab. “Earlier we had decided to let goods train go through the railway tracks till November 5, and now we have decided to extend the date till November 20. The ongoing impasse is due to authoritarian attitude of the Central government and discrimination towards Punjab farmers,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartaiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda). Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said the rail blockade by farmers in Punjab was due to the State government’s inaction and that the Centre was keen on restarting operations quickly. “Essentially, law and order are the responsibility of the State government. They can have a dialogue with farmers, which they have not done,” he said. Several industry-players believe that unless the stalemate between Central and State governments was resolved it would be difficult for the businesses to get back to normal. “The condition of micro, small and medium enterprises has gone from bad to worse due to suspension of railways. Over 90% MSMEs in the State are involved in manufacture of cycle. But due to shortage of raw materials the production has gone down by at least 50%,” Narinder Bhamra, president, Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, told The Hindu . Mr. Bhamra said the industry is unable to supply products against its commitments to foreign buyers and is facing heavy penalties owing to the delay. “A conservative estimate put our industry loss at Rs. 5,000 crore,” Mr. Bhamra said. The agro-processing industry has also taken a hit. “The basmati rice exports have come to a complete standstill. Over 2,000 rice containers are lying uncleared at inland container depot (ICD) in Ludhiana,” said Ashok Sethi, director, Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association.
05 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||12 killed in Ahmedabad godown fire||At least a dozen labourers, several of them women, were killed when a portion of a chemical warehouse here collapsed following a powerful explosion on Wednesday. Many persons sustained injuries in the incident which occurred on the Pirana-Piplaj road, an industrial area located on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. Many of them are said to be in a critical condition. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered a investigation by Additional Chief Secretary (Labour and Employment) Vipul Mitra and Sanjiv Kumar, Chairman of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB). The State government has also announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh to the families of each of the deceased. The fire brigade personnel pulled out 18 persons from the rubble and shifted them to LG Hospital, Chief Fire Officer M.F. Dastur said. Of the 18, 12 were either declared brought dead or died of injuries shortly after getting admitted to the government-run hospital. “We are using concrete breakers to dismantle the slabs to pull out people. Till now, we have pulled out 18 persons from the debris and sent them to the hospital,” Mr. Dastur told the media at the accident site. A fire control room official said at least 26 rescue and fire fighting vehicles were pressed into service. The cause of the explosion is yet to be ascertained. Some local factory owners said it took place in a boiler installed at the chemical godown-cum-processing unit. Gujarat has been witnessing accidents in factories and commercial buildings with high casualties.
05 November 2020||Sidharth Yadav Bhopal,||56% migrants who went back to M.P. unemployed: study||As many as 56.5% migrant workers who returned to Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra during the COVID-19-induced lockdown were unemployed, while those engaged in work were earning much less than before, according to a survey. Further, 67% of the 1,500 respondents who returned in May and June across Madhya Pradesh demanded urgent relief to support their families. And 90% of them had not received any monetary relief promised by the government, said a survey undertaken by two law graduates, an engineering student and Zenith Society for Socio-Legal Empowerment, Shivpuri, with the aid of 50 volunteers. While 43% said they are engaged in some kind of work, around 22% were employed in agriculture-related work or farming in their own fields. “In some cases, the entire family works on a single field  resulting in cases of disguised unemployment,” said the executive summary of the report titled ‘MP Migrant Worker Project’.  Data gap Through the report, the surveyors intended to bridge the data gap regarding the status of the workers and highlight their situation which was being conveniently forgotten, said Rakshita Agarwal, a graduate of the National Law University Odisha. “We are identifying pressing issues being faced by the workers and approaching authorities with solutions,” said Ms. Agarwal. “We don’t want this to end as a report, but bring about real, tangible changes wherever we can.”
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vulture conservation plan targets drug||The National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) has cleared a plan for conserving vultures. Saliently, the drugs that are used to treat cattle and known to poison vultures will be banned by the Drugs Controller General of India. Diclofenac, a drug used to treat cattle, was linked to kidney failure in vultures and a decline in the bird’s population. Though the drug was banned in 2006, it is reportedly still available for use. A study by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds’ Centre for Conservation Science found that along with Diclofenac, there were several other drugs that were potentially toxic to vultures being used by vets for treating cattle. The drugs make their way into the vulture’s system as they feed on carcasses. The long-billed vulture ( Gyps indicus ) and the slender-billed ( G. tenuirostris ) had declined by 97%, while the white-rumped ( G. bengalensis ) declined nearly 99% between 1992 and 2007, according to an earlier estimate by the BNHS. The ‘Action Plan for Vulture Conservation 2020-2025’ also proposes to establish Vulture Conservation Breeding Centres in Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. There would also be a conservation breeding programme for the red-headed vulture and Egyptian vulture, and at least one “Vulture Safe Zone” in every State for the conservation of the remnant populations. There would be four rescue centres in different geographical areas: Pinjore in north India, Bhopal in central India, Guwahati in northeast India and Hyderabad in south India, as well as regular surveys to track population numbers, the plan envisages.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to increase share of agriculture in GSDP by 30%||Karnataka has set itself a target to increase the share of agriculture in the GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) to 30% by 2025, from 16% currently, according to the Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. He said the State has the mandate to grow its GSDP from the current $230 billion to $1 trillion in the next five years, in order to contribute to the national GDP target of $5 trillion by 2025. “The technology sector has contributed to the huge growth of the State’s economy and going forward, both technology and agriculture sectors are going to drive the next wave of growth in Karnataka,” he told The Hindu . Agriculture and allied activities already support 50-60% of the State's population. “We see great revenue potential in food processing and agri-ventures connected to value-addition. There is a huge domestic and international market for processed food products. Such a focus will greatly increase our farmers’ incomes and will also enhance the overall living conditions of millions of people engaged in farming and allied activities in the state,” he added. Karnataka had already spoken about its ambitious growth target of taking its mainstay business — software and information technology services/products — to $300 billion in five years from $52 billion as of March 2020. Earlier, at a virtual conference, Mr. Narayan, who also holds the IT, BT, and Science and Technology portfolios announced the 23rd edition of the State’s tech exposition, Bengaluru Tech Summit. He said despite the challenges brought by the pandemic, the tech industry remained unaffected and the three-day annual tech show would be conducted as a virtual event. It’s scheduled to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19. “We are currently the Silicon Valley of the East. However, we have a larger IT and startup community than Silicon Valley, California. And it is a matter of time we emerge in terms of value as well,” the Deputy CM added. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Executive Chairperson, Biocon Limited and Chairperson, Karnataka Vision Group on Biotechnology, said the pandemic has brought a lot of attention on what biological sciences have to offer to the world. “We have made huge inroads into the delivery of telehealth with the help of digital technology. There has been an accelerated adoption of technology in biological sciences, healthcare and research and development of vaccines and pharma products. Now we are exploring CRiSPR technologies to use them as a tool for editing genomes, in diagnostics and creating cutting edge solutions.” S. Gopalakrishnan, Co-Founder, Infosys, Chairman of Axilor Venture, and Chairman, Karnataka Vision Group on Information Technology said, “IT industry is a bright spot during this COVID-19 crisis and BTS gives the industry an ideal platform to showcase its new solutions.”
05 November 2020||Kozhikode,||Homes turn science labs during pandemic times||If arts and sports classes go online, can science labs too be set up at home? Yes, believes the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), Kozhikode, which recently persuaded over thousand students from a school here to set up little home-based labs to make science learning more effective. D. Divya, science faculty, DIET, Kozhikode, says the project is part of the Schoolinoppam project being implemented in two schools each in 15 educational sub-districts in Kozhikode. It is aimed at inculcating scientific temper in students, parents, and teachers and building an affinity towards science subjects. Changing methods “COVID-19 is changing our teaching methods in different ways. Though classes are being held online, children are finding it difficult to do scientific experiments as they do not have access to laboratories. Children in Classes 5 to 7 are being asked to use substances that are easily available in their surroundings and set up small labs at home,” she says. For example, lemon, tamarind, soap, glass, ice cream balls, wires, battery, bottles, mirror, bulbs, and lens can be used to do small experiments. Develops interest “These are being done along with the First Bell online classes,” Ms. Divya points out. Educational officers point out that they will help students arouse an interest in science as they will be able to relate their science lessons with the things around them. The pilot scheme was recently launched by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao at Sanskrit High School, Vattoli. As many as 1,667 students created small labs at their homes. DIET sources say that the modules for scientific experiments are being given in social media groups of teachers. The support of parents is also crucial in its implementation, says Ms. Divya. “This scheme may continue even after resumption of regular classes. There are plans to have little science-based projects that the students can attempt,” she says.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Policy to decongest Hyderabad gets nod||Industries, IT and Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Wednesday said an Integrated Township Policy to decongest Hyderabad, by encouraging real estate development beyond the Outer Ring Road (ORR), has been approved. The “policy envisions decongesting the core city of Hyderabad [by] offering more benefits to real estate developers so that they can develop more satellite townships and counter magnets about 5 km outside of the ORR (Outer Ring Road),” the Minister said. Mr. Rao, who was inaugurating real estate consultancy firm Knight Frank India’s new office here, said such an approach will pave the way for ‘Live, Work, Learn and Play’ kind of self-contained townships that will ensure that people do not necessarily have to travel to the city. Salient features The Minister said following the Cabinet approval he had signed the policy on Tuesday and its salient features would be announced shortly. He mentioned about the policy while listing other measures such as the strategic road development programme under which new roads and flyovers had been developed and how Hyderabad was prospective in terms of investment on infrastructure as evident from the setting up of Metro Rail network and the proposed elevated bus corridor from Kukatpally to western Hyderabad. Stating that the Metro Rail network will be expanded, he said the key challenge in most cities of India is the crumbling infrastructure under the onslaught of rapid urbanisation. Public transportation “In large cities we need to have good public transportation and in suburbs self contained townships, which is exactly what the government of Telangana is offering in the form of Integrated Township Policy,” the Minister said. Urging consultancies such as Knight Frank to work closely with the government since there are lot of policies in the offing that fetch value proposition for their clients, Mr. Rao said yet another measure to decongest Hyderabad, especially the IT hub in the western parts, was a policy to encourage IT sector growth in eastern and northern parts of the city. These measures also assume significance in the context of Hyderabad’s IT exports more than doubling since Telangana formation in 2014, from Rs. 56,000 crore to Rs. 1,28,000 crore and the city second in the country in terms of office space absorption. It is not just Information Technology, but the State’s progressive policies continue to attract investments in Life Sciences, aerospace, defence, logistics, textiles and food processing sectors, he said, Hyderabad, which makes one-third of the human vaccines across the globe, will play a vital role whenever a vaccine for COVID-19 is developed.
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||Arnab’s arrest triggers verbal clash between BJP and Sena||The arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami on Wednesday sparked a political confrontation between the ruling and the Opposition parties in Maharashtra. While the BJP said that the action was reminiscent of the Emergency days, the Shiv Sena said he was arrested in a case of abetment of suicide and, therefore, the issue of press freedom did not arise. “What is wrong in investigating the suicide case? How can it be termed the Emergency if an alleged criminal is being arrested? Arnab Goswami has been arrested in an abetment to suicide case because his name was mentioned in the suicide note. How can it be linked with press freedom,” asked senior Shiv Sena leader and State Transport Minister Anil Parab. The Sena questioned BJP’s affinity to Mr. Goswami. “The BJP is protesting as if its worker has been arrested,” he added. Earlier, the BJP said that the Uddhav Thackeray government was going back to the Emergency days. “The Thackeray and Gandhi families do not like to be countered with questions. Today’s actions show that whoever asks them a question will face police action,” said BJP MLA Ashish Shelar. He claimed that the BJP, too, wanted justice delivered to the Naik (deceased interior designer) family, but “this case has been reopened to extract revenge”. The Congress congratulated the government for the action, saying it would ensure that justice is delivered to the Naik family. “The Naik family has been demanding justice for two years. Mr. Goswami’s statement was taken at Mumbai, instead of Alibaug. Why was he given special treatment? Instead of providing security to the Naik family, they were threatened and stalked. It was said that powerful people back Arnab. Today, the Union Home Minister backed Arnab. Was he the powerful man who was protecting him?” asked Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Law will take its own course: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday reacted to the arrest of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, saying the law would take its own course and no innocent person would be punished. “I am absolutely certain that wherever the Congress is in power or in alliance, people will not be punished if they are absolutely innocent. I also believe that the law will take its own course in this case. We don’t interfere with institutions,” party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said at a press conference when asked to comment on the arrest. Countering the BJP’s attack on the Congress over press freedom, she said, “I am shocked at the selective outrage of the BJP. Where were they when independent and fearless journalists were arrested? Where were they when Prashant Kanojia was arrested, where were they when sedition charges were imposed against journalist Supriya Sharma for showing the pathetic state of affairs in Varanasi?... The BJP should be the last to talk about press freedom because of the way they try to control the media through advertisement, through intimidation and fear”. The Congress spokesperson also attacked Mr. Goswami’s style of journalism. “What he does in the garb of journalism is the work of a BJP front,” Ms. Shrinate said.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Interpol opens new communication lines||The Interpol has created two secure and flexible services to facilitate cybercrime-related communication among law enforcement agencies and other stakeholders to ensure more effective and coordinated action based on timely intelligence. “Cybercrime is one of the most prolific forms of transnational crime. Highly complex cyberthreats such as malware, Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) and ransomware bring new challenges to law enforcement — including large volumes of data, cross-border investigations, and new areas of technical knowledge,” said the Interpol in a statement. Given the constant evolution of the cybercrime landscape, police agencies needed to share information and knowledge with their counterparts around the world to develop a timely, intelligence-based response. Therefore, the services have been created. One of them is the Cybercrime Knowledge Exchange workspace that handles general, non-police information and is open to all relevant users, and the other is the Cybercrime Collaborative Platform-Operation, which assists in the law enforcement operations, with access restricted to operational stakeholders only. “The Cybercrime Knowledge Exchange (CKE) workspace is open to law enforcement, governments, international organisations and cybersecurity industry experts to exchange non-police operational information on cybercrime. This workspace is a dynamic communication channel that enables users to discuss the latest cybercrime trends, prevention strategies, detection technologies and investigation techniques with authorized colleagues globally,” the Interpol said. The system is expected to “foster an international network of subject matter experts to share knowledge and experience in this field”.
05 November 2020||Kochi,||NGT told of minor gas leak in Kerala||The Environment Department has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that a minor industrial gas leak had occurred in Kerala after the tragic gas leak at Visakhapatnam on May 7. The department revealed this in the action-taken report submitted before the tribunal following the Vizag incident. The tribunal had asked the Chief Secretaries of all States to ensure compliance with safety norms in industrial units, especially while resuming operations after remaining shut due to the lockdown. No casualties The minor incident of gas leak was reported from Travancore Cochin Chemicals Ltd., Eloor, on May 31. There were no casualties. According to the company’s report, the leak was noticed from sight glass of HCL synthesis unit no.3, which was in service. The leak persisted after tightening. So the shift engineer shut down the unit and lighted unit no. 6. The company received complaint from FACT regarding chlorine leak, said the report. The company authorities said they had immediately checked the stacks scrubber and the unit’s condition and no abnormalities were found. All pollution control measures were in place at the time of leak, it said.  A fire incident The report also mentioned a fire incident at Hindustan Latex Ltd. in Peroorkada, Thiruvananthapuram, on June 12. It was not due to any chemical or gas leak. The fire broke out in the rubber waste stored on the factory premises and lasted only half-an-hour and was extinguished immediately, according to the report. The action-taken report said that the Department of Factories and Boilers had issued two sets of guidelines after the Visakhapatnam gas leak to avert such accidents in industrial units. All the major accident hazard installations in the State have been told to ensure on-site and off-site emergency plants.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,||‘16.4% developed antibodies against COVID-19 in Karnataka’||A sero survey done to estimate the prevalence of COVID-19 in Karnataka has found that while 16.4% of the 15,624 samples studied have developed Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies against the infection, 12.7% have current (active) infection. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who released the findings of the survey on Wednesday, said the overall adjusted prevalence of COVID-19 in the State was 27.3% (combined IgG and active infection). The survey done from September 3 to 16 included the proportion of people who had COVID-19 infection recently and those currently having active SARS-CoV-2 infection. The sampled population surveyed was aged above 18. All 30 districts of the State, including eight zones of the BBMP, were included in the survey. The study used rapid antigen test (RAT) and RT-PCR for the diagnosis of acute infection. At the same time, serum testing for IgG antibodies was conducted to know the protection offered by the immune response. “Although 16,585 people were surveyed covering the three risk categories (low, moderate, and high), the analysis was done on the results for 15,624 individuals whose RAT plus RT-PCR and COVID Kavach ELISA antibody test results were matched in the line list,” the Minister explained.Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s Technical Advisory Committee, said 19 districts have a high case-to-infection ratio (i.e., more than 40). “There is a need to improve detection of cases actively through syndromic approach here, improve testing, and ensure other public health actions (avoiding 3Cs and following 3Ws) are implemented efficiently,” Dr. Babu said. These 19 districts are Vijayapura, Belagavi, Chitradurga, Tumakuru, Raichur, Ramanagaram, Haveri, Chamarajanagar, Bidar, Davangere, Yadgir, Kalaburagi, Kolar, Kodagu, Mandya, Chikkamagaluru, Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, and Hassan, Dr. Babu said. Five districts — BBMP Bommanahalli zone, BBMP East zone, BBMP West zone, BBMP South zone, Mysuru — have a low case-to-infection ratio. “This suggests that the strategy employed for testing here is reasonable and can be replicated in other districts,” he said. “Our survey finds that out of 7.07 crore estimated population in Karnataka, 1.93 crore (27.3%) are either currently infected or already had the infection in the past, as on 16 September, 2020,” he said. As per the ICMR’s 2nd round of sero survey, the weighted and adjusted prevalence among individuals aged ten years and above was 6.6%, with urban slums having 15.6%, and non-slum urban areas having 8.2%. At the State level, it was estimated that there were 40 undetected infected individuals for every RT-PCR confirmed case, i.e., case-to-undetected-infections ratio (CIR) of 1:40. The cases-to-infections ratio ranged from 10 to 111 across units. In the national sero-prevalence survey conducted by the ICMR, the CIR was 81.6 to 130.1 in the first round (May), which improved by the second round to 26–32 infections per case.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala, too, withdraws general consent to CBI||A meeting of the Cabinet on Wednesday decided to withdraw the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to operate in Kerala voluntarily. The controversial decision was likely to strain the government's fraught relationship with the Centre further. However, the government was not without allies. At a stroke, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) appeared to have found the common political cause with other non-BJP-ruled States such as West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. The States have also similarly withdrawn consent to the CBI to operate in their respective jurisdictions freely. DSPE Act Like them, the Kerala government has invoked the provisions of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, which governs the CBI, to bridle the agency's operational independence in the State. The government said the law clearly states that law and order and crime investigation are State subjects. The CBI could probe local cases or chargesheet suspects only with the permission of the State administration. The government had already thrown down the gauntlet on the Centre by legally challenging the decision of the CBI to investigate LIFE Mission officials on the charge of violating the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. It had also denied CBI permission to charge-sheet officials of the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation on the charge of corruption in the procurement of raw nuts during the UDF government. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Monday slammed Central law enforcement agencies for using the UAE gold smuggling case as a cover to destabilise the State government. The government would legally and politically counter the jurisdictional overreach of the Central agencies, he had said. The BJP and Congress had portrayed the State's stonewalling of Central agencies by citing federalism as deceit to cover up corruption.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. forms panel to review TRP norms||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry has constituted a four-member committee to review the guidelines on television rating agencies. It will be headed by Shashi Shekhar Vempati, CEO of Prasar Bharati. This comes after the Mumbai police investigations which revealed that a few news channels had tampered with the ratings. TRAI recommendations The Ministry on Wednesday said the existing guidelines were issued after detailed deliberations by the parliamentary committee and on the recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI). These guidelines have been in operation for the past few years. It said a need has been felt to have a fresh look keeping in view of the recent recommendations of TRAI, technological advancements and for further strengthening of the procedures for a credible and transparent rating system. Existing system The committee will carry out an appraisal of the existing system, examine TRAI recommendations notified from time to time, overall industry scenario and address the needs of the stakeholders, the order says. Dr. Shalabh, Professor of Statistics from IIT Kanpur, Rajkumar Upadhyay, Executive Director of C-Dot and Professor Pulak Ghosh of the Decision Sciences Centre for Public Policy are the other members of the committee.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Integrated township policy gets nod||“In large cities we need to have good public transportation and in suburbs self contained townships, which is exactly what the government of Telangana is offering in the form of Integrated Township Policy,” the Minister said. Urging consultancies such as Knight Frank to work closely with the government since there are lot of policies in the offing that fetch value proposition for their clients, Mr. Rao said yet another measure to decongest Hyderabad, especially the IT hub in the western parts, was a policy to encourage IT sector growth in eastern and northern parts of the city. These measures also assume significance in the context of Hyderabad’s Information Technology exports more than doubling since Telangana formation in 2014, from Rs. 56,000 crore to Rs. 1,28,000 crore and the city second in the country in terms of office space absorption. It is not just Information Technology, but the State’s progressive policies continue to attract investments in Life Sciences, aerospace, defence, logistics, textiles and food processing sectors, he said, Hyderabad, which makes one-third of the human vaccines across the globe, will play a vital role whenever a vaccine for COVID-19 is developed.
05 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,||In Telangana, relief for 1,400 sugarcane ryots||In a move that would give relief for 1,400 sugar cane farmers in Zaheerabad area, the government has decided to auction properties of Trident Sugars located at Zaheerabad to pay the pending arrears of Rs. 12.7 crore for about 1,400 farmers. It was also decided to rope in sugar cane factories at Sangareddy and Magi in Nizamabad district for crushing of sugar in about three lakh acres grown in Zaheerabad area. This will benefit for about 10,000 sugar cane farmers. Finance T. Harish Rao held a review meeting with the farmers, officials and representatives of sugar mills here on Wednesday. The Minister himself stated that he had a meeting with factory management for four times followed by four more times by the Collector in the past. “Despite giving written undertaking, the factory management failed to keep the word. They have not paid arrears so far and notices were issued under Revenue Recovery (RR) Act. We will be holding a meeting tomorrow at Hyderabad in which the Government Pleader (GP) will also attend in addition to sugar cane commissioner. We will decide how to proceed further. Trident has failed to pay arrears to the tune of Rs. 37 crore at Chittur in Andhra Pradesh and the government there had already commenced the process of under RR Act,” said Mr. Harish Rao. He said that the factory management has not responded even after issuing notices under RR Act. “Many functions like marriages were postponed in our houses as the factory management had failed to pay the the arrears. See that we can sell our sugar cane already produced to other factories,” said Penta Reddy, a sugar cane farmer. He has also said that some farmers have sold sugar cane at neighbouring States. Mr. Harish asked the representative of Ganapati Sugars whether they are in a position to take the sugar cane grown at Zaheerabad. The factory officials have informed that they can grind the entire sugar grown at Zaheerabad at their factory as presently it was only 2.2 lakh acres of sugar cane being grinded. However, he said that they need some time to crush the sugar cane. The factory also came forward to pay the transport cost as per norms. Panduranga Reddy, another farmer asked how many agreements were made with farmers by the factory. Assistant Sugar Cane Commissioner Ravi has informed that despite four notices, the factory management did not sign any agreement with farmers. The Minister said a firm no to the request made by a representative of Trident to give one more chance, stating that the factory management failed repeatedly to keep the word and lost trust among farmers.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Arnab Goswami held in 2018 suicide case||Interior designer Anvay Naik, who was found dead on the first floor of his farmhouse at Kavir Village in Alibaug in June 2018, left an alleged suicide note accusing Mr. Goswami, Mr. Shaikh of icastX/Skimedia and Mr. Sarda of Smartworks of not paying dues amounting to Rs. 5.4 crore for his interior design work, due to which his firm, Concorde Designs Private Limited, suffered severe losses. Naik’s mother was also found dead. According to the note, Mr. Goswami owed the interior designer Rs. 83 lakh, while Mr. Shaikh owed him Rs. 4 crore, and Mr. Sarda Rs. 55 lakh.The post-mortem reports revealed that Naik had ended his life, while his mother, Kumud, had been strangulated. The police had also registered a murder case in the case. The case that was given a closure report was reopened after Naik’s daughter met the DIG and produced more evidence. The DIG initiated an inquiry against inspector Suresh Warade, who had handled the case, for closing it “without investigating thoroughly”. “After reopening the case, it was transferred to the LCB. We then investigated and found more evidence. Mr. Goswami had attempted to transfer money into Naik’s account after his death, but the bank rejected it as the account holder was not alive. This showed that he actually owed the money,” inspector Jamil Shaikh of the LCB said. When asked if Mr. Goswami was issued any summons, Mr. Shaikh confirmed that he was booked under Section 306 of the IPC, which was a serious offence and did not need summons. The LCB followed the protocol for the arrest and gave a letter to Mr. Goswami’s wife informing her of the arrest, which she had to sign. She instead tore it. “We immediately conveyed this to our superiors,” Mr. Shaikh said. Alleged assault Advocate Gaurav Parkar, for Mr. Goswami, alleged that the journalist was assaulted at the time of his arrest, causing abrasions on his back as he was pulled by his belt, and on his hand as well. Mr. Parkar alleged that Mr. Goswami’s wife was never informed about the arrest. “The previous case was closed and he has been arrested after reinvestigation of the case. We are yet to get all the papers,” he said. The police said there was no assault, but Mr. Goswami resisted arrest and they had to use force. At the time of taking him to the Alibaug court, he was heard shouting, “Uddhav Thackeray can do nothing to me. The Maharashtra police can do nothing to me.” Police custody The advocate for the complainant, Vilas Naik, said, “Police assault claims rejected by court. The court said that the abrasion found on his body was due to force used to arrest him while he resisted. The court has said that there is nothing to be recovered from him and hence police custody is not needed.”
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pending disqualification cases: ‘SC is not at fault’||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to take any blame on itself for pendency of cases raising concerns over the inordinate delay shown by Assembly Speakers to deal with disqualification of legislators who switched sides to topple State governments. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde said the lawyers from both sides keep seeking adjournments in these cases for one reason or the other. The court was responding to a submission by senior lawyer Kapil Sibal that these cases remain pending until they are rendered infructuous at the end. Mr. Sibal said this while appearing for Congress MLA Vinay Saxena of Madhya Pradesh. Mr. Saxena had approached the Supreme Court complaining about the inaction of the Speaker in deciding the disqualification petitions filed against 22 legislators who switched sides from the Congress to the BJP that ultimately led to the fall of the Kamal Nath government. Mr. Sibal said his case had been pending for sometime in the apex court and became infructuous because bypolls have already been held in the State and results were due on November 10. Chief Justice Bobde reacted, “We are not to blame... All of you seek time”. Mr. Sibal clarified that he was not blaming the court, but only highlighting the urgency in such cases. “We will bear that in mind”, the CJI replied, while recording that Mr. Saxena’s case has become “infructuous”.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress blames govt. for rise in prices||Faulty policies of the government have led to the sky-rocketing of edible oil prices and dampened the festive spirit, the Congress alleged on Wednesday. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said that people were already struggling with high prices of onions, potatoes and tomatoes, and now even cooking oil had been added to the list of expensive food items. “Prices of edible oil are sky-rocketing because of the failures of the Central government,” Ms. Shrinate said. She said mustard oil that was selling at Rs. 80 a litre last year was now selling at Rs. 120; sunflower oil now sold at Rs. 110 a litre as opposed to Rs. 77 a year ago; and groundnut oil now cost Rs. 135 a litre as against Rs. 99 last year. Basic commodity “Oil is used by everyone who cooks in India. So from the poorest person to the richest man [need it] and there is no elasticity in demand here. They [the government] should have taken care of this. You cannot make basic commodities unaffordable. You have made a basic commodity unaffordable in India,” Ms. Shrinate said. Double whammy She said the poor were facing a “double whammy” as high prices of essential food items had been preceded by job losses and wage cuts during the lockdown. “Which is where this government is immoral, which is where this government is inefficient, and we strongly call out inefficiency and immorality of theirs,” she said. In a separate tweet, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said the Modi government was “solely responsible” for the price rise. “On the one hand, farmers are facing a double whammy — expensive seeds and lower prices for their produce; on the other hand, the consumer is bearing the brunt of all-round price rise. Only the Modi government is responsible,” Mr. Gandhi said in a Hindi tweet.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,||Norms for medical check-up of arrested formulated: govt. to HC||Guidelines have been formulated for conducting medical examination of remanded accused, the State government has informed the Kerala High Court. The government made the submission when a contempt petition filed by Prathibha K. of Kannur Government District Hospital for not complying with the Kerala High Court directive to frame guidelines on medical examination of arrested persons came up for hearing. According to the guidelines issued on October 31, when an arrested person is brought for mandatory medical examination at a government hospital, the police officer concerned shall, as early as possible, give request to the medical officer to carry out detailed examinations as per the proforma prescribed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and the request should mention whether he/she is in judicial custody or police custody. The remanded persons shall be taken before the medical officer, as far as possible, to take blood and other fluid samples. If the testing facilities are not available at the hospital, the medical officer concerned should inform the police of it on record and they may be referred to another hospital having the facilities. The guidelines stipulated that the prison officers shall not insist on producing complete report based on the NHRC proforma since the test result may take its own time. Hence, the remanded person should be admitted in the prison with the mandatory medical report under 54 Cr.PC. Directive to Health dept. The government directed the Health Department to issue necessary orders to the medical officers of all government hospitals to subject the remanded accused to health check up as mandated by the NHRC order. The test results of blood and other fluids may be made available to the prison authorities or police authorities as the case may be, by the medical officers concerned within 24 hours of the examination so that persons with communicable diseases may be quarantined and treated accordingly.  Health dept. told to issue orders to govt. medical officers to subject the remanded accused to health check up as mandated by the NHRC order.
05 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Cong. seeks white paper on flood relief distribution||The Telangana Congress leaders have termed the distribution of cash for flood relief victims as a big scam and questioned how can the TRS leaders distribute government money ignoring the officials. Alleging that the ruling TRS party leaders were involved in looting the public money, AICC spokesperson Shravan Dasoju demanded an enquiry and a thorough investigation into the issue. Mr. Sravan along with senior Congress party leaders, including former Member of Parliament Anjan Kumar Yadav and others submitted a memorandum to the GHMC Commissioner on Wednesday and staged protest in front of the civic body’s main gate in Hyderabad. The delegation pointed out the irregularities, discrimination and misrepresentation in distribution of flood relief funds and raised 11 questions in the memorandum submitted to the GHMC chief. Mr. Sravan pointed out that the distribution of flood relief funds in cash instead of using online transfers or cheques leads to heavy corruption and only benefiting the local TRS party leaders to pocketing public money as it is not being distributed properly to the needy. “Which law permitted the government and the GHMC authorities to withdraw such hundreds of crores of rupees from banks,” he questioned. GHMC estimates He said as per the GHMC estimates, about 3.9 lakh people have been identified as flood victims and Rs. 380 crore flood relief funds have been distributed to them. “But, what is the basis of arriving at this number, did the GHMC conduct any door to door survey,” he asked and demanded a white paper with the division wise list of beneficiaries who have received the funds. The Congress party demanded Rs. 50,000 for every flood victim’s family and Rs. 5,00,000 to fully destroyed house and Rs. 2,50,000 for partially destroyed house.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Courts for trying lawmakers in public interest’||Justice N.V. Ramana, leading a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court, on Wednesday said the court has only public interest and faith in judiciary in mind while pushing for the setting up of special courts to expeditiously try sitting and former MPs and MLAs accused of various crimes. “The purpose of this adjudication is in public interest and to maintain public faith in judiciary by making sure that long-pending cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs are decided without delay... It is for the public we have taken up this case,” Justice Ramana explained. The Bench was considering a report filed by a committee of the Madras High Court that raised reservations over the setting up of special courts to exclusively try legislators for various offences. The committee said that special courts cannot be “offender-centric”. It reasoned, “An MP/MLA, who commits an offence under POCSO Act (or other Special Acts like Prevention of Corruption Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) can only be tried by a Special Court created under the POCSO Act (PC Act, NDPS Act) and there cannot be another Special Court exclusively for trial of an MP/MLA, who commits POCSO offence.” On this, the top court gave Madras High Court counsel Anandh Kannan two weeks to respond. 12 special courts The committee report, dated October 13, drew special attention from the Bench as it comes in the face of a 2017 Supreme Court order authorising the Centre to set up 12 special courts to exclusively try criminal politicians. It also comes at a time when a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Ramana, is looking at ways to expedite these trials pending for years, in some cases, for decades.
05 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Stalemate on Gujjar stir continues||The stalemate on the Gujjars’ agitation for reservation in jobs and education continued on Wednesday with the members of the community blocking the railway tracks at Peelupura village in Bharatpur district. More than 10 trains running on the Delhi-Mumbai route were diverted via Jaipur for the fourth consecutive day. Gujjar supremo Kirori Singh Bainsla, who joined the protesters, said the most important issues raised pertained to the appointments to backlog posts and extension of benefit of 5% reservation as a most backward class (MBC) in the ongoing recruitments. The demands include protection to a quota law under the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No favouritism in Vista project’||The government informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that there was no favouritism in selecting a consultant for the Central Vista project.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||OGH doctors perform free limb-saving surgery||A 22-year-old youth, who lost blood supply to his right hand following damage to blood vessels after an accident, was operated on by doctors at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) free of cost. Abrar Hussain, a resident of Yakutpura, sustained injury in his right arm on October 20 night. Glass pane from the window had transected major blood vessel, two major nerves, and muscles from elbow to hand. As a result, blood supply to the right arm was stopped. After making rounds of multiple hospitals for 10 hours, he finally reached OGH. He was at risk of losing his right hand, but then the doctors gave it a new lease of life. Head of OGH Plastic Surgery department P. Lakshmi said carpenters and people working in glass cutting workshops often lose blood vessels in accidents or otherwise opt for the government hospital for surgery. In case of Mr Hussain, the surgery, which was performed free of cost, would have cost nearly Rs. 4 lakh in corporate hospitals. Blood supply cut off “When the patient was examined, the plastic surgeon on duty found no blood supply to the right upper limb. If the blood supply was not restored, there was risk of developing gangrene and in such situations, the limb has to be amputated. The patient was immediately taken for surgery,” Dr Lakshmi said. The patient had lost six centimetres of blood vessel. The operation was performed by the plastic surgery department in collaboration with Department of CT Surgery headed by Srinivas Reddy and the anaesthesia team for eight hours. A vein from Mr Hussain’s right leg was harvested and the doctors bridged the 6-cm gap in the right upper limb. “Now the blood supply is restored. However, it will take four to five months for the patient to gain function in right upper limb as the glass cut through nerves and muscle. The patient was discharged on Tuesday,” Dr Lakshmi said.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Express COVID testing now at RGIA||Health Minister Eatala Rajendar on Wednesday inaugurated a COVID-19 testing lab at the GMR Hyderabad International Airport, allowing passengers the facility of a safe journey. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) has partnered with Mapmygenome, an ICMR and NAB- certified lab for the purpose and it will operate 24x7 for passengers and airport personnel. Passengers can avail of the test at the immigration level or the forecourt of Interim International Departures Terminal. Oropharyngeal swabs will be used for sample collection for the RT-PCR based test. Results will be available in four to six hours via e-mail and WhatsApp. A hard copy of the report will also be provided. A lounge has also been created at the western extended plate of arrivals for the passengers who can wait to collect their report, said an official spokesman. “RGIA is one of the top airports and our COVID testing lab takes this to the next level. As a frequent traveller, I understand the importance of the lab on the airport premises. Our team of experts will make your journey hassle-free,” said Mapmygenome CEO Anu Acharya. All arriving international passengers having onward connections need to have a negative RT-PCR certificate with tests conducted 96 hours prior to the departure time either from port of origin or test done on arrival at the RGIA to avoid institutional quarantine. This can also be of help to passengers if the destination country requires them to carry a negative RT-PCR report, he said. “COVID testing centres at airports will play a vital role in enabling resumption of air travel. RT-PCR tests are accurate and widely accepted. We also appreciate the efforts taken by the government to flatten the COVID infection curve and restart economic activity. This has helped instill a sense of confidence in the public to start travelling again,” said GMR Airports chief innovation officer and executive director SGK Kishore.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Bineesh withdraws plea in HC||Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala State secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, on Wednesday withdrew his petition from the Karnataka High Court in which he had sought access to lawyers as per the Supreme Court’s guidelines on arrested persons. During the hearing on the petition on Wednesday, one of the advocates-on-record for Bineesh informed the court that the Special Court for the Enforcement Directorate cases on Monday issued directions to the sleuths of the ED to allow him to meet his lawyers, and the ED had allowed one of the lawyers to meet him. Court fee Justice Suraj Govindaraj, before whom the petition came up for hearing, permitted withdrawal of the petition but said that certified copy of the order on the petition would be provided only on payment of court fee. The counsel for the ED had told the court that issue of access to lawyer had arisen as multiple lawyers made claims to meet Bineesh after he was arrested.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CCEA nod for hydropower project in H.P.||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Wednesday approved funding to the tune of Rs. 1,810.56 crore for the 210 megawatt (MW) Luhri hydropower project on the Satluj river in Himachal Pradesh. The CCEA, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the investment for the project that is located in Shimla and Kullu districts, a government statement said. The project will take 62 months to be completed and will generate 758.20 million units of electricity a year, the statement added. The project will be implemented by the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited and will be supported by the Central and State governments, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press conference.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plan to raise retirement age in military||The Department of Military Affairs (DMA), headed by Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, has initiated proposals to increase the retirement age of officers and also cut down the pension of officers opting for premature retirement. The DMA has proposed increasing the retirement age of Colonels from 54 to 57, Brigadiers from 56 to 58 and Major Generals from 58 to 59. The same is applicable to equivalent ranks in other services. The process is expected to take five to six months.
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||Arnab, others threatened victim, say kin||Two years after interior designer Anvay Naik was found dead in Alibaug and left a note alleging that Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Neetish Sarda of Smartworks owed him Rs. 5.4 crore for his work, his family said on Wednesday that Mr. Goswami refused to pay Rs. 83 lakh to him and threatened his family. At a press conference, Naiks’s daughter, Adnya, along with her mother, thanked the authorities and the Maharashtra government for registering a case against the three accused. “Arnab used to tell my father that he will not pay the money and that he will ruin our careers... He used to threaten my father, but no investigation took place against him. Why is he given such a privilege as an accused?” Ms. Naik asked. “We were getting threat calls and we had submitted an NC [non-cognisable] complaint in the Murbad and Dadar police stations,” she added.
05 November 2020||Srinagar,||J&K’s district council polls from Nov. 28||Elections to the first ever District Development Councils (DDC), to set up the third tier under the Panchayati Raj, will be held in eight phases in 20 districts from November 28 in Jammu & Kashmir. “It will conclude on December 22. By-elections for the vacant seats of sarpanch and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) will also take place simultaneously,” State Election Commissioner K.K. Sharma said. The electoral rolls used in panchayat elections, updated on January 1, will be used for the DDC polls. “Delimitation has been done for the constituencies and 280 DDCs have been identified across the Union Territory of J&K. The term of the DDC will be five years,” Mr. Sharma said. Each district has been divided into 14 constituencies. For the first time, the West Pakistan Refugees will be entitled to exercise their right to vote. “COVID-19 protocols will be followed in spirit. Polling will take place through Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs). However, postal ballots will be made available for COVID-19 patients in isolation, senior citizens and the physically unwell,” Mr. Sharma said. Polling hours have been set from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. and counting will take place on December 22.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women, youth behind NDA, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the people of Bihar preferred the politics of good governance and that women and the youth supported the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the State. In a series of tweet in Hindi, Mr. Modi said his recent rallies in Bihar had the commonality of women and young people participating in large numbers. He said the NDA was able to win with the support of women and the youth, who saw hope in the alliance. He said only the NDA government could provide people with security, employment and new opportunities of self-employment to the youth of the State. He said the goal for “Atmanirbhar Bihar” was to provide rule of law, welfare for the poor, opportunities for youth, and security for women. Mr. Modi’s remarks come ahead of the final phase of polling in Bihar on Saturday.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Three more Rafale jets arrive in India||A second batch of three Rafale fighter jets arrived at the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat on Wednesday evening after flying non-stop from France, in a further boost to the strike capability of the Indian Air Force when India and China are locked in a bitter border row in Ladakh. The IAF said the three aircraft got airborne from Istres airbase in France and flew for over eight hours covering over 3,700 nautical miles before landing in India. With the arrival of the new batch, the number of Rafale aircraft has increased to eight. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an agreement with France to procure 36 aircraft.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No favouritism in Central Vista project’||The government informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that there was no favouritism in selecting a consultant for the Central Vista project. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said there was no abdication of duty in the selection of a consultant. An argument that the government could have adopted a better process cannot be a sufficient ground to scrap the project, Mr. Mehta said. He said the petitioners had not shown any constitutional breach in the matter and had only offered an alternative method. The SC is hearing several pleas on the issue against various permissions given to the project by the authorities.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka may ban sale of crackers||After States like Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal and Haryana banned the sale of crackers during Deepavali, the Karnataka government is also contemplating a State-wide ban. However, a final decision will be taken after consultations with the Chief Minister, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, the Minister said a few rounds of meetings have been held with health experts, including members of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). “Experts have suggested that firecrackers can badly impact the health of those who have already been infected by COVID-19 and even to those who have not. However, I have asked them to further deliberate and submit a report soon. Based on their report, we will discuss the matter with the CM and take a call,” he said. As COVID-19 affects lungs the most, even those who have recovered from the virus will be vulnerable as their immunity and respiratory system will still be fragile. However, a final decision will be taken after a discussion with the CM, he added.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amarinder warns Centre of farmers’ ire||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said “no ruler should meddle in religious and livelihood issues”, and warned the Centre about the repercussions of agitations by farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws in a border State like Punjab. Capt. Singh, who launched a mission from Mahatma Gandhi’s memorial at Rajghat in Delhi to ‘save’ the farmers, accused Pakistan of daily trying to create trouble and its possible collusion with China. He, along with MLAs and MPs from the State sat on a dharna at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar to protest against the Centre’s “step-motherly” treatment against Punjab. Though the protests were originally planned at Rajghat, the venue was shifted as the police did not give permission. The Chief Minister, who was denied an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind, hit out at Punjab Governor V.P. Badnore for sitting on the Bills passed by the Assembly to negate the three Central laws regarding agricultural produce and marketing. “The Governor has no role to play in this, he should have sent the Bills to the President, he is a mere post box in such matters, so why has he not forwarded the Bills,” he asked.
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||HC rejects bail pleas of Wadhawans||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday rejected the bail pleas filed by Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) in the Yes Bank fraud case and said, “The real victims were the depositors and shareholders; particularly of Yes Bank. That amount involved was not utilized for getting profit for Yes Bank, but, it was used for personal gain of the accused.” A single Bench of Justice S.V. Kotwal was hearing the bail applications filed by the brothers challenging the rejection of their default bails by a special court on July 31. The matter was heard at length by the Bench and reserved for order on October 23.
05 November 2020||SURYAPET,||BRF||Suryapet police on Wednesday invoked Preventive Detention Act against Bhukya Saidulu, a resident of Penapahad mandal, for allegedly smuggling ganja. He was sent to Warangal central prison. According to police, Saidulu was arrested on July 4 for transporting 42 kg of the contraband to Suryapet. Following an intelligence operation, about 25 persons from around Penpahad were listed as suspects and later arrested for peddling.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Economy getting back on track sooner than expected, says Javadekar||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday discussed the latest indicators that showed that the economy was getting back on track sooner than expected, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said. He said GST collections in October had been higher than that for the month in 2019; power demand had increased by 12%; and rail freight had also registered growth, all of which indicated that the economy was recovering.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre launches ‘Nurturing Neighborhoods Challenge’||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Wednesday launched a challenge for cities to develop and implement initiatives to improve the quality of life of young children, caregivers and families. Minister Hardeep Singh Puri launched the ‘Nurturing Neighborhoods Challenge’, which will be open for the 100 Smart Cities, cities with population of more than 5 lakh and State/Union Territory capitals, a Ministry statement said.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||NDC to increase intake from neighbouring nations||India is planning to increase the intake from the neighbouring and Central Asian countries for the strategic leadership course in the National Defence College (NDC). The Defence Ministry had decided to increase it from 100 to 110 in 2021 and to 120 in 2022, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar said on Wednesday. “Countries which will get additional seats are Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh apart from new seats to Uzbekistan, Tajikistan Philippines, Indonesia and Maldives,” Dr. Kumar said.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teacher eligibility test postponed to Jan. 31||The Central Teacher Eligibility Test, originally scheduled to be held on July 5 and postponed because of the COVID-19 pandemic, will now be held on January 31, 2021. About 30 lakh aspiring teachers are expected to write the examination, according to the Central Board of Secondary Education which conducts the test. The number of examination centres has been increased from 112 to 135 cities.
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||FIR against Arnab and family||A fresh FIR has been registered against Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami, his wife Sayambrata Ray, and their son, for deterring the police from discharging their duty when they came to arrest Mr. Goswami on Wednesday morning. An FIR was filed at the NM Joshi Police Station against the Goswamis and two others.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways to deploy high-speed internet for passenger safety||The Long Term Evolution for Railways (LTE-R), the next generation Mobile Train Radio Communication (MTRC) system planned to cater to the voice/traffic data needs of the Indian Railways, will also be deployed to ensure passenger safety. The Research Designs & Standards Organisation (RDSO), the R&D arm of the railways, has been tasked with designing a uniform, cost-effective and integrated system to roll out LTE-R over 30,000-route kms of the rail network. According to sources in the railways, LTE-R was also considered for the Mission Critical Passenger Safety Services & Applications, Video Surveillance System through closed circuit television cameras in trains and the Passenger Information System and Internet of Things (IoT) on rolling stocks and fixed assets. The railways have roped in institutions such as the IITs in Chennai, Roorkee and Kharagpur and the University of Mumbai for the mission to use advanced technology, including MTRC and Artificial Intelligence, to predict failures in the signalling assets and enhance the reliability of the signalling system. Cost-cutting In an advisory to all Zonal Railways, the Railway Board has called for cutting costs on housekeeping activities on trains and at stations. With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the operation of only a few trains is expected to continue for some more time. “All possible measures should be taken for reduction/control of expenditure on housekeeping on trains and stations in the current financial year. Railways should critically review contracts and operate at appropriate level as per requirement,” the advisory said. In an earlier order, the Railway Board wanted the Zonal Railways to review the cleaning contracts in view of the pandemic and even suggested that they look for sponsorship with suitable branding of trains/stations and use the Corporate Social Responsibility funds for cleaning as a measure to save expenditure.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||8 districts account for over 60% of fresh COVID-19 infections||More than 60% of the 2,487 fresh cases of COVID-19 reported in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday came from eight districts, including Chennai. The State’s case tally stood at 7,34,429. As many as 657 persons tested positive for the infection in Chennai, followed by 220 in Coimbatore. There were 151 cases in Chengalpattu, 107 in Tiruvallur and 103 in Salem. There was a marginal rise in the number of daily cases in Erode (110), Kancheepuram (116) and Tiruppur (122) when compared to the last few days. The remaining 29 districts had less than 100 cases each. Chennai’s tally rose to 2,02,495, followed by 44,296 cases in Chengalpattu and 44,209 in Coimbatore. As many as 2,504 persons, including 844 in Chennai and 240 in Coimbatore, were discharged after treatment in the State. Till date, 7,04,031 persons have been discharged. As many as 19,154 persons are currently undergoing treatment. Of them, 6,182 are in Chennai, 1,223 in Salem, 1,040 in Coimbatore, 1,039 in Tiruppur and 1,014 in Chengalpattu. Thirty more fatalities took the total figure to 11,244. Chennai reported five deaths, while there were four deaths each in Coimbatore and Kancheepuram and three each in Erode and Tiruvallur. Among the deceased was a 45-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on October 22. His swab returned positive for COVID-19 on October 26. He died on November 2 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, cardiac arrest, periampullary carcinoma pancreases, obstructive jaundice, acute kidney injury and hepatic encephalopathy. With 75,331 more samples having been tested, the total number of samples tested so far stands at 1,02,45,248. As many as 99,73,005 persons have been tested for the infection in the State so far. Cuddalore count As many as 40 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Wednesday, taking the tally to 23,382. The death toll stood at 272. Villupuram district reported 41 fresh cases, taking its tally to 13,891. The district reported one more death, taking the toll to 109.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail installs safety equipment||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) has said it is taking steps to ensure the safety of passengers during the monsoon. As part of the measures, anemometers, which measure the speed of the wind and generate electrical and electronic data and give out audio and visual alarms on a real-time basis, have been installed at the Alandur station, the Operation Control Centre (OCC), the tunnel ventilation shafts and other locations. “As Metro trains operate across the corridors at a height of 15 m to 24 m from the road, wind is a critical factor that affects their movement,” the release said. Should the wind speed cross 70 kmph, the train speed is reduced to 40 kmph and if the wind speed goes over 90 kmph, the trains are stopped temporarily. Also, the operators communicate to the OCC through wireless communication equipment. Routine checks for wipers, headlights, safety lights, door closing mechanism, infringement of tracks or overhead electric cable, water stagnation ingress in the tunnel and in the entry points of the stations are done by the staff, the release said. Other equipment “Lightning arrestors have been installed in the main OHE substations and other structures. These lightning arrestors and surge protection equipment protect OHE and other critical instruments. OHE system is provided with high sensitive relays, which operates to isolate the system in milliseconds in case of abnormalities,” the release said.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More commuters allowed to travel by workmen special trains||Southern Railway has allowed more commuters to travel in the workmen special suburban trains. In a circular issued on Wednesday by the Commercial Branch, a copy of which is available with The Hindu , Southern Railway allowed employees of some more organisations to travel in these trains, besides the essential services workers and government employees. Though the circular does not mention when the relaxation would come into effect, it has advised the Chennai Division to increase the suburban services at peak hours. The employees of the organisations eligible to travel in these trains include health and sanitation workers of government and private agencies, staff members of all educational institutions and private security agencies, workers handling essential commodities in the government and private sectors, workers of logistics and transport companies involved in the movement of goods and passengers, and those of social service organisations running child care and old age homes, health and education services. Employees of the print and electronic media and advocates, who are members of the Bar Council, can also take these trains. However, those wanting to travel in the trains will have to produce a written authorisation letter from their office, along with their photo identity cards. The circular notes that all other protocols signed by the Chennai Divisional Railway Manager and the nodal officers of the State government shall be complied with. A senior official of the Chennai Division confirmed the receipt of the circular.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retail clothing sales in the slow lane this festive season||While big retailers and brands are seeing a 25%-30% dip in sales this Deepavali, smaller players say business is down 50%-60%. A few retailers with State-wide presence noted that sales were down in the Chennai market, whereas branches in tier-2 and tier-3 towns were witnessing good business. “Sales are down 25%, and though people are walking in, the regular Deepavali crowd is missing,” said P.A. Ravindran, general manager of Chennai Silks. He said retail businesses in Madurai, Coimbatore and Tiruppur were faring well. “The office-going crowd who left Chennai are yet to come back, and that’s one reason why sales are down in the city and going on well in the districts,” he added. At Jeyachandran Textiles, sales are down by over 70%. “A majority of our customers are middle-class families who commute by suburban trains. With trains yet to resume operations, that crowd is staying away. Footfalls are good during the weekends, but on weekdays, most shops look deserted,” said Sundar J., managing director of Jeyachandran Textiles. Mr. Sundar also explained that elders (referring to senior family members/parents) were cutting down on their budgets and focusing on buying quality clothes for children. Work-from-home attire Retailers said women who usually buy expensive saris for Deepavali were now picking up those with a lower price tag. Work-from-home attire was the most sought-after by consumers. Demand had been good for casual garments. “With the markets opening up and people venturing out, some festive buying is definitely happening. We have seen a move towards quality, away from quantity, but there is certainly a need to shop and dress up for some festivities post-COVID, considering the impact the lockdown has had on people,” said Siddharth Bindra, managing director of BIBA. “Chennai sales have not picked up, and a lot of our stores are in malls. We are noticing that footfalls at malls are still much lower than at high streets. Stores in the rest of Tamil Nadu are slowly recovering, and we are hopeful that in the next two weeks, we will see some traction,” he added. “When it comes to personal purchases, there has not been much change in the purchasing budget. But purchase of saris for gifting has reduced,” said R. Manmohan Ram, managing partner of Sundari Silks. Once the lockdown was partially lifted in Tamil Nadu, many retailers chose the online mode and embraced social media to sell their products. Retailers now say this has not helped them much, as it contributed just 1%-2% of total sales. Ramesh Pothy, managing director of Pothys, said people were buying online, but the business there was minuscule and will take time to grow. “In Tamil Nadu, the younger generation go the e-commerce way, but those aged above 40 want to visit shops and handpick clothes for festivals and special occasions,” said a retailer who had experimented with online sales but did not find many takers. Retailers are hoping that sales would increase by 7%-10% in the next week as bonuses would be provided to the working class.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deepam festivities to be scaled down at Tiruvannamalai temple||The Arunachaleswarar temple at Tiruvannamalai is gearing up for a simple Karthigai Deepam festival. This year, the maha deepam falls on November 29. Around 15 lakh devotees turn up for the event. Another 5 lakh devotees turn up for the car festival. Sources in the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department said that since the government had permitted only 100 persons for religious functions in the latest set of guidelines, it was working towards a celebration that would be limited to the prakarams inside the temple. The processional idols of the deities would be taken on the temple car inside the temple and the number of persons allowed to witness the events would be limited. “After the lockdown restrictions were lifted, we have been getting around 5,000 devotees daily and we ensure that they do not sit or stand anywhere inside the temple. The sanctum sanctorum is not closed during the afternoon, which is how we are managing the crowds at present. A decision regarding allowing these numbers during the festival would be taken by the district administration,” an official said. The administration has banned the girivalam (circumambulation) due to COVID-19 restrictions. The temple has been showing its regular Pradhosham pujas live on YouTube and similar arrangements are likely to be made for Karthigai deepam festivities.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police patrol vehicles to receive complaints from public in Chennai||Now, public can approach police patrolling vehicles in their neighbourhood to get their grievances redressed, without going to the station. On Wednesday, Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal launched the new system and deployed patrolling vehicles at designated locations at various locations in the city. Mr. Aggarwal said: “It is our effort to reach out more to public and render our services at their door steps.” Additional Commissioner of Police (North) A. Arun said the Greater Chennai Police had more than 134 stations and a patrolling vehicle from each police station would be used for this purpose in their respective station limits. The new initiative would be in addition to regular facility. A patrolling vehicle would be stationed daily at two designated spots between 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. A sub-inspector would be the officer in charge of the patrolling team. “Public can report any issue to the patrolling team stationed in their neighbourhood. The officer in charge will take immediate action and redress their grievances. Or if it is a complicated issue, the officer will issue acknowledgement receipt to the petitioner. Later, he will go to the police station and make entry into CCTNS portal. Community Service Register (CSR) number will be generated and communicated to the petitioner. All efforts will be made to redress the grievances quickly.” The Commissioner said the officers in charge of the patrolling vehicle would be responsible and work for the success of the initiative.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Resignation of civil servants in State triggers debate on postings, autonomy||With three IAS officers opting for Voluntary Retirement from Service (VRS) in less than three years in Tamil Nadu, the issues of postings and functional autonomy for civil servants have become a point of debate. Science City Vice-Chairman U. Sagayam had on October 2 submitted his application for early retirement from service. A few months ago, senior civil servant Santhosh Babu had put in his papers and Vijay Pingale, a young IAS officer, had quit in 2018. All three had a reasonably clean reputation in the corridors of power. Sources close to them indicated that they felt restricted due to lack of functional autonomy. Besides, there was a feeling of being relegated to relatively “insignificant” positions. Limited scope Mr. Sagayam has been serving in the Science City for over six years, a post, which a cross-section of the bureaucracy believes, offers limited scope for talented and workaholic civil servants in terms of public interface and administrative skill. Mr. Babu quit following a controversy over the government seeking to revise the tender norms for the multi-crore BharatNet project. Mr. Pingale was in the news for putting in place a system in the Greater Chennai Corporation to fix accountability and penalise contractors in case of shoddy execution of civic work. None of the three officers has commented publicly on the reasons for their resignation. Opinion is divided on such action. Some accomplished former civil servants were of the view that quitting mid-way was not a solution. “An IAS officer should fight and not surrender to any forces. It [pressure] is not happening to one or two officers but to many people. To resign because of pressure or pull is not advisable,” said retired civil servant Swaran Singh. ‘Nothing is insignificant’ Former Home Secretary Naresh Gupta said, “There is always scope for serving the people even in ‘insignificant posts’. It may be a transient phase. A bit of a philosophical approach could help them.” Retired IAS officer K. Dhanavel said, “If a particular officer is constantly discouraged by not being given a significant post, naturally the government may lose an honest person. There is a tolerance limit.” In a good governance system, an officer should not be kept in the same post continuously for more than three years, he said. When contacted, Minister for Personnel and Administrative Reforms D. Jayakumar dismissed the issue, saying, “It was their personal decision to quit the civil services.”
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RTI response in Hindi baffles High Court lawyer||A lawyer practising in the Madras High Court is perplexed to have received a communication penned in Hindi in response to his application in English to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare seeking certain details under the Right to Information (RTI) Act of2005. Advocate S. Kumaradevan had submitted an RTI Act application to the Public Information Officer of the Ministry on August 28 seeking details of funds allocated by the Centre between2014-15and2020-21for promotion of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani individually. He also wanted to know the number of medical centres operated in these three forms of Indian medicine. Under the RTI Act, PIOs are under a statutory obligation to either provide the information or transfer the application to the department concerned with due intimation to the applicant. Accordingly, his application appeared to have been transferred to the Union Ministry of AYUSH. Subsequently, the application had somehow landed with the Uttar Pradesh State AYUSH Society and its Mission Director forwarded it to the PIOs of Ayurved and Unani services on October 27 with a request to provide the information sought by the lawyer. Copies of this communication in Hindi were marked to the AYUSH Ministry as well as the lawyer. “I was taken aback to receive the communication in Hindi. I couldn’t understand head or tail of it. Even my name and address on the envelope had been written in Hindi. Right next to that someone else had scribbled my name and the name of my street alone with a black pen in English. I presume that it must have been done by the local post office so that the postman could deliver it to me,”he said. “The officers knew very well that the application has been made by someone from Tamil Nadu and that it had been made specifically in English. Should they not make sure that communications sent to me should also be in English? Will they accept if I make an RTI application in Tamil? What is the point in forwarding copies of communications in a language that I do not understand?” the lawyer wondered. He went on to state that even people with basic knowledge of Hindi could not read and explain the contents of the communication to him because it had used chaste Hindi words which could be understood only by native speakers. The lawyer said that it would be very difficult for him to file a case on the basis of such communications.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC shocked to find court staff having stolen case properties||Shocked to come across an instance of two court staff having reportedly stolen 88 case properties, including bullets and other ammunition, from the custody of a judicial magistrate court, the Madras High Court has decided to lay down rules to deal with similar contingencies in the future. Justice P.N. Prakash on Wednesday said the High Court would even examine the possibility of amending the Criminal Rules of Practice and provide guidelines to judicial officers on how to conduct trial when case properties either get stolen or are found to be missing from court custody. The theft of bullets and other properties came to light when the judge was hearing a petition filed recently by the Deputy Commandant of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) seeking return of seven rifles, equal number of bayonets and over 400 bullets that were seized from its personnel by the railway police in 1996. The High Court was told that there was an altercation between some CRPF personnel and the passengers of Cheran Express on July 6, 1996. When the train was passing between Egathur and Kadambathur in Tiruvallur district, then CRPF constable Atul Chandra Das opened fire leading to the death of a civilian by name Raja. The Railway police took all the CRPF personnel as well their weapons into custody and handed them over to the jurisdictional judicial magistrate. Subsequently, the Kadambathur police registered a murder case against Das but he obtained bail and absconded since then, leading to non conclusion of the trial till date. Further, Justice Prakash found that some bullets in the custody of the magistrate were missing; they were part of 88 different case properties reportedly stolen by a head clerk and an assistant in the magistrate's court in 2009. The CB-CID was able to recover only 36 of those stolen properties and the rest of the 45 properties could not be traced. The judge could not fathom the fact that the trial in the theft case booked against the court staff, too, had not been completed till date. Hence, he asked Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Additional DGP (CB-CID) Prateep V. Philip, Tiruvallur principal district judge J. Selvanadhan, Tiruvallur judicial magistrate K.P. Ilavarasi and CRPF DIG Praveen C. Gagh to join the hearing of the case before him through video conference. The DGP entered appearance and told the court that the murder accused Das was suspected to be in Assam or Meghalaya. Stating that he had established contacts with his counterparts in those States, Mr. Tripathy assured that a non-bailable warrant pending against the accused would be executed and he would be brought back to Tamil Nadu soon to face trial.  The theft of bullets and other properties came to light when the judge was hearing a petition filed by the Deputy Commandant of CRPF, seeking the return of seven rifles
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water supply scheme for four areas in Chennai gets CRZ clearance||The Expert Appraisal Committee of the Environment Ministry has recommended CRZ (Coastal Regulation Zone) clearance to a project of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) to supply water to Madipakkam, Mathur, Jalladampettai and Uthandi village. CMWSSB aims at providing water to these areas from the existing desalination plants at Minjur and Nemmeli. The board had applied for CRZ clearance for construction of a water distribution station and laying of a water distribution network at Uthandi. Also part of the proposal was to build an underground tank of 2 lakh litres capacity, and an overhead tank of 8 lakh litres capacity and for laying pipelines. Details available on the CMWSSB website showed that work on the project had been awarded to Satvva-Shriram EPC joint venture and work commenced on February 1, 2019 and is scheduled to be completed by January 31, 2021. Once the full project is completed, it will benefit 1.10 lakh people living in these areas. Authority’s recommendation The Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority has recommended the project for clearance in a letter of March 6, 2020, the expert committee said. The Board had submitted before the Committee that of 35.49-km long pipeline, 12.06 km traverses the CRZ-II area. The committee said around 37.4% work completed in non-CRZ-II areas. Based on the submissions, the EAC recommended the project for CRZ clearance.  The CMWSSB had applied for CRZ clearance for construction of a water distribution station and laying of a water distribution network at Uthandi.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘U.K. varsities committed to supporting Indian students’||In the year ending March 2020, around 49,800 Indian nationals were granted a Tier-4 study visa, which indicates a 136% year-on-year increase, said Oliver Ballhatchet MBE, British Deputy High Commissioner. Addressing a media briefing on “Educational Ties: U.K. and India”, Mr. Ballhatchet said that while the COVID-19 outbreak would impact higher education sector, universities in the U.K. were committed to supporting students who were already in the U.K. as well as those considering studying there from Autumn 2020. “The government has confirmed that distance [Online] or blended learning will be permitted for the 2020-21 academic year, provided that students transition to face-to-face learning once circumstances are better,” Mr. Ballhatchet said. The visa rate for Indian students was 96% which was well above the global average, he added. Janaka Pushpanathan, Director, South India, British Council, said that a survey was conducted between August 12 and September 8 online to understand how students were planning to study in the UK given the current situation. “About 65% of Indian undergraduates and 59% of postgraduates who had planned to study in the U.K. in 2020-21 said that they are not at all likely to cancel or delay their plans,” she said. Also, 80% of Chevening scholars selected too are preparing their paperwork to travel to the U.K. this autumn, the survey indicated. Ms. Pushpanathan said the council had been supporting students who are planning to pursue or are going to begin studying in the U.K. from January or September 2021. “The Study UK Virtual Fair is likely to be held in December 2020, where students will have an opportunity to interact with representatives from universities and attend different seminars. The last virtual seminar was held in September and over 2,300 students and parents interacted virtually with representatives from 26 U.K. universities,” she said.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After a gap, cyclonic circulation triggers rain in Chennai||Rainfall resumed over Chennai and its neighbourhood on Wednesday after a gap of a few days due to the presence of a weather system over the Bay of Bengal. The Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert, indicating heavy rainfall and thunderstorms and lightning in some parts of the State till November 8. Officials of the Meteorological Department said a cyclonic circulation over Sri Lanka and the adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal persisted and triggered intermittent rain in the State. Several parts of Chennai received moderate showers on Wednesday morning. Various weather stations received moderate rain, including Anna University (4 cm), Ennore port and Meenambakkam (3 cm) till 5.30 p.m. The sharp spell of rain caused water-logging in many areas, including Santhome, Padi, Triplicane and Anna Nagar on Wednesday morning. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said a few weather stations recorded rainfall in 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. Wednesday. Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district registered 7 cm, the highest amount of rainfall for the day. This is set to gradually increase in the coming days of the week. Many parts, particularly coastal and south Tamil Nadu, are set to get light to moderate rain. Heavy rain is likely over one or two places in Madurai, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Theni, Dindigul, Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Coimbatore and Thoothukudi districts till November 7. On Sunday, isolated heavy rain is possible over south Tamil Nadu, he said. Chennai may continue to experience thunderstorms with light to moderate rainfall in some areas till Friday. The maximum temperature will be close to normal, around 29 degree Celsius, in the city. “We have started providing weather forecasts for the common alert protocol developed by the National Disaster Management Authority. We are collaborating with the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority for the early warning initiative. Chennai residents will get alerts on their mobile phones,” he added.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. should urge Centre to reduce GST on construction: Ponnaiyan||The State government should recommend to the Centre to reduce GST for the construction sector and also look at bringing down the interest rate for the economically weaker sections, C. Ponnaiyan, Vice-Chairman, State Development Policy Council (SDPC), said. Heavy interest “Bank interest rate of 14% for the economically weaker section is also quite heavy. A proposal can be sent to the government on the issue,” he said speaking at a workshop on ‘Urban Housing’. He wanted this section of people to be covered for funding under national banks. Expressing his concern for slum dwelling women who go for household work, he wondered how they could travel a long distance if they were shifted from the existing place to far off places, an official release said. Transport was quite costly and reaching the workspot on time would be one of the issues for them. “We should think of the ‘as is where is condition’ and try to provide 2, 3 or 4-storeyed construction to accommodate them. Multi-storeyed building in Thiruvottiyur is one such example,” he said. Mr. Ponnaiyan noted that norms adopted for the private sector should also be followed in government constructions. “Urban people can find place in peri-urban areas where the schemes can be designed by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board. For encroachment of objectionable lands, stringent action should be initiated,” he said. More allotments Similarly, he said second and third allotment was a crime and stringent action had to be initiated in such cases. He also acknowledged the suggestion made by Jayashree Raghunandan, Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department, on handing over the maintenance part to the residents’ welfare association wherein the seed money could be provided by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board or by the government as a grant and a proposal could be sent to the government through the Deputy Chief Minister.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH’s laboratory gets NABL accreditation||The pathology laboratory of the Madras Medical College and the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has received certification from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) as an accredited testing laboratory. On Tuesday, RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan formally handed over the certificate issued by NABL to director of pathology Bharathi Vidhya Jayanthi. A three-member team from NABL had conducted an inspection of the laboratory in December last, and the certification was issued in February. “The accreditation will mean that the laboratory is standardised, and all procedures are carried out as per protocols, starting with receiving samples to issuing the reports,” Dr. Theranirajan said. Getting the “NABL Accredited Testing Laboratory” status was the outcome of two years of work, a professor said. “It is important for a laboratory to give accurate and quality reports. There are so many procedures involved from the moment a laboratory receives a blood sample. This starts with alloting an identity number for the patient to how the specimen is processed. It is important that our machines are in working condition, and are calibrated every year as per international standards,” she said.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guindy hospital opens mental health centre for COVID-19 patients||To address the mental health needs of patients admitted for treatment of COVID-19, the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, has opened a mental healthcare centre. Now, the hospital has 420 in-patients, with a daily admission figure of 70-100 patients testing positive for COVID-19. K. Narayanasamy, director of Government Corona Hospital (National Institute of Ageing), said that doctors found many patients isolated with anxiety and depression. Many were vague in their thoughts, restless, had insomnia, became agitated and required referral to the Institute of Mental Health. “At the time of admission, we do an assessment of the patients. The assessment is done again on the third day and yet again on the sixth day. This is because patients are in hospital isolation and away from their families. They have worries about the disease and go on to become anxious. Some develop fear and stress, resulting in sleeplessness and depression,” he said. The hospital started out by organising yoga and stress management sessions on a daily basis. Later, it established a library with 1,700 books and 10 daily newspapers. “To strengthen the mental health of patients, we have set up a mental health care centre,” he added. The centre would treat anxiety disorders, insomnia, agitation, delirium and suicidal tendency in COVID-19 patients, reduce their stress and depression, check the worsening of chronic mental health conditions and provide counselling, guidance and advice during the pandemic for all, including healthcare personnel, a release said. In-patients can also walk into the centre for a consultation at working hours. Four persons would manage the centre — M.S. Jagadeesan, professor of psychiatry; M.D. Dinesh Babu, assistant professor; Geetha Jyothy A, senior resident; and a clinical psychologist.
05 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Man held for damaging ATMs in Semmancheri||The Semmancheri police arrested a 32-year-old migrant labourer for damaging ATMs in an attempt to get cash from them. The police received complaints about damage to ATMs belonging to ICICI Bank and Axis Bank located near the Tsunami Quarters arch. With the help of CCTV footage, the police began investigations. CCTV footage showed a man entering a kiosk and attempting to draw cash from it. He was seen breaking open the machine. He did the same thing again at another nearby ATM. From the CCTV footage, the police identified the culprit to be a migrant worker. Police teams then fanned out to several places where migrant workers were camping. They traced the suspect at a construction site in Perumbakkam. The name of the suspect was given as Purushotham Pandey, and he was arrested by the police.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK bifurcates Tirunelveli, Tenkasi district units||The DMK has bifurcated its Tirunelveli and Tenkasi district units for the sake of better administration. In a statement, party general secretary Duraimurugan said the Tirunelveli district unit would be divided into Tirunelveli East and Tirunelveli Central districts. Tirunelveli East district, covering Ambasamudram, Nanguneri and Radhapuram Assembly constituencies, will have former Assembly Speaker R.Avudaiyappan as party in-charge. Tirunelveli Central district will cover Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai Assembly constituencies. M. Abdul Wakaf has been made in-charge of the district unit. The newly created Tenkasi district has been bifurcated by the party into Tenkasi South and Tenkasi North units. P. Sivapadmanabhan is in charge of Tenkasi South district unit, which will cover Sankarankoil, Tenkasi and Alangulam Assembly constituencies. A. Durai is in charge of Tenkasi North district unit, which will cover Vasudevanallur and Kadayanallur Assembly constituencies.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin aims to sell 1 lakh kg of sweets this Deepavali||Dairy Development Minister Rajenthra Bhalaji on Wednesday said Aavin had set a sales target of 1 lakh kg of sweets for Deepavali. Addressing the media after launching the sale at Aavin’s headquarters here, he said that last year, the milk producer had sold 80,000 kg of sweets made using butter, khoa and ghee. The recipes of the sweets, he said, were perfected by star chef Vijay Danny. The sweets were made strictly following COVID-19 guidelines, he added. Perhaps for the first time, Aavin has introduced nei murukku fried in ghee (250 grams - Rs. 100) and coffee-flavoured barfi. The sweets on sale at Aavin’s parlours and franchise outlets include stuffed dry jamun (250 grams - Rs. 190), Kaju pista roll (250 grams - Rs. 225), Nutty milk cake (250 grams - Rs. 190), Coffee-flavoured barfi (250 grams - Rs. 165) and stuffed moti pak (250 grams - Rs. 170). The Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation also has a combo pack with 100 grams of each of these sweets, priced at Rs. 375 each. Aavin sold around six tonnes of sweets for Vijayadasami. This year, the marketing team is also looking at catering to IT companies, government companies and district cooperative societies. “We have set a target of around 50 tonnes for our conventional sweets like khoa and Mysore pak,” a senior official at Aavin said. Those wishing to make bulk bookings can call 9566860286/9345660380 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches mobile Amma canteens for labourers||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday flagged off mobile Amma canteens that will visit parts of Greater Chennai Corporation. The canteens-on-wheels are expected to cater to the needs of daily-wage labourers and workers on construction sites and other places. In addition to this, the Chief Minister laid the foundation stones for various projects to be implemented at a total cost of Rs. 324 crore. He also inaugurated projects which were recently implemented. During a video conference from Chennai, Mr. Palaniswami unveiled the foundation stone for an integrated drinking water project in Theni district to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 162.43 crore. The project would benefit over 250 rural habitations in Andipatti, Kadamalaikundu and Mayiladumparai areas and Theni. A 35,000-litre oxygen tank was inaugurated to ensure oxygen supply to patients at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem at a cost of Rs. 1.14 crore. Mr. Palaniswami unveiled the foundation stones for projects to be implemented by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD Board) in various places across the State at a total cost of Rs. 161.57 crore. He also inaugurated projects completed by TWAD Board, Municipal Administrations and the Greater Chennai Corporation across the State costing Rs. 294.15 crore. The Chief Minister handed over appointment orders to new recruits made for Health and School Education Departments. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Minister for Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and other senior officials were present during these events.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bread made by IMH patients supplied to KMC||Slices of bread made by a small group of patients of the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) are now served as part of a meal for patients admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital. At IMH, the bakery is one of the Industrial Therapy Centres (ITC) where patients, who are improving with treatment, are engaged in baking bread, and at times, cakes and biscuits too. Already, bread made by patients is supplied internally at IMH. Earlier, they were supplying bread to the ESI Hospital in Ayanavaram. “We have started to supply bread for patients admitted to KMC from Sunday. The bread packets are sent to the hospital at 7.30 a.m. every day,” IMH director P. Poorna Chandrika said. At present, five or six in-patients of IMH along with two outpatients who were discharged from the institute, are engaged at the bakery. “We make and supply 218 packets, each consisting of 400 g of bread slice, for patients in IMH every day. This is provided for breakfast along with milk. For KMC, we are supplying 570 to 600 packets of bread. Each packet has a 200 g sliced sweet bread. We have printed ‘Industrial Therapy Centre, IMH, Chennai’ on the packet along with the date of packing and use by date,” said S. Ambika, social welfare officer, IMH. The number of packets required by KMC depends on the number of patients admitted each day. “We pay Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 4,500 for the two outpatients working in the bakery. For our patients, we provide canteen tokens. Sometimes, if they need anything else such as footwear, we purchase it for them,” she added. There were plans to train more in-patients to work in IMH bakery. Apart from the bakery, IMH has separate ITCs in art and craft, tailoring for women and gardening for both women and men. Some patients were trained to work in the medical records department of the hospital.
05 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK bifurcates Tenkasi and Tirunelveli dist. units||The DMK has bifurcated the party’s Tirunelveli and Tenkasi district units for the benefit of better administration and effective functioning. In a statement, party general secretary Duraimurugan said Tirunelveli district unit would be divided into Tirunelveli East and Tirunelveli Central districts. Tirunelveli East district covering Ambasamudram, Nanguneri and Radhapuram Assembly constituencies will have former Assembly Speaker R.Avudaiyappan as in-charge-of the party. Tirunelveli Central district will cover Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai Assembly constituencies. M. Abdul Wakaf has been made in-charge-of the district unit. The newly created Tenkasi district has been bifurcated by the party into Tenkasi South and Tenkasi North units. P. Sivapadmanabhan is in-charge-of Tenkasi South district unit which will cover Sankarankoil, Tenkasi and Alangulam Assembly constituencies. A. Durai is in-charge-of Tenkasi North district unit which will cover Vasudevanallur and Kadayanallur Assembly constituencies.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police unearth job racket, arrest three persons||The Neelankarai police on Wednesday arrested three suspects for allegedly cheating nearly 150 job aspirants by offering to get them jobs in software companies for a consideration. The three were arrested after investigation was launched into a complaint lodged by N. Amarnath, 31, of Kottivakkam. Mr. Amarnath was duped allegedly by a man introducing himself as calling on behalf of a leading software firm. He offered him a job for a commission. Mr. Amarnath paid Rs. 20,000 but later there was no response. The caller was not reachable. Police traced the suspects, who were operating from Paper Mills Road, Kolathur. The police said the suspects ran a call centre and used to call victims, claiming to be representatives of a prominent software firm. They conducted online interviews and asked their victims to transfer money to process their job requests. They then sent fake appointment orders to the victims. The names of the suspects were given as G. Prabhu, 31, of Kolathur, Solomon Richard, 29, of Ambattur, and Yuvaraj alias Maran, 29, of Ayanavaram.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC asked to pay Rs. 1.99 lakh compensation||The Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Chennai, has asked the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) to pay compensation of Rs. 1.99 lakh to a welder who got injured while trying to board a bus. In his petition, M. Vijay said on January 13, 2015, he tried to board a bus from Saveetha Dental Hospital bus stop. Even as he was trying to board the vehicle, the conductor gave the signal and the bus driver started the bus. He fell down and sustained injuries. The petitioner alleged that the driver was responsible for the accident and sought compensation from MTC. MTC, the bus driver and the conductor, however, denied the charge that they were responsible for the accident. They said the bus completed its trip between Poonamallee and Broadway without any hindrance. “Had there been any accident, it would have been communicated either to our accident branch or to the police and investigation would have been carried out for proceedings,” the MTC said in its response. It also pointed out that there was a delay in filing the FIR. The tribunal, based on the FIR and other medical records, ruled that the accident occurred due to the rash act of the driver. It said the driver did not take steps to quash the FIR filed against him and delay in filing FIR could not be a ground for rejecting the claim.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IGP office staff robbed||Criminals waylaid an employee working in the office of the Inspector-General of Police, Railways, and robbed him of cash in Kilpauk. A special team has been constituted to trace five suspects allegedly involved in the offence. The police said Palanisamy, 50, an assistant at the office of IG, Railways, was walking home on the bridge at Varadharaja Street when he was attacked on Tuesday.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin seeks ban on online gambling||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to ban online gambling. Many States, including Telangana, had already banned these games, he said. In a statement, he said it was condemnable that the State government had sought time from the Madras High Court to take a decision on the issue even though 11 persons had committed suicide after losing money in gambling. “The number of persons committing suicide is increasing and their families are left in the lurch. It is shocking that the AIADMK government has not done anything to ban the games,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the judges had questioned the delay in making a decision and at least now the Chief Minister should act quickly.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Co-optex expo for Deepavali||The Tamil Nadu Handloom Weavers’ Co-operative Society, popularly known as Co-optex, is organising an expo to celebrate Deepavali.  The exhibition will be on from 10 a.m. till 8 p.m. until November 15 at its showroom in Thillaiyadi Valliammai building in Egmore.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hearing of PILs against Vel Yatra today||Multiple public interest litigation petitions have been filed in the Madras High Court against the Vel Yatra proposed to be undertaken by the State unit of the BJP from Friday. A couple of those PIL petitions have been listed for admission before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Thursday. One of the petitioners, P. Senthil Kumar of Villivakkam here, feared that the month-long Yatra from Tiruttani to Tiruchendur might increase the spread of COVID-19, besides creating law and order problems.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IT searches in Chennai, Madurai||The Income Tax (IT) department on Wednesday knocked on the doors of Heritage Hotel in Madurai, suspecting a tax evasion. A source from the department, who confirmed the news, said that searches were on in Chennai and Madurai. “Over five places are being searched,” he said without divulging into further details. “As of now it’s just tax evasion. We will be able to provide more details once the searches are completed,” said another IT official from the investigations wing in Chennai. He said that some papers had been collected and more details would be made available later.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders not keen on setting up firecracker shops||There has been a lukewarm response among small traders to set up temporary shops to sell fireworks ahead of Deepavali, sources said. The police and fire department officials said the number of applications received from traders was lower this year compared to previous years. Every year, the police invite applications seeking licences to set up temporary fireworks shops a month ahead of Deepavali. The applications, with relevant documents, would be processed by the Fire and Rescue Services Department, the police and other authorities. A senior official in the Fire and Rescue Services Department said the poor response could be an impact of the pandemic, which had affected business. “Normally, we give 1,100-1,200 no-objection certificates every year in the city limits. But this year, we have received 272 applications,” he said. Last year, over 5,800 licences were issued across the State. Officials said the figure would not touch 4,500 this time; only 3,000 applications had been cleared so far.  The Mega Deepavali Fair on the Island Grounds will commence from Friday. Sheikh Abdullah, secretary, Chennai Metropolitan City Firecrackers Sellers’ Association, said, “We are reducing the number of shops here due to restrictions imposed on us. Last time, 65 temporary shops were permitted at the fair.”
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||14 arrested for gambling||The police on Wednesday arrested 14 persons for gambling at a house in Kilpauk. A special team led by Kilpauk inspector K. Murugesan raided the house based on a tip-off and seized Rs. 4.5 lakh in cash and nabbed 14 men on charges of gambling. The police said the accused were playing card games and were placing bets. The house, located on Taylor’s Road in Kilpauk, was taken on lease a few months ago by Mukesh. An official said gambling had been taking place in the house for the past few months. The suspects were booked under the Gambling Act. They were later released on bail.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor calls on PM, Shah||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah at their residences in New Delhi on Wednesday. During his three-day visit to the national capital, Mr. Purohit is expected to call on President Ram Nath Kovind too. Mr. Purohit’s visit comes a day after the Supreme Court said the Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency probe into the larger conspiracy behind the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi need not deter the Governor from deciding on the remission plea of the life convicts, who are in jail for nearly 30 years. The Governor’s meeting with the Prime Minister lasted over 20 minutes. Mr. Purohit is scheduled to return to Chennai on November 6.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Har Sahay Meena named P&AR (Training) secretary||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday named senior IAS officer Har Sahay Meena as the Secretary of the Personnel and Administrative Reforms (Training) Department, which was earlier additionally held by S. Swarna. The government also posted L. Subramanian as the Director of Geology and Mining, a post earlier held by E. Saravanavelraj. Mr. Saravanavelraj has been posted as Special Officer in the Chief Minister’s Cell, according to a Government Order issued by the Chief Secretary. D. Baskar Pandian, who was earlier Special Officer in the Chief Minister’s Cell, has been posted as the Director of Information and Public Relations. J.E. Padmaja was posted as Sub-Collector in Perambalur and Darez Ahamed would be posted as the Executive Director of GUIDANCE Bureau.
05 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IT searches in Chennai and Madurai||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday knocked on the door of Heritage Hotel in Madurai, suspecting tax evasion. A source said searches were on in Chennai and Madurai. "Over five places are being searched," he said, without divulging further details. "As of now, it's just tax evasion. We will be able to provide more detailsafter the searches are completed," said another Income Tax official.
05 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Firecracker traders seek early issuing of temporary licence||Various departments are yet to complete the processing and issuing of temporary licence for sale of firecrackers ahead of Deepavali in the district. Traders of firecrackers feel that the delay in the issuing of the temporary licence might lead to crowding of stalls in the time of COVID-19 pandemic. V. Chinnasamy, secretary of Coimbatore District Firecrackers Small Traders Welfare Association, said that the early issuing of temporary licence will help traders make necessary arrangements and avoid crowding on days close to Deepavali. “We are informed that the processing of applications are in different stages and the delay was due to the COVID-19 related works. We request authorities to issue the licences as early as possible,” he said. He also felt that the delay in the issuing of licence might lead to unauthorised persons/shops selling firecrackers. The Saravanampatti police recently sealed a shop, which was found selling firecrackers without a licence. “We are also planning to give a petition to the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Coimbatore city, requesting to take steps to prevent unauthorised persons from selling firecrackers,” he said. Last year, the Fire and Rescue Services Department had issued temporary licences to 512 persons to sell firecrackers in the district. The association's organiser, A. Ramaiyya, said that the market situation seems to be dull this year due to the pandemic and the number of applications this year was only about 65% of that of last year. “We expect the issuing of licences by the end of this week,” he said. Sources with the police, Fire and Rescue Services and Revenue Department said that efforts were being made to expedite the processing of applications for temporary licences. With the temporary firecracker stalls not opened, some people have started buying from the few permanent shops in the district.
05 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police yet to revive vehicle check using breathalyser||Vehicle checks to detect drunk driving are yet to see a revival in the city and the rural as the police are unable to use breath analyser (breathalyser) due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Police officers said that use of breathalyser was stopped in March when the pandemic hit the State, following which orders came from Chennai to avoid the device. Apart from using breathalysers, the police also used to follow the practice of asking suspected drivers to blow air to check the smell of alcohol. Officials said that both methods are not followed since March as COVID-19 spreads through respiratory droplets. Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu said that the rural police have been taking suspected drivers to hospitals to detect drunk driving for the last two months as breathalysers cannot be used. Medical test He said that medical test is done for persons whom the personnel involved in vehicle checks find visibly drunk. Recently, a doctor who created ruckus at Pollachi was taken to a hospital where he was found drunk and later arrested. R. Mutharasu, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Coimbatore City Police, said that checks on drunk driving in city limits were stopped mid-March. “City police subjected some persons for medical check-up to identify drunk driving in a few important cases. Normal checking using breathalyser will be resumed only when we get orders from Chennai,” he said. Police sources said that the personnel who conduct vehicle checks now slap fine for rash driving on persons, who they find visibly drunk and from the smell of alcohol. They said that several cases of drunk driving might be going undetected as breathalyser cannot be used. In 2019, Coimbatore city police had booked 16,457 persons for drunk driving and stood second in the State, next to Chennai, for registering the maximum number of cases involving driving under the influence of alcohol.
05 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle movement allowed on Ukkadam - Karumbukadai road||The Highways Department and the police have allowed movement of vehicles on the existing road from Ukkadam bus stand to Karumbukadai, where the Ukkadam flyover work is going on. R. Mutharasu, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Coimbatore City Police, said the stretch between Ukkadam and Athupalam has been opened for four-wheelers and mini goods vehicles. Earlier, only two-wheelers were allowed to use the road due to the construction works. However, heavy vehicles such as trucks and earthmovers will continue to use Putthuvikki bridge road that links Palakkad Road and Ukkadam. This arrangement will continue till the beginning of the next phase of the works, said the officer. An official of the Highways Department said the existing road has been re-laid before it was opened for vehicle movement. Of the 47 decks planned, 35 have been completed. Pillar work is going on for the rest. The department plans to complete all the decks by the end of this year. It has also finalised a bidder to take up the flyover extension work and recommended it to the government. Traffic will be opened up on the flyover only after the extension across the Aathupalam Junction is completed.
05 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Aavin focuses on bulk sales for Deepavali||Aavin Coimbatore has formed special teams that will look at institutional sale of sweets in the district for Deepavali. R. Ravikumar, general manager of Aavin Coimbatore (Tamilnadu Co-operative Milk Producers’ Federation), said special teams were formed to focus on bulk orders. Aavin is looking at sale of 10 tonnes of sweets this year during Deepavali in the district, which were launched recently. The higher sales will come from the new varieties of sweets launched this year. Aavin has launched Bombay badam halwa, chocolate nuts burfi, Bombay mundiri halwa, chocolate kaju katli, and pista nuts burfi. It launched kaju katli last year. These will be available in 250 gm and 500 gm packs for retail consumers and also as assorted sweets packets. “We sell about three tonnes of sweets - mysore pak and kaju katli - every month in the district. This year, we have launched new varieties of sweets for Deepavali and plan to continue selling these during the rest of the year too,” the general manager said. The sales this festival season will be through its outlets, wholesale dealers and institutional buyers. The monthly sales of milk products (except milk) by Aavin in the district is for Rs. 1.73 crore. It used to be about Rs. 1.4 crore a month last year, he said.
05 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation’s finances in dire straits||Coimbatore Corporation’s finances are in a precarious position, according to sources in the civic body. A senior official in the know of the civic body’s financial position told The Hindu that the Corporation owed around Rs. 140 crore to contractors for having executed various development works in the recent past. The amount would increase by another Rs. 40 crore when the contractors completed the works under progress, and the Corporation still did not pay. Complaints from the contractor-company handling waste collection and transportation and the contractor-company executing the 24x7 drinking water supply projects point at the precarious situation. Both the companies recently wrote to the Corporation Commissioner that the civic body was yet to clear their dues. The waste management contractor – Coimbatore Integrated Solid Waste Management Co. Pvt. Ltd. – had, as recently as September 2020 – asked the Corporation to pay Rs. 30 crore in instalments, stating that the dues hampered its operations. Sources said the Corporation’s financial position would not affect the projects taken up under the Smart Cities Mission, though, for the Central and State governments have part-financed the mission. It would not affect the underground drainage scheme in Kurichi and Kuniamuthur, which are also part-financed by the governments, and the Corporation, for its share of the project cost, had obtained a loan from the Asian Development Bank. Barring these projects, all other works like construction of road and drainage would get affected, the sources said. Even maintenance works would be affected. The Corporation could take up works or new projects only if the Central or State governments were to finance these, the sources said. The sluggish property tax collection and possible discounts in rent or lease collection had only added to the civic body’s burden. The sources said unless the Corporation cut down its expenditure or received a substantial sum from the State Government, it would be difficult to tide over the financial crisis, at least in the near future -- a critical phase especially with the Assembly election just eight months away.  Unless the Corporation receives a substantial sum from the State government, it will be difficult to tide over the financial crisis
05 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Problems continue for engineers who want to register with Coimbatore Corporation||The Coimbatore Corporation recently issued a professional registration certificate to an engineer to enable him to prepare building plan and certify construction as per approved plan. But the certificate mentioned the engineer as having registered with the Council of Architecture, showed a registration number and validity as well. The Corporation’s certificate piles agony on those waiting to become registered engineers with the civic body, says an engineer, who is awaiting registration. In the absence of registration, the engineers are not authorised to prepare a building plan and certify construction of building as per the approved plan. The mandate to register engineers comes from the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019. The engineer says though the 300 qualified engineers have applied to the Corporation for registration, the civic body, after much delay, has issued the certificate of registration to only 10. But in the absence of registered engineers, the Corporation has been approving building plan, which is surprising because it is illegal. Property tax Likewise, it has also been assessing buildings for property tax as there are no registered engineers to certify construction as per plan. The engineers awaiting registration say though they have appealed several times over the last one year to the Corporation to speed up the process, the civic body has only shown reluctance, just as it had approached the demand for using the State Government’s unified software for building plan approval. The engineers say the Coimbatore Corporation alone uses a different system and thereby stands isolated. The State Government’s integrated system makes building plan approval a paper-less transparent process, benefiting the public. The Corporation’s system benefits only officials as there is a delay in even issuing a technical report for the building plan submitted.  A senior Corporation officer says the civic body is in the process of updating its building plan approval software. There has been a delay in the process and if this continues, the Corporation will join the State Government’s unified approval process by using the common software.
05 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized, 11 arrested||In a special drive conducted by different police stations on Tuesday, Coimbatore city police arrested 11 persons, including a woman, on charges of possessing and attempting to sell ganja. The police seized a total of 2.54 kg of ganja from the accused, who were produced before court and remanded in judicial custody. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan initiated the special drive, acting on complaints regarding the sale of the contraband in the city. The Bazaar Street police arrested three persons, while R.S. Puram, Ramanathapuram and Podanur stations arrested two persons each. The Variety Hall Road police and the Rathinapuri arrested one person each. A majority of the persons held had been arrested earlier for the sale of marijuana, the police said.
05 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance stepped up in market areas in Erode||With Deepavali round the corner, the district police have stepped up surveillance in the market areas here to provide people a hassle-free festival shopping experience. Textile showrooms and other establishments on R.K.V. Road and at Manikoondu are witnessing huge crowd. The police have erected temporary watchtowers at 22 points in the city to monitor the crowd, regulate traffic and prevent crime during the season. Policemen will monitor the crowd from these watchtowers and caution the people them on following road rules and keeping their money and belongings safe while shopping. Since a large number of people are expected to throng the market in the coming days, vehicle movement has been restricted on R.K.V. Road. Vehicles from Gandhiji Road have to proceed via Panneerselvam Park, GH Roundabout to reach the bus stand, since the Manikoondu road will be closed for vehicle movement. Vehicles from Cauvery Road will not be allowed on R.K.V. Road and instead diverted through Gandhi statue. The Corporation has earmarked the premises of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Panneerselvam Park and Kamarajar Municipal HSS premises at Karungalpalayam for parking. A senior police official said that an announcement regarding traffic diversion would be made soon.
05 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two textile processing units closed permanently||Two textile processing units functioning in the corporation limits were sealed and closed permanently after various violations were found here on Wednesday. A dyeing unit was functioning at Vairapalayam and power supply was disconnected earlier for various violations. However, officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board found the unit to be functioning during night hours by drawing power from another source which was confirmed during their inspection. Officials submitted a report to Collector C. Kathiravan, who ordered the unit to be closed permanently. Likewise, solid waste from a textile processing unit functioning at Panankadu in Villarasampatti area, were taken in lorries during night hours and were dumped at Thennilai village in Karur district. Based on complaints from the public, inspection was done and officials found the waste dumped along the road. Hence, the unit was also sealed and closed permanently.
05 November 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai reports marginal rise in daily case count||Madurai recorded a marginal increase of two in the number of daily COVID-19 cases to report 46 new cases on Wednesday. The district’s overall case count went up to 18,900. There were 80 discharges from hospitals. With the addition of 45 cases, Kanniyakumari’s tally moved up to 15,069. After 16 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 269 active cases. The infection tally of Thoothukudi rose to 15,198 after the admission of 42 new cases. There were 39 discharges in the district. Sivaganga’s case count rose by 24 on Wednesday. The district, which has registered a tally of 5,959, marked the discharge of four people. Tirunelveli had 21 fresh cases on Wednesday that took the district’s tally to 14,313, with 174 active cases. Two people were discharged. Theni registered 19 fresh cases, with which its case tally touched 16,299. Only one person was discharged after treatment. Tenkasi has 60 active cases after the admission of 17 new COVID-19 cases, which took the district’s tally to 7,868. The district marked the discharge of two people. Fifteen people tested positive in Dindigul, which saw its case count rise to 9,858. In the district too, there was only one discharge reported. Virudhunagar too reported 15 fresh cases, which took the total number of cases up to 15,506. After 20 people were discharged, the district has 91 active cases. The death toll remains at 222. Ramanathapuram reported 13 new cases to have a tally of 6,043. Hospitals in the district discharged six people.
05 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Poor margin worries tomato growers||Tomato growers are a dismayed lot, with the price of tomatoes falling below the remunerative mark. On Wednesday, tomatoes were being auctioned at Rs. 150 per crate. A crate carries 22 kg to 25 kg, leaving farmers with a poor margin per kg. The retail price of tomatoes were, however, double the price offered to farmers, with tomatoes being sold at Rs. 15 per kg in the retail market. But for the growers, the price per crate at the Rayakottai tomato mandi has offered little comfort. The price per crate offered at the mandi does not offset the other expenses related to transportation of the produce, say farmers. The retail price of tomatoes has hovered between Rs. 7 and Rs. 15 depending on the location. For the farmers, the cost of production will be met only if the price per kg was above Rs. 20, says Krishnan, a tomato farmer from Rayakottai. “We spend Rs. 40,000 per acre including the labour costs. The current prices would barely meet the costs. Growers will find a reasonable profit only if crates sold for Rs. 300 or Rs. 400. Otherwise, we will have to migrate to other crops,” says Krishnan, who himself has diversified to flowers given the tomato prices. Tomato production had increased over the last few months, with good rainfall and increased area of cultivation. But, this has hit the prices for farmers, with the supply overwhelming the demand. In Shoolgiri, some of the tomato growing areas had seen dumping of their produce in the lakes nearby owing to diseased crops adding to the woes of the growers.
05 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for shooting elephant||A day after an elephant was found shot dead in Jawalagiri forest range, a 40-year-old man was arrested in connection with the crime. The elephant was found dead in a trench on Tuesday morning in Sennamalam. Four metal pellets were retrieved from the elephant’s skull during autopsy. A special team headed by the Assistant Conservator of Forest Jagdish Bakan was formed to investigate the crime. On Wednesday, Muthu Mallesh, a resident of Sennamalam village in Jawalagiri, was found to have committed the crime. The man was arrested and the country-made rifle that was used to shoot down the elephant was seized.
05 November 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco staff trade unions stage protest||Tangedco staff trade unions staged protest demonstration alleging anti-labour stance of the State-owned power corporation’s chairman Pankaj Kumar Bansal, here on Wednesday. According to the protesters, the Managing Director and the Chairman of Tangedco had been unresponsive to the grievances of the employees. The government and the chairman Mr. Bansal were allegedly not responsive to the demands of the employees and the trade unions.
05 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Sewage will not flow into Vaigai next year, says Minister||Madurai Corporation had established a new sewage treatment plant (STP) at a cost of Rs. 2.50 crore, funded by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, at Panthalkudi near Sellur, said Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, he said the STP would treat sewage water collected from five wards on the northern side of the Vaigai covering Sellur, Aruldosspuram and Anaiyur areas. Close to one lakh litres would be treated in the facility every day, he said and expressed hope that in 2021, sewage would not flow into the Vaigai. When Lord Kallazhagar would enter the river as a part of the Chitrai festival, it might have clean water, Mr. Raju said. He also said Madurai Corporation had earmarked Rs. 65 lakh from its general fund for the maintenance of the STP. To a query, he said sewage from Panthalkudi channel, Anaiyur and other extension areas, where underground drainage lines were yet to be established, would be collected and treated at the STP, which could be used for watering plants and other purposes. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said the STP would use the sequential progressive bio-reactor technology. Six mega containers have been installed for treatment of sewage. The collection well alone had to be fitted, and the work would be completed by December-end. In January, 2021, the STP would start functioning, he added. Mr. Visakan said there were 33 ooranis (tanks) in and around the city. Eleven of the ooranis had been renovated, and the work was in progress in 16 waterbodies. Perumal Temple Teppakulam and Mariamman Teppakulam had been getting copious water after four decades, he added. He also said that tender process for establishing the ambitious scheme to bring drinking water for Madurai city from Mullaperiyar reservoir had reached the final stage. Once it was completed, city residents would get potable water all the time. City Engineer Arasu said the Corporation already had two STPs functioning at Vellakal and Sakkimangalam. He also said 412 defunct borewells in the city were identified and with minimum civil works carried out, they had been put to use as rainwater harvesting structures.
05 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco employees oppose entry of private players||Employees and engineers of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) staged a demonstration here on Wednesday, pressing for their various demands. As a part of the State-wide stir, the employees affiliated to various unions, abstained from work by availing themselves of Casual Leave. They said instead of redressing their grievances, Tangedco management had taken unilateral decisions such as privatising the upkeep of some substations in the State. This was an anti-employees move by Tangedco, and over a period of time, power distribution might slowly go to private companies. Then, the economically weaker sections might not get free power, the protesters said. The employees were working despite several odds, and Tangedco management, instead of redressing their grievances, had taken a diametrically opposite view. This had come as a big blow to the employees, they said. When the employees’ unions were pressing for filling up of the 40,000 odd vacancies in Tangedco, the management did not seem to be listening to their concerns. There were unconfirmed reports that more and more private players would be entering the field of electricity distribution. The unions would not permit it at any cost, the protesters said. The demonstration was presided over by S.S. Tamilselvam and T. Arivalagan. R.B.R. Rajkumar, R. Suresh Kumar, R. Prabu Irulandi and K. Ganapathi participated.
05 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays forest official’s order||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday stayed the order passed by the District Conservator of Forests, Cantonment, Tiruchi, which demanded a fee from Tirupparankundram Sri Subramania Swamy Temple for maintenance of ‘Deivanai’, the temple elephant that was translocated to an elephant rescue and rehabilitation centre. ‘Deivanai’ was translocated to the centre at M.R. Palayam near Tiruchi in June after it trampled a mahout to death. It was said that the elephant had attacked the mahout due to anxiety. In September, an order was issued demanding a maintenance fee of Rs. 3.04 lakh. The fee was sought as per Rule 14 of the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephant (Management and Maintenance) Rules, 2011. The Tirupparankundram temple authorities challenged the order issued before the High Court Bench. Taking up the petition for hearing, Justice Abdul Quddhose stayed the order and adjourned the hearing in the case. In the petition, the temple authorities said that the elephant was translocated to the rehabilitation centre following recommendation by the veterinary doctors considering the health status and welfare of the elephant and public safety.
05 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bike rider dies||A painter, R. Balamurugan, who was seriously injured in a road accident near Austinpatti on Monday, succumbed to injuries on Wednesday. Police said that Balamurugan of Uchapatti was riding his bike on the wrong lane of Karadikkal- Koothiyargundu four-way highway, when he dashed against another bike. The police said that J. Siva (16) of Thoppur was also injured in the accident. Balamurugan succumbed to the injuries at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). In another accident, three workers from Uttar Pradesh were injured when a speeding car hit the two-wheeler they were riding on Tirumangalam-Madurai Highway. When they were trying to cross the highway around 9.15 p.m. on Monday, a car hit the bike, in which S. Ananthasama (48), Shagar Alam and Sunil Singh were injured. They were admitted to the GRH.
05 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Authorities bound to settle disputes by passing speaking orders’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Secretaries to the School Education Department and the Higher Education Department to issue consolidated instructions to all subordinate authorities to ensure that statutory appeals and disputed issues between parties in the Education Department were decided by passing speaking orders assigning reasons for arriving at the conclusion. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that the consolidated directions should say that in the event of lapse, negligence or dereliction appropriate disciplinary actions would be initiated against the authorities who were responsible for passing such evasive and non-speaking orders. The court suo motu impleaded the Secretaries in the case as respondents. “Authorities competent are bound to settle such disputes by passing speaking orders. The non-speaking orders are passed in an evasive manner and such an exercise of power is to be deprecated. Any competent authority, while passing an order, is expected to furnish reasons for arriving at such a conclusion. The practice of passing a non-speaking order is to be viewed seriously”, the judge said. The court said an evasive or non-speaking order would cause unnecessary issues between parties and when they filed unnecessary writ petitions, the valuable judicial time was wasted. Mostly, such matters were liable to be remanded back and such remand would cause hardship to the litigants. The time delay caused to the litigants was also to be considered by the competent authorities, it said. The court was hearing one such petition where the order of the Inspector of Matriculation Schools was challenged. It was said that it was a non-speaking order which did not assign any reasons or arrive at any conclusion. The court directed the Inspector of Matriculation Schools to pass a revised speaking order, in accordance with law, within a period of 12 weeks.
05 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Re-classification of land sought||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought a response from the State in a petition that challenged the classification of a land that included a 100-year-old property as agriculture zone, under the approved Draft Modified Master Plan for Kodaikanal. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought a response from the Secretary of the Housing and Urban Development Department on the petition filed by G. Chokkappan from Madurai. The petitioner sought a direction from the HC to authorities concerned to classify the land as Multi-Use Zone or restore it to its original state in terms of Kodaikanal Master Plan 1993 where the land and the building were classified under Mixed Residential Zone.
05 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two persons killed in road accident||Two persons were killed when their vehicle rammed into a truck near Tirumangalam in the small hours of Wednesday. Police said a flowers-laden van was going to Kanniyakumari from Hosur. When the vehicle was proceeding near Uchapatti, driver N. Sekar (35) of Krishnagiri lost control of the van. Subsequently, the van hit from behind a truck that was carrying vegetables to Thoothukudi around 2.15 a.m. Sekar and cleaner V. Samraj (50) of Dharmapuri, were killed on the spot. Tirumangalam Station Fire Officer J. Jayarani said, “While the body of Samraj was pulled out easily, we could not remove that of Sekar. We had to deploy cranes to separate the vehicles and cut open the iron rods to take out the body.” Tirumangalam Town police have picked up the truck driver, S. Kumar of Theni, for questioning.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Supersession of Waqf Board unsustainable: SC||The Supreme Court has found the State government’s supersession of the Tamil Nadu Waqf Board “unsustainable in law,” saying the State cannot take advantage of its own wrong. In a judgment, a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan held that the September 18, 2019, notification of the State superseding the Board was not prompted by “any action, inaction or omission and misconduct on the part of the Board”. In fact, the supersession was rather due to the number of elected members on the Board reducing to less than the nominated members after the term of A. Anwhar Raajhaa, a Member of Parliament, came to an end in May last. “The event of cessation of membership of an elected member is not under control of the Board. It was the duty of the State government to constitute the Board as per the objectives enshrined in Section 14(4) [of the Waqf Act of 1995]. The State government has ample power to conduct election for the members,” the court observed in its judgment on November 3. Section 14(4) provides that elected members of the 11-man Board shall, at all times, be more than the nominated members. In May 2019, with the exit of Mr. Raajhaa, the number of elected members became four with six nominated members, making the Board unable to perform its functions. The State subsequently issued the supersession notification.
05 November 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||New taluk office building opened||Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami declared open the new building of the taluk office here through video conference from Chennai on Wednesday. The new building has been constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.53 crore. The office in ground and first floors has a total plinth area of about 13,471 square feet. The building will house the offices of the Tahsildhars (revenue; civils supplies; and social security and welfare), land survey, computer, record rooms and allied infrastructure. R.Tamilselvan and R.T.Ramachandran, MLAs, P.Sri Venkada Priya, Collector, were present when it was declared open.
05 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 108 new cases||Puducherry’s recovery rate continued to improve as it recorded 108 new cases and one death on Wednesday. The fatality was registered in Yanam where the toll now stands at 43 against 492 in Puducherry, 55 in Karaikal and seven in Mahe. The COVID-19 recovery rate increased by a percentage point, going up to 92.31%, with just over a 100 cases detected from testing 3,819 samples on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, Puducherry accounted for 82, followed by Karaikal (13), Yanam (12) and Mahe (one). In all, 419 patients were discharged on recovery in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 2.82% and case fatality rate was 1.69% per cent. The overall tally was 35,429 cases with 2,129 active cases and 32,703 recovered patients so far. A total of 3.21 lakh samples had been tested so far, out of which 2.82 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who chaired a review meeting here, said a convergence of interventions would be focused in Reddiarpalayam and Villianur which had been identified as hotspots by the COVID war room. An intensive prevention and containment drive of testing, contact tracing, IEC and enforcement would be carried out in these areas. The District Collector would frame an SOP for COVID-appropriate behaviour for inter-State passenger movement, Ms. Bedi said.
05 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer gets new equipment for stroke patients||The Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) has commissioned new equipment that can significantly improve rehabilitation outcomes in stroke patients as part of efforts to become a full-fledged centre in stroke management. According to a Jipmer press note, these new state-of-the-art equipment include a treadmill with partial weight suspension, which is useful for rehabilitation of persons with strokes and spinal cord injuries. Another equipment was an advanced balance trainer, which helps in improving balance and functional outcomes, and in quicker recovery and return to work of persons who have recently suffered from stroke. A.S. Badhe, medical superintendent of Jipmer, launched the equipment recently during observance of the World Stroke Day. Abhishek Srivastava, director, Centre for Physical Medicine, Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Mumbai, and a specialist in neurorehabilitation, spoke on the use of these equipment and other advanced technologies in neurorehabilitation. Sunil Narayan, faculty-in charge of the stroke programme, said that Jipmer had been making steady progress in the area of stroke care and training. Meanwhile, as part of observance of the World Stroke Day, which this year has “Join the movement” as the theme, Jipmer sought to highlight the adverse impact that stroke could have on the lives of people it affects and to create public awareness of its prevention and the treatment. Inaugurating the event, Jipmer director Rakesh Aggarwal emphasised the importance of collective action from all groups in society to spread awareness that stroke could be prevented and that it was important to prevent the disease through early intervention. According to the press note, stroke results from blockage or rupture of blood vessels of the brain and most often presents as sudden onset of weakness of hands or legs or difficulty in speech. One in four people over the age of 25 were likely to have a stroke in their lifetime. Stroke is a common cause of persistent disability in adults. Susceptible sections Although often a disease of the elderly, some young people get affected. About two-thirds of strokes occur in developing countries, and in India, 2-6 of every 1,000 persons are affected with stroke. According to Jipmer, prevention of stroke relies on maintaining ideal body weight and physical activity and control of hypertension, diabetes, smoking and alcohol consumption. Community education is essential for early recognition and transport of stroke patients to stroke-ready centres. In addition, persons who suffered from stroke need continued passive and active physical rehabilitation to improve their outcomes. Dr. Badhe emphasised the importance of physical activity and exercise in the prevention of stroke, especially in the current era when people tend to be glued to digital devices in preference to physical activities. Sunil Narayan, faculty-in-charge of the stroke programme at Jipmer, provided a synopsis of the developments in stroke therapy globally. D.K. Subrahmanyam, head of the Department of Medicine, and Vaibhav Wadwekar, head, Department of Neurology at Jipmer, spoke.
05 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Onus is now on the Police Department, says Kiran Bedi||The conduct of physical standards and efficiency tests for recruitment of police constables, radio technicians and deck handlers will depend upon on how soon the Police Department can put in place systems as warranted in the Recruitment Notification Rules issued on August 20, 2018. “The schedule for the recruitment process now is dependent on how soon the Police Department can put compliance of process together — using technology and mobilisation of resources,” Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi told The Hindu.  The original schedule for the recruitment of all three posts was to commence the process with the physical tests on November 4. But it was postponed after the Lt. Governor directed the department to stick to the recruitment rules notified two years ago. Her direction came after the government altered the conduct of physical tests from digital mode to manual. The government’s argument for changing the rules was that the firm selected to conduct the tests by use of digital technology refused to participate in the recruitment drive due to COVID-19. In a related development, the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms issued an inter-departmental note on November 2 that the tests should be conducted under the overall supervision of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, the Chairman of the Recruitment Committee and not as recommended by the Exam Cell of DP&AR during vetting of draft corrigendum. The cell had suggested to conduct the exam under the overall supervision of the Chief Controller of Examination. The inter-departmental note said the corrigendum has not been accepted and directed the Police Department to ensure compliance of the original notification. The note also mandated the Police Department to submit a list of qualified candidates. The Lt. Governor has directed the Director General of Police to follow the procedure stipulated in the vacancy notification in “letter and spirit,” said an official. The Lt. Governor in a note issued on October 30 had said the reasons given to amend the notified procedure “are not justified and hence not accepted.”  The schedule now depends on how soon the Department can put compliance of process together
05 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre assured support for police modernisation’||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has given assurance to assist the territorial administration in modernising the police force. “During my meetings with Home Minister Amit Shah, he has agreed to provide assistance to modernise the force which includes strengthening of cyber security wing and procurement of equipment and weapon for the force,” Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said in his address after laying the foundation to construct a new building for the Lawspet police. The station would be constructed at a cost of around Rs. 3 crore, he said adding it was a long pending demand. He said the law and order situation had considerably improved and this was even acknowledged by the Centre. Two prominent cases which were left undetected during the tenure of N. R. Congress were solved by his government, the Chief Minister said.  Goondas Act Around 27 people with long criminal records have been arrested under Goondas Act, he added. He also hailed the Police Department for its contribution in controlling the spread of novel coronavirus. Speaker V. P Sivakolandhu, Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, Minister for Revenue M.O. H. F. Shahjahan and Minister for Power R. Kamalakannan were also present.
05 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Fear of privatisation brings Tangedco employees together||Demanding the Tangedco chairman-cum-managing director (CMD)to hold talks with all the trade union representatives with regard to the vacancies and other issues, the employees and engineers from various associations came under a common umbrella to voice their just demands here on Wednesday. The Joint Action Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers staged a demonstration in front of the District Collectorate. Labour Progressive Federation secretary V. C. Mohan presided. R Guruvel, state vice-president of CITU addressed the gathering. About 500 members including women employees and officers participated. The members said that Tangedco should immediately stop issuing orders for private companies to maintain some sub-stations and HT lines in the State. “This unilateral decision of the CMD may affect the Corporation in the long run,” they said. At a time when the Tangedco had been serving three crore consumers across the State despite several limitations, it was unfair to give the upkeep of some sub-stations to private people. For a long time, the grievances to fill vacancies has also not been redressed, they charged. The government should direct the Tangedco management to involve the trade union representatives in all major decisions as any rift between them would affect the consumers, they apprehended. Dindigul In Dindigul, close to 800 employees staged a demonstration in front of the Tangedco office here at Meenakshi Naickenpatti. The members raised slogans against the management and urged that bonus should be given to all contract workers too. They wanted the vacancies numbering above 40,000 across the State to be filled as early as possible. The employees said that they would not remain mere spectators to the moves of Tangedco to privatise electricity distribution. For the last 63 years, the electricity department has been rendering yeomen services to the people of TN and despite limitations, they have been fulfilling the expectations of the customers. Under such circumstances, the Tangedco should immediately withdraw the move to give maintenance works of some sub-stations to the private sector, they stressed. A trade union representative said that all the employees and officers had taken a day’s casual leave on Wednesday to participate in the demonstration. As a result, many Tangedco offices in the district remained shut and routine activities were hit, he added. Tirunelveli Condemning the ‘anti-worker attitude and policies’ of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Chairman and Managing Director Pankaj Kumar Bansal and the move to privatise the operations Tangedco, the employees struck work in Tirunelveli. The protestors said the CMD of Tangedco was “autocratically” transferring the engineers working in upcoming power generation projects at Uppur, Udangudi and Ennore which was causing undue delay in construction and the predetermined quality of the construction could not be ensured. “As retired engineers of Tangedco were being hired again and sub-stations at Sankaraapuram and Samayanallur were being given to private firms for maintenance and operation for two years, this would deny employment opportunities and the privatisation move would also dash the engineers hopes of getting promotions,” they charged. Power generation in Thoothukudi, North Chennai and Mettur thermal power plants was being stopped wantonly to create artificial shortfall in generation and steps were being taken to purchase power from private firms. “We suspect that it is the first step being taken towards privatising power generation,” the protestors said. The delay in appointing Assistant Engineers in 63 section offices had increased the burden on others.
05 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Reconsider ban on crackers, CPI to Rajasthan Government||The Rajasthan Government should immediately reconsider the ban order on bursting crackers and lift it forthwith, appealed TN CPI state secretary R. Mutharasan here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, he said that thousands of workers were engaged in manufacturing of fireworks. Every year, crackers were moved to various parts of the country from Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district. Bursting crackers during Deepavali has been there from time immemorial. The Supreme Court had also given broad guidelines to the manufacturers. Hence, green fireworks should be allowed. The Centre should immediately intervene and ensure that the Rajasthan government lifted the ban, he reiterated. Commenting on the appeals to release the assassins in the Rajiv Gandhi case, he came down heavily on the Centre and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit. When the State government had passed an unanimous resolution in the Assembly and the cabinet ministers too had sent their resolution to the Governor for his assent, the Governor’s silence on the issue for over two years showed the scant respect he had for the MLAs and Ministers, who were elected representatives of the people. Moreover, the SC too had expressed its concern over the Governor's silence. Asked about the announcement of the TN government on reopening educational institutions from Nov 16, the CPI leader said that it was unfortunate that the government had not been handling the COVID-19 pandemic in a proper way from the beginning. Education is important for students, but at the same time, the health of the children is equally important. Hence, the government should be careful and not careless, he warned. Country-wide stir Mr Mutharasan said that to expose the Central government’s continued anti-people policies, trade unions across the country would stage demonstrations on November 26. In Tamil Nadu, the CPI would lead the agitation in all the districts on the day to draw the attention of the people. In spite of COVID-19, the Centre had brought in new laws showing little regard for the people. He hoped the Tamil Nadu government would take steps to release water for irrigation from the Mettur reservoir soon as the storage level had touched the 100 feet mark. Many farmers were looking for wetting the crops if water was not released crops may wither in many delta districts, Mr. Mutharasan added.
05 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Vigilance raid at Ramanathapuram Collectorate||A petty shopkeeper in Keelakarai Anna Nagar, who had applied for a temporary licence to sell crackers during Deepavali, was shocked to hear that he had pay bribe to get the licence. After lodging a complaint with the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (V&AC) police, when the trader handed over Rs. 15,000 in cash to a public servant, in the rank of a driver in the office of the Sub-Collector here, the police caught the accused red handed. The police identified the accused as Singaram (53) driver at the Sub-Collector's office. Based on his confession, DSP Unnikrishnan and Inspectors Kumaresan and Rajeswari found that the cash was allegedly intended to be distributed to the higher-ups in the Revenue department through a daffedar in the office. The daffedar was picked up for interrogation. The presence of the police at the office for over five hours caused anxious moments among the staff and visiting public. The complainant Dhanasekaran (57) said that he was shocked to learn that some officers in the Fire and Rescue Services Department also demanded bribe for issuing NOC. Though the District Collector K Veera Raghava Rao had in a press release stated that applicants can fill up the form and submit the same online, the revenue and fire officials responsible for issuance of the temporary certificates demanded hefty bribe.
05 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Girl wants reservation in medical courses for govt. aided school students also||A Plus Two student, who scored 330 marks in NEET exam, has urged the State government to provide horizontal reservation in medical colleges for students also from government aided schools. Petition to Colletor M. Priyadarshini of Thiruvalluvar Nagar in Dadagapatti along with her parents submitted a petition to the Collector here on Wednesday in which she stated that she could not clear NEET in 2018. In 2019, she scored 209 marks in NEET and was unable to get a seat in government medical college. In 2020, she joined a private coaching institute and scored 330 marks. GO on reservation “The recently passed Government Order allows 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for government school students only”, she said. The girl said that if students from government aided schools are provided reservation, many could join medical colleges. Power loom weaver “My father is a power loom weaver and my dream is to become a doctor”, she said and wanted reservation to be provided for students from aided-schools too.
05 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH gets liquid oxygen tank||A single largest tank with a capacity to store 35,000 kilolitres (KL) liquid oxygen, that was installed at a cost of Rs. 1.14 core, was commissioned at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital here on Wednesday. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated the tank through video conferencing from Chennai which, officials said, is the single largest tank in terms of capacity among government and private hospitals in the State. The tank will ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to the patients in the hospital and will replace the existing 6,000 KL oxygen tank. Doctors said that through a centralised system, all the wards were connected through pipelines, and oxygen is supplied to cylinders from where it would be transported to beds in Intensive Coronary Care Unit, Intermediate Care Unit, casualty and labour wards. Doctors said that apart from continuous supply of oxygen to the patients, it will help in reducing the expenses. The tank was supplied by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation.
05 November 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Head constable killed||Head-constable Marikannu (55) was killed in a road accident after a van knocked him down here on Wednesday evening. The police said that the deceased, attached with Sivakasi Town police station, was riding on a two-wheeler on Sivakasi-Srivilliputtur road at around 4 p.m. when a cargo vehicle used for displaying two-wheelers, hit him. The victim sustained serious injuries and subsequently died. The police have picked the driver, Mohan, for enquiry.
05 November 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||5 Highways Department officials suspended||Five officials of Department of Highways in the district have been placed under suspension in connection with alleged irregularities in award of road laying contracts. According to Sivapadnamanathan, DMK’s Tenkasi south district in-charge, who had filed a petition in this connection in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, tenders for laying five roads in Tenkasi district for Rs. 98 crore were floated by the Department of Highways. While three of these five tenders were cancelled later, tenders for laying two roads were retained. “For one of the roads, a Kadayanallur-based contractor alone had submitted his tender application and also a dummy tender in some other name since single tender for any work cannot be entertained as per the norms. Interestingly, the mandatory amount to be paid along with these two tenders was paid from an account belonging to the contractor, who ultimately bagged the contract with the connivance of the officials,” Mr. Sivapadnamanathan said. Pointing this out, he had sent complaints to the Secretary, Department of Highways, Chief Engineer, Department of Highways and the District Collector in September last seeking action against the erring officials and also the contractor who had submitted a dummy tender application. As no action was taken, Mr. Sivapadnamanathan filed a petition in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court with the prayer of seeking action against the officials, formation of a commission to inquire this irregularity and blacklisting of the contractor. Even as this petition is pending before the Bench, five officials – Divisional Engineer, Tenkasi, Sundar Singh, Assistant Divisional Engineer, Tenkasi, Prabhakaran Prince, Assistant Engineer (Tenkasi North), Selvan, Assistant Divisional Engineer, Sankarankovil Merlin Chrystal and Assistant Engineer, Sankarankovil, Vairamuthu - have been placed under suspension, as a face saving measure, Mr. Sivapadnamanathan said.
05 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Demolition of remnants of fort stalled||An attempt to raze down remnants of the dilapidated fort that once encircled the old Thanjavur town and connected with the Big Temple complex was stalled on Tuesday by cadre of the Communist Party of India (Marxists) and CITU. The move to demolish the small portion of the Fort remnants near the Kizhavasal area was initiated by the Thanjavur Corporation as part of the town beautification work taken up under the Smart City Project. Already, a larger extent of the dilapidated fort structure on the northern and north-eastern sides of the old town had given way to new buildings in the past and such new structures including the ones put up under various infrastructure and public welfare schemes were pulled down by the civic body once it had got its detailed project report for the Smart City Project cleared by the Central Government. Further, several tanks within the Corporation limit has also been ‘renovated’ under the project. On Tuesday, the CPI(M) Thanjavur town secretary, N.Gurusamy and CITU Thanjavur district deputy secretary, K.Anbu received information that the remnants of the fort near the Vellaipillaiyar temple on the Kizhavasal area being demolished by some people. They rushed to the spot and came to know that the work was carried out as part of the Smart City project. Subsequently, they called up the Thanjavur Corporation officials and registered their protest. They told officials that if the demolition work was not suspended, the party would mobilise support to save the ‘historic structure.’
05 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Theatres get ready for the show||Cinema theatres are gearing up to resume screening from November 10. However, following the standard operating procedure laid down by the state government and other maintenance work is expensive, theatre owners say. Theatre owners claimed that regardless of the size of the theatre complexes, the effect of the lockdown to control the spread of COVID-19 was the same. ‘We all had to shut shop. Maintenance work and preparation for the arrival of customers leaves a deep hole in our pockets,’ a theatre manager in the city said. There are around 20 cinemas in Tiruchi district alone. S. Sridhar, joint secretary, Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners Association, said that a video-conferencing meeting was organised to ensure preparedness among all members on Monday. ‘We discussed the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the state government to ensure uniformity. Apart from providing hand washing facilities and ensuring only 50% of the theatre is occupied, we have decided to provide face masks, in case a customer forgets to wear one,’ he said. Many theatre owners were led to believe that they must keep their theatres shut at least till January due to which the announcement that they can reopen caught them unawares, said P. Senthil Kumar, owner of Rambha theatre near Chathram Bus Stand. ‘We had to quickly order sanitisers, tape alternate seats to avoid patrons sitting next to one another and ensure other COVID-19 protocol is followed,’ he said. The theatre is also remodelling its rest rooms to ensure safety protocol, he added. The maintenance work is an additional expense, said Mr. Sridhar. ‘We are restarting the projectors, air-conditioning systems after eight months. It requires work which we have to pay for from our own pockets. We have decided not to charge the customers for the sanitizers, masks or any other special arrangements,’ he said. Each theatre will also appoint at least two people to ensure the strict following of the protocol, he added. Though no new big releases are expected, the owners are hopeful of people returning to cinemas. ‘Over-the-top media services (OTT) are only available in tier I and II cities where there is good Internet speed. Besides, taking one’s family out is a recreational event incomparable with online services. It will take time, but we will have our customers back soon,’ Mr. Senthilkumar said.
05 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T’s first e-convocation on Saturday||The first e-convocation of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi will witness 1,777 candidates receiving their degrees from the Director Mini Shaji Thomas in the virtual presence of Padma Vibhushan Azim premji, Founder of Wipro Limited, the chief guest. The sixteenth convocation on November 7 will be conducted by the NIT-T Chairman Bhaskar Bhat for award of degrees to students of B.Tech., B.Arch., M.Arch., M.Tech., M.Sc., MCA, MBA, and MS graduates. The Ph.D. graduation has increased to 173 from 98 last year, registering an increase of 76% over 15 months. The Ph.D. awardees include an 81-year-old doctor G. Ganapathy. The prestigious President’s Medal for overall highest CGPA will be received by L. Yeshanth of B. Tech, Electronics and Communication Engineering, and K.S. Sridharsan of B. Tech. Mechanical Engineering in person, with CGPA of 9.84. The notable fellowships won by students include two Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship (PMRF), three Cargill Fellowships, 10 DAAD, 47 MITACS, and 20 Deity Scholarships. The faculty, staff and students have risen to the occasion at the time of pandemic and have ensured continuity in the academic activities, befitting its first position among all NITs and ninth position in engineering in the NIRF 2020 India Rankings. NIT-T has climbed up in the overall rankings from the 34th to 24th position in the last three years, she said. In Web of Science journals, NIT-Tians have published 768 (3. 23 per Faculty) articles with 12,050 citations and in Scopus indexed journals 1160 (4.83 per faculty) articles with 16, 614 citations. NIT-Tians have published 26 patents and have been granted four patents last year. The total project value received from various agencies stands at Rs. 34 crore, and the institute received Rs. 6 crore as consultancy. ISRO Space Technology Innovation Centre was executing six projects to the tune of Rs. 1.6 crore, she said. A five-year strategic plan was under implementation to build on the strengths and move up in global rankings. The institute had recently inaugurated a new Centre of Excellence in Artificial Intelligence, IOT and Intelligent machines, and the Centres of Excellence in Advanced Manufacturing and Automation, Energy Harvesting and Storage Technology, Interdisciplinary research labs in Electronics System Design calibration and testing and Particulate emission from combustion and industrial processes were being commissioned. These projects entailing Rs. 15 crore investment will promote interdisciplinary research. Ninety two percent of undergraduate students and 87% postgraduates have secured placements in 220 companies. The highest domestic salary was Rs. 43 lakh per annum. The average CTC across all streams was about Rs. 11.5 lakhs per annum, she said.
05 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Slight surge in cases in central region||The number of patients, who tested positive in the central districts, saw a slight surge with 246 fresh cases reported for the infection on Wednesday. Only two deaths, both in Nagapattinam, were reported, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 64-year-old woman with co-morbidity of diabetes and a 57-year-old woman with a pre-existing condition of coronary artery disease and had undergone a bypass grafting, succumbed to COVID-19 in Nagapattinam. Meanwhile, Thanjavur district reported the highest number of infections in the region with a slight spike in cases. A total of 54 patients tested positive for the viral infection, among which were primary contacts, patients with a history of respiratory illnesses and asymptomatic patients identified at fever camps. On Wednesday, 47 patients who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital were discharged after fully recovering. Tiruchi reported 45 fresh cases of which many hailed from existing containment zones or were isolated cases. A total of seven patients, including four who hailed from Tiruchi, were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Wednesday after recovering from the viral infection. Tiruvarur reported 37 fresh cases while Pudukottai recorded 25 cases for COVID-19 among which were local index cases with no history of travel or contacts and primary contacts of patients who tested positive earlier. Nagapattinam and Karur districts too reported a slight spike with 35 and 34 new cases for the infection respectively. Patients in both districts were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. The patients in Karur included residents of Kadavur, Vegamedu among other localities. Travellers from Tiruchi, too, tested positive in Karur. In Ariyalur, nine patients reported positive while in Perambalur, seven tested positive. Among the seven in Perambalur, two hailed from the Perambalur block, one from Veppanthattai and two each from Veppur and Alathur blocks. A total of 397 new throat swabs were lifted at the various government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent to the lab for testing for COVID-19.
05 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vessel vendors expect bright prospects||Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam attracts devotees throughout the year. For many, the trip is incomplete without purchasing an iron utensil or other that are sold inside the temple premises. However, with the lockdown affecting sales, vendors are pinning their hopes on Deepavali and subsequent festive occasions to earn a living. The business of dosa kallu, appakadai, cast iron pans, paniyaram tawa and even murukku kozhai is at least a century old, said R.S. Selvaraj, who owns one of the two shops selling the heavy utensils in the temple. ‘There used to be five shops, but now, we are down to two. Our customers come from across the country and the world. Popular actors, politicians too, have our pans at home,’ he said proudly. The weight of the dosa kallu determines its quality, Mr. Selvaraj’s son S. Prabahar said, as he dropped one to the ground, making a loud noise. ‘It will make no dents or marks and will last a lifetime,’ he said. The centre of the kallu is marked with a hammer, after which concentric circles are drawn using a compass. Once the size of the kallu is determined, the edges are cut, and the edges smoothened, all by hand. The pans range from Rs. 250 - 1000, depending upon the size and weight.  My son studies in London while some relatives also reside there. Every trip we make to the country, I make sure to purchase two or three dosa kallu for them. They gift it to other Indian families while also relishing the dosas made on it, said Shanthi Giridhar, a resident of Srirangam. There are no chemical coatings, which makes them safe, Mr. Prabahar said. “We have patrons but the lockdown has affected our business. With the number of devotees entering the temple significantly low, we are unable to get new customers,” he said. For six months, the shops remained closed and business was dull, said M. Saravanan, who owns the other iron vessel shop. While the state and central government began to ease the lockdown in May, the shop owners had to wait till the temple premises opened and necessary permissions were sanctioned for stores to open. The shop owners approached the Collector, who granted permission only a fortnight ago, he said. We are hoping to make good sales ahead of Deepavali, said Mr. Saravanan. ‘Tourists will arrive in the coming months including Margazhi and up to Pongal. We hope that we are able to make up for the months we were unable to earn anything,’ he said.
05 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Good response to free NEET coaching this year||The 7.5 % reservation for entry into medical colleges has reflected in more number of students in Tiruchi district enrolling for the free NEET coaching offered by the State Government. So far, about 600 students have enrolled for the free NEET coaching in Tiruchi district and many more are expected to join. The reservation is of high significance since government school students who have cleared NEET can also apply to Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy. Last year, 448 students enrolled for the free NEET coaching programme, said Joan of Arc, Headmistress of Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Ayilapettai, the district coordinator for the free NEET coaching. ‘We are taking efforts to reach out to parents with more information about the advantages of the government’s new legislation in the interests of students of government schools in rural parts,’ she said. Teachers of government schools say earmarking of nearly 300 MBBS and dental seats for poor students, mostly from SC/ST and BC/MBC communities in government medical and dental colleges, has motivated them to encourage more number of students to enrol for the free NEET coaching programme. The teachers say the parents must be sensitised to the norm that only those students who had studied from levels VI to XII in the same school will be eligible to avail the 7.5 % reservation in medical and dental seats in government colleges. This year, for instance, there were 33 students of government schools who had the requisite cut-off to take part in counselling for medical admissions. But, 10 students were ineligible since they had secured admission from seventh standard onwards. Amphisoft Technologies with which the government has tied up for offering the free NEET coaching conducts classes and practice tests on a daily basis in Physics, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology for the enrolled students, has begun the coaching process. The coaching sessions, at a later point, would also encompass mock tests, unit tests and revision tests to determine the preparedness of students to face NEET.
05 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drop in rainfall in Tiruchi district||North-east monsoon has failed to make a good beginning in the district this year. The district receives an average of 788 mm a year. Of this, the North-East monsoon from October to December contributes 427.37 mm. The rain received in October and November is crucial in meeting out the average amount of rainfall in north-east monsoon. It normally sets in the third or fourth week of October and continues up to the third week of December. It was hoped that the monsoon would set in by October end. Though a few parts of the State particularly in northern parts received rain for a few days in the last week of October, the district has not received significant rainfall in October. There are no clear signs to believe that the monsoon rain has begun in Tiruchi and neighbouring districts. As against 169.80 mm of normal rainfall in October, Tiruchi district received just 59.68 mm. It is 113 mm short of the normal rainfall of October. There has been no rain in November so far. “We used to have at least 4 or 5 rainy days in October. But, we did not record any rainy days in the month,” says a senior official of the district. The rain in October would generally come in handy for the standing samba crop. It would have reduced the quantum of water release from the Mettur dam for irrigation. Now, the district was waiting for the rain in November, the official added. The district receives 187.31 mm rain in November. Though there has been no rain so far, officials hope that the district will get the normal rainfall during this month. Pointing to the excess rainfall received in the south-west monsoon, the official said that the widespread rainfall during the season had enabled the recharge of the groundwater and meeting the water demand of rainfed cultivation in the district to an extent. As against 221.74 mm of average rainfall in the south-west monsoon, the district received 420.13 mm. All four months of the season right from June to September yielded good rainfall this year. “We have so far received 546.26 mm this year. With nearly two months left in the north east monsoon, we may cross the average rainfall. But, we may have to experience the impact of erratic rainfall on the output of rainfed cultivation,” the official said.
05 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco employees protest privatisation move||Condemning the ‘anti-worker attitude and policies’ of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) Chairman and Managing Director Pankaj Kumar Bansal and the move to privatise the operations Tangedco, the employees struck work and staged a day-long dharna on Wednesday. In the protest organised in front of the Office of Executive Engineer, Tangedco, at Thiyagaraja Nagar in Palayamkottai, large number of Tangedco employees affiliated to various trade unions participated. The protestors said the CMD of Tangedco was “autocratically” transferring the engineers working in upcoming power generation projects at Uppur, Udangudi and Ennore which was causing undue delay in construction and the predetermined quality of the construction could not be ensured. “As retired engineers of Tangedco were being hired again and sub-stations at Sankaraapuram and Samayanallur were being given to private firms for maintenance and operation for two years, this would deny employment opportunities and the privatisation move would also dash the engineers hopes of getting promotions,” they charged. Power generation in Thoothukudi, North Chennai and Mettur thermal power plants was being stopped wantonly to create artificial shortfall in generation and steps were being taken to purchase power from private firms. “We suspect that it is the first step being taken towards privatising power generation,” the protestors said. The delay in appointing Assistant Engineers in 63 section offices had phenomenally increased the burden on others. The delay in filling-up 42,000 vacancies has increased the pressure on the existing workforce which would naturally affect the quality of work. “Since the top-brass of Tangedco is not worried about the well-being of the public sector enterprise and the move to privatise the public sector undertaking will certainly blow a death knell in the near future, workers from various trade unions have joined hands to save it from certain strangulation,” the protestors said. Trade union leaders S. Kasi Viswanathan of AITUC, R. Mohan of CITU, A. Dharman of Thozhilaalar Munnetra Sangam, S. Solomon of National Labourers’ Organisation, N. Muthiah of TNEB Employees Federation, P. Esakki Raj of AMMK Trade Union, former Union Minister Dhanushkodi Athithan and others spoke. Ramanathapuram Demanding the Tangedco chairman-cum-managing director (CMD)to hold talks with all the trade union representatives with regard to vacancies and other issuesabout 500 members participated in the protest at Ramanathapuram. Dindigul In Dindigul, close to 800 employees staged a demonstration in front of the Tangedco office here at Meenakshi Naickenpatti. They urged that bonus should be given to all contract workers too.
05 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Ex-serviceman, son held for firing at BJP functionary||The Perumalpuram police have arrested an ex-serviceman and his son for allegedly shooting at a BJP functionary following a heated argument that broke-out between them due to prior enmity. The victim, who has been admitted to a private hospital, is out of danger. Police said ex-serviceman S. Ponraj Jebamani, 65, of Perumalpuram had a long running feud with L. Periyadurai, 32, also from Perumalpuram, as the latter reportedly did not maintain hygiene in his meat shop that was situated opposite to Jebamani’s house. When a heated argument broke out on Wednesday morning between Jebamani and Periyadurai, who is also the Tirunelveli district general secretary of BJP’s youth wing, the latter filmed the argument on his mobile phone. An enraged Jebamani fired at the meat shop owner with his licensed rifle and Periyadurai sustained injury on the right elbow. After first-aid was administered to him at the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, Periyadurai was shifted to a private orthopaedic speciality hospital near Vaeinthaankulam new bus stand for treatment. Following registration of case against Jebamani and his son P. Churchill Sundar Singh, 37, by the Perumalpuram police under Sections 307 of Indian Penal Code, they were arrested. Jebamani alleged that Periyadurai attacked Churchill following the heated argument and hence he, in a bid to save his son, had retaliated. Periyadurai said the accused used to get meat from his shop free of cost. “Since he is the elder brother of slain ‘Karate’ Selwyn, he used to get meat from me without paying a penny. When he asked me to give meat on Wednesday morning also, I refused and he fired at me with the rifle,” Mr. Periyadurai said. When the police searched the house of Jebamani, the law-enforcers seized two empty cartridges and 12 live cartridges. Meanwhile, a group of BJP cadre, who came to the Perumalpuram police, demanded registration of a case against the father and the son under non-bailable sections of Indian Penal Code.
05 November 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Pay premium for crop insurance, farmers told||The last date to pay the premium to insure samba and thaladi crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana for Paddy-II for 2020 is November 30. In a press release, Collector V.Santha urged farmers to insure their crop by paying Rs. 488.25 per acre as premium through the societies or the nationalised banks. Those who have not taken any loan to raise the crop could also insure their crop by remitting the premium. For insuring their crop, they should get the ‘adangal’ document for the current ‘fasli’ year from the concerned village administrative officer and submit the same at the societies or any nationalised bank along with the copies of the first page of the bank passbook and their Aadhaar card while remitting the premium. Stating that the insurance scheme for Paddy-II had been extended to all the villages, Ms.Santha said that this time certain changes have been made in the scheme. This year, farmers who wish to avail the crop insurance may alone apply for the same as the compulsory insurance clause i.e. all crop raised using crop loans must be insured had been removed. Further, an area-based crop-based approach is to be adopted for arriving at the yield loss, she added. In addition, add-on coverages such as sowing/planting/germination risk, mid-season adversity, post-harvest loss, localised calamities and crop loss due to attack by wild animals may be provided by the insurance companies in consultation with the State-level coordination committee. The basic cover under the scheme covers the risk of loss of yield to the standing crop (sowing to harvesting) due to non-preventable risks such as drought, dry spells, flood etc .
05 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rifle seized from estate where leopard was shot dead||The Forest Department has made a major breakthrough that could lead them to identifying those responsible for shooting dead a leopard at a tea estate in Athima Nagar, Pandalur, on October 27. According to officials, during a search operation in the estate after the incident, field staff found a rifle hidden beneath a tree in a sack. The rifle had been dismantled into four pieces and had been kept hidden. Incidentally, the firearm was found just a couple of metres away from the residence of one of the managers of the tea estate where the animal was found dead. The manager had left the town the day after the incident occurred and has not returned since, officials said. When contacted, District Forest Officer (Gudalur division), Sumesh Soman, confirmed that a weapon had been seized, but said that it was too early to come to a conclusion as to whether it was used to shoot the leopard. “It will be produced before a magistrate, and then following proper procedures, will be sent for ballistics analysis,” said Mr. Soman. The male leopard, believed to be around five-years-old, was found dead in a major tea estate in Athima Nagar. A postmortem had revealed that the animal had a bullet injury to its left hind leg. The incident came just a month after an elephant was found dead with a similar bullet injury.
05 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Lantana Elephants’ find a home||The elephant sculptures made of Lantana camara , an invasive plant species, at Gudalur have found a temporary home with the British royal family. Five of the 100 elephants produced by Adivasi artisans at Gudalur last year are housed at Highgrove, the country home of Prince Charles and his wife Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall. The elephants were set to be part of an art exhibit in aid of Elephant Family — a charity set up to protect Asian elephants. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has led to a delay in the exhibition, said Shubhra Nayar, founder of The Real Elephant Collective, which partners the charity and engages members of local indigenous communities to produce these sculptures. “As the exhibition had to be delayed, the royal family stepped in and took in some of the sculptures, while Prince Charles and his wife have got their friends and family to do the same till the exhibition is held,” Ms. Nayar said. Some of the sculptures weigh more than 300 kg and are more than eight feet tall, each uniquely sculpted to resemble the elephants residing in the Gudalur landscape. Despite the plaudits that the sculptures have received internationally, the pandemic has affected the indigenous communities that make these works of art. To ensure that these communities continue to have livelihoods, the Elephant Collective has partnered with www.habba.org, and is diversifying the range of products they produce, with furniture and other items made from the Lantana camara weed being sold online. “By making these sculptures, we have ensured the livelihood of more than 70 families over the last three years, and their keen knowledge and relationship with elephants has really brought the sculptures alive,” said Ms. Nayar. By using this invasive weed, which has taken over large swathes of the native forests, in furniture and sculptures, these communities help to protect the native forests and rejuvenate the landscapes.
05 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Campaign sensitises residents to dangers of lead poisoning||The Nilgiris Collector, J. Innocent Divya, flagged off an awareness campaign here to mark International Lead Poisoning Prevention Week. The campaign aimed at taking the taking the message of the dangers of lead poisoning to local residents through awareness boards and messages, was launched on October 29 in Erode. Arulagam, a conservation NGO, has been leading the campaign against lead paint in Tamil Nadu and has been sensitising children and painters working at construction sites about the dangers of lead paint. As part of the campaign, S. Bharathidasan, secretary, Arulagam, appealed to the Collector to regulate the use of hazardous paints in anganwadis and schools. “The district administration immediately issued instructions to include the use of lead-free paint in the tenders for works and adhere to government norms,” a release said.
05 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened for CM’s visit||Security has been stepped up for the Chief Minister's visit to the Nilgiris on Friday. Police officials said that more than 42 teams of personnel will be deployed during the duration of Edappadi K. Palaniswami's visit. “More than 1,200 police personnel will be deployed across the district," an official said. Bomb detection squads and sniffer dogs will also be deployed in the district. In Tiruppur, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam will organise cultural programmes to welcome Mr. Palaniswami during his visit on Friday, said Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan. The Minister chaired a meeting with officials at the Collectorate to review the preparations. Mr. Radhakrishnan told presspersons that the AIADMK will organise programmes to thank the Chief Minister for projects such as the fourth drinking water supply scheme of Tiruppur Corporation, the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and the Veterinary College and Research Institute at Udumalpet taluk. The district administration organised COVID-19 tests for all those who will be present during Mr. Palaniswami's visit.
05 November 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram lab completes 2 lakh tests||The Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH) has crossed a significant milestone by doing over 2 lakh RT-PCR tests for COVID-19. The VRDL, which is a decade old, was one of the earliest labs to get approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Initially started as a sample collection centre, the lab was recognised as a testing centre by the National Institute of Virology (NIV). “ICMR granted permission to VRDL to carry out COVID-19 testing on March 25. Starting with just three samples a day, the testing was ramped up to reach 3,500 samples a day in August,” said Kundhavi Devi, Dean of GVMCH. Initially, RNA extraction was done manually with just a machine and a few technicians and scientists. The administration then stepped in to make special arrangements, and three RNA extractors were added to the lab to scale up testing over the next two months. Although the pandemic was a turning point for the department, the team led by P. Balapriya, head of the department, and R. Deepa, associate professor, rose to the challenge and responded positively by enhancing the testing capacity, processing the samples and announcing the results in the shortest possible time, Dr. Kundhavi Devi said. According to P. Shankar, principal investigator of VRDL, positivity rate in the district was 2.4 % while the recovery rate was 89%. The district had not reported any death in the last 37 days. “Of the 2.25 lakh samples processed so far, a majority of them are from Villupuram district. Initially, we received samples from four districts — Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore. With the State government sanctioning new labs for Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai and Kallakurichi, the burden on VRDL has reduced,” Mr. Shankar added. At present, the lab has been processing 1,500-2,000 samples a day as against its capacity of 3,000-3,500 a day. The lab is equipped with TrueNat/CBNAAT based testing to provide results in 45 minutes. The construction of a new building for VRDL is almost complete and will be inaugurated soon, sources said.
05 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Man held for duping people||Virudhunagar District Crime Branch here on Wednesday arrested a youth, Saravanakumar, on charges of cheating several persons to the tune of Rs. 2.73 crore on the promise of getting them jobs in Government departments and Government contracts. The police said that one Kannan, a Government Contractor had come in contact with a policeman, Rajapandi, who is said to have introduced him to Saravanakumar of Tirumangalam. Rajapandi had told Kannan that Saravanakumar, his cousin, was employed in the State Secretariat in Chennai, and his father, Tiruvalluvan, was an official in Tirumangalam municipal office. Saravanakumar had told Kannan that he had acquaintance with several top officials and he could fetch Government jobs for people. Similarly, he had taken money from several persons through Kannan on the promise of getting them Government contracts. As he reportedly failed to keep his promise and did not return Rs. 2.73 crore, Kannan lodged a complaint. Saravanakumar was arrested on Wednesday. Further investigation is under way. The police said that the role of other persons in the crime was to be investigated.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Further drop in number of active cases in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district on Wednesday witnessed further drop in the number of COVID-19 active cases. The district reported 220 new cases. As per the details shared by the Health Department, 1,040 COVID-19 patients from the district were under institutional care on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the district had 1,064 patients. The department said that 240 persons from the district recovered from the disease and got discharged from treatment centres and COVID-19 Care Centres on Wednesday. Coimbatore district's death toll increased to 568 with the death of four patients on Monday and Tuesday. Tiruppur district's number of active cases stood at 1,039 on Wednesday with the addition of 122 new cases. While 106 persons from Tiruppur district returned to their homes after recovering from the disease, one patient died on Monday, said the department. Erode district reported 110 new cases taking the tally to 10,670. While 70 persons were discharged, 804 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, raising the toll in the district to 130. Salem reported 103 new cases taking the district’s tally to 27,721. While 125 persons were discharged, 1,223 continued to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 422. Namakkal district reported 54 cases taking the tally to 9,320. As many as 86 persons were discharged, while 447 persons continued to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 45 new cases, with three persons discharged after treatment. The district has a total of 274 people currently under treatment. A total of 6,690 cases of infection were registered since March, besides 106 deaths. Dharmapuri recorded 27 new cases and six persons were discharged after treatment. The district has 180 current cases. A total of 5,688 cases of infection were reported, besides 49 deaths, so far. In the Nilgiris, 25 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in stands at 6,800. The death toll in the district was 39. The district administration said that 282 people are undergoing treatment.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hoping for a bounty||
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surge yet to occur in 4 districts, 1 BBMP zone: Sero survey||Four districts and one BBMP zone in Karnataka are yet to witness a surge in COVID-19 infection, according to the findings of the first round of seroprevalence survey conducted by the State government in association with various stakeholders. The four districts - Dharwad, Gadag, Chickballapur, Bagalkot and BBMP’s Mahadevapura zone - have been found to have the lowest estimated prevalence and hence the surge is yet to occur there, according to the survey findings. Different stages Karnataka is passing through different stages of the COVID-19 pandemic in different districts. While Vijayapura has the highest percentage of population (23.9%) that has developed Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, Ballari has the highest percentage (34.5%) of the population with active infections. The percentage of the population that has developed antibodies in Ballari is 22.1%. The overall prevalence is also the highest in Ballari with 43.1% while it is the lowest in Dharwad with 8.7%. With a mere 4.1% of the surveyed population in Bagalkot having developed antibodies, this district has the lowest immune response. Vijayapura is followed by Belagavi where 23.7% of the surveyed population has developed antibodies. With 6.4% active infections here, the overall prevalence in this district is 30.1%. While Davangere has the second highest overall prevalence with 40.6%, Udupi follows with 36.4%. Giridhar R Babu, member, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) said the study recommends establishing district-level facility-based sentinel sero-surveillance to monitor the trend of infection in the long term systematically. “This can inform local decision-making at the district level to mount the necessary public health response towards the COVID-19 epidemic in the State.  Infection Fatality Rate Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said an analysis based on the survey showed that the Infection Fatality Rate (IFR) due to COVID-19 in the State is 0.05%. “The districts with a high infection fatality rate suggest that clinical care needs to be improved in these places. The present IFR is likely an underestimate. The overall IFR based on the first round of sentinel sero-survey findings is 0.07%. The IFR reported across other cities are Mumbai (0.05-0.10%), Pune at 0.08%, Delhi is at 0.09, and Chennai is at 0.13%,” the Minister said. He said the State will take up two more follow-up surveys in December and March to measure the extent and speed of transmission and evaluate the impact of containment strategies over time in the State.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court gives clean chit to George, two police officers in Ganapathy case||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday quashed the entire criminal proceedings initiated against former Minister K.J. George and senior IPS officers A.M. Prasad and Pronab Mohanty for allegedly abetting Deputy Superintendent of Police M.K Ganapathy to commit suicide in July 2016. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while allowing the petitions filed by Mr. George, Mr. Prasad and Mr. Mohanty. They had questioned the legality of the August 28, 2020 order passed by the special court taking cognisance of offence of abetting suicide against them by rejecting the closure report submitted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “Since the material on record does not prima facie disclose commission of offence by the petitioners, the action initiated against the petitioners/accused being wholly illegal, perverse and amounting to abuse of process of court, deserves to be quashed,” the High Court observed. “It is evident that the deceased [Ganapathy] suffered mental torture for not getting executive posting of his liking and not on account of harassment by accused as held by the special court,” the High Court said on analysing statements of witnesses, including his wife, father and others. The High Court termed “nothing but perverse and ignoring the obvious” the observation made by the special court that there is no prima facie case to show that the deceased was suffering from any mental depression. Last TV interview “I have gone through the entire transcript [of Ganapthy’s interview on a television channel before death]. I do not find anything therein which would prima facie disclose the elements of instigation or abetment by any one of the accused constituting the ingredients of the offence under section 306 of IPC,” observed Justice Cunha. “The findings and the observations made by the learned Special Judge in the impugned order are perverse to the core as no prudent person could arrive at the conclusion based on the material on record that the petitioners/accused were instrumental in driving the deceased to commit suicide. The evidence collected by the investigating agency, even if accepted in its entirety, does not disclose mens rea or instigation or conspiracy by the petitioners making out the ingredients of the offence under section 306 r/w 34 of IPC,” the High Court said. The High Court also held that “in the absence of any material to make out the ingredients of the above offence, there was absolutely no reason or justification for the special court to reject the well-founded report filed by CBI and to take cognizance of the alleged offence and issue summons to the petitioners.” The statements, which are duly supported by medical records “clinchingly point out that the deceased was suffering from neurotic disorder, loss of memory and depression. Even laymen who came in contact with him have observed the abnormal behaviour of the deceased,” the High Court observed.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parties make calculations based on voter turnout||A day after a contrasting voting pattern emerged in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies where bypolls were held on Tuesday, political circles are agog with calculations over the winnability. Sira is being seen as a tight three-cornered fight and R.R. Nagar as a direct fight between the Congress and the BJP. Ducking the COVID-19 pandemic, Sira recorded 84.54% turnout while R.R. Nagar saw its worst performance in terms of voting in five elections since 2013 at 45.24%. Booth-wise calculations on voting figures are being interpreted in different ways by the parties. While both the Congress and the BJP exuded confidence in winning both the Assembly constituencies, the Janata Dal (Secular) has expressed confidence of retaining Sira. “We will win in Sira as our traditional voters turned out in big numbers. Our information from ground is that sympathy factor has worked,” JD(S) spokesperson T.A. Sharavana said. The impressive turnout, especially by women, farmers and electors above 40 years in rural pockets in Sira constituency is being seen as a support to the JD(S) while the BJP’s confidence comes from a big turnout of young voters in Sira town as well as rural pockets. The Congress is banking on its traditional votes. “The BJP will secure more than 9% that it had garnered in the previous elections. It will be interesting to see how they will make inroads into JD(S) or Congress vote bank. It is expected that the Vokkaliga votes — a sizeable chunk — will consolidate. The party that will retain its vote bank is likely to be the victor,” a leader said. However, BJP spokesperson N. Ravikumar said that there is a divide of Kunchitiga-Vokkaliga votes in Sira as all the three parties fielded candidates from the same community even as the minor and major backward classes and Scheduled Castes have voted for BJP. In R.R. Nagar, low turnout has given some jitters to the Congress. “Even in the low turnout, the pockets where voters from socio-economically weaker sections are high in number turned out in big numbers, and they are believed to be supporters of BJP candidate Munirathna. However, there could be some kind of consolidation of Vokkaliga votes in favour of Congress,” a Congress source said. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said that low turnout is a reflection of people’s disillusionment with both the State and Union governments.  We will win in Sira as our traditional voters turned out in big numbers. Our information from ground is that sympathy factor has worked.T.A. SharavanaJD(S) spokesperson
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1.7% people had both IgG antibodies and active infection at the same time||An estimated 1.7% of the population surveyed in the State had both IgG antibodies and active infection at the same time. Giridhar R. Babu, member, State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who designed the survey protocol, told The Hindu that there are some individuals who show the presence of virus and IgG antibodies at the same time. “While the overall adjusted prevalence of COVID-19 in the State is 27.3% (combined IgG and active infection), the total number of those who have developed antibodies and those who currently have the infection is 29.1% (16.4% plus 12.7%). The difference 1.7% is the estimated percentage that have the active infection and IgG antibodies at the same time,” Dr. Babu said.“This is because some of the RNA remnants can remain in the body and such individuals can test positive for as long as four weeks. In the case of infection in the recent past, IgG will be there. In addition, they can test positive by RTPCR also,” he explained. Stating that such a finding had not been found in any of the sero surveys done in other States, Dr. Babu said: “Surveys in other States only looked at presence of IgG antibodies. Ours is first to do both IgG and active infection through RAT/RT PCR at the same time,” he added.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arrears to be recovered in 2022, 2023||If you think the seven-month delay in revising electricity tariffs has saved you from paying more, given that the new tariffs will be applicable after November 1, then here is the bad news: the relief is only temporary. The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has said that against the total revenue gap of Rs. 2,473 crore, Rs. 1,443 crore that would have been recovered as additional revenue towards tariff revision for seven months from April 1, 2020 to October 31, 2020 has been kept as ‘regulatory asset’ to be recovered from the consumers in the financial years 2022 and 2023. This, the commission said, is to “ensure that the consumers are not burdened owing to adverse economic conditions during the COVID-19 pandemic”. Pendency of an appeal filed by KPTCL before the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (ATE) against a KERC order issued in January 2020, which was disposed in October, and the election code of conduct coming into force also caused delay, the commission said. The remaining revenue gap of Rs. 1,030 crore will be allowed to be recovered during the five-month balance period in the current financial year by tariff revision, the KERC has said. Fixed charges up In another blow to consumers, fixed charges (FC) have been increased by Rs. 10 per kW/HP/kVA for all installations except irrigation pumpsets. Defending this, the KERC has said: “As per the current tariff structure, the recovery of FC from consumers is not commensurate with the actual fixed expenditure being incurred by the ESCOMs. A substantial part of the FC is being recovered through energy charges. The current level of recovery of fixed charges is only 27.73% and the remaining fixed charges are being recovered through energy charges. To ensure full recovery of FC, the commission has decided to increase the FC gradually year on year. With this marginal increase in the FC, the recovery would be to the extent of 33%.” Category-wise increase The increase in tariffs is uniform across all ESCOMs with a marginal differential increase in the BESCOM area. The slab-wise increase in the energy charges is ranging between 20 paise to 25 paise per unit across all categories except for Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited, battery charging station for electric vehicles (EVs), while there is an increase of 50 paise per unit for temporary installations, the KERC release said. The average increase in tariff, including the fixed charges, is 40 paise per unit. Category-wise, for domestic consumers, installations of government or charitable educational institutions, and hospitals serviced by BESCOM in the BBMP and other municipal corporation areas, the overall tariff increase is 25 paise per unit The increase in tariff for LT industrial consumers, HT industrial users, LT commercial category users, and private educational institutions and private hospitals is 25 paise per unit. Last year, the commission had allowed a 33 paise per unit increase across all ESCOMS against the hikes they had sought, ranging from Rs. 1 to Rs. 1.67 per unit. This year, BESCOM sought a massive Rs. 1.96 per unit hike citing a revenue deficit of Rs. 5,872.08 crore for 2020-21.  ‘Untimely hike’ Reacting to the tariff hike, Y.G. Muralidharan from the Karnataka Electricity Governance Network (KEGN) said the regulatory asset itself is staggering it for future areas and is a liability for consumers. “It is also important to look at the power purchase cost as it is around 50% to 55% of the tariff. This year, ideally, they should have purchased more hydel with such copious rain,” he said. Energy expert M.G. Prabhakar said, “Apart from the tariff creation of Rs. 1,443 crore regulatory asset combined with regulatory asset creation arising out of the ATE order on KPTCL true up to Rs. 1,331 crore for five-year period would have a telling effect on manufacturing. Investment and production will take a beating,” he said.  Other highlights   Rs. 1 per unit penalty for morning peak usage between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. withdrawn to encourage HT industrial consumption   Penal charges of Rs. 1 per unit to continue for energy consumed during evening peak hours between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m.   Special incentive scheme for HT consumers introduced in 2018 to continue   To promote conservation of energy through use of LED bulbs in public lighting, rebate increased to 105 paise
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru West zone has highest overall prevalence||Bengaluru West has the highest percentage of population that has developed Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies. An estimated 35.1% of the 405 samples of individuals surveyed in the zone have shown to have developed antibodies. With 13.2% of the same population having had an active infection, the zone also has the highest overall prevalence at 45.6%. While R.R. Nagar has the highest percentage of population with active infections at 16.4%, BBMP’s Yelahanka zone had the lowest with 5.1% active infections. The overall prevalence in Bengaluru conglomerate (Bengaluru Urban and BBMP zones) is 29.8% of the total 3,617 samples surveyed. This includes 22% who developed antibodies and 9.2% who had an active infection. An estimated 1.4% of the population has had both antibodies and active infection. West zone was followed by Bengaluru South where 29.9% had developed antibodies and 10.7% had an active infection. The overall prevalence here is 38.9%. The survey found that BBMP’s Mahadevapura zone had the lowest immune response with only 7% having developed antibodies. At 14%, the overall prevalence is the lowest here among all the eight zones. In Bengaluru Urban, 15% of the population had developed antibodies and 9.8% had active infections. The overall prevalence here is 23.3%. Giridhar R. Babu, member, State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), told The Hindu, that four zones from Bengaluru - Bommanahalli, BBMP East, BBMP West, BBMP South, apart from Mysuru - also have a low case to infection ratio. “This suggests that the strategy employed for testing is reasonable here and can be replicated,” he said.
05 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP State executive to adopt resolutions on NEP, APMC Act||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s State executive committee meet in Mangaluru on Thursday has attracted attention in the wake of speculations that the party high command was considering change of guard. But sources in the party made it clear that no such discussion was on the agenda and maintained that there would not be any deviate from the schedule. However, the possibility of members making reference to the remarks of senior leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal that B.S. Yediyurappa’s term as Chief Minister was set to end soon cannot be ruled out, a party leader observed. “But the committee meeting will not be a forum where issues related to leadership change would be discussed,” he said. Election performance According to party leaders, the State executive would adopt three resolutions besides taking stock of political developments and getting reports from local units on the party’s performance in the recently concluded byelections to two Assembly seats and biennial elections to four seats in the Legislative Council. “There will be a resolution on the National Education Policy-2020, highlighting its importance and stressing the need for its implementation. The second resolution would refer to COVID-19 pandemic and floods. The third would be on defending the new APMC Act,” a BJP leader said. The executive meet would be attended by D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Pralhad Joshi, and C.T. Ravi among others.
05 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BWSSB to hold water adalat today||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will hold a water adalat on Thursday in the offices of the Assistant Executive Engineer between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. to address grievances of consumers relating to billing, delay in providing supply and sanitary connections, delay in converting domestic connection to non-domestic connection, and other related issues. According to a BWSSB release, it will be held at the following sub divisions: West 1 sub division, RPC Layout, Vijayanagar II Stage; South West-1: V.V. Puram, opposite National College, Basavanagudi; South East 1, Swami Vivekananda Road, Ulsoor; South 1, Jamboosavari Dinne, J.P. Nagar, 8th Phase; East 2-1: HRBR Layout, Kalyan Nagar; East-1-1: BEML Layout, Kundalahalli Main Road. North Village 2: Major Unnikrishnan Road, Yelahanka. Central 1 sub division, Tulasi Thota, Chikka Lalbagh. North West-1: Rajajinagar Ist N Block and North West 4 sub division, 7th Main, MEI Layout, Hesarghatta Road.
05 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power supply will be hit||There will be no power supply from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. in the areas serviced by RBI, Khodays, Jayadeva, Sarakki, Arehally and Banashankari sub-stations from November 5 to November 7 in view of conversion and cable works. According to a release, the areas that will be affected are: November 5: RBI: F-12, Jayadeva F-10, Arehalli F-3. November 6: Jayadeva F-3, Banashankari F-2, Sarakki F-24 and F-15. November 7: Jayadeva: F-9, Khodays - F-14, and Banashankari - F-6.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No decision yet on schools||No decision has been taken with regard to either re-opening of schools in the State or re-starting the Vidyagama scheme, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said today. He told reporters after a meeting with officials of the Education Department that they discussed the issue of re-opening of schools and had collated information from other States. Schools have already re-opened in Andhra Pradesh and according to news reports, 57 teachers and around six students have tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Kumar said the Commissioner of Public Instruction would hold consultations with officials from Departments of Social Welfare and Health, and the BBMP apart from representatives of School Development Monitoring Committees (SDMCs) from all taluks. The Commissioner would also consult departments concerned with regard to Morarji Desai residential schools, Kittur Chennamma schools and Ashrama schools in the State. The officials would use the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) network to consult with representatives from at least two SDMCs in all taluks. “We cannot go lower than the taluk level for consultations,” he said. After the three-day consultations that end on Friday, the Commissioner would submit a report, he said and added that senior officials had already met with the various Deputy Directors of Public Instruction (DDPI) and Block Education Officers (BEOs). “We have also consulted schoolteachers’ associations.”
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disproportionate assets case: Baig’s plea dismissed||The Karnataka High Court has dismissed former Minister R. Roshan Baig’s petition challenging the proceedings initiated against him by the special court on the allegation of amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, based on a private complaint filed in 2012. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while dismissing the petitions filed by Mr. Baig, his wife Sabiha Roshan, and son Ruman Baig. Meanwhile, the High Court clarified that there was no bar on the special court to take cognisance of offences against Mr. Baig as prior sanction was not required to prosecute him when the special court took cognisance of offence against only against his wife and son in May 2018. On finding that the disproportionate assets held by Mr. Baig and his family members amounted to Rs. 56.71 lakh when compared to their income from all sources from the available documents, the special court had found a prima facie case to proceed against them by rejecting the “B” report filed by the investigating officer by wrongly forming an opinion that assets, only to the tune of around 10% in excess of the income from known sources, does not amount to disproportionate asset. Special court was justified in proceeding against the accused persons by rejecting the “B” report filed by the investigation officer of the Lokayukta police, the High Court said while directing the special court to continue the proceedings as per the law by also taking cognisance of offences against Mr. Baig.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Focus on containing virus during winter’||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has expressed satisfaction over the measures taken by Karnataka to check the spread of COVID-19. The Union Minister held a video-conference with the representatives of the Karnataka government on the measures taken to the prevent the spread of the pandemic and also the preparations for distribution of vaccine. He asked the State authorities to prepare a meticulous action plan to tackle the pandemic during the winter and the festivities. He also directed the authorities to keep a strict vigil on international and inter-State passengers besides taking measures to prevent the spread of pandemic by identifying the SARI and ILI cases and testing them. Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told the Union Minister that the situation was coming under control now owing to the stringent precautionary measures taken by the government besides the increase in testing. The State government had set a target of reducing the mortality rate to a level of below 1%, he explained. He also requested the Union Minister to direct the authorities to increase the number of tests being conducted a day in central labs in Karnataka. His other requests included Central assistance to set up more oxygen plants and providing more number of RTPCR kits.
05 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Watching other States’ moves on love jihad’||A day after his Cabinet colleague C.T. Ravi announced that the State would come out with a law to curb religious conversions for the sake of marriage, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said Karnataka would not only consult legal experts, but also watch the moves of other States while enacting the legislation. Expressing concern over “lover jihad”, he said the government would take effective legal measures to prevent it.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IIPM to launch journal||On its 28th Foundation Day, Indian Institute of Plantation Management Bengaluru will be launching a journal titled ‘International Journal of Agribusiness and Plantation Management’ on Friday. Chairman IIPM, S. Kishore, who is also the Additional Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, will release the journal.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,377 new cases, 34 deaths||The State on Wednesday reported 3,377 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number of cases to 8,35,773. With 34 new deaths, the toll rose to 11,281. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 8,045 persons were discharged on Wednesday taking the total number of recoveries to 7,88,780. Of the remaining 35,693 active cases, 928 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.29%, Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1%. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,953 cases taking the tally to 3,43,507. With 16 of the 34 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,917. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 18,806. As many as 1,02,503 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours including 75,045 RT-PCR tests. The total number of tests rose to 82,88,179.
05 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KRRS plans road blockade today to condemn farm laws||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha will block the movement of vehicles on highways across the State for an hour on November 5 to mark iis opposition to the anti-farm laws adopted by the State and Central governments, Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president of the Sangha, said in Hassan on Tuesday. Speaking at a programme, he said both the Centre and State governments have adopted policies which were against the interest of farmers. The people in power did not consult farmers before bringing in laws that would affect the community badly. The State governments in Punjab, Rajasthan and Kerala have opposed the bills passed by the Centre. However, the Karnataka government had not taken such a stand and nobody could expect it from the BJP government.  Double standards “If we farmers gather to protest the laws, the government opposes it citing the COVID-19 pandemic. But, these rules do not apply to those campaigning in the by-elections”, he said. The farmers would protest against the laws across the State on November 5. They would stop vehicles on the highways, he said and appealed to the farmers to join the protest in big numbers.
05 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hasanamba jatra to be telecast live||Hassan district administration has made arrangements to telecast the proceedings of Hasanamba Jatra Mahotsava, beginning on Thursday, live online. Devotees can visit http://hasanambalive2020.com to have darshan of the deity and watch programmes held on the temple premises. They can also visit Facebook pages of Deputy Commissioner of Hassan (dchassan) and Information Department of Hassan (hassanvarthe). The administration has installed LED screens at 10 places. Among them, four would around the temple and the remaining six at different places in the city. They include city bus stand, sub-registrar’s office, district stadium, Vidya Nagar, and Tanneeru Halla.
05 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||UGC directive criticised||Kannada teachers of Kuvempu University have opposed the choice-based credit system, saying that the new arrangement will reduce the number of hours for teaching the Kannada language at graduation and post-graduation levels. The association of Kannada teaching staff members in the university has demanded that Kannada language be made compulsory for all six semesters of graduate courses. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has instructed the universities to have CBCS. With this new system, Kannada teaching at graduation would lose significance, said H.T. Krishnamurthy, president of the association. The students would hardly study the language.
05 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bed-ridden pensioners can now register their Digital Life Certificate at home||With EPS (Employees Pension Scheme) pensioners required to submit their Jeevan Pramaan Patra- Digital Life Certificate in November and December, the Regional Office of Employees Provident Fund (EPF) in Hubballi has taken steps for the benefit of bed-ridden pensioners residing in the region. In a press release, Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner Sudhir Ranjan has said that the regional office would be making arrangements to register Digital Life Certificate of bed-ridden pensioners at their residences. For that, family members of such pensioners should inform the regional office through email, ro.hubliepfindia.gov.in, with complete details. Subsequently, arrangements would be made to get Digital Life Certificate registered at the residences of such pensioners, he has said in the release. He has said that to avoid queues of pensioners during a health crisis, various steps had been taken. “The Jeevan Pramaan Patra can be obtained round the year and will be valid for one year from the date of issue. Pensioners who have obtained the Jeevan Pramaan Patra after January 2020 may obtain it again after the completion of the one-year from the date of issue of the previous Jeevan Pramaan Patra,” he has said. He has clarified that for new pensioners for whom the Pension Payment Order has been issued during 2020, there was no need to obtain Jeevan Pramaan Patra for the next one year from date of issue of Pension Payment Order. Service centres  Nearly 1,000 Common Service Centres (CSCs) have been authorised to issue Jeevan Pramaan Patra in the jurisdiction of Hubballi Regional Office, which covers the districts of Dharwad, Belagavi, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada. Pensioners can accordingly obtain the Jeevan Pramaan Patra from their nearest Common Service Centres, the release said. For details about the nearest centre, click the link https://locator.csccloud.in/. Pensioners can also, if required, approach their respective bank branches for obtaining the Jeevan Pramaan Patra, as in the previous years, the release said.
05 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||LIC pensioners stage dharna in Dharwad||Seeking improvements in pensionary benefits, members of the LIC Retired Employees Association staged a dharna in Dharwad on Tuesday. Led by president of the Dharwad unit of the association N.S. Datar and general secretary B.N. Poojary, the pensioners sought immediate acceptance of the recommendations of the LIC Board on improving pensionary benefits. They staged the dharna in front of the office of LIC of India in Dharwad and sought grant of Family Pension at 30 % of salary and reckoning of basic pension on the last drawn salary, for pension computation. They said that the LIC Board had sent the recommendations to the Union government for approval a year ago but the issuance of notification on the recommendations had not been done so far. Addressing the protesting pensioners, the office-bearers of the association said that at the prevalent terms and conditions, family pensioners would draw a meagre sum, not enough for a decent living. And, because of the delay in notification, they have lost out on increased family pension benefits, they said.
05 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Horatti seeks Tamil Nadu type reservation in medical education||The former Primary and Secondary Minister and Janata Dal(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to follow the Tamil Nadu model on providing reservation to students opting for medical education. In a letter to the Chief Minister, which has been released to the media, Mr. Horatti has drawn the attention of Mr. Yediyurappa to a report on Tamil Nadu Governor approving of a Bill to provide 7.5 % reservation to students of government schools and colleges in medical education. It has been reported that the new Act would benefit nearly 300 students who studied in government colleges and cleared NEET, he said. Mr. Horatti has in the letter said that it was crucial to bring in a similar Act in the State to benefit poor meritorious students. “I would request you to consider the Tamil Nadu law and hold discussions with legal experts and academics to promulgate a similar law in the State,” he has urged the Chief Minister in the letter. Mr. Horatti has sought to know why a similar law could not be promulgated in the State. “Do we lack the concern for the language found in Tamil Nadu. I urge you to take a strong decision and provide for reservation for students of government schools and colleges in medical education,” he has said in the letter.
05 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Results announced||Karnatak University, Dharwad, announced the results of the second semester examinations of B.Com (Revised), BA and BBA (RVSD) and fourth semester BBA (RVS) on Wednesday, Registrar (Evaluation) Ravindranath N. Kadam said in a release. For details, students can visit university website, www.kud.ac.in.    Apparel Training and Design Centre (ATDC), Hubballi, has invited applications from female candidates of all categories in the age group of 18 to 35 for a one-year diploma course in Fashion Designing. The candidates should have passed 10 + 2 (PUC/ITI/Diploma) course with marks above 60 %. Employment opportunities would be provided after training, a press release said. Those interested can apply at ATDC Vocational Institute, ATI Compound, Behind Canara Hotel, Hubballi, with the required documents and photographs before November 9. For further details, call Ph: 9481284036 or 9742777488.
05 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State govt. urged to take up relief works immediately||The Kalaburagi district unit of the Welfare Party of India (WPI) staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Tuesday demanding that the State government provide compensation of Rs. 50,000 to each farmer for the loss of crops in the recent floods in North Karnataka. In a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister submitted through the Deputy Commissioner, district unit president of the party Syed Abdul Bari said that compensation for houses damaged in various parts of the State due to the ravaging floods in August last year (2019) has not been paid. As many as 2.47 lakh houses were damaged in last year’s floods, of which only 1.24 lakh affected families received a partial compensation of Rs. 1 lakh each, he said. The State government should provide compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to each family whose house was completely damaged in the floods, Mr. Bari added. As per a survey, agriculture and horticulture crops on around 11 lakh hectares of land have been damaged in the recent floods in North Karnataka till September. And, due to the floods in October, nearly one-third of the total cultivation in the State has been affected, he added. Around 20,000 houses were completed damaged in Kalaburagi district alone. Mr. Bari accused both the State and Union governments of showing a step-motherly attitude towards North Karnataka region in addressing the problems of flood victims and in releasing funds to take up relief measures.
05 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Forum demands release of activist Fr. Stan Swamy||Condemning the arrest of 83-year-old priest Fr. Stan Swamy in Jharkhand, members of the Karnataka United Christian Forum and Human Rights sought the Union government’s intervention to ensure the immediate release of the activist. Rev. Robert Miranda, president of the forum, in a memorandum addressed to President Ramnath Kovind through submitted the Deputy Commissioner, stated that Fr. Swamy is one among the human rights activists arrested on similar charges in the recent past. Rev. Miranda said that the National Investigation Agency‘s (NIA) case against Fr. Swamy was entirely fabricated. He was interrogated multiple times and his house was raided. The activist’s arrest is part of a larger conspiracy to suppress his voice of dissent, Fr. Miranda added. Fr. Swamy was arrested on the charge of having links with Maoist rebels and the violence that took place against Dalits at Bhima Koregaon. But, he was nowhere connected with the incident, Fr. Miranda said. Meanwhile, he became the voice of the tribal and Dalit communities in Jharkhand. At the same time, he was a vocal critic of the government’s attempts to amend land laws and the Land Acquisition Act in Jharkhand and a strong advocate of the Forest Rights Act, he said. The protestors demanded the release of the activist on humanitarian grounds.
05 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||780 pigs shifted from Kalaburagi city||In the fight against stray pig menace, the Kalaburagi City Municipal Corporation has shifted 780 pigs from different localities. In a media release, Commissioner of the civic body Lokhande Snehal Sudhakar said on Tuesday that a team of 20 personnel from Hubballi-Dharwad caught the pigs from Jayanagar, Puja Colony, Om Nagar, Okali Camp, Swastik Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Prashanth Colony, Anaemia Nagar, Ganesh Nagar, Akbar Bagh, Rehman Colony and relocated them to the outskirts of the city. He did not, however, make it clear where exactly the pigs were relocated. The Municipal Corporation has taken up the pig relocation drive following complaints from residents and as part of its bid to prevent swine flu, dengue, malaria and other epidemics in the city. Corporation officials said that over 1,800 had already been shifted from the city after a meeting with the pig owners earlier. And, the expert team from Hubballi-Dharwad was summoned to shift the remaining pigs as the pig owners showed some non-cooperation. Mr. Sudhakar has set a deadline of November 5 for pig owners to shift their animals from the city. “If the owners don’t shift their pigs from the city before November 5, we will initiate legal action against them. We will continue to come up with such measures to tackle pig menace in the city,” he said.
05 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police to launch drive against illegal weapons||The State police will shortly launch a special drive to curb illegal arms, just as it is carrying out a drive against drug peddlers, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police (DG & IGP) Praveen Sood has said. “On an average, around 700 drug-related cases were registered in a year in the past. This year, however, we have registered over 3,000 cases due to the special drive. We will similarly launch a special campaign against illegal weapons in the State shortly,” Mr. Sood told mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Wednesday, in a response to queries related to the recent Vijayapura shoot-out.  Responding to queries on vacancies in the Police, Mr. Sood said that 8,000 of the existing 20,000 vacancies will be filled in the current financial year. “Exams for recruitment of police constables have just been completed and the appointment process is on. We will shortly initiate the recruitment process for Armed Reserve and KSRP constables. The process of appointment of 500 Sub-Inspectors is also under way. We will fill around 8,000 vacancies in the current financial year. If the recruitment process progresses similarly for the next couple of years, most of the vacancies would be filled,” he said. Speaking on the impact of COVID-19 on the functioning of the police, Mr. Sood said that 88 men who were working as frontline workers against the pandemic had died of the infection. “As many as 9,500 personnel of our department have contracted COVID-19 infection and most of them have recovered. As many as 88 of them have died and we have paid Rs. 30 lakh ex-gratia to each one of their families. Indeed, COVID-19 has badly affected us on all fronts. However, it has also benefited the police in a way. It has hastened the process of modernising the Police with the use of newer technologies. The police verification and production of accused before magistrates have gone online,” he added.
05 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Beneficiaries deprived of housing’||Residents of Jafarabad village in Kalaburagi taluk who are deprived of government housing facility demanded that the State government form a committee and conduct spot inspection to check irregularities in the implementation of the housing scheme by officials. The deprived beneficiaries staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Kalaburagi on Tuesday demanding the suspension of the Karnataka Slum Development Board and Kalaburagi City Corporation officials involved in allotting houses to ineligible beneficiaries. State president of AHINDA Chintakara Vedike Saibanna Jamadar said that undeserving persons have availed themselves of the benefits of the Rajiv Awas Yojana in Jafarabad village. The houseless poor and eligible beneficiaries have been deprived of houses under the housing scheme, he said.
05 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah has made an immature statement: Karnik||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will complete his term and there is no move in the party to change his leadership till the end of tenure of the present Assembly, BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said here on Wednesday. The party is holding its State executive and core committee meetings here on Thursday. Responding to a tweet by the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday that he (Mr. Siddaramaiah) is “very confident” that as per information with him from Delhi, the BJP will change Mr. Yediyurappa after the byelection, Mr. Karnik said that the former Chief Minister has made an immature statement. In his tweet, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that the allegation of corruption, which he made against Mr. Yediyurappa, is among the other reasons for the BJP to think of changing its leadership in the State. Mr. Karnik said that Mr. Siddaramaiah has made the statement probably thinking that he should not become politically irrelevant. “He (Mr. Siddaramaiah) is creating space for himself as his chair is shaking now.” The party is happy with the leadership of Mr. Yediyurappa, he said. Referring to the BJP’s Thursday meetings, Mr. Karnik said that organisational matters of the party and strategies for bagging as many gram panchayats in the coming elections to the rural local bodies are likely to come up for discussion. In addition, the impact of the results of byelections to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly segments are likely to be deliberated upon. The party leaders are also expected to discuss matters related to COVID-19 management, Mr. Karnik said. Mr. Yediyurappa, who arrived in the city on Wednesday, will inaugurate the meetings at T.V. Ramana Pai Hall at 10.15 a.m. Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi and D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Ministers K.S. Eshwarappa and Govind Karjol and national general secretary C.T. Ravi will be among the leaders who will participate in the meetings.
05 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Arnab’s arrest the beginning of the end of Maharashtra govt.’||Union Minister for Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi said here on Wednesday that the arrest of Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami in Mumbai is the “beginning of the end” of the Maharashtra coalition government. Speaking to media persons at the international airport here, he said that the Maharashtra government should release him immediately. He condemned the arrest of the editor. There may be ideological differences. But the way the government arrested and treated the editor later is shocking, he said. The Minister said that Mr. Goswami had even spoken against the BJP many a time. When Narendra Modi was the Chief Minister of Gujarat and after he became the Prime Minister, many television channels have spoken badly against Mr. Modi. But the BJP governments did not conduct themselves the way the Maharashtra government conducted itself on Wednesday. “Why Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are silent now?,” Mr. Joshi asked. He said that many who had earlier raised their voice in the name of threat to the freedom of speech and expression and resorted to “award wapsi”, are not speaking against the arrest of the editor.
05 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Prepare database of medical professionals’||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has asked the officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare in Udupi to prepare a database of government and private medical professionals for administering them COVID-19 vaccine when it becomes available. Speaking at a meeting in his office recently, the Deputy Commissioner said that as per the direction of the Union government, COVID-19 vaccine will have to be administered first to medical professionals, including doctors, nurses, laboratory technicians, health assistants and health officials. The preparation of the vaccine is in the final stages. Mr. Jagadeesha said that 982 private medical establishments in the district have registered themselves under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act 2007. In addition, there are 92 government medical establishments in the district. The professionals in those establishments will have to be administered the vaccine first. Later, it will be administered to senior citizens and other persons with health complications. He asked the department officials to achieve the target in various immunisation programmes meant for children as the immunisation drives received set-back during the lockdown. The Deputy Commissioner said that the Health Department should make all efforts to reduce maternal mortality ratio by taking precautionary measures.
05 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE goes to police after getting email||The Udupi District Police on Wednesday registered cases under the IT Act and the IPC against unidentified persons for sending an email to MAHE with a fake email ID of the Chief Minister. Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) Registrar Narayana Sabhahit in his complaint to the police said that the Registry section of MAHE got the email with the identity, “cm@karnataka.gov.in”, on November 1 at 4.48 p.m. The mail had the address as, “Shri. B.S. Yadiuurappa, Hon'ble Chief Minister, Room no. 323A, 3rd Floor, Vidhanasoudha, Bangalore-01”. The accused wrote in the mail, “We have received several emails and complaints from parents and students all around the globe regarding MAHE plan to re-open colleges. The condition is not suitable as of now to open the colleges in Nov/Dec-2020. This mail is to make MAHE management aware that it is not allowed to open any colleges on or before 2nd Jan-2021. After 2nd Jan-2021, if [you] plan to reopen, you need to collect parents consent to send their wards back to collage.” The Registrar said that the accused has thus faked the email ID of the Chief Minister and made an attempt to cheat the institution. Cyber Crime Police is investigating the case.
05 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru gets another hospital with 40 beds||In the midst of a steady decline in COVID-19 cases and fatalities, Mysuru has got another hospital with 40 oxygenated beds for treating infected patients. The trauma care centre, attached to the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) and located on the PKTB Sanatorium premises on KRS Road, was inaugurated long ago but had not become functional for want of medical equipment and manpower. The hospital was lying idle despite having a vast building infrastructure. When Mysuru was witnessing a big rise in cases, the authorities decided to ready this hospital too for COVID-19 treatment, making all necessary arrangements, for future requirements. The designated COVID-19 hospital had 250-bed strength besides 178 beds at the K.R. Hospital. However, this number of beds were felt inadequate going by the rise in infection rate until the beginning of this month, necessitating increasing the bed strength. However, when the trauma care centre is fully ready to attend to the patients, the cases have dropped and the centre has not received any patient. The hospitals, including the designated COVID-19 hospital on KRS Road and the K.R. Hospital, have many beds vacant, with remarkable recoveries and daily cases dropping to as low as 100. The trauma care centre can add up to 200 more beds with oxygen supply for future requirements as it has been designed for accommodating additional beds in case of need. Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Wednesday visited the hospital to inspect the facility and the arrangements made for COVID-19 treatment. L. Nagendra, MLA; MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev, and MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj were present. A modular operation theatre and ICU facility besides other facilities including oxygen tank for adequate supply of oxygen to patients suffering from breathlessness have been kept ready at the hospital to meet any eventuality.
05 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Care centres shut down as cases drop||The COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) in all taluks of Mysuru district had been closed down and patients from these centers had been shifted to the taluk hospitals which had been equipped with 50 oxygenated beds. If necessary, even mild cases can be shifted to the taluk hospitals with the closure of CCCs amidst the big fall in cases. In Mysuru city too, barring the CCCs at the KSOU academic building at Mandakalli near the airport and the ESI Hospital, the rest, including one in Varuna and Hoskote near here, had been shut down with no patients seeking isolation. The number of cases at KSOU building, which until early this month had nearly 1,000 patients, had come down to less than 60. The CCC at the KSOU building was the largest in the district and was recognised as a model CCC because of its various initiatives for the well-being of patients. Oxygen supply District Vector Borne Diseases Control Officer Chidambar told The Hindu that each taluk hospital had been equipped with 50 beds with oxygen supply. Moreover, the cases have also dropped. In this regard, the CCCs that functioned in every taluk had been stopped and patients, if any, were shifted to the hospital. Any new case, if in need of a care centre, will be shifted to the hospital, he said. As on Tuesday, Mysuru has 1,437 active cases, including 150 patients in dedicated COVID-19 Healthcare Centres and about 100 in isolated COVID-19 Care Centres. The number includes both in government and private care facilities. Recoveries There are 394 patients in private hospitals and 137 in the designated COVID-19 Hospital on KRS Road. As many as 662 patients are in home isolation until Tuesday. The number of patients recovered as on Tuesday stands at 45,658 out of 48,056 cumulative positive cases.
05 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Panchalinga Darshana at Talakad may go virtual amidst pandemic fears||The Panchalinga Darshana mahotsav at Talakad can be celebrated the way Mysuru Dasara was celebrated, taking all precautions keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic, Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar has said. Panchalinga Darshana, The fest, which usually draws thousands of devotees, will be held on December 14. After chairing a meeting of elected representatives and officials here today to discuss arrangements for Panchalinga Darshana, he said “It’s better we keep it virtual over a bar on large gatherings, like how we did for Dasara, livestreaming the events, as a precautionary measure in view of COVID-19. I have already discussed this with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.” An expert committee will be constituted and it will visit Talakad ahead of the event for giving its suggestions on safe celebrations, complying with all mandatory SOPs, like the recommendations of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee when Mysuru celebrated Dasara this month. “Let us make the arrangements and plan things based on the recommendations from the committee,” he told the meeting. Mr. Somashekar suggested taking extra precautions in view of the winter season and reports of the pandemic spreading fast in this weather. The Minister told the officials to focus on the works that are urgently needed at Talakad for the event and concentrate on the permanent development works after the event gets over. G.T. Deve Gowda and L. Nagendra, MLAs; Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri;, and SP C.B. Rhyshanth attended the meeting. The last Panchalinga Darshana mahotsava was held in 2013. The meeting resolved to constitute a five-member expert committee consisting of the Deputy Commissioner, the Superintendent of Police and three others. This committee will visit Talakad and submit a status report to the government. Based on its report, a decision will be taken on how to conduct the event and number of persons to be permitted to participate. During Dasara, restrictions had been imposed on the participation of the public and only 200 and 300 persons were allowed to the inauguration and the Jamboo Savari respectively. Mr. Somashekar told the district administration to prepare an estimate on the funds necessary for the celebrations. This would include road repairs, illumination, and drainage system. The Deputy Commissioner also suggested virtual Panchalinga Darshana like Dasara, providing the convenience of watching the proceedings live on TV.
05 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 norms violation: police advice to media||Issuing a note of caution against normalising violations of COVID-19 safety guidelines, the Mysuru City Police has urged the media to desist from publishing and telecasting photographs and videos of meetings, functions, religious and social gatherings, besides protests and demonstrations, where rules on social distancing and wearing of masks had been given the go-by. Not just the general public, even people’s representatives, political leaders and government officials have been found publicly violating the COVID-19 safety guidelines on social distancing and wearing of masks at various functions, meetings, protests and other gatherings, regretted City Police Commissioner Chandragupta. The publication or telecast of such photographs or videos will send a wrong signal to the general public, he said. Hence, the City police has decided to prohibit taking such photographs or videos and publish or telecast them, Mr. Chandragupta said in a note issued to the media in Mysuru. At many meetings and functions, people’s representatives, political leaders and officials gather in close proximity while photographers and videographers nudge them to come closer to each other to ensure that all of them are accommodated in the same frame, throwing the COVID-19 safety regulations to the wind. “Such photos and videos are appearing in the media regularly”, Mr. Chandragupta lamented. He appealed to the photographers and videographers to refuse to take pictures and videos if their subjects do not follow the rules on social distancing and wearing of masks. The police had also pointed out that several people at functions and events, even if they are wearing masks, would have adjusted them in such a manner that their mouths and noses are exposed particularly while they are talking. Such lax behaviour has the potential to transmit COVID-19 from one person to another, Mr. Chandragupta warned. If the COVID-19 safety guidelines are found violated at mass gatherings and programmes, information can be passed on to the COVID-19 control room on Ph. No. 1077, 0821-2423800, 0821-2957711, 0821-2957811 or police control room number 100 or 0821-2418339.
05 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Attacked by tusker||C.P. Muthanna of the Coorg Wildlife Society had a lucky escape when a wild tusker attacked him at his estate in Ammathi on Wednesday. Forest Department staff said Muthanna, who is an environmental activist from the region, was walking in his estate when the tusker charged at him which left his right leg fractured. He was administered medical aid locally and later shifted to a private hospital in Mysuru for treatment.
05 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Talakad needs permanent development measures’||The participants of Wednesday’s meeting here to discuss arrangements for Panchalinga Darshana Mahotsava in December this year said Talakad, the temple town in T. Narsipur taluk, lacked basic facilities and suggested permanent development works in view of the religious event. The temples in and around Talakad – Sri Vaidyeshwara, Sri Maruleshwara, Sri Pathaleshwara, Sri Arakeshwara and Sri Mallikarjuneshwara – do not have basic facilities The meeting, presided over by Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, was told that Rs. 12 crore was sanctioned to the Panchalinga Darshana held in 2013. A sum of Rs. 6,78,01,740 was spent and Rs. 5,58,00,000 was unspent. The then government had permitted using the surplus for the development of Sri Mudukuthore Mallikarjuneshwara Temple.
05 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||No comments: Minister||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar on Wednesday said he could lose his portfolio if he publicly comments on the proposed Cabinet expansion. When reporters approached him for his comments on the issue, he said he is not authorised to speak on it. He said he had the permission only to campaign in elections. Mr. Somashekar said the BJP will emerge victorious in by-elections.
05 November 2020||Mysuru/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah, BSY spar over leadership change||The eve of the BJP State core committee meeting saw Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah sparring over rumours of a possible change of leadership in Karnataka. Speaking in Mysuru, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the BJP leadership will effect a change of guard after the bypolls by removing Mr. Yediyurappa from the post of Chief Minister. He said he had heard about it from Delhi and was “confident” of such a change and it had taken a “concrete shape”. The corruption charges raised by him were among the reasons for it, he said. Mr. Yediyurappa launched a counter attack on this and said: “If at all there is any talk of leadership change, it is that of changing the Leader of the Opposition being considered by the Congress high command.” He was speaking in Mangaluru after arriving for the core committee meeting. The real colours would be exposed after announcement of the bypoll results, the Chief Minister said. “When we win by a huge margin, will our strength increase or reduce?” he asked. Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik reiterated that the Chief Minister will complete his term and there was no move in the party to change his leadership till the end of tenure of the present Assembly.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rs. 279 cr. action plan to improve air quality||If all goes as planned, citizens may be able to breathe more easily. Improving air quality in the city will be a priority for the BBMP over the next two years. An action plan for nine projects amounting to a total of Rs. 279 crore and geared towards reducing air pollution has been drawn up by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Action Plan Committee. Some of the projects are improving pedestrian facilities, using water sprayers and mechanical street-sweeping machines to tackle dust pollution, making urban spaces more green and keeping a check on open-air burning of municipal waste. The projects are being funded by the Centre under the Urban Local Body grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. In the first instalment, the Union government has released Rs. 2,200 crore, of which Rs. 139.5 crore has been sanctioned to Karnataka and transferred to the BBMP. Senior civic officials told The Hindu that the nine different projects will be executed over the next two years. Various traffic engineering interventions include creating bus bays, development of TenderSURE roads with a focus on creating better pedestrian facilities, paving and maintenance of pedestrian pathways, and footpaths. The procurement and maintenance of sweeping machines and jet sprayers, and traffic engineering interventions account for 18% each of the total funds, around Rs. 50.22 crore. The other major projects envisaged include the setting up a central control and command centre for monitoring all data associated with air quality. This has been estimated at Rs. 44.64 crore and is likely to be implemented by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). To tackle the menace of dust, removal of construction and demolition (C&D) waste from public spaces, and enforcement to check C&D waste related pollution will be tackled on a war footing. Both these components account for 8% of the total funds (Rs. 22.32 crore each). BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep said that 50% of the total project cost had already been released to the State.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No vehicles on Church Street during weekends||Traffic movement on Church Street has been temporarily banned on weekends from November 7 to February 28, 2021 to facilitate a study led by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) under a pilot project to improve air quality, Clean Air Street (CAS). Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said that DULT is initiating the project to encourage people to walk or cycle on select roads thereby improving air quality. As part of the clean air project, DULT will study air quality in different situations and accordingly plan to implement the same on other streets across the city, he added. Under Section 115 of the Motor Vehicles Act and Section 3 of the Karnataka Traffic Control Act, vehicular movement on Church Street has been restricted on select dates between 10 a.m. and 12 midnight. “The Indian Institute of Science has prepared a questionnaire on the initiative and on the impact on commercial establishments in terms of revenue,” said V. Manjula, Commissioner, DULT. For CAS, DULT has partnered with a technology and innovation platform Catapult UK and Urban Morph. Platform for start-ups She added that the initiative is also a test-bed platform that will help various start-ups to try out technologies in real-life situations. “They will come at different points in time to showcase technologies, and will get feedback on them. They could test e-vehicles, censors to check air-quality, or others,” Ms. Manjula added. The civic body has allowed restaurants to use pavements to serve their customers by following SoP.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC decides to lease 300 non-AC electric buses||Citing losses incurred due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has scrapped its plan to introduce air-conditioned electric buses in its fleet. Instead, it will lease 300 non-AC electric buses. The Corporation, on Wednesday, floated a fresh tender for non-AC buses under the Centre’s FAME II scheme (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric vehicles in India). It had cancelled two tenders in the past citing various reasons, including high operational costs quoted by private bidders. Since the onset of the pandemic, commuters have been wary of using public transport, with few takers for air-conditioned buses. BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha told The Hindu that the pandemic has forced the Corporation to rethink its decision to lease AC buses. “A majority of the AC buses in the existing fleet are non-operational. Moreover, the operation of non-AC electric buses will help a larger number of passengers than catering to a particular segment.” The BMTC has a fleet of over 800 AC buses, but only 50-odd are currently operational. On the changes made in the tender specification, Ms. Shikha said, “In addition to the Central government subsidy of Rs. 55 lakh per bus, we have taken a decision to use Rs. 100 crore budgetary allocation of the State government. Now, for each bus, a subsidy of Rs. 80 lakh is available. The BMTC is the first road transportation to use both Central and State government subsidy to lease electric buses.” The Corporation has been attempting to operate e-buses since 2014. This time around though, officials are confident of getting competitive bidding that is financially viable for the cash-strapped BMTC, which has incurred over Rs. 900 crore revenue loss due to the pandemic. When asked about whether Chinese companies will be allowed to participate in the bidding, Ms. Shikha said, “We are going by the directions of the Central government, and the companies that are registered with the authorities concerned will be allowed in the tender process.” In June, after border tensions with China, the Central government had restricted bidders from countries sharing land borders. BMTC had reportedly sought clarity on the issue before floating the tender.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence case: No relief for ex-mayor||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday declined to stay the cognisance of offences against former mayor R. Sampath Raj by the trial court in the case of violence at D.J. Halli and attack on the house of Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Shrinivasa Murthy. Justice Suraj Govindaraj, before whom the petition filed by Raj came up, adjourned further hearing till November 12 while allowing the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the city police to file additional documents to demonstrate that the petitioner evaded the investigation and is absconding. Special Public Prosecutor P. Prasanna Kumar told the court that Raj was in the hospital for seven weeks stating that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and left the hospital without intimating the investigating agency despite issuance of summons asking him to appear for questioning. However, counsel for Raj has contended that the trial court was wrong in taking cognisance of offence against the petitioner under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as the petitioner belongs to the SC category. It was also contended on behalf Raj that the trial court had erred in taking cognisance of offence under the Arms Act. The counsel assured the court that the petitioner would surrender and cooperate with the investigation while requesting the court to stay the cognisance taken against him by the trial court for a short period. However, the counsel for the CCB said that the petitioner cannot question the trial court’s order without making Raj available for investigation. While orally declining to pass an interim order staying the trial court’s order of taking cognisance, the High Court adjourned further hearing till November 12 to enable to the CCB counsel to produce additional documents.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘16.4% people in State have developed antibodies’||“There is a need to improve detection of cases actively through syndromic approach here, improve testing, and ensure other public health actions (avoiding 3Cs and following 3Ws) are implemented efficiently,” Dr. Babu said. These 19 districts are Vijayapura, Belagavi, Chitradurga, Tumakuru, Raichur, Ramanagaram, Haveri, Chamarajanagar, Bidar, Davangere, Yadgir, Kalaburagi, Kolar, Kodagu, Mandya, Chikkamagaluru, Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, and Hassan, Dr. Babu said. Five districts — BBMP Bommanahalli zone, BBMP East zone, BBMP West zone, BBMP South zone, Mysuru — have a low case-to-infection ratio. “This suggests that the strategy employed for testing here is reasonable and can be replicated in other districts,” he said. “Our survey finds that out of 7.07 crore estimated population in Karnataka, 1.93 crore (27.3%) are either currently infected or already had the infection in the past, as on 16 September, 2020,” he said.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Helping hands||
05 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||765 test positive in Alappuzha||The district reported 765 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 726 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 36 people remains unknown. Two people who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 765 cases include 73 logged from Alappuzha, 54 from Cherthala, 45 from Aroor, 38 from Pulinkunnu 35 from Ambalappuzha North, 30 from Muhamma, 28 from Kayamkulam, 27 from Mannancherry, and 26 from Pattanakkad. Meanwhile, 672 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district now stand at 8,440.  34 cases The police on Wednesday registered 34 cases and arrested 20 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 268 people for not wearing face masks and 732 for not maintaining physical distance. One case was registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under Section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against eight people in connection with the one case. Parts of Ward 6 in Cherthala South, Ward 8 in Thanneermukkom, Ward 1 in Ezhupunna grama panchayat and Wards 19, 20 and 24 in Cherthala municipality were declared containment zones.
05 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Accused in Walayar case found dead in Alappuzha||Pradeep Kumar, 36, an accused in the Walayar rape and death case and who was acquitted by a Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences court last year, allegedly committed suicide in his house at Vayalar, near Cherthala, on Wednesday. According to the Cherthala police, he ended his life around noon. “On Wednesday, he and his mother went to a cooperative bank to arrange a loan for the purpose of conducting the case. But they returned without getting the loan. Later, he made a video call to his wife in Palakkad telling her that he was going to commit suicide. Although she soon contacted her father-in-law, Pradeep hanged in a room before the parents reached there,” said P. Sreekumar, inspector of police, Cherthala. Officials added that although he was taken to a hospital by relatives, his life could not be saved.   (Suicide prevention helpline Dish: 1056)
05 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Police intensify anti-Maoist operations||The police have intensified their anti-Maoist operations in Wayanad district, a forest tri junction bordering Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, following an exchange of fire with a Maoist group on the Banasura mountains under the South Wayanad forest division on Tuesday morning. Velmurugan, a member of Kabanidalam-2 of the Western Ghats Special Zone Committee of the proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist), was killed in the encounter while another person sustained injuries. “We have alerted our counterparts in the neighbouring districts of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,” Wayanad District Police Chief G. Poonguzhali said. The police were also directed to check hospitals for persons admitted with gunshot injuries, she said. Velmurugan was wanted in connection in many cases in Tamil Nadu and the police had registered seven cases against him under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the district. He was also the first accused in a case registered in Odisha in 2004, in which youth had looted weapons after attacking a police station, the District Police Chief said. CB probe on “The Crime Branch (CB) has begun an investigation in connection with the exchange of fire,” Ms. Poonguzhali said. She said no Maoist was in police custody. Thunderbolt commandos intensified combing operations in the forest areas on the Banasura mountains on Wednesday. Combing operations would continue in the coming days, she added. Meanwhile, the police blocked a group of Congress leaders, including Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee vice president T. Siddique and general secretary K. Praveenkumar, who went to the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, to see the body of Velmurugan. They were instantly removed from the spot.
05 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Rs. 63.88-crore watershed projects launched||Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunilkumar has said that the government was implementing Jalasamrudhi project in Taliparamba with an aim to nurture agriculture through soil and water conservation. The Minister was speaking through video conferencing at the inauguration of the Jalasamrudhi project being implemented at a cost of Rs. 63.88 crore in the Taliparamba constituency as part of soil and water conservation activities. He said Jalasamrudhi was a major project for the conservation of natural resources that should be preserved for future generations. The main shortcoming in development activities was the depletion of natural capital. This project was a great example of how to implement development activities while protecting rivers, streams and wetlands, he explained. Even if clean air and water were a fundamental right, there were situations where it could not be provided, he observed. “The real breakthrough in development is when the clean air, water and habitat available to us today can be passed on to the next generation in a better way,” he said. That view is included in the Jalasamrudhi project, he said. The Jalasamrudhi project was launched in the Taliparamba constituency with the objective of ensuring water security through soil and water conservation activities and achieving integrated agricultural development based on water resources.
05 November 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Common facility for timber industry cluster opened||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday inaugurated a common facility centre (CFC) for the timber industry cluster at Taliparamba through videoconferencing. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan presided over the function. The cluster system aims to give maximum impetus to certain industries focusing on certain areas. The project focuses on value-added products that minimize production costs. The CFC aims to unify the facilities required for industrial units in clusters. So far, CFCs have been approved in 15 clusters in the state. The one at Ammanappara in Pariyaram panchayat of Taliparamba taluk is eleventh such centre. It has state-of-the-art facilities for manufacturing various components of wood-based products and processing wood using the latest technology. Besides, small pieces of wood will be assembled at the centre using raw materials. Ancillary services such as provision of raw materials and training will also be available at the centre. The CFC is run by a consortium of 53 units. The project is worth Rs. 11.65 crore. The Ministry of MSME has provided 70% grant under the Cluster Development Scheme, while 20% of the cost was borne by the State and 10% by the consortium.
05 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUK at work on automatic sign language recognition system||The Central University of Kerala (CUK) is developing an automatic sign language recognition system to address the existing communication gap between people with hearing impairment and others. The computer science department at the university has been working on the system since 2016, and researchers had obtained patent for the position adjusting device for the camera capturing sign language in August this year. Research scholar Adithya V. and Prof. R. Rajesh said they were on the verge of completing the project. The system is expected to help hearing impaired people interact with others without interpreters. Prof. Rajesh said the team would soon apply for patent. He added that the team came up with the idea during data collection at schools. “During our visits to schools, we realised that hearing-impaired children could not communicate with us without an interpreter. This gave birth to the idea of developing a product that can recognise sign language and immediately communicate by interpreting it,” he added. Ms. Adithya said an algorithm that recognises hand movements and postures had been developed. The system then interprets sign language through a loud speaker. She added that the product would soon be available for people.
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Municipality makes headway in handling non-biodegradable waste||Scientific collection and disposal of non-biodegradable waste is gradually taking shape in Thrikkakara municipality. The project is being driven by members of the Haritha Karma Sena, who visit households and commercial establishments to collect non-biodegradable waste. Two tonnes of such waste sorted and classified as per the types of plastic and other materials were sent to recycling units in the first phase of an organised effort to manage non-biodegradable waste as per norms prescribed under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “Earlier, we were facing difficulties as many families under the 43 divisions of the municipality used to hand over soiled refuse and waste filled with dirt. The sorting of such waste had turned a headache. But with regular awareness campaigns, the situation is slowly changing,” said Lisie, a senior member of the Haritha Karma Sena. “Waste packets collected from the 43 divisions are brought to the material collection facility for further sorting as per the various classifications of non-biodegradable waste. Green volunteers are trained to sort waste as per the requirements of the recycling industry,” said Sujith Karun, District Coordinator of the Haritha Keralam Mission. The Haritha Mission has requested residents to reduce the use of single-use disposable items. The piling up of throwaway plastic and other materials had taken a toll on the ecosystem. It had also led to heaps of non-biodegradable waste forming in many divisions. A green protocol committee has been formed in the municipality to coordinate the various initiatives. Members of the Haritha Karma Sena will be entrusted with the task of ensuring that the wards turn plastic-free in the coming days. The local body hoped that the expenses incurred for the handling of waste could be reduced as the scientific sorting and classification for the recycling industry would bring in revenue for stakeholders.
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Electoral scene hotting up in Kochi||It would probably be a fight between two generations of political leaders in Kochi Corporation in the upcoming civic body polls as the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] may rest its aged warhorses for the younger brigade. A few senior Congress leaders too have announced their intentions to contest the polls with an eye on the Kochi Mayor post. Currently, managers of both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) are busy engaged in pre-poll discussions with coalition partners. The CPI(M), which is leading the Left coalition, is likely to formally begin the process of candidate selection by next week, though the party leadership has informally sounded probable candidates about the political task ahead. Though the name of C.M. Dinesh Mani, former Kochi Mayor and legislator from Palluruthy, was doing the rounds as the party candidate from Chakkaraparambu division, sources close to him denied such developments. If the party decides to pick a leader with organisational skills and administrative experience alike, the mantle may fall on C.K. Manisankar, former Deputy Mayor and trade union leader. Young leadership At the same time, a school of thought that youngsters should lead the party’s campaign this time is gaining currency among the party leadership and rank and file. In that case, the CPI(M) may choose M. Anilkumar, former chairman of the Town Planning Standing Committee, as its Mayoral candidate. “The CPI(M) has not begun the process of candidate selection. A call on who all from the district secretariat, the key decision-making unit of the party in the district, will contest shall be taken shortly,” sources said. UDF probables In the UDF camp, senior congress leader N. Venugopal, the ‘I’ faction leader, who lost out to his party colleague Tony Chammany in the Mayoral selection a decade ago, is once again making an attempt to stake his claim for the top post. Mr. Venugopal, who has made his intentions to contest the election known to his party leaders and well-wishers, may choose either Vathuruthy or Island divisions to contest. He had successfully represented both the divisions in the council earlier. M.B. Muralidharan, the three-term councillor and a staunch ‘A’ group leader from Vennala, may emerge as a contender for the top post as the representative of the faction. Mr. Muralidharan may contest from the Padivattom division of the corporation, which he had represented earlier. A clear picture on the line-up of candidates would emerge by the second week of the month when the political fronts complete the seat-sharing process among coalition partners.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||District records 1,197 new COVID cases||As many as 252 of the 1,197 people who were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday did not have any idea about the source of their infection. Just three of the day’s patients arrived from outside Kerala and six health workers were on the list of people infected. In rural areas Koovappady recorded 40 new cases, Kumbalanghi had 32 new cases, Kizhakkambalam 31 while Sreemoolanagaram and Nellikuzhy recorded 29 and 28 cases respectively, indicating the spread of the pandemic in the suburban and rural areas of Ernakulam. Varappetty, a village 7 km from Kothamangalam, recorded 24 new cases. Recoveries A total of 1,082 patients recovered from the disease. On Wednesday, 1,305 people were added to the list of those under disease surveillance, taking the total number of people under observation in the district to 29,265, of which 27,798 were at home. New admissions to FLTCs/hospitals were 311 while 278 were discharged from hospital. The district as on Wednesday evening had 12,329 COVID-19 patients. For testing, 7,918 samples were dispatched from the district on Wednesday.
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||The tale behind a Tagore bust||When the bronze bust of poet Rabindranath Tagore was unveiled at the Tagore Library and Reading Room at Karuvelipady in West Kochi last Sunday, one man was badly missed. That sculpture was the dream of V.U. Chandrasekharan Pillai who had served the library as its president for 55 long years before he died aged 88 years on April 13. “The library was an intrinsic part of my father’s life right from his student days. He strived so hard for a new building for the library and the bust in front of it but unfortunately didn’t last to witness either,” reminisced Jaikumar C. Pillai, who along with his brother filled in for their father at the unveiling ceremony. The library was shifted to the new building on October 2. It was about a year ago the late Mr. Pillai reached out to artist K.S. Selvaraj with a request for the sculpture. “He wanted a full statue and I had to convince him that the limited space didn’t warrant it, not to mention the cost. His passion was such that he was investing his own savings of around Rs. 3 lakh for the project and that excited me since you hardly see such selfless people anymore. I did it more as a contribution than for money,” said Mr. Selvaraj. The late Mr. Pillai was already ailing after having met with an accident and a subsequent fall thereafter and was desperate to see the finished product. But he didn’t last enough and could only see the initial work in clay. “He had given me numerous pictures of the poet and was all along sceptic whether the details could be flushed out accurately. But he was very happy about the initial work in clay,” said Mr. Selvaraj. The library was started by 13 youngsters out of their love for reading back in 1944. Mr. Pillai’s tryst with it started before long when he was entrusted with opening the library and arranging newspapers while on his way to school and later closing it in the evening. “Though the governing committee changed every three years, he remained the president, thanks to his selflessness. It was under him the library was recognised by the Library Council, won the award for the best library in Kochi taluk four times and in district twice before being scaled up an A-class library," recollected C.S. Joseph, library secretary.
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Love for canines pits them against public||Asked to vacate her rented house near Chottanikara in less than a month, 43-year-old Manjusha has no clue what to do with her 40 stray dogs, half of them puppies. Reluctant to dump them back in the streets, her desperation to find takers for her dogs, many of them badly injured, has borne little result so far. “I am planning to ask for an additional month’s time to vacate,” said Manjusha though that looks far-fetched since by her own admission, there is a backlog of rent. She brought home the first stray four years ago estranging her own family, forcing her into the rented house.  Help from traders Having started feeding dogs seven years ago, she still continues the work across Chottanikkara, Thripunithura, and Mulanthuruthy, thanks to the benevolence of traders at the Thripunithura market who give her leftover chicken, and the community of similarly passionate feeders. Prasanna Kakkassery, a resident of Kadavanthra, feeds around 80 strays a day notwithstanding the financial constraints of retired life. “These dogs have become so friendly and keep waiting for me at the feeding points at regular hours without fail,” said Ms. Kakkassery who has hired an autorickshaw for her two-hour-long feeding spree across the city. Mohana Nandakumar from Thripunithura has been into it for 14 years and cooks 4 kg of rice daily and splits it into 30 packs for as many strays at different feeding points across the temple town. Notwithstanding the rigours of advancing age, the 56-year-old could not resist the urge to return to strays in the company of her husband. “Their excitement on seeing us and their chase after our scooter is a sight to behold. Even when we go to visit our son in Chennai, we make sure that they are fed by someone else,” she said. All these feeders bemoaned in unison the hostility of the community towards strays and to the ones feeding them. “These dogs are by nature not aggressive but are made so by the cruelty of society towards them. Even cops stopped me from feeding a few hungry stays near the railway station in violation of the Constitutional provision professing compassion for all living creatures,” said Ashwini Prem, another avid feeder.  These dogs are by nature not aggressive but are made so by the cruelty of society towards them
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Puthenvelikkara launches flood mitigation work||Having bore the brunt of devastating floods in two successive years since 2018, the Puthenvelikkara panchayat has embarked on a detailed scientific survey for drawing up a disaster mitigation plan. The survey is being conducted by the disaster management group of the local body in association with Equinoct — Community Sourced Modelling Solutions, a limited liability company engaged in climate change mitigation measures, and students and faculty of the Civil Engineering Department of SNM Engineering College, Malyankara, near North Paravur. While North Paravur in general was badly affected in the floods, Puthenvelikkara being the confluent point of Periyar and Chalakkudy rivers was among the worst hit during the floods. The survey was kick-started from the Ground Control Point marked at Cheraman Juma Masjid back in 1887 in the Great Trigonometrical Survey conducted under the auspices of the East India Company to scientifically measure the Indian subcontinent. “It denotes the height as 4.40 metres above the mean sea level and being the nearest such benchmark to Puthenvelikkara should be used as the base point for disaster mitigation measures like flood inundation mapping. The panchayat is badly hit by saline water intrusions during tidal flooding as well though it has never been recognised by the government as a disaster,” said C.G. Madhusoodhanan, CEO, Equinoct. The survey is likely to be completed by March by which time it is likely to throw up detailed databases like ground elevation marks, flood mapping for 2018 and 2019, tidal flood mapping, and vulnerable locations based on which the government could chalk out disaster mitigation plans. M.P. Shajan, coordinator, disaster management group, Puthenvelikkara, said that though the government by an order dated December 4 last year had asked all local bodies to draw up a disaster management plan, not many had taken it seriously. “We already have a rain gauge that gives us a real-time calculation of the rain received and that coupled with the river gauge denoting the rise in river water level, especially on the release of water from dams, will help us identify the vulnerable locations and the extent of their vulnerability during future floods. Besides, all future constructions should also be undertaken accordingly,” said Mr. Shajan. The initiative is being taken up with community participation so as to make them stakeholders and convince them of its significance for their personal safety and that of their panchayat.
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Plea for directive to terminate Mullaperiyar agreement dismissed||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday dismissed a public interest litigation seeking a directive to the State government to issue notice to the Tamil Nadu government for terminating the Mullaperiyar lease agreement in view of the latter’s alleged failure to strengthen the safety of the Mullaperiyar dam. The petition was dismissed by the Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar. It was filed by the Suraksha Public Charitable Trust Kochi. According to it, the Tamil Nadu government was legally obliged to keep the dam safe as per the terms of the lease agreement. SC directives Besides, the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee on Mullaperiyar Dam stated that nothing had been done to implement the directives of the Supreme Court. The directives included construction of tunnels at a low level to make possible evacuation of water from the dam in the event of distress to the dam. Moreover, Tamil Nadu had not complied with the updated guidelines issued by the Central Water Commission for operation and maintenance of dams, the petitioner alleged. The petitioner said the State had the right to terminate the lease agreement in view of the breach of the guidelines and directives on keeping the dam safe. The petition also sought a directive to the State government to take necessary steps for the construction of a protection wall to contain/stop possible flow of water from the Mullaperiyar dam.
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Reserving chairperson’s seat for women surprises fronts||The Election Commission notification on Tuesday night reserving the chairperson’s seat for a woman has taken both the political fronts in Thrikkakara by surprise. The decision has thrown a spanner in the works of political parties, which were just preparing to groom male candidates for the position. It came as a big surprise because the position had been reserved for a woman from the SC/ST community in the elections to the council in 2015. “It makes things harder for political parties and they now have to identify suitable candidates, while at the same time the EC decision has acted as a big dampener on the hopes of many male aspirants,” said a political observer in Thrikkakara. Political fronts have just begun the preliminary works. Naushad Pallechi of the Congress party said that ward-level meetings on choosing candidates and sharing seats among United Democratic Front (UDF) constituents had just picked up momentum. M.E. Hassainar, senior CPI(M) leader, said that the party’s three local committees would complete their meetings by Wednesday and that ward-level meetings would then kick-start. Suggestions from the local committees would be discussed by the ward committees for finally zooming in on candidates. Both the leaders said the picture was still hazy to make a comment on candidates.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bar bribery: High Court seeks govt. response||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday sought the response of the State government to a plea for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the bar bribery case in the light of the recent allegations by Biju Ramesh, former working president of the Kerala Bar Hotel Owners’ Association. According to petitioner P.L. Jacob of Thrissur, there was a prima facie case to register a crime against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala; V.S. Sivakumar, MLA; former Minister K. Babu; and Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani. Mr. Ramesh had alleged that these leaders had received illegal gratification during the previous United Democratic Front government’s tenure.  According to petitioner there was a prima facie case to register a crime against a slew of Congress leaders
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Testing facility opened at airport||The Cochin International Airport is opening a 24-hour COVID-19 testing facility at the arrival end of the T-1 and T-3 terminals. The facility, opening on Thursday, will be available to the public and is capable of carrying out both RT-PCR and antigen tests, said a press release here. RT-PCR test results will be available in eight hours and antigen test results in 15 minutes. The government fixed rates are: Rs. 2,100 for RT-PCR and Rs. 625 for antigen tests.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||GH gets two life-support ambulances from CSL||The Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) on Wednesday handed over two basic life-support ambulances to Ernakulam General Hospital as a support to the COVID-19 warrior. Madhu S. Nair, shipyard chairman and managing director, handed over the keys of the ambulances to Dr A. Anitha, superintendent of the General Hospital. The shipyard had earlier given three mini vans for the hospital’s palliative care centre.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dileep’s daughter files compliant||Meenakshi Gopalakrishnan, daughter of actor Dileep, has filed a police compliant against some online media groups for defaming her and her father by publishing false news. She has filed the complaint invoking Section 120 (O) of the Kerala Police Act. The section deals with causing nuisance to others by undesirable or anonymous calls, letters, writing, messages, e-mails or through a messenger. On conviction, the Act prescribes a punishment up to one year or with fine which may extend to Rs. 5,000 or both.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One more accused in murder case arrested||The Panangad police arrested one more person in connection with the murder of a youngster in a mass brawl involving those connected with dealing in ganja in September. The arrested person was identified as Anand Murugan aka Kichu, 23, of Maradu. He is the 17th accused in the case in connection with which the police have already made multiple arrests. Fahadh Hussain, 19, of Nettoor was grievously injured in the brawl at INTUC Junction near Nettoor on the night on September 13. He died of his injuries the next day. The police said that the arrested had delivered 4 kgs of ganja to one Shruthy involved in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act case and whose arrest and subsequent release had triggered the chain of events leading up to the alleged killing of the youngster. The arrested is also accused of stocking ganja in a flat where the first accused Nidhin, fourth accused Jaison, and 18th accused Anila Mathew had stayed.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One accused of attacking transgenders arrested||The North police arrested the first accused in a case related to attacking transgenders and robbing their money last month. The arrested was identified as Muhammed Nabeel aka Subin, 22, of Kodungalloor. The police said that he was part of a two-member gang that assaulted and robbed money from three transgenders awaiting a cab at Kaloor Manapattyparambu on October 23 at 1 a.m. The gang had approached the transgenders on a motorcycle and demanded money from them.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PIL against EWS quota||A public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in the Kerala High Court on Wednesday challenging the reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the general category. The PIL challenged the Constitutional amendment incorporating 10% reservation for EWS. The petition sought a directive to the State to refix the 10% quota after conducting a proper study among the population of EWS in general category.
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Flotsam a nightmare for cleaning staff||Flotsam and African hyacinth piling up along the Fort Kochi beach in large volumes on a daily basis continues to pose a major headache even as a cleaning campaign is under way on a war footing to clear the beach of garbage ahead of its expected reopening by November 15. The District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) and the Heritage Society have jointly deployed 22 Kudumbashree members for cleaning the beach after postponing its post-lockdown reopening originally scheduled for November 1. “We have additionally deployed three men to clear flotsam alone that continues to get washed ashore in large quantities. All sorts of garbage dumped in Vembanad Lake seem to get washed up on the beach. We will have to find a long-term technical solution to the problem, discussions for which are under way informally,” said S. Vijayakumar, secretary, DTPC, Ernakulam. Flotsam has emerged as the biggest nightmare for cleaning staff as the more they clean it up, the more they get washed ashore. Thermocol, chappals, leather waste from shoemaking and bottles primarily dominate flotsam. Excavator “The volume is so much that it warrants deploying even an excavator on a daily basis whereas the women workers have to fall back on the archaic method of physically collecting them in sacks and dumping them at the disposal point at Vasco Da Gama Square. Our demand for an incinerator or at least a tricycle over the years has gone unheeded while latently we have been allocated a wheelbarrow, which is of little use,” said Sunita Babu, beach cleaning supervisor. The cleaning staff is deployed between 7 a.m. and 12 noon of which the first one hour alone is dedicated to the immediate beach. Voluntary service Meanwhile, the Clean Fort Kochi Foundation is planning to resume its weekly voluntary service of beach cleaning after having suspended it in March just before the lockdown. “We will definitely resume it sooner rather than later as we firmly believe that the upkeep of the beach would not be possible without the participation of citizens as local bodies and agencies have their limitations. In fact, if we get the right support, we are even open to looking beyond the beach and cleaning even the larger heritage town of Fort Kochi,” said Mohammed Irfan, a core member of the foundation.
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pollution testing centres to be under Parivahan||The Motor Vehicles Department in Ernakulam has started integrating automobile pollution testing centres into its digital database Parivahan, bringing much-needed transparency and uniformity in the issue of Pollution Under Control Certificates (PUCC). The first such digitally issued PUCC was uploaded into the portal by the Ernakulam Regional Transport Office on Tuesday. PUCC is the latest in a bunch of vehicle-related documents to be added to the portal with registration, licence, and insurance documents already available on the digital platform, facilitating more effective and even remote enforcement. The integration of pollution testing centres is under way and is likely to be completed in the district by the end of the month. The centres are integrated with Parivahan portal through a software interface application and operators are issued id and password for logins using which alone they are now authorised to issue PUCC. There are over 100 such centres in the district. “This will enable even remote electronic monitoring of the operation of these centres. The MVD authorities will be able to verify digitally whether the centres are licensed ones, the certificates are issued in compliance with norms, and even whether the equipment they use have their calibration in order and approval by Automotive Research Association of India failing which the centres could be automatically blocked from operating, ruling out the need for physical verification to detect and penalise discrepancies,” said C.D. Arun, Motor Vehicle Inspector with Ernakulam RTO who keeps track of the ongoing integration. Uniformity in fee The digital system will also bring about much-needed uniformity in fee for PUCC stopping operators from charging arbitrarily. The transport department has fixed Rs. 80 for pollution testing of two-wheelers, Rs. 90 and Rs. 100 for three-wheelers on petrol and diesel, Rs. 100 and Rs. 110 for light motor vehicles, and Rs. 150 for heavy vehicles. Also, the technician employed by centres should have a minimum qualification of SSLC or its equivalent and a two-week training course certificate from the Institution of Driving Training and Research at Edappal. Violation of any of these conditions will lead to automatic suspension of services.
05 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL received 1.97 lakh evacuated citizens||Cochin International Airport Ltd. (CIAL) handled 1,426 arrival relief flights during the six phases of the Vande Bharat Mission, evacuating 1,97,997 passengers till October 31. The Vande Bhrat evacuation programme was introduced in early May this year by the Union government to evacuate Indian citizens, who were stranded in different parts of the world in the wake of the restrictions bought about on international flights to contain COVID-19 pandemic. CIAL sources said that as the direct flight service to London from Kochi, which was introduced in August, had proved a success, Air India added one more service, making three flights a week in the Kochi-London sector from October.  Special flights The very first flight of the Vande Bharat Mission in the country arrived at the Cochin International Airport on May 7. Besides repatriation flight operations carried out by Air India Express and airlines such as Qatar Airways, Kuwait Airways, Emirates, Etihad, Gulf Air, Jazeera, Saudia and Fly Dubai from GCC countries, Air India operated special flights from San Francisco and Chicago in the U.S. and Paris, London, Armenia, and Moscow in Europe, Cebu in the Philippines, Ho-Chi Min City in Vietnam, and Djibouti in Africa. British Airways and Swiss Air joined the repatriation drive for transporting their citizens from Kochi and Qatar Airways and Saudia operated special departure flights for taking 3,000 medical professionals from Kerala to various hospitals in respective countries. Since 25 May, when the Ministry of Civil Aviation permitted calibrated operations in the domestic sector, CIAL handled 5,197 arrival/departure operations. Altogether, 2,47,182 domestic passengers arrived at the airport and 2,17,183 departed till the end of October.  Air India now operates three flights a week in the Kochi-London sector
05 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Encroachments along Konothupuzha being removed||The Amballur grama panchayat has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it will remove encroachments within its limits along Konothupuzha based on the assessment by the Survey Department. The local body mentioned this in the affidavit filed before the Southern Bench of the tribunal in the case related to the pollution and encroachment of the river. The Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta had asked the District Collector in August to submit an action-taken report against local bodies responsible for the pollution of Konothupuzha under the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The river passes through Thripunitura Municipality, and Chottanikkara, Udayamperoor, Mulanthuruthy and Amballoor grama panchayats, covering a distance of nearly 17 km before joining the Vembanad Lake at Poothotta. The Secretary of the Amballur grama panchayat said that the civic body had transferred its share of the amount required for carrying out a survey to find out the extent of the river within its jurisdiction. On completion of the procedures by the Survey Department, encroachments on the puramboke land, if any, would be evicted in accordance with the Kerala Land Conservancy Act, 1957, said the official. The local body informed the tribunal that steps had been taken by the Minor Irrigation Department to remove waste from the river. Compensation The tribunal had asked the State Pollution Control Board to impose environmental compensation on those responsible for the pollution of the river based on the suggestions included in a report filed by the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management. A report filed by A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, chairman of the SLMC, said that the board had issued notices to the local bodies located along the banks of the river for identifying illegal sewage outlets leading to the river. The board had issued show-cause notices to six apartments located close to the river after finding out that their sewage treatment plants were not working. The SLMC has directed the State Irrigation Department to clean the river and its streams periodically to ensure free flow of water.
05 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||3 fish markets to get a facelift||Three fish markets in the district will get a facelift in the first phase of a Rs. 193-crore project of the Fisheries Department to renovate a total of 65 markets in the State. Funded by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will inaugurate the renovation of Kadappakada, Thangassery, and Moonamkutty markets in the district on November 5. The objective of the project is to ensure the availability of quality and chemical-free fish to the customers while increasing the income of fishers. The modern fish markets are expected to be integral in expanding the marketing network of the sector. Rs. 5 crore has been allocated for the three markets and three markets from Thiruvananthapuram are also included in the first phase of the project. While Rs. 2.1 crore will be spent on the Thangassery market, Rs. 1.5 crore has been set aside for the Kadappakada market, and Moonamkutty market gets Rs. 1.4 crore. All the markets will have retail outlets, butcher stalls, cold-storage facility, preparation room, modern toilet blocks, and provisions for loading. All the markets have been designed as two blocks for the convenience of buyers and each stall will have stainless steel display tables and steel sinks. Anti-skid industrial tiles will be used for flooring while proper drainage facilities, waste treatment plant, freezer, and adequate parking will be the other amenities. Harbour too Some major changes will be introduced in Thangassery area as in addition to the market, the harbour will also be renovated with the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) allocated by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The habour will get a modern auction hall, shop building, and net-mending shed using the Rs. 4.8-crore fund. Neendakara, Saktikulangara, and Azheekkal are the other harbours being renovated as part of the project. Renovation works at both sites will be carried out in a way to suit the great historical relevance and heritage value of Thangassery.
05 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 937 new cases||The district reported 937 new COVID-19 cases, one death, and 769 recoveries on Wednesday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 925 contact cases, five cases with no known source, four health workers, two NRIs and one person who had travelled from another State. The Health Department has also confirmed that the death of an 83-year-old Karicode resident is owing to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Elampalloor, Ezhukone, Chitara, Nedumpana and Vettikavala. At present Kollam has 6,343 active cases.
05 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kabaddi institute to open today in Kollam||Kerala’s first kabaddi institute, one of the innovative projects completed by the Kollam district panchayat, will start functioning at Kalluvathukkal from November 5. It is the first time that a local body has come up with an institute to train students in kabaddi. Minister for Industries and Sports E.P. Jayarajan will inaugurate the institute. G.S. Jayalal, MLA, will hand over the keys. The Rs. 75-lakh project with world-class facilities would provide scientific training to talented students, said district panchayt president C. Radhamani here on Wednesday. An innovative project launched during 2018-19, the institute would offer training to high school and higher secondary students. “The objective is to help students qualify for national and international tournaments,” she said. The institute at the Kalluvathukkal Panchayat High School has been constructed in a way as to conduct all types of matches, including national tournaments. “All equipment required for the institute, including mats, training ladder, skipping rope, muscle relaxers, treadmill and hurdles, have been bought and a trainer has been appointed,” she said. The panchayat will also provide refreshment for students. The institute will start training sessions after COVID-19 restrictions are over and students from both government and private schools can avail themselves of the facility. “In the first phase, training sessions will be held four days a week and in future hostel facility will be provided to the students,” she said. The district panchayat had earlier opened a boxing academy at the Government Higher Secondary School, Perinad, for school students as another innovative project. The academy with roofed boxing ring and gallery is equipped with quality boxing gear, including gloves, head guards, punching gloves and punching pads. “The first batch of students who underwent training at the boxing academy had emerged as winners in the State school games.” High school and Plus Two students from all parts of the district can join the facilities for boxing and kabaddi training. The classes are free and the students will be selected through a screening process. “Through these initiatives, we plan to identify real talents, provide scientific training and offer them all support to become champions in the respective fields,” said Ms. Radhamani.
05 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||571 new cases reported in Kottayam||As many as 571 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam district on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 565 persons contracted the virus through local contact. The new cases also included 101 persons above the age of 60 and 62 children. Among the local bodies, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases with 57 persons testing positive. With 474 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,331 active cases. 651 cases in capital The district reported 651 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The death toll rose again with six more recent deaths being attributed to the infection. A total of 881 people recovered from the infection on Wednesday, and the number of active cases has dipped to 8,217, health officials said. The new cases included 18 healthcare workers. Over the past 24 hours, 5,410 tests were conducted.
05 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Curbs shouldn’t inconvenience pilgrims: NSS||The Nair Service Society (NSS) has urged the State government to make sure that the restrictions proposed for the Sabarimala pilgrimage do not cause inconvenience to the devotees. In a statement on Wednesday, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair acknowledged the need for restrictions in view of COVID-19. But at the same time, it should be implemented in a manner that did not affect the custom and traditions, he said. Since only those with a COVID-19 negative certificate would be permitted entry to the hill shrine, some of the restrictions suggested by government were beyond one’s comprehension, he said.
05 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID situation eases in Kozhikode||The COVID-19 situation in Kozhikode seems to be much better compared with the scenario last month, if the Health Department data are any indication. The active caseload, which once crossed the 12,000-mark in October, is around 9,000 now. The number of fresh cases, which once surged above 1,500 last month, is now around 1,000. The test positivity rate (TPR), the number of people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 per 100 samples, which once was above 18%, is now below 10%. On many days, the number of recoveries is exceeding that of new cases as well. According to the District Medical Officer, 951 people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, 917 of whom acquired the infection through local transmission. As many as 267 cases were from within the Kozhikode Corporation, 36 in Villiappally, 31 in Kunnamangalam, 25 in Changaroth, and 24 in Thalakkulathur. With 1,015 recoveries, active cases from the district stand at 8,949. As many as 9,861 samples were tested on the day, and the TPR is 9.64%. Six deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital on Tuesday and Wednesday. It was on October 2 that the district administration decided to impose prohibitory orders till the month-end here, in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. It was pointed out that the TPR rose from 4% in the first week of September to 5.8% in the second week, 7.8% in the third week, and 10.8% in the fourth week. Thereafter, it was well above 14%. In an order on October 31, the district administration extended the restrictions for 15 more days, though it claimed that the TPR had been brought down to 10%. The administration feels that the epidemic was “not completely under control”, and that there was a tendency for a surge, if there was any compromise in the existing protocol. The medical college hospital continues to report an average of three to four deaths every day, most of whom are patients with other health issues. The health fraternity seems to be relieved, as the system has not yet been overwhelmed beyond their control, though signs of exhaustion are evident.
05 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Congress leaders blocked at medical college hospital||The police on Wednesday blocked a group of Indian National Congress (INC) leaders, including Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) vice president T. Siddique and KPCC general secretary K. Praveenkumar, who went to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital mortuary to see the body of Maoist leader Velmurugan who was allegedly killed in a police encounter in Wayanad. They were prevented near the mortuary by around 11.30 p.m. with a claim that the investigation into the incident was yet to be over. They were instantly removed from the spot. The irked leaders later staged a sit-in in the area, alleging that they were ill-treated by the police. KPCC general secretary N. Subrahmanyan and DCC president U. Rajeevan were also among the protesters. The Medical College police said four protesters were booked on the charge of deterring public servants from discharging their duties. Cases were also registered against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act for violation of the COVID-19 protocol. Meanwhile, the Congress leaders alleged that the police were trying to cover up a “fake encounter”. “Our intention was just to see the body in the wake of reports that it was a fake encounter killing. We went there as normal human beings and not as supporters of any Maoist element,” they claimed. M.K. Raghavan, MP, who reached the Medical College Hospital following the ruckus, said the Congress leaders visited the spot as they wanted to know the truth behind the incident. “They raised only a genuine demand, and it was purposefully rejected. We are experiencing police raj here,” he alleged. It was on Tuesday that Velmurugan was killed during an alleged exchange of fire between Thunderbolt commandos and Maoists near Bappanamala tribal hamlet in Wayanad district.
05 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Seat-sharing issues worry LDF in Kozhikode||Several constituents of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) have expressed unhappiness over seat-sharing in Kozhikode district for the three-tier local body polls in December. Leaders of minor parties feel the CPI(M) is trying to corner all the seats in some local bodies, including the district panchayat and the Kozhikode Corporation. The troublesome seat-sharing process has also been attributed to the induction of the Indian National League (INL) and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) into the Left coalition. However, CPI(M) leaders said all partners, including the newly inducted parties, should be given representation. So, the seats of some existing constituents may have been cut down. LJD leaders said their party should be allotted more seats. When the party was led by M.P. Veerendrakumar (which was Janata Dal (United) in the United Democratic Front), it had contested in five seats. Such a demand has infuriated the Janata Dal (Secular), which had contested in only one seat in the 2015 polls. This time, the party may not be given any seat, it is learnt. The JD(S) and the LJD which have a love-hate relationship within the coalition have been asked to resolve issues over seat-sharing in the Thiruvambady division. Last time, the JD(S) had won from the division. At the same time, the CPI, which had contested in four seats in the district panchayat last time, will have to be contented with three seats. This also means that the CPI(M) considers the LJD nominees better than those of the CPI. Similarly, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which had contested in two seats earlier, will be allotted just one seat. Incidentally, the INL and the National Secular Conference had contested in one seat each. However, these parties will be allotted only one seat. The CPI(M) poll managers also want to reduce the number of seats for allies in the Kozhikode Corporation as well.
05 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Imparting lessons in biodiversity, an abode for mangroves||The 7.5-km stretch of the Anelappuzha in Koyilandi, which connects the Korapuzha with the Akalappuzha, is a storehouse of biodiversity. Lined with mangroves on both banks, the stretch has been a key factor in Koyilandy municipality’s plans to improve its tourism potential. The mangrove museum that was opened on the banks of the river recently is the first step to the realisation of a dream project in ecotourism. The plan for the museum was mooted around 10 years ago when K. Dasan, who is Koyilandy MLA now, was the municipal chairman. However, the project faced several stumbling blocks, mainly financial. The museum set up at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh in an old two-storeyed building, will be the base of the local body’s efforts to protect its biodiversity and to establish a comprehensive study centre on mangroves, says municipal chairman K. Sathyan. A tribute Claimed to be the first of its kind in the country and second in Asia (the first one being in Sri Lanka), the museum at present features pictorial representations of the 17 species of mangroves available in the Anelappuzha. It is a tribute to Kallen Pokkudan, hailed as the pioneer of mangrove preservation efforts in the State. However, it is just a skeleton of what the local body plans. “We plan to set up real miniature models of all 17 varieties here. Besides, there will be a digital library where all information on mangroves across the world will be made available. A video room will be set up to screen documentaries on mangroves. Besides, boating facilities through the river will be arranged so that the visitors get to know the plans directly,” Mr. Sathyan says, stressing that practical knowledge is more important that theoretical knowledge. “This will be a study centre for all things related to mangroves, especially for researchers. All facilities here will be made available free of cost,” he adds. A mangrove nursery is another proposed feature. “We have contacted the social forestry wing of the Forest Department to provide us saplings of those mangroves we do not have here. They will be cultured and will be used later to fill the gaps on the river banks where mangrove growth has deteriorated,” he says. Funds However, the municipality is yet to find funds for the later stages of this project, which includes acquisition of the entire stretch of mangrove forests between the Kanayamkode and Nelliyadi regions, which would complete the project, which Mr. Sathyan expects to accomplish in another year. The municipality has plans to include the museum in its tourism circuit, which would include the Kappad beach, Pisharikavu, Velliyamkallu, and houseboating in Kanayamkode.
05 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Last meet of corpn. council remains uneventful||The third online council meeting of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation on Wednesday was rather uneventful, mainly due to limitations of the medium. Most councillors seemed unaware of the online meeting proceedings, and hence the session was rather noisy with very less creative inputs from them. The council meeting, presided over by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran, was the last of the present council, which is to be dispersed in a week owing to the forthcoming local body polls. Opposition councillors C. Abdurahman of the IUML and Nambidi Narayanan of the BJP expressed discontent over the committee report on Mahila Mall. The Mayor suggested that they put their suggestions down on paper and submit at the Corporation office before the council dispersed and assured that action would be taken considering their suggestions. The Medical College rest house renovation drew discontent from Opposition councillors. They said the corrections they had suggested in the proposal when it was submitted in the previous council were not considered. The decision to confirm the jobs of 65 contingent workers of the corporation was also questioned by the Opposition.
05 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CM opens work on 10 smart village offices||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday opened the construction work of the proposed 10 smart village office projects in Kozhikode districts through videoconferencing. The completed Keezhariyur smart village office was inaugurated on the occasion. Revenue officials said the distribution of 1,200 more title deeds to the selected land owners was completed on Wednesday. Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan inaugurated the title deed distribution. The Keezhariyur smart village project was completed at a cost of Rs. 44 lakh.
05 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CBI probe zeroing in on CM, says BJP||BJP State president K. Surendran has alleged that the State government’s decision to withdraw its general consent given to the CBI to probe any case is an attempt to prevent Central agencies from probing the cases, as they are slowly zeroing in on the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his family. At a news conference here on Wednesday, he said the probe into cases of gold smuggling and irregularities in the LIFE Mission housing programme had already reached the Chief Minister’s Office. Mr. Vijayan had links with the key suspects in the cases, Swapna Suresh and M. Sivasankar, Mr. Surendran alleged. He said the son of CPI(M) State secretary was facing serious allegations in the drug case in Bengaluru. If the CPI(M) believed that it can obstruct the CBI from pursuing the cases in the State, it was living in a fool’s paradise, he said.
05 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Anti-Narcotic Force on the trail of more suspects||The District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force (DANSAF) is on the lookout of more suspects who allegedly colluded with Pradeep Kumar, a Tirur native who was arrested in the city on Tuesday allegedly with a huge cache of smuggled ganja. According to police sources, the 42-year-old truck driver brought the stock here from Odisha for some large-scale drug peddlers in the State. While quizzing the accused, the squad reportedly got more evidence about the role of some of the inter-State truck drivers who work hand-in-glove with the large scale traders in the field. Some trucks leaving the State with agricultural produce were found falling for the quick money for carrying weed on their return journey to Kerala. The police said they had an inter-State intelligence mechanism to spot such suspicious vehicles and carry out inspections. Many such trucks had been impounded with smuggled ganja with such intelligence inputs, they said. The investigation would be intensified on the basis of some telephone contacts collected by the special squad. It would be cross checked with the details elicited from some of the already arrested ganja peddlers. Apart from the ongoing investigation, surprise inspection of inter-State trucks would be continued on the national and State highways. DANSAF members said the seizure of smuggled ganja had also resulted in tracking large-scale ganja fields in other States. Several acres of such cultivated fields had been destroyed in the subsequent legal action, they said. Police sources also hinted that there were attempts by some carriers to exploit the poor screening measures at the inter-State check posts owing to the pandemic. However, the checking mechanism within the State was working to track all suspicious consignments, they said.
05 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Train students to be job providers, says VC||Calicut University Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj has underscored the necessity of higher education institutions aligning themselves with new paradigms. “The emerging scenario in higher education is highly interdisciplinary and career focused,” Prof. Jayaraj said while inaugurating the academic activities of Al Shifa College of Arts and Science at Keezhattur, Perinthalmanna, on Monday. “While the old model said that we need to train the students to enable them to be job takers, the new one seems to urge us to equip them to be job providers too. The design of innovative, hands-on, future-centred, technology-integrated curriculum for the students will ensure that they grow into skill and job providers too,” said Prof. Jayaraj. Shifa Medicare Trust managing trustee P. Unneen, college principal P.K. Babu, secretary Abdul Rassaque, Shifa Medicare Trust chief executive P. Hamza, English Department head Saritha Mahesh, and general manager Suhail P. Hamza spoke.
05 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||784 test positive in Malappuram||As many as 784 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Wednesday. While 703 of them contracted infection through direct contact, there were 71 cases without an identifiable source of infection. There were four health workers among the newly infected cases in the district. Six cases came from across the borders. As many as 655 infected persons recovered from the disease in the district. District officials said 8,328 active cases were currently being treated across Malappuram, and most of them were under observation at homes. More than 65,000 people were quarantined in the district. Over 45,000 persons have recovered since March. According to officials, 250 people died of the disease. In Wayanad A total of 151 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 905. Of the new cases, 143 patients, including one health worker, acquired infection through local transmission. While one person returned from abroad, seven others came from other States.
05 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||186 cases, 363 recoveries in Pathanamthitta||As many as 186 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 164 contracted the virus through local contact while the contact sources of 44 persons were yet to be traced. Among the local bodies, Pathanamthitta municipality led the tally with 12 cases. With 363 recoveries, the district currently has 1,934 active cases.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kattakada to install auto weather stations||Automatic weather stations will be installed in all grama panchayats of the Kattakada Assembly constituency, as part of its ongoing Jalasamrudhi project for water conservation. The expenditure towards the installation was met from the cash prize of the Chief Minister’s Award for Innovations in Public Policy. The system was set up with the assistance of the State Land Use Board, which had co-ordinated the project from the beginning, and the International Centre for Free and Open Source Software (ICFOSS). In six schools Six automatic weather stations are being installed in select schools (one in each grama panchayat) which will provide real-time information on rain, wind, humidity, and pressure. Rain measurement is important for studying the rainfall effects, to take precautions, and to make predictions which would be helpful in the water conservation project. ICFOSS provides the Land Use Board with an online data visualisation link rendering a graphic display of the data parameters which are transmitted to the server. The real time feeds will be embedded into the existing Jalasamrudhi website (www.jalasamrdhi.com) and Ariyam Kattakada website (www.kattakadalac.com), which will be made available to the general public. As part of the Jalasamrudhi project, measuring scales were installed in 100 ponds at selected locations in 14 micro watersheds in the Assembly constituency. From March 22 this year, monthly readings from the 100 ponds are being recorded and uploaded using the Haritha Drishthi mobile app. Jalasamrudhi’s success Under the project, inventive methods of conservation such as digging of farm ponds, making groundwater recharging pits, diverting water from quarries to recharge pits, and constructing check dams in streams have been used over the past three years to bring about a drastic change in the groundwater situation in the region, which has roughly 43,000 wells. Water clubs have been formed at all schools here. Artificial recharging arrangements have been made in 36 government institutions, including schools, police stations, hospitals, police quarters and in anganwadis. All the rainwater that falls on the terraces of these buildings are diverted into two or three pits of 8,000-litre capacity each dug on the premises.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 651 new cases||The district reported 651 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. A total of 881 people recovered from the infection, and the number of active cases has dipped to 8,217, health officials said. The new cases included 18 healthcare workers. Wednesday’s caseload included 481 cases of local transmission and 150 cases where the source of infection remained vague. Over the past 24 hours, 5,410 tests were conducted. Six more recent deaths were attributed to the infection. The deceased were a 73-year-old woman from Attingal, a 54-year-old man from Nedumangad, a 63-year-old man from Mailakkara, a 56-year-old man from Vamanapuram, a 67-year-old woman from Karumom and a 58-year-old man from Kavalayoor. In all, 1,862 more persons were newly quarantined in the district and 1,330 people completed the observation period without developing symptoms. Meanwhile, 321 more persons have been charged with flouting restrictions imposed in the district as part of the disease containment measures, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Wednesday. Micro-containment zone Cases were registered against 10 persons, while 11 others were fined. The police have imposed fines on 19 persons for flouting the restrictions. Further, 278 others were let off with a warning, the Collector said.  The Aruvikkara ward in Aruvikkara grama panchayat has been declared a micro- containment zone. The following places have been excluded from the list of containment zones: Thrikkanapuram, Melamcode (excluding Kariman), Kadakampally and Akkulam (excluding Ayithikonam, Kottamukku, Air Force Station and Priyadarshini Nagar) in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Adayamon in Pazhayakunnumel panchayat, and Koythoorkonam in Andoorkonam panchayat.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies to be under administrative rule||The State Cabinet on Wednesday decided to place local bodies scheduled for elections this year under the rule of administrative committees after November 11 since the polls would be delayed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision to form three-member administrative committees in the three-tier panchayats, municipalities and municipal Corporations is based on the relevant sections of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 and the Kerala Municipality Act, 1994, the government said. In district panchayats, the panels will have the District Collector, the secretary of the district panchayat concerned, and the project director of the Poverty Alleviation Unit as members. In the block panchayats, the committees will consist of the block panchayat secretaries, the assistant executive engineer of the block, and the assistant director of agriculture. In panchayats Likewise, the grama panchayat committees will consist of the secretary of grama panchayat, the assistant engineer and the agriculture officer. Municipalities will be administered by committees made up of the municipality secretary concerned, the municipal engineer, and the officer in charge of the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS). The Corporations will be administered by a committee which includes the District Collector, the Corporation secretary concerned, and the Corporation engineer. The terms of the elected councils of all local bodies, except the Mattannur municipality, end on November 11. Although it is mandated that the elections should be held before this date so that the new councils can assume charge on November 12, the pandemic had forced the State Election Commission to put off the polls. The Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and the Municipality Act state that wherever a new elected council has not yet been constituted when the term of the old one has ended, the government should appoint “a special officer or an administrative committee consisting of not less than three officers of the government” for interim governance. Appointed through a gazette notification, the committees/special officers cannot hold office for more than six months. Before Dec. 31 While the election schedule is yet to be announced, the State Election Commission had issued orders stating that the election process would be wound up by December 31.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||8,516 fresh cases as testing exceeds 70,000||The State reported 8,516 new cases of COVID-19 when 71,270 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, maintaining the trend over the past few days even when the testing climbed over 70,000 for the first time in several weeks. The test positivity rate stayed steady at 11.9 % The State also seemed to maintain the good recovery rate it has been reporting over days, with 8,206 patients leaving hospitals on Wednesday. The cumulative case burden of the State rose to 4,59,646 cases. Active cases The active case pool in the State went up slightly from the previous day to 84,995, but still stabilised well below the one lakh mark which it was expected to cross mid-October, but never did. The cumulative recoveries till date is 3,72,951. The number of persons reported to be critically ill in the State and currently being treated in ICUs is 831, with 235 on ventilator support, according to official data. Death toll With the addition of 28 more deaths to the official list of COVID deaths, the State’s cumulative toll rose to 1,587. Thrissur accounted for seven of these deaths, Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam six each, Kozhikode four, Malappuram three while Kasaragod and Kollam reported one death each. Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, 8,419 cases (98.8%) are locally acquired infections, with 879 cases not traced to any known source of infection. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 67. District-wise cases Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases at 1,197, Thrissur 1,114, Kozhikode 951, Kollam 937, Malappuram 784, Alappuzha 765, Thiruvananthapuram 651, Kottayam 571, Palakkad 453, Kannur 370, Idukki 204, Pathanamthitta 186, Kasaragod 182 and Wayanad 151 cases. Over 10,000 Two districts at present have an active caseload over 10,000 patients. The top five districts with a high active case pool are Ernakulam with 12,323 cases, Thrissur 10,007, Kozhikode 9,093, Malappuram 8,333 and Thiruvananthapuram 8,217, according to the Health Department.  The cumulative case burden of the State rises to 4,59,646 cases and the cumulative recoveries till date are 3,72,951.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cabinet decides against salary cut for govt. staff||The Cabinet has decided to withdraw its earlier decision to deduct one month’s salary of government employees and teachers over six months from September to mobilise resources following the COVID-19 outbreak. The leave surrender norm that has been deferred because of the financial crisis will be allowed from this month on the condition that it will be deposited in the Provident Fund (PF) account of the employees. A communication from the Chief Minister’s Office on Wednesday said employees could withdraw the leave surrender encashment from June 1, 2021. The leave encashment for next fiscal will be allowed only from June 1, 2021. Those who do not have PF account will get the amount as cash. The six-day salary deducted from employees working on honorarium basis will be returned. Reasons The decision follows the directive of the CPI(M) State secretariat to Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac in view of the forthcoming elections to local bodies, apprehensions raised by pro-Left Democratic Front unions, and move by pro-United Democratic Front unions to seek legal measures. The Centre’s decision to borrow and provide back-to-back loans to the States in lieu of GST compensation also led to the decision. The Cabinet also decided to do away with the practice of reporting vacancies if an officer goes on leave for more than three months. Instead of the existing practice of promoting a junior staff, additional responsibility will be given for smooth functioning. Redeployment The Cabinet also approved the redeployment of the personnel of the General Administration wing of the Secretariat. The excess posts of computer assistant and office attendant will be shifted to districts other than Thiruvananthapuram on working arrangement after securing the employees’ approval. The Cabinet decided to carry out similar studies for the redeployment of the personnel in the Finance and Law Departments. The Cabinet approved execution of Plan projects of Agriculture, Women and Child Welfare, Environment, and Water Resources Departments under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||13 more village offices go smart||Thirteen more village offices in the district are turning ‘smart.’ Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated a modernisation programmes for the offices on Wednesday. The offices at Ulloor, Pettah, Ayiroor, Nedumangad, Kulathoor, Vellarada, Vamanapuram, Kallara, Anad, Malayinkeezhu, Vilavoorkal, Varkala and Chemmaruthi are turning smart under the initiative. Amenities The offices will also become more people-friendly with amenities such as waiting rooms, toilets and drinking water for the visitors. The initiative is a part of the modernisation drive launched in the Revenue Department, the Chief Minister said. Collectorates, taluk offices and Revenue Divisional Offices have been transformed into paperless offices, Mr. Vijayan said. 25 certificates online At present, the Revenue Department issues 25 certificates online through the e-District portal. The project to introduce e-PoS machines in all village offices for enabling cashless payment of taxes is in the final stages. Of the 1,665 village offices in the State, 1,633 have digitised the basic tax register, while 1,354 have digitised contemporary records. The State government was also successful in distributing title deeds to 1,63,610 families, the Chief Minister said. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan presided over the function.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Church row: CM holds talks||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday held the third round of conciliatory talks between the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church and Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church to resolve the protracted feud that came to a head after the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the latter in 2017. Exhorting the denominations to take forward the conciliatory efforts, Mr. Vijayan said the government stood for wholehearted efforts to prevent unrest and bloodshed among the faithful. Pointing out that the religious leaders stood for restoring calm, the Chief Minister lauded either side for achieving considerable progress in resolving the dispute. The participants of the meeting largely agreed to the Chief Minister’s call to attain peace through discussions. While Mr. Vijayan had held separate meetings during the initial phase of the conciliatory talks, both factions of the Malankara Church took part in the second round of talks together. While the Orthodox Church was represented by Episcopal Synod secretary Yuhanon Mar Diascoros, and Gabriel Mar Gregorios and Thomas Mar Athanasius and the Jacobite Church was represented by its Metropolitan Trustee Joseph Mar Gregorios, Episcopal Synod secretary Thomas Mar Themotheos and Kuriakose Mar Theophilos. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta, State Police Chief Loknath Behera and Home Secretary Sanjay Kaul also participated.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pages throb with city’s life||Capturing a place’s spirit and the story of its transition over the years can be a tough ask. That is what photographer Raghu Rai and writer Lekshmy Rajeev have set out to do in their coffee table book ‘Thiruvananthapuram - An Artist’s Impression,’ which they have done for the Tourism Department. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch the book at Mascot Hotel on Friday. The transition The book, divided into three parts, chronicles Thiruvananthapuram’s history and also captures the transformations that the city has undergone over the past 50 years. In Rai’s inimitable style, there is more of people and the city’s changing moods at different times, than a collection of images of landmark buildings that usually fill such books. Ms. Rajeev says that she has been an admirer of Rai’s work for a long time, and hence has been wanting to work with him. How it came forth “I had first heard about him from my father in my childhood. Later, I saw his name under those moving images after the Bhopal gas tragedy and Indira Gandhi's assassination. I got in touch with him during another project and he suggested the idea of doing a book together. I was apprehensive initially. But later with the Tourism Department too supporting the project, we began the work in 2018,” she says. “I travelled with him to all these places and explained to him the historical and other details of each of them. He is not someone who takes images with a tourist’s perspectives. He might not even touch the camera when a celebrity is around, but he would gleefully click when he comes across a day-to-day scene. He has captured everything from the Arat festival to the moods of Ponmudi. There are 180 photographs from him and a few from others. I have written about the city’s history and the changes over the past few decades,” she says.  Chief Minister will release the book brought out by the Tourism Department tomorrow
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to ratify aided school teacher appointments||An agreement has been reached over ratifying the appointment of teachers who have been appointed in aided schools as per rules but whose appointment has not been recognised by the State government. The agreement was reached in talks that Minister for Finance T.M. Thomas Isaac and Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath had with Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Church Cardinal Baselios Cleemis and Mavelikara Bishop Joshua Mar Ignathios, who led various management representatives. Managements’ assurance The meeting decided that on the assurance of managements that aided school teachers who are at present on the protected teachers’ list following a division fall in schools would be absorbed by them, the teachers appointed as per rules to additional posts created following an increase in student strength but whose appointment was yet to be ratified by the government would be given approval. The government had not been ratifying the appointments to the posts since 2016.  Issue of 1:1 ratio It had also been insisting that in case of two additional posts, appointment could be made to one post by it for redeployment of protected teachers and to the second by the management. The meeting decided that in the matter of filling vacancies on 1:1 basis, the implementation would be on the basis of verdicts in cases that are in the court. General Education Secretary A. Shajahan and Additional DPI Santhosh were present.  Kerala Pradesh School Teachers Association general secretary M. Salahudeeen said the managements had agreed to appoint protected teachers, but without any decision on filling vacancies on 1:1 basis, how the above had been finalised was not clear. After all, appointments in the event of retirement, resignation, death, promotion, or transfer were being ratified by the government. The bone of contention was the 1:1 ratio. Till now, there had been no permanent solution to that, and teachers’ appointment would continue to be in the eye of a storm. It can only been seen as a decision taken with an eye on the polls. Talks were held only with church leaders, not with other managements such as the MES or the NSS.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three fish markets in capital to be modernised||Six fish markets in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts are being modernised at a cost of Rs. 13.97 crore for ensuring better infrastructure facilities and clean and good quality fish to customers. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will inaugurate the modernisation projects for the Puthenchantha, Nadukad and Panachamoodu markets in Thiruvananthapuram district, and the Kadappakada, Thangassery and Moonamkutti markets in Kollam district at an online function on Thursday. The project forms the first phase of a Rs. 193 crore initiative for revamping 65 fish markets across the State, the Fisheries Department said on Wednesday. The project aims at higher incomes for fishers and establishing better marketing networks. The markets will be equipped with retail outlets, butcher stalls, cold storage and freezers, preparation rooms, wash rooms, loading facilities, wastewater treatment units and drainage systems. The project is being carried out by the Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation. The work will be completed in six months, the department said. The Puthenchantha market is being modernised at a cost of Rs. 2.15 crore. The outlays for the other markets are as follows: Nadukad (Rs. 2.13 crore), Panachamoodu ( Rs. 4.62 crore), Kadappakada (Rs. 1.5 crore), Thangassery ( Rs. 2.1 crore) and Moonamkutti (Rs. 1.4 crore).
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Celebration of arts, crafts at Vellar||The first phase of the Vellar Arts and Crafts Village near Kovalam is operational with 28 studios featuring around 50 crafts. At each studio, visitors can view first-hand the making of a handicraft and also buy it. The Arts and Crafts Village project seeks to revitalise and nurture the handicrafts of the State to world-class standards and to ensure a decent livelihood for artisans, the government said in a statement on Wednesday. It has also launched programmes to introduce the heritage products of Kerala in the global market, the statement said.  “The studios also showcase the finest handicrafts inside and outside the country, including curios, dry flowers, handicrafts made from paper to metals, ivory creations, Pooram crafts and hammocks. These include Pattachitra (cloth-based scroll paintings) from Bengal and Odisha, murals of Kerala, colourful paper quilting originating in ancient Egypt, Nettoor boxes and glass-stone ornaments,” the statement said.  In the woodwork category, teak, rosewood and whitewood products ranging from home appliances to toys are on display. Aranmula Kannadi, Peruvamp musical instruments, Balaramapuram handloom, Muttathara wood carvings and Thazhava textile products also are among the exhibits. The crafts village employs about 750 artisans. Art, dance shows Art and craft biennales and festivals are planned at the crafts village for promoting the sectors and the artisans. Paintings by selected artists will be exhibited in an art gallery. Performances of traditional art and dance forms will be held for visitors from abroad. Initially, the performances will be on Saturdays, Sundays and other public holidays.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ED issues notice to CM’s additional private secretary||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has reportedly asked C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, to present himself at its Kochi office on Friday. The move assumed a measure of political and legal implications for the State government against the backdrop of the arrest of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, by the ED as part of its investigation into the money laundering and layering aspects of the United Arab Emirates consulate gold smuggling case that has convulsed the Left Democratic Front government. ED tight-lipped The ED was tight-lipped whether it had summoned Mr. Raveendran on the basis of Mr. Sivasankar’s statement to investigators. The ED appeared poised to extend its anti-money laundering probe into the official pursuits of Mr. Sivasankar, while he was in government service. The ED had also sought details of four mega projects promoted by the government. These mega schemes had involved dealings with foreign officials and companies.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Patronage of special trains on the rise||There has been a significant increase in patronage of special trains that have commenced inter-State services in a staggered manner. As many as 103 special train services have been notified for operation in Southern Railway. Of these, 76 are being operated as COVID special trains and 27 as festival specials to meet the demand during the upcoming festival season.  In October, the COVID specials had 74% occupancy benefiting 19.56 lakh passengers. The occupancy rate in festival specials is gradually picking up and the average occupancy is 57%. Over 1.10 lakh passengers booked seats for travel till October. The number of trains running with 100% occupancy is also on the rise, according to Railways. Destinations Intra-zonal special trains are operated to destinations such as Tiruchchirappalli, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Nagercoil, Kanyakumari and also connecting Coimbatore, Palakkad, Mangaluru and Thiruvananthapuram from Chennai. Besides festival special trains are operated from Chennai Central, Chennai Egmore, Madurai, Tiruchchirappalli, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, Rameswaram, Thiruvananthapuram Central, Ernakulam Junction and Kanyakumari to key destinations such as Bengaluru, New Delhi, Hyderabad, Howrah, Gaya, Bhubaneswar, Bikaner and Gorakhpur. Southern Railway has taken several steps to ensure safe travel adhering to the safety protocols laid down by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Webinar on district’s development||Finance Minister T.M.Thomas Isaac will inaugurate a webinar on the capital’s developmental prospects to be organised by the CPI(M) district committee on Thursday at 7 p.m. The party is collecting suggestions from experts in various fields and residents on the city’s development. Haritha Keralam Mission Vice Chairperson T.N.Seeema and Joy Elamon, Director General of Kerala institute of Local Administration, will present papers. Suggestions received during the discussion in the Facebook page and through Whatsapp will also be taken up. The webinar will be available at www.facebook.com/capitaltimestvm, www.facebook.com/cpimtvm.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Seminar on AI in journalism||The Department of Media Studies and IQAC of Christ Nagar College, Maranalloor, here will organise a virtual global summit on artificial intelligence (AI) in journalism on November 5, 12, and 19. The summit is titled ‘Impetus 2020-technologies empowering journalism.’ The seminar will begin at 5.30 p.m. For details, call 9847943799.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power supply regulations today||Power supply to several city areas will be disrupted on Thursday due to repairs, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said. Power supply to the YMR area in the Cantonment electrical section limits will be disrupted from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Supply to the following areas in the Peroorkada and Kudappanakunnu section limits will be hit from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. due to repairs on transformers: SFS and Palace Court areas in the Peroorkada section, and Krishna Nagar area in the Kudappanakunnu section. Supply to some areas in the Thycaud section limits will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. due to repairs on the Nedungad no: 1 transformer, the KSEB said.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Food kits distributed in coastal villages||The city Corporation distributed food kits under its ‘Theerathinoru Kaithaangu’ project to families in coastal villages to help them tide over the COVID-19-induced livelihood crisis. R. Kristhudas, Auxiliary Bishop of the Thiruvananthapuram Latin Archdiocese, inaugurated the distribution here on Wednesday. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran presided. A total of Rs. 51.98 lakh were collected from the public and from the Mayor’s distress relief fund. 10,198 families Food kits were distributed to 10,198 below-the-poverty line families. The food kits, consisting of groceries and essential items costing Rs. 1,000, were distributed through Consumerfed.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vandalism: 3 arrested||The Mannanthala police arrested three men on Wednesday on charge of vandalising a house and vehicles parked in the yard. The accused, Abhilash, 33; Sujith alias Chipputi, 26; and Sajeev, 24, had vandalised the house of a woman at Tilak Nagar, Nalanchira, on September 28. They had been absconding since then. They had entered the house armed, to harm the woman’s son, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested||The Sreekaryam police arrested a 41-year-old man on charge of breaking into the house of a woman and assaulting her. The police identified the accused as Chitrasenan, 41, of Gandhipuram, Sreekaryam. The incident occurred on the morning of October 31. A police team led by Sreekaryam SHO Abhilash David nabbed Chitrasenan who had been absconding after the incident.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milma plans big for birth centenary of Kurien||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) is launching a campaign to get the Centre confer the nation’s highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, on Verghese Kurien, the father of India’s White Revolution. The campaign forms a part of the year-long celebrations planned by Milma, one of India’s biggest dairy cooperatives, from November 26 this year to mark Dr. Kurien’s birth centenary which falls in 2021. Over one lakh dairy farmers, who are members of over 3,600 milk co-operative societies across the State, will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the Bharat Ratna for Dr. Kurien, Milma chairman P.A. Balan said on Wednesday. The chairpersons of the three regional unions of Milma also have resolved to take up the demand with the appropriate authorities. “Considering his pioneering services in nurturing dairy farming as a sustainable economic activity and imparting a big thrust to Operation Flood, Dr. Kurien deserves to be honoured with Bharat Ratna,”' Mr. Balan said. Over the years, the Centre has received numerous petitions seeking the Bharat Ratna for Dr. Kurien, a recipient of the Padma Vibhushan, World Food Prize, and Magsaysay Award. Statue at capital November 26 is observed as the National Milk Day across the country as a mark of respect to Dr. Kurien. The centenary celebrations will be flagged off at Kozhikode, the birth place of Dr. Kurien, on November 26. A life-size statue of Dr. Kurien will be erected at the Milma headquarters at Pattom here and busts at the regional union headquarters, Mr. Balan said. Milma will also institute awards in his memory for the students of Dairy Science Colleges affiliated to the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) leader P. Biju passes away||CPI(M) leader P. Biju, vice chairperson of the Kerala State Youth Welfare Board, passed away here Wednesday morning. He was 45. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on October 20 and was under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. Though he had tested negative last week, he developed post-COVID complications, including pneumonia. He was put on ventilator after his condition worsened. He died following a cardiac arrest on Wednesday. Student leader Mr. Biju was a former State secretary of the Students Federation of India (SFI) and also treasurer of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI). He was a member of the CPI(M) Thiruvananthapuram district committee. He was in the forefront of various students’ protests in the 2000s Under him, the Youth Welfare Board had set up the Kerala Voluntary Youth Action Force following the floods of 2018. The force has been active on the ground for relief work during disasters and during the pandemic period. Big loss: CM Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in his condolence message, said Mr. Biju’s passing away at a young age was a huge loss for the CPI(M) and Kerala society as a whole. He had proved his mettle as a leader right from his student days, leading several struggles. He had also made valuable contributions during his stint at the Youth Welfare Board. Through his active work on the ground amid the people, he had gained wide acceptance beyond all political boundaries, said Mr. Vijayan. CPI(M) State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said Mr. Biju was a great prospect for the future with his organisational capabilities and political understanding.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Educational aid for BPL children||The district unit of the Women and Child Development Department has invited applications for educational assistance to children belonging to below the poverty line (BPL) families headed by women. The last date is November 20. For details and submitting applications, contact the nearest anganwadi or ICDS office.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Release of KWA publication||Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty will release Jalatharangam, the official publication of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA), on Thursday. The Minister will hand over the first copy to Pranab Jyoti Nath, secretary, Water Resources. The first issue covers a wide range of topics including the Jal Jeevan Mission rural water supply scheme, the proposed sewerage vertical in the KWA and the Peppara dam in Thiruvananthapuram.
05 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Latin Catholic forum raises demand||Steps should be taken to study how far the backward communities including Latin Catholics in the States have benefited from reservation, the Kerala Regional Latin Catholic Council (KRLCC) demanded on Wednesday. Its leaders presented their concerns over the reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) before Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran, and LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Video editing course||The Kerala Media Academy has invited applications to the vacant seats for a six-month course in video editing to be conducted at its sub-centre here. Applications will be accepted till November 13. For application form and details, visitwww.keralamediaacademy. orgor dial 0471 2726275, 9400048282.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plea to control cement price||The Kerala State Artisans and Construction Workers Federation (CITU) has appealed to the State and Central governments for immediate steps to control the spiralling price of cement. Working president of the federation G. Sugunan said the soaring price of cement was threatening to deepen the crisis faced by the construction sector following the rise in input costs in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak.
05 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Temporary registration of clinics extended||The government has decided to extend the temporary registration of clinics by one year. The Cabinet meeting on Wednesday recommended the Governor to promulgate an Ordinance amending the Kerala Clinical Establishment (Registration and Control) Act for the purpose. The meeting recommended the promulgation of another Ordinance amending the Kerala Cashew Workers Relief and Welfare Fund Act 1979 to enhance the contribution.
05 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Laurels for scientists in cancer biology||Ramadasan Kuttan, former Research Director, and Girija Kuttan, former Professor, Department of Immunology, Amala Cancer Research Centre, have been ranked among the top 2% of scientists in cancer biology. The rank list has been published in the October issue of Journal of PLoS Biology by John P.A. Ioannidis and a team of scientists from Stanford University, USA. Dr. Ramadasan Kuttan worked in the field of oncology and carcinogenesis for nearly five decades. After Ph.D from CMC Vellore, he underwent post-doctoral training at the Roche Institute of Molecular Biology, NJ, and the University of Arizona and later joined the M.D Anderson Cancer Center, Houston. In 1984, Dr. Ramadasan returned to India and continued his research at the Amala Cancer Research Centre (ACRC) and served as Research Director. Dr. Girija Kuttan, wife of Dr. Ramadasan Kuttan, also served in the ACRC as professor of immunology. They have published more than 400 scientific papers in cancer biology and received many national and international awards. They are residing at Edappally, Kochi.
05 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||1,114 new cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 1,114 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday while 936 people recovered from the disease. There are 9,900 active cases in the district and 87 people from the district are undergoing treatment at hospitals in other districts. So far, 43,117 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 32,879 people have recovered from the infection. Of the new cases, 1,095 contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 119 patients are above the age of 60 and 86 patients are below the age of 10. Eight health workers were also infected. In all, 6,332 people are under home observation. Of the 852 people who started treatment on Wednesday, 244 are in hospitals. In all, 8,072 samples were tested on Wednesday. 453 in Palakkad As many as 453 people tested positive for COVID in Palakkad district on Wednesday. However, as many as 583 infected people recovered from the disease on the same day in the district. Officials said that 235 of the new cases had got the infection through direct local contact. But the source of infection could not be ascertained in 214 cases, giving jitters to the health authorities in the district. There were four cases that came from across the border.
05 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||CM to open specialised floriculture unit||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will open a centre of excellence for vegetable and flowers on Thursday at the Regional Agricultural Research Station, Ambalavayal, under the Kerala Agricultural University. The inauguration will be conducted in a virtual conclave. Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, will preside over the function. Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar will deliver the welcome address and Jan Kees Goet, Secretary General, Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, Government of Netherlands, will deliver the keynote address. Marten Van den Berg, Ambassador of the Netherlands to India, K. Rajan, Chief Whip, Rahul Gandhi, MP, M.V. Shreyams Kumar, MP, Venu Rajamony, Ambassador of India to the Netherlands, and others will participate. The project is being implemented jointly by the Department of Agriculture, State Horticultural Mission, and the Kerala Agricultural University at Rs. 13 crore. The Mission for integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) will provide Rs. 7 crore for the project. The remaining Rs. 6 crore will be funded by the Government of Kerala under the Rebuild Kerala Initiativea pressnote says. The project will have technical support of the Government of Netherlands under the Indo-Dutch Joint Action Plan, according to a press release from the KAU.
05 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||CM to open specialised floriculture facility||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will open a centre of excellence for vegetable and flowers on Thursday at the Regional Agricultural Research Station, Ambalavayal, under the Kerala Agricultural University. Virtual conclave The inauguration will be conducted in a virtual conclave. Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, will preside over the function. The project will have technical support of the Government of Netherlands under the Indo-Dutch Joint Action Plan, a press release said.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Afloat again||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All smiles||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll hues||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For Water Metro||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Endangering their lives||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homage||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kerala Piravi Day celebrated||Poet Murugan Kattakada inaugurated the Kerala Piravi Day celebrations for differently abled students recently. Organised by the south urban resource centre of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, ‘Sargakairali 2020’ was held online for differently abled students studying in public schools in the South educational subdistrict. Dressed in Kerala attire, the children presented programmes that gave out the message of survival in the face of the pandemic. Poetry, songs, elocution, dance, and painting were some of the events held on the occasion.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cashing in on poll mood||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Danger on dusty road||
05 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kidnapped woman rescued in 30 hrs.||In a rescue act, which is the second in one week, the city police have saved a 22-year-old woman within 30 hours of her kidnap and arrested five persons, including the kingpin, Bhagiratha Aachari, a constable of the Owk police station in Kurnool district. The police have also seized three cars used in the kidnap act. The accused have been identified as Bhagiratha Achari; former BSF constable Chandramohan; Krishnaveni; Shaik Hazi Basha; and Revanna Murali – of Bandakindapalli, near Madanapalli, in Chittoor district. Search is on for a few more persons who have allegedly assisted the kingpin in the commission of the crime. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Anantapur Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu said that Bhagiratha was engaged to the woman about one year ago. But four months ago, the marriage was called off when her parents came to know that there were some criminal cases pending against the constable. However, Bhagiratha, who wanted to marry the woman, took the help of his relatives to kidnap her from Azad Nagar in a SUV and proceeded towards Dharmavaram. On receiving information, Mr. Yesu Babu alerted the police over the ‘High Alert’ App and ensured vehicle checking. Meanwhile, the accused abandoned the SUV at Tadipatri, hired a car, and took the woman to the house of a relative at Madanapalli for overnight stay. There, the constable’s relatives mounted pressure on the woman to marry him, but when she refused, she was allegedly treated in an inhuman way. Bhagiratha later hired another car and tried to shift the woman to his native place Kolimigundla in Kurnool. Anantapur DSP G. Veeraraghava Reddy and IV Town CI K. Srinivasulu reached Kolimigundla, where the police intercepted the car, arrested the accused and brought the woman to Anantapur.
05 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents on tenterhooks as 150 teachers test positive in Chittoor||Just three days after educational institutions reopened, there is lot of uneasiness and tension among parents in Chittoor district as 150 teachers of government schools tested positive to the COVID-19 virus, followed by nine students. The figure is likely to up in the next three days when more results are awaited. District Educational Officer (Chittoor) Narasimha Reddy confirmed that 150 teachers of government schools had tested positive to the dreaded virus. He said in spite of this, the COVID-19 rules were being strictly adhered to in all the schools. “Testing for teachers and students in private schools commenced on Wednesday,” he said. The teachers who had tested positive to the virus were mostly from Srikalahasti, Tirupati, Madanapalle, Chittoor, Punganur, Palamaner and Ramasamudram mandals. The incidence is being felt equally in both rural and urban areas. Low attendance According to information, the attendance among students remained be was slightly higher in rural areas. However, the figure is expected to dwindle further in the coming days, according to a government school headmaster in Srikalahasti mandal, where a school was temporarily closed after three staff had tested positive. What is worrying the teachers more is that several students were attending the school without facemasks and sanitisers. “Though the rules are stipulated on paper, the ground reality is different. Though facemasks were supplied to students, there is no proper response from them. Moreover, students and we (teachers) too find it very difficult to wear a mask continuously for more than an hour in the classroom,” a government teacher at Madanapalle, who tested positive, said. As per the Tuesday’s bulletin, Chittoor district recorded 436 cases, causing concern to the COVID-19 task force officials, teachers and parents. With the frequency of RTC buses in the rural areas yet to pick up, it led to inconvenience among the students, and this had directly led to fall in the attendance. A 58-year-old woman teacher at KVB Puram mandal said: “I am desperate to apply for medical leave. I am a diabetic. Wearing of mask continuously is a very big task in practical sense. In a closed classroom, it’s risky to teach lesson. To be frank, the current academic year too is going to be a namesake one as last year,” she said.
05 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former MLA and industrialist dead||Former MLA and industrialist Kandula Sivananda Reddy (73) passed away at his residence here early on Wednesday. He had been indisposed for the last few days after undergoing heart surgery. Growing out of the shadow of his father K. Obul Reddy, who had served as Kadapa Member of Parliament, Sivananda Reddy forayed into politics in the mid-80s and won as Congress MLA from Kadapa in 1989. Since Sivananda Reddy was identified as anti-YSR group, he had switched over to the TDP. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2004 and 2009 elections. Ever since his defeat at the hustings, Sivananda Reddy had been maintaining a low-key profile in politics and instead focussed on his KSRM group of educational institutions. YSRCP MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy recently called on the ailing leader. His brother K. Rajamohan Reddy had contested as TDP Lok Sabha candidate against Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and lost by a narrow margin. He later switched over to the BJP.
05 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spanish woman adopts three-year-old girl||A Madrid-based Spanish woman, Maria Moriana Alonso-Rodriguez, on Wednesday adopted a three-year-old girl, an inmate of Kakinada Sishu Gruha being run by the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) in East Godavari district. The girl was given IN adoption and handed over to Ms. Alonso-Rodriguez by Joint Collector Ch. Kirthi through the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) of the Ministry of Women and Child Development. According to ICDS Project Director D. Pushpamani, Ms. Alonso-Rodriguez is a single parent. In 2017, the baby girl admitted to the Sishu Gruha in Kakinada immediately after she was born in Rampa agency in East Godavari district. District Child Protection Officer Ch. Venkata Rao and other officials were present.
05 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permission given to 55 cracker stalls||Kakinada Municipal Corporation Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar on Wednesday said that permission was granted to set up 55 stalls to sell firecrackers in the city. At a review meeting with the officials from the Departments of Fire and Police, Mr. Swapnil said that the sale of firecrackers would be allowed between November 11 and 14. As many as 42 stalls would be set up at the Mc Laurin High School grounds and thirteen more at the Boat Club campus in the city, the Municipal Commissioner said.
05 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for pipeline project||Social Welfare Minister P. Viswarup on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for a pipeline to supply drinking water to villages between Uppalaguptam and Madhurapeta in East Godavari district. Vedanta group has granted Rs. 25-lakh fund for the pipeline project to be executed by the Rural Water Supply Department.
05 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja smuggling gang busted||A six-member gang, including a woman, transporting ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency to East Godavari district was busted at Anaparthi-Dwarapudi road in the limits of Anaparthi police station on Wednesday. According to Anaparthi CI N.V. Bhaskara Rao, the gang members was caught when they were handing over 88 kg ganja to an agent, K. Bhargava Reddy of Anaparthi. The ganja was allegedly procured from Visakhapatnam agency and transported via G.K. Veedhi by a car and two two-wheelers. The value of ganja is estimated at Rs. 1.76 lakh. The arrested were identified as B. Swapna, 30, P. Raju and G. Prasad belong to G.K. Veedhi in Visakhapatnam district and P. Arjuna Rao, G. Mohan Venkatesh and Bhargava Reddy of East Godavari district. The police registered a case and produced them in court. Investigation is on.
05 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam temple ties up with U.S. firm for remodelling||The Srisailam temple has tied up with AECOM, an American consulting firm that does planning, designing, engineering and construction management, to conduct a survey of the temple complex to suggest a development model keeping in view the needs for the next 25 years. The company representatives visited the temple on Wednesday to help the endowments officials prepare a master plan as suggested by Endowments Secretary Girija Shankar. Temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao interacted with the team.
05 November 2020||MADHAVAPATNAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic brings curtains down on livelihood of puppeteers||The leather puppetry artistes in East Godavari district are struggling to make ends meet as the coronavirus pandemic have confined them to their homes. Since the outbreak of the virus, the artistes have not been able to do a single street performance of the age-old theatre art form from which they earn their bread and butter. A majority of the puppeteers live in the rural pockets of Madhavapatnam, Jamuna Nagar, Cheediga, Peddapuram, Karapa, Amalapuram and Rajamahendravaram Urban in East Godavari district, in which at least 400 families practise this art from as a legacy.  “By February, we set our performance calendar for the rest of the year. The Central government, State government, the authorities of temples and managements of local festivals book us. The lockdown imposed in March to check the COVID-19 spread upset out schedule for this year,” says Thota Bala Krishna from Madhavapatnam village where many puppeteers families live. Till the March-end, Mr. Bala Krishna says, his ten-member troupe was busy in various awareness campaign for various programmes introduced by the Central and State governments. “We were performing as part of an awareness drive in the pockets hit by left-wing extremism in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts, when the lockdown was imposed. Now, there is no guarantee that the awareness drive will resume,” laments Mr. Bala Krishna. Peak season lost In the last few months, the puppeteers have missed their business seasons of Vinayaka Chavithi, Dasara and other temple festivals. “We have no clue when the restrictions public gathering will be lifted. How will we run our families unless we perform,” asks Mr. Bala Krishna. Anaparthi Edukondalu, president of East Godavari Tholubommala Kalakarula Samakhya says many puppeteers also make some money by selling old garments. “This livelihood option has also gone due to the lockdown. Hundreds of families are in search of livelihood,” he says.
05 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases down to 2,338 in south coastal A.P.||More than 1,500 persons recovered from COVID in south coastal Andhra Pradesh while the death toll also abated in Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. The toll due to the pandemic remained static at 1,060 with Prakasam district accounting for 573 deaths so far and Nellore district for the rest, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Wednesday night. Health authorities, who had been grappling with a large number of cases till recently, heaved a sigh of relief as discharges from hospitals in the two districts outnumbered fresh cases by 1,428 during the period Fresh cases dipped to less than a few hundreds in a span of 24 hours, while several times more patients returned home on recovery which led to the drastic reduction in the caseload in the two districts. Currently, 2,338 cases are active in Prakasam and Nellore. Prakasam alone has just 1,038 active cases, as it registered 1,497 recoveries. So far, there have been 58,478 recoveries in the district. While the total tally of positive cases rose to 60,089 in Prakasam with 70 testing positive in the last 24 hours, Nellore saw yet another bunch of 94 cases, pushing up the count to 61,438 and an equal number of persons(95) were discharged from hospitals in the district. So far, 60,138 patients had won the battle against the disease in the district. Meanwhile, health authorities in Nellore district began third phase of the sero surveillance in public health centres, community health centres and urban health centres in Venkatagiri, Naidupeta, Sullurpeta and Kavali to assess the immunity level of people against COVID-19.
05 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,224 children rescued in ‘Operation Muskaan’||A 12-year-old girl, who was rescued by the Prakasam Police during the ‘Operation Muskaan’ impressed Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang and other dignitaries during an interaction on video link from here on Wednesday. Inkollu Salomi, a native from Surareddypalem village near Tangutur thanked the DGP for the support assured by him for continuing her studies. “I will study well and become a teacher,” said the girl. Salomi was among 2,224 orphans and child labourers and street children including 1,729 boys rescued from railway stations, bus stands, brick kilns and other places across Prkasam district by police, in coordination with the staff of other departments, during the ‘Operation Muskaan’ between October 28 and November 3. Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said that 22 cases had been registered against those engaged child workers. He warned shopkeepers and other business establishments of punitive actions including jail if they were found engaging child workers.
05 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘APSRTC hardly operating 25% services to TS’||Transport Minister P. Venkataramaiah on Wednesday said the government was hardly operating 25% of bus services to Telangana, owing to poor occupancy. Speaking to newsmen here, he said APSRTC would not experience any loss due to the operation of limited number of services to Telangana as the occupancy rate was expected to be low in coming months. The occupancy rate was expected to grow in the next six months. The Minister reminded that many people were preferring own transport in the wake of spread of COVID-19.
05 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goldplating work at Bhuvaraha Swamy temple to begin in December||The goldplating work of the towering roof (vimanam) above the sanctum sanctorum of the Sri Bhuvaraha Swamy temple will start from the second week of December. According to estimates, more than 42 kgs of gold and 18 kgs of copper will be used and around Rs. 14.10 crore is expected to be spent on the work. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board, during its meeting in December last year, had approved the proposal and tenders for the project were invited. The project is expected to be completed in six months. The TTD has reproduced the images of the ‘vimanam’ using 3D printing technology and designing process of the copper plates will be done accordingly. Then the goldplating work will be taken up. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar reddy has issued orders to this effect to the officials of the temple, jewellery and engineering department. He instructed them to act in accordance to the advice of the Agama experts.  Meanwhile, the TTD has also resolved to conduct ‘Balalaya Maha Samprokshanam’ (a mandatory religious ceremony normally organised while taking up renovation of the temples) at the Bhuvaraha Swamy temple from December 6 to 10. As part of the programme, replica idols of the deity carved out of fig wood would be placed in the Mukha mandapam and all the daily rituals will be performed there till the completion of the work.
05 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD secures licence for sale of manure||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Wednesday acquired the licence for auctioning of more than 6,000 tonnes of manure produced from the waste collected from the sacred town. “Suggestions from experts will be invited with regard to optimum utilisation of drain water for non-drinking purposes and recycling of the solid and liquid wastes. At present, the drain water is extensively used for gardening purposes. Options are being explored for its use in toilets as it would help in drastically cutting down the usage of water,” TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy told the media here on Wednesday. Mr. Reddy inspected the security arrangements in place and instructed the engineering officials to complete the ongoing works within time. He also visited Aswini Hospital and enquired about emergency cases and services extended to the patients. TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, CVSO Gopinath, Chief Engineer Ramesh Reddy, Health Officer R.R. Reddy, Chief Medical Officer Narmada accompanied the TTD EO during his inspections.
05 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will ensure rightful share of development to BCs’||The YSR Congress government will ensure the rightful share of development to the Backward Classes (BC), in sharp contrast to the TDP regime, which used them merely as a vote bank for furthering its interests, said Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. Speaking at a thanksgiving function organised to hail Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for making 56 persons as chairpersons and 675 as directors to various BC corporations here on Wednesday, he said the Chief Minister had fulfilled the promise made during the pre-election ‘BC Garjana’. “The formation of so many corporations is a historic decision to empower the Backward Classes,” Mr. Reddy elaborated, even as slogans like ‘Thank You CM Sir’ rent the air. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that 1.26 lakh out of the 4 lakh volunteer and village secretariat jobs were earmarked for the BC youth. He also added that the recently-vacated legislative council seat was also given away to this community. ‘Free from social shackles’ District in-charge Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy, speaking via video conference, said four posts of chairpersons and 53 directors were allocated to Chittoor district and credited Peddireddy for the same. Government whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy said the BC communities were free from social shackles for the first time in seventy years. Chittoor MP N.Reddeppa, MLAs B.Karunakar Reddy (Tirupati), B.Madhusudhan Reddy (Srikalahasti), M.Ravi (Puthalapattu), P.Dwarakanath Reddy (Thamballapalle) spoke, while corporation chairpersons from the districtwere honoured on the occasion.
05 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanction of wider bridge set to end villagers’ ordeal||Walking steadily on the two-feet-wide path across the seventh branch canal of the Telugu Ganga Project is not a child’s play. It is even more dangerous when water flows to the brim. A slight drifting of the eyeballs away from the path into the deep canal could send shiver in the knees or make one swoon. At least four persons and several heads of cattle crashed down into the canal bed and lost their lives so far. Yet, for those living in Kallipudi, a village in Thottambedu mandal in Chittoor district, the dangerous trek had become a part of their everyday life. For 35 years, the residents of the cluster of villages in the mandal falling under Srikalahasti constituency had been using the path, the only way to reach the other side of the canal. And when someone in their village dies, it becomes even more difficult to tread on the narrow path, with the mortal remains, as the burial ground is situated on the other side. “In such cases, if there is one walking from the other side of the bridge, one has to return to the starting point to give way for the procession,” says G.Narasimhulu, a cattle grazer of the vicinity. 3,000 people to be benefited But now, what once seemed a pipe dream to the villagers has come true with the sanction of a wider bridge. MLA B. Madhusudhan Reddy said that the Rs. 19 lakh-bridge is expected to benefit around 3,000 people in Kallipudi and adjoining villages. To ensure its strength and longevity, Mr. Reddy said only pedestrians and two-wheelers would be allowed on the ten-feet wide bridge. The villagers heaved a sigh of relief on hearing the news.
05 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, TTD calendars, diaries can be delivered abroad||Srivari calendars and diaries for 2021 can now be bought by the devout staying abroad. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has readied its website to ensure smooth delivery and inked a pact with online retailer Amazon. Online purchase Devotees can book their copies by clicking on the ‘publications’ tab on the website www.tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in and making payments through their debit or credit cards. The TTD will ensure the delivery through India Post to the address mentioned during the online booking, with an additional charge for packing and shipping. The facility has been extended to the devotees living in foreign countries . However, people can also buy the calendars and diaries by sending demand drafts drawn on ‘The Executive Officer, TTD’ payable at Tirupati with a covering letter addressed to ‘The Special Officer, TTD book publications and sales department, Press Compound, Kapila Theertham Road, Tirupati – 517 507. For more details, the devotees can dial 0877 – 2264209 or 9963955585. The prices of the various products are as follows: twelve-sheet calendar (Rs. 100), big diary (Rs. 130), small diary (Rs. 100), tabletop calendar (Rs. 60), Srivari / Sri Padmavathi solo big calendar (Rs. 15), Srivaru and Padmavathi calendar (Rs. 10) and Telugu Panchangam (Rs. 20). The products are available at the TTD’s counters at Tirumala, Tirupati, information centres in Delhi, Vjiayawada, Visakhapatnam, Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru, Mumbai and at the temples affiliated to the TTD.
05 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IISER and IIT campuses ink pact to share resources, facilities||Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) have collaborated to share their resources and facilities in future. Located on campuses three km apart at Yerpedu, the institutes decided to bring about synergy, and their directors K.N. Ganesh (IISER) and K.N. Satyanarayana (IIT) signed an MoU on Wednesday towards this end. Apart from transfer of credits, faculty and student exchange, the pact will facilitate sharing of research labs, medical facilities, Kendriya Vidyalaya and sports infrastructure. “The faculties can take up multidisciplinary joint research programmes. A beginning has already been made in developing protective masks against the pandemic,” observed Dr. Ganesh. “In the present times of resource-crunch, such creation of research facilities would ensure optimal utilisation, besides strengthening the bonding between the institutes”, Prof. Satyanarayana added. A COVID-19 testing lab with virology facility was inaugurated by the Directors. The lab with bio-safety level II facilities was developed in a record time of three months, strictly adhering to protocols laid down by ICMR.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lowest daily toll in last four months||The State reported 2,477 new COVID infections and 10 deaths in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The tally has gone up to  8,33,208 and the toll reached  6,744. As many as 2,701 patients were discharged in the past day and the total recoveries further went up to 8,05,026 which was 96.62% of the total infections. There are 21,438 active cases at present. The death rate remains at 0.81% and the daily death toll reported was lowest in the past four months. Positivity rate The number of tests conducted increased to 83.35 lakh, as 75,465 samples were tested in the past day with a positivity rate of 3.28%. The overall positivity rate came down to 10%. Krishna, Guntur and Visakhapatnam reported two new deaths each while Anantapur, Chittor, East Godavari and West Godavari reported one new death each. The remaining six districts reported no new deaths. East Godavari reported 424 new infections, highest in the past day. It was followed by West Godavari with 375 cases, Krishna with 332 cases, Guntur with 323 and Chittoor with 321 cases. Remaining districts saw few cases comparatively. They include Kadapa (127), Visakhapatnam (122), Srikakulam (117), Nellore (94), Vizianagaram (85), Prakasam (70), Anantapur (52) and Kurnool (35). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,17,207), West Godavari (87,210), Chittoor (79,643), Guntur (68,386), Anantapur (65,029), Prakasam (60,089), Nellore (59,872), Kurnool (59,600), Visakhapatnam (56,270), Kadapa (52,642), Srikakulam (44,300), Krishna (40,473) and Vizianagaram (39.592). Nellore, Kurnool and Vizianagaram together have only 858 active cases, and each of them have a recovery rate close to 99%. Half of the active cases are present in East Godavari, Guntur and Krishna districts whose recovery rates were 95.73%, 94.45% and 91.14% respectively. Four districts have more than 97% recovery rate and three have more than 96%.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM lays stone for works costing Rs. 381.24 cr. in WG||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for developmental works costing Rs. 381.24 crore in West Godavari district. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy laid a foundation stone at Eluru for the works being taken up by the R&B, Water Resources, and Panchayat Raj and Rural Development departments. The government proposes to construct roads and bridges to connect a few villages and mandals in the district. The R&B Department plans to develop a road network of 74.13 km at a cost of Rs. 201 crore. The Tanuku-Bhimavaram, Palakollu-Achanta, and Medapadu-Narsapuram via Chinchinada are some of the roads that will be laid. The Panchayat Raj Department proposes to take up works at a cost of Rs. 75 crore under the Shyama Prasad Mukherji Rurban Mission (SPMRM). Earlier, the Chief Minister paid floral tributes at the statue of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at V.V. Nagar in Eluru. The officials informed the Chief Minister about the concrete wall being constructed to protect the residents from inundation caused by Tammileru. Ministers Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Perni Venkatramaiah, Ch. Ranganatharaju, Taneti Vanita and others were present.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Development of Vijayawada among priorities of State, says Botcha||Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botcha Satyanarayana has said that development of Vijayawada is one of the priorities of the State government and funds in crores have already been released. He was speaking after flagging off a fleet of 25 mini segregated garbage collection vehicles (CNG) equipped with CC cameras pointed at the bins and GPS along with VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh. Mr. Satyanarayana said the government also focussed on encouraging environment-friendly initiatives and as part of the same, the new CNG vehicles that have separate cabins for collection of wet and dry garbage were bought and soon one such vehicle per division would be provided. Pat for staff The Minister opined segregation of garbage at the source makes solid waste management effective. “The waste to energy plant which is ready for operation at Guntur will soon be opened and the dry waste generated in Vijayawada will be transported to the facility,” Mr. Satyanarayana said and appreciated the VMC Commissioner and staff for taking various initiatives that helped the city bag top rank in Swachh Survekshan. Mr. Venkatesh said the use of smaller vehicles would help VMC cover more households in less time and only two workers would be required. The new vehicles would replace pushcarts used by sanitation workers to collect garbage and also ensure the collection of segregated waste in separate cabins, he said. Through CC cameras, staff at control room would be able to check whether garbage was segregated before it was dumped or not, he said. Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu said that more development works would be sanctioned for the city in future.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big plans to give a leg-up to tourism sector||To develop sports and games in the State, the government plans to establish eight world-class integrated sports complexes, Minister for Tourism and Sports Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said. PPP projects Reviewing tourism and sports projects with officials of the respective departments at the Secretariat on Wednesday, the Minister said all these projects would come up in the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode at Guntur, Srikakulam, Aganampudi, Kommadi (Visakhapatnam), Meghalapalem (Nellore), Eluru, Kakinada and Vizianagaram. Besides, 7-Star and 5-Star hotels would be established in 12 locations across the State. To attract investors, road shows would be conducted in Delhi, Bengaluru and Pune, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. The star hotels would be established at Gandikota (Kadapa district), Kakinada, Pichukalanka (East Godavari), Horsley Hills (Chittoor), Nagarjuna Sagar (Guntur), Suryalanka beach (Guntur), Orvakal (Kurnool), Kalingapatnam (Srikakulum), Rushikonda (Visakhapatnam), Bhavani Island (Krishna) Tirupati-Perur (Chittoor) and Polavaram (West Godavari). Earlier, speaking to the media at Haritha Berm Park at Bhavanipuram here, the Minister said that the new tourism policy would pave the way for implementation of projects on a large scale in the PPP mode. The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic had paralysed the tourism sector, and the department had incurred a loss of Rs. 1 crore per month in the last six months, he said, adding that in response to the Centre’s decision to open tourist destinations to the public, the government had started making arrangements accordingly. “The picturesque Bhavani Island on the Krishna is being spruced up. It will be opened to the public from November 10 keeping in view the traditional ‘Karthika Masam Vana Bhojanam’, when the place turns into a picnickers’ hub,” he said. Boating activity Barring Papikondalu, boating activity had been resumed in most places with nearly 60 boats in operation. “In the Krishna, the recreational facility will be made available after the flood water at Prakasam Barrage recedes and the Irrigation Department gives green signal,” he said. To prevent recurrence of boat accidents, command control rooms had been set up at nine places with officials and staff of the Police, Revenue, Tourism, Irrigation and other allied departments coordinating the safety aspects, the Minister said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the department earned Rs. 28 crore by utilising 38 hotels it runs as COVID centres. Instructions had been given to ensure strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol at all tourist spots. Moving forward, focus would be on promotion of water tourism, eco-tourism, beach tourism and temple tourism, he added.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) bats for Amaravati, opposes decentralisation||The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M), represented by its State secretary P. Madhu, on Wednesday filed a counter-affidavit in Andhra Pradesh High Court strongly opposing the idea of decentralisation of the capital, stating that the idea was not pragmatic. The party stood by the city of Amaravati as the capital of Andhra Pradesh and was against the decentralisation of the capital. While CPI(M) is not opposed to decentralisation of development, the same could be achieved without resorting to decentralisation of the capital, it said in the affidavit. The CPI(M) was of firm view that comprehensive development of the State and the people would be achieved by development of agriculture, industrialisation and establishment of various institutions such as education, infrastructure, industries, IT and other allied development activities throughout the State of residuary Andhra Pradesh. Development would be achieved by concrete measures by utilising natural sources and human resources in a planned manner. But, the present government lit a fire by cropping up the regional bias among the people on the basis of region, which was unwarranted, it said. This type of deviation among the people on the basis of region was not healthy for the future overall development of Andhra Pradesh, the CPI(M) said. The government should respect the decision taken by the former government with the support of the Union government and, more importantly, it should not ignore the consensus of the people of Andhra Pradesh. The Union Government was purposefully ignoring its constitutional role. As ours is Federal State, the State and Centre should work together with cooperation for the development of broader concept of federalism, it said.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many rescued children want to resume education||“Police caught me while working for a cloth store. Later, they counselled my family members and offered me books and clothes,” said 12-year-old Yamini of Vizianagaram. The girl was speaking to Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha, through video link, where Director General of Police Gautam Sawang and officers of various departments were also present on Wednesday. “I want to study and become a police officer,” Yamini told the officers. Charan Venkat, who was rescued from a grocery stores during the ‘Operation Muskaan’, said he was helping his father, who was a vegetable vendor. He was a native of Krishna district. “I lost my mother and my father engaged me in the shop. I want to to become a police officer and serve the needy,” Mr. Venkat told the DGP. Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said another boy, Kanakala Venkat, was rescued while working in a hotel. Venkat told the officers that he want to become an Army officer. Twelve-year-old Salomi said she was rescued by the Prakasam police during the ‘Operation Muskaan’ drive, while she was begging along with her grandmother. “As my parents were neglecting me, I was staying with my grandmother. The police caught me while seeking alms from the public. I want to go to school and become a teacher and lead a respectable life,” said Salomi. Mr. Sawang assured the rescued children all help to continue their education.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Extend govt. schemes to children rescued during Operation Muskaan’||Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita has directed the officials to extend the government schemes rolled out for the children rescued during the ‘Operation Muskaan’ in the State. The State government has introduced Amma Vodi, Vidya Deevena, Vasathi Deevena, Vidya Kanuka, Goru Mudda, Mana Badi, Naadu Needu, and other schemes for helping the poor children, according to Ms. Sucharita. The Home Minister was speaking at a webinar in which officials of Women Development and Child Welfare, Police, Labour, Juvenile Welfare, Child Welfare Committees (CWCs) and NGOs participated, from the AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri on Wednesday. She praised the official teams for rescuing 16,457 children in the seventh phase of the ‘Operation Muskaan’ during the Police Commemoration Day programmes in the State. “Of the total rescued, 2,869 (17.4%) are girls. Going by the figures, it seems that child trafficking is rampant in the State. Cases should be booked against the employers and parents, if a child is caught more than once,” said Ms. Sucharita and stressed the need for increasing more bridge schools. Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang said the teams rescued 25,298 children during the three phases of ‘Operation Muskaan’ in the State this year. “The officers are studying on the reasons for rise in the cases of child labour, begging, street children and trafficking,” he said. COVID impact Owing to severe financial crisis due to the pandemic situation and closure of educational institutions, some parents engaged children for work, to help their families, said Women and Child Welfare Principal Secretary A.R. Anuradha. “We are planning for vulnerability mapping, creating a web application to prepare data of rescued children, visit of officers to homes in districts and other strategies to protect childhood and increase literacy rate,” the DGP said. Principal Secretary (Labour) B. Udaya Lakshmi stressed the need for case study on each child rescued from high risk and special conditions. Joint Commissioner of Labour M. Rama Rao explained the procedure being followed by officers to repatriate children with their parents. Women and Child Welfare Director Krithika Shukla spoke on prevention of child marriages and providing monetary benefit to the poor children and who came from broken families under Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS).
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister warns against delay in Mana Badi works||Education Minister A. Suresh on Wednesday warned that delay in execution of works taken up under the Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu programme would not be tolerated. The Minister reviewed the progress of the works and directed the officials to ensure that they were completed within the stipulated deadline. He said the companies that caused delay in supply of material should be served notices. Civil works were nearing completion, but some of the equipment such as wash basins, fans and tube lights were yet to arrive. He wanted the officials to ensure that all the material needed to complete the projects reached the school premises. The painting works, delayed due to rains, should be completed in the next 10 days, he said. Mr. Suresh said the attendance of students in schools reopened a couple of days ago was satisfactory. Referring to the COVID-19 cases reported in a few districts, he said they were cases of persons who were already infected, but were not aware of their ‘positive’ status. Tests done in the school established their infection.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rahul Gandhi condoles death of Cong. leader's son||All India Congress Committee leader Rahul Gandhi has expressed shock and profound grief over the death of Sharooq (22), son of Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee working president and former MLA Shaik Mastan Vali, in a road accident on Tuesday night. Mr. Gandhi called the State Congress leader on phone and conveyed his condolences to the grieving family. The party's national general secretary Venugopal and Andhra Pradesh in-charge Oommen Chandy also conveyed their deepest sympathy on phone. APCC president S. Sailajanath and Telangana PCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy visited the accident spot and paid their respects to the victim.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of crackers from Nov. 8||Sale of firecrackers will begin at PWD Grounds and Gymkhana Grounds on November 8. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has called for applications from traders for setting up of shops in the two locations from November 8 to 15 for eight days. In a release, interested parties are asked to submit applications with an application fee of Rs. 29,5000 including 18% GST between November 5 and 7 at Circle-II office of VMC near AKTPMCH School in Satyanarayanapuram between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. On November 7, draw of lots will be conducted and stalls be allotted accordingly.
05 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB unearths assets of drug control official||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted raids on the properties of M. Venkata Siva Satyanarayana Vara Prasad, Deputy Director in Drug Control Administration (DCA), and unearthed assets worth about Rs. 3.7 crore. Simultaneous raids were conducted in the DCA regional office, Guntur, his residence in Vijayawada and other places on Wednesday. Mr. Vara Prasad joined as drug inspector in 1989, promoted to the post of assistant director in 2011 and elevated as deputy director in 2018. He is also in-charge joint director, DCA, for ten districts in the State. ACB sleuths identified four buildings, a flat, three house-sites, and an agricultural land. Bank lockers are yet to be opened. The deputy director was booked for possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. He is being arrested and will be produced in the ACB Special Court, Vijayawada. Investigation is under progress, according to the ACB authorities.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traders not keen on setting up fireworks stalls||Deepavali is expected to be quieter this year, with many fireworks traders hesitant to set up shop. With just a week left for the festival, the response for setting up temporary fireworks stalls is lukewarm. Compared to last year, not even half of the applicants have turned up to erect stalls owing to the COVID-19 situation. In 2019, the number of applicants who sought permission to sell fireworks was around 350. However, this year, only around 150 traders have sought permission, and some of them have decided to step back fearing losses. Police, Fire, GVMC and other departments have started issuing No Objection Certificates (NOCs) to the traders. Police have issued a set of rules to be followed at the stalls. A number of applications are in the final stage with the police department who are conducting site inspections before granting permission. “Last year, around 150 applicants approached us to set up stalls at Andhra University College of Engineering grounds. But now, only around 80 applicants have approached us for the same venue. Last year, many traders had set up stalls in Gajuwaka, but now no applications have been received,” said Niranjan Reddy, Regional Fire Officer of GVMC. Apart from AU grounds, applicants also sought permission to set up stalls at open places in Anakapalle, Old Eenadu Junction, Sheela Nagar, Simhachalam, Gopalapatnam, Karasa, and Madhurawada region, he said. According to the officer, the COVID-19 situation has taken a toll and many businessmen have not come forward to set up stalls. ‘Huge losses’ Sayyed Siraj, president of Star Fire Merchants Welfare Association, said that many small-scale businessmen who generally invest in this business are not coming forward to set up stalls this year as they have suffered huge losses due to the lockdown. “Now, we cannot predict the outcome this year. We do not know how many people will come forward to buy firecrackers due to the pandemic situation. Many don’t even want to set up stalls to avoid crowding due to fear of COVID-19,” he said. Another trader from the city, S. Ramu, said that this is a seasonal business, and business has been average over the years. “We have been incurring losses over the years. We may end up in losses this year too, as people might not spend much on firecrackers due to COVID-19 and due to a rising awareness on the environmental aspects of bursting firecrackers,” he said. The Police Department is yet to finalise a date for commencing sales in the district. It is learnt that police officials are mulling to give permission for at least five days to avoid overcrowding at the venues.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Seasonal diseases may lower immunity, raise COVID risk’||The parents of a one-year-old baby were a bundle of nerves when their baby had fever recently. They were not willing to listen to the doctor who told them that it was viral fever and it would subside with a few doses of paracetamol. Their concern is understandable, given the pandemic situation. “The parents were insisting on the COVID-19 test done. I told them that it could pose a greater risk to the baby. I convinced them that paracetamol was enough to cure the baby and the fever subsided,” says Dr. P. Venugopal, Head of the Department of Pediatrics, King George Hospital. Viral infections are common during this time of the year. The use of masks and improvement of sanitation has led to a decline in common cough and cold, so far, this year. During the last few days, cases of dengue are on the rise, he says. “In a rare case, a COVID-19 positive child, who was cured after treatment, developed fever again. We were worried over the relapse. Tests revealed that his platelet count had fallen, and we gave dengue treatment,” Dr. Venugopal said. ‘Immunity is vital’ The immunity of a person goes down, when they suffer from any viral infection. It makes them susceptible to COVID-19, says Dr. B. Ramachandra Rao, an Associate Professor in the Government ENT Hospital. “It is very important to use masks, maintain physical distance at public places and personal hygiene through proper cleaning of hands with soap frequently,” he says. Those having asthma and allergic rhinitis should take extra care as these problems aggravate during the winter. Wearing mask will provide protection from the dust and prevent respiratory allergies. The viruses increase the chances of getting an infection, says Dr. Ramachandra Rao. “The symptoms of seasonal diseases and like cough and cold, flu and COVID-19 are mostly similar. However, in COVID-19 positive patients, the sense of smell and taste changes and they may face difficulty in breathing,” adds Dr. Ramachandra Rao.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Efforts on to tow ‘MV Maa’ back into sea||With the exercise of removing fuel and various types of lubricants and oils from the aground Bangladeshi ship MV Maa nearing completion, efforts are now on to tow it back into the deep waters in the second phase. After removal of oils and fuel, the 3,000-tonne ship is now about 40 tonnes lighter. MNC at helm Resolve Marine, an MNC that specialises in salvage operations, has been entrusted with the task of executing the second phase. The first phase that involved pumping out the fuel and oils was successfully executed by the Visakhapatnam-based Gill Marines. It is learnt the an expert team, comprising senior specialists from the Netherlands and the US, is already in the city and that on-and-off-shore survey work is being done. According to Mr. Surinder Gill of Gill Marines, who is also assisting the team from Resolve Marine, the MNC has a special software that can simulate the entire operation before actually executing it. “The entire operation is simulated in computers. Various factors such as tide, swell, wind and water pressure are taken into consideration inch by inch,” said Mr. Gill. If everything goes as per the plan, the ship may be towed back on November 14 or 15, when the high tide will reach its maximum strength. Sources in the Visakhapatnam Port Trust says that as per the chart, the high tide may give a swell in the sea by up to 2 metres. It is learnt that a high-power bollard pull tug is being requisitioned from Singapore to tow the ship back. The 80-metre ship, with 15 crew members, ran aground near Tenneti Park in the city on October 13 due to bad weather. The ship lost both its anchors and drifted towards the shore from the anchorage point. ‘Reports baseless’ Meanwhile, clearing the air on the reports in a section of the media that the State government is planning to buy the ship to convert it into a hotel, the Navship Marine Services, the agents of the vessel, said that the reports were baseless. The contract to salvage the ship was already awarded to Resolve Marine and efforts were on to tow it back, they said.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sub-Collector treks for 3 km to reach remote village in Agency||The villagers of Chalisingam village of Cheemalapadu panchayat mandal in Raavikamatam mandal in the district were in for a pleasant surprise on Wednesday when Narsipatnam Sub-Collector N. Mourya walked for over 3 km on the kutcha road along the hills to reach their village. The tribals went in a rally to the Sub-Collector’s Office recently to draw her attention to their woes in the absence of a proper road to their village. The tribals told her that pregnant women were being carried in makeshift palanquins to the hospitals, and they were sometimes dying due to delay in reaching the hospital. Ms. Mourya called on the family members of those who died recently and expressed her sympathies. She promised to take the issue of lack of road connectivity to the notice of the government and said that problems like issue of pattas on land and midday meal scheme could be sorted out locally. When the villagers told her that a water scheme constructed at a cost of Rs. 31 lakh in 2018-19 was not serving the desired purpose due to the lack of a 3-phase meter to pump the water up the hills, she told them that she would take the issue to the notice of the EPDCL officials. CPI(M) district committee member K. Govinda Rao said that the road to the village, taken up during 2018-19 at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.95 core, was stopped after the Forest Department raised objections. The grant was also stopped and the kutcha road remained incomplete.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MeD ROBO gets upgrade at Diesel Loco Shed||The MeD ROBO (medical robot), developed by the Diesel Loco Shed (DLS) team in Visakhapatnam, has been upgraded with new features like two-way speaking facility with WiFi facility. The additional facilities are intended to enhance the serving capabilities and a better interactive interface with the patients. With the help of this robot, doctors, nurses and other medical staff will be able to treat patients from a distance, thereby eliminating the risk of contacting COVID-19, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. The MeD ROBO is operated through a unique mobile app that was developed as part of the innovation, supported by the WiFi facility. The other new features include: UVC sanitising box, UVC lamps with remote control switch for corridor sanitisation, sensor-based thermal scanner and backup power supply. The robot was modified at DLS under the guidance of Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, and under the direct supervision of Santosh Kumar Patro, Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer (Diesel).
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thunderstorm likely in State tomorrow||Thunderstorms along with lightning are likely to occur at isolated places in north and south-coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam on November 6, 7 and 8 and in Rayalaseema on November 6 and 7, according to the forecast of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).  Cyclonic circulation The cyclonic circulation over southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal is lying over southwest Bay of Bengal off Sri Lanka coast and extends up to 3.1 km above mean sea level. The circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal off Tamil Nadu has merged with the above system.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make all-India strike a success, trade unions urge employees||All trade unions have announced their support to the all-India strike, the call for which was given by Central trade unions and employees federations to protest against the anti-people policies of the Modi government, at a round table here on Wednesday. The leaders of various trade unions called upon the employees, workers and the public to make the strike a total success. They said that the lopsided policies of the Centre were badly affecting the progress of Visakhapatnam. They said that the Centre had converted 44 labour laws into four labour codes to suppress their rights. The agricultural laws were amended in Parliament in the most undemocratic manner, to the detriment of farmers, they alleged. They said that the public sector was being weakened, giving rise to unemployment, and social justice was being ignored. They alleged that measures were being initiated to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), public sector oil companies, defence, ports, Railways, banks, insurance, Telecom, HSL and the power sector. The demand to make a comprehensive law for the benefit of unorganised sector workers was being ignored, they alleged. Measures were being initiated to disintegrate the building construction workers welfare board. They alleged that not even a single rupee was given directly to the workers from the Rs. 20 crore bailout package of the Centre. However, corporates like Ambani and Adani benefited during the pandemic, they said. Deriding the YSRCP government in the State for failing to oppose the “anti-people, anti-worker and anti-farmer policies of the Centre”, they alleged that Rs. 450 crore funds from the Workers Welfare Board were diverted to other schemes. Calling upon all workers, employees, and public to make the strike a success, they said that strike notice should be served to all managements, Labour officials and government officials on November 10 and gate meetings should be held from November 15 to 23.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 122 new cases, two deaths||The district has reported 122 new COVID-19 infections, taking the cumulative tally to 56,782. After a brief lull, two persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 481 in the district. As many as 191 persons being treated for the COVID-19 have recovered during the same duration. Recoveries cross 96% With the new cases and discharges, the total number of recoveries from the district increased to 54,517 in Vizag, which is 96.01% of the total caseload. Active cases further declined to 1,784, which is 3.14% of the total caseload.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child rights forum appoints new members||Members of Child Rights Protection Forum (CRPF), Visakhapatnam district have announced new members to the Forum’s legal cell, in a programme here on Wednesday. Advocate Ms. Praveena was appointed as the new convener of the Forum’s Legal Cell. Advocate Ms. Ramanamma was appointed as co-convener and advocate Ch. Parvatisam was announced as secretary. CRPF State president Dr. Gondu Sitaram said the forum had set up a legal cell unit to strengthen the forum. Former District Judge D. Dharma Rao was present at the programme.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed in accident||A pedestrian was killed while a youth riding a two-wheeler sustained severe injuries in a road accident on NH-16 near Visakha Dairy in the city, on Wednesday evening. According to preliminary information, Raj Kumar (22) was heading to Gajuwaka from Sheela Nagar on his two-wheeler. The youth allegedly hit a man named B. Guru Murthy of Nathayyapalem, while he was crossing the road on NH-16. The pedestrian received severe head injuries and died on the spot. Raj Kumar also received severe injuries and was shifted to a hospital. The condition of the youth is also said to be critical. Gajuwaka police have registered a case. More details are yet to be ascertained.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Numbers do not tell the whole story, say experts||Till Tuesday, the district had recorded a total of 56,660 COVID-19 positive cases, with the first case being recorded in March this year. However, health experts feel that the actual number of cases could be more than 20% of the figures shown in the health bulletin. What is shown in the health bulletin is those who have tested positive at government-run testing centres. However, what is not recorded is the ones who have got themselves tested for COVID-19 at private labs and those who have taken treatment privately based on symptoms without informing government officials. “Many with symptoms did not even approach a testing centre or a government hospital, and got treated through a private medical practitioner. As per an ICMR study, this number is sizeable and they could be possible carriers for a predicted second wave,” said Dr. Hema Prakash, a microbiologist at GITAM Institute of Medical Research and Science (GIMSR). Mutation factor Talking about virus strains, Dr. Prakash said that the strain in the district, or for that matter, elsewhere in the country, is less virulent than those detected in the Europe or the USA. That is why the recovery rate is higher and the death rate is fortunately low, she said. But microbiologists who have been researching the strain feel that the virus could mutate in the coming months, which can be a reason for the second wave. “One primary reason for mutation is climate, and with the sliding of temperature in the next couple of months, we may see a mutation in the strain,” said Prof. T. Raghava Rao from the Department of Biochemistry, Andhra University. ‘Hasty reopening’ Experts said that people were cautious when the pandemic was in its early stages and enforcement was strict. However, as the curve began to reach its peak, enforcement slackened and people too let down their guard. “As the next three months are crucial, the virus that belongs to the cold virus family is going to be more virulent and following the basic norms with some enforcement will go a long way towards keeping the virus at bay,” said Dr. Hema Prakash.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior company official arrested for GST fraud||Officers from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence, Visakhapatnam, arrested the director of a company located in Vizianagaram, which is engaged in the manufacture and supply of lead ingots, for allegedly creating fake invoices. Based on searches conducted in Delhi, Haryana and Visakhapatnam, evidence was gathered that led to unearthing the modus operadi of utilising fake invoices without actual receipt of goods. The fraudulent input tax credit so availed on the basis of fake invoices was being utilised to offset tax liability. Preliminary quantification revealed that from July 2017 to January 2020, fake invoices worth almost Rs. 30 crore were utilised involving ineligible input tax credit worth around Rs. 6 crore. The accused was arrested on November 3 under the provisions of GST laws and remanded to judicial custody till November 18.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New hockey association formed||With an objective to rekindle an interest in hockey, a new district hockey association under the name Hockey Association of Visakhapatnam (HAV) has been formed. Addressing the media after the first general body meeting here on Wednesday, Secretary of the association Noel Treasure said that the sole aim of the association is to develop and nurture young local talents, both among boys and girls, in the district. The association has been formed by former hockey players. Newoffice-bearers C.S. Raju has been elected as president, while the vice-presidents are S. Laxman, Dr. S.P. Rajendra and Dr. P.V. Shyam Prasad. L.R. Joseph Dass has been elected as joint secretary. “We welcome the affiliation of clubs, schools, colleges and institutions. A plan is being proposed to promote the game of hockey at the grassroots level. As part of the initiative, hockey grounds will be developed. Plans are afoot to conduct coaching camps for the budding players and organise tournaments and leagues,” said Mr. Noel.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dial Your University’ tomorrow||Officials from Andhra University announced that the ‘Dial your University’ programme, which is being held on the first Friday of every month, is now scheduled to be held on November 6, 2020. The programme will be held at the Executive Council Hall, Central Administrative Office, AU from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Students can contact 0891-2844455 to get their queries answered. AU officials asked all members to make it convenient to attend the programme.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Worker dies while unloading goods||A 40-year old man reportedly died in a mishap at a private shipping company at Gajuwaka area in Visakhapatnam city on Tuesday night. The mishap allegedly occurred when a raw material bag fell on him during the unloading process. The victim, who was identified as R. Ramana, hailed from Ankatapalli in Sabbavaram mandal. Ramana was rushed to King George Hospital (KGH) where doctors declared him dead.
05 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police urge tribals not to support Maoists||The police has appealed to the tribals not to support Maoists, saying that the left wing extremists have been using the locals as human shields to serve their purpose and that they are against the development of the region. Pedabayulu SI R. Raja Rao said Maoists including Divisional Committee Member Sudheer, Area Committee Member Ashokand others took shelter at Kondru village on October 27, after an exchange of fire (EOF) on the Odisha side of AOB region. Despite repeated requests, the tribals did not allow the AP Police to catch them, rather they attacked the police with the support of militia members. “The Maoists have been forcing the tribals not allow police into villages for checking. It was the Maoists who had planted landmines in Chintalaveedhi areas, which led to death to two tribals on August 2,” the SI said. The SI said on October 26, the Maoists had planted three landmines in Taggupadu area under Pedabayulu police station limits, targeting the police.
05 November 2020||VISSANNAPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||1,730 liquor bottles seized||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) police conducted raids at Vemireddipalli village and seized 1,730 Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) bottles being smuggled from Telangana State on Wednesday. The SEB and the law and order police stepped up vigil along the borders and seized the stock, worth about Rs. 2.16 lakh, according to SEB ASP Vakul Jindal.
05 November 2020||VIZIaNAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Come forward to donate blood, youth urged||Vizianagaram Telaga Sankshema Sangham president and PVR organisation founder Pallantla Venkata Rama Rao urged the youth to come forward for donation of blood to save the precious lives of patients. Almost all blood banks were facing severe shortage of blood as the spread of COVID-19 has an impact on donation, Mr. Rama Rao said. The association organised camps simultaneously in Vizianagaram, Bobbili, Parvatipuram and other places. Mr. Rama Rao said that more camps were being planned in the rural areas since the association has network in all 34 mandals of the district. He thanked the donors who came forward in spite of COVID scare.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treading cautiously||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Selfie craze||
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siesta time||
05 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Youth held for blackmailing minor girl||The Kothagudem two-town police have arrested a youth from Nizamabad district, who allegedly blackmailed a 14 year old minor girl of Gouthampur near Kothagudem by threatening to post her morphed pictures on social media. The accused identified as A Shiva Krishna, 24, a native of Khanapur in Nizamabad district, allegedly befriended the girl, a Class IX student of a local school, by chatting on WhatsApp a couple of weeks ago. He managed to get a photograph of the girl through the online relationship and sent back her morphed picture to her through WhatsApp. He allegedly started blackmailing her for money by threatening to upload her morphed pictures on social networking sites. He was nabbed by the two town police when he arrived at Gouthampur along with his three friends in a car on Tuesday evening. The police booked them under the provisions of the IT Act and various sections of the IPC.
05 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Memorial in honour of Telangana statehood martyrs||A memorial built in honour of those who died during the Telangana statehood movement was unveiled in Kothagudem town on Wednesday signifying their invaluable contribution for the cause of a separate State. It was built at Pragati Maidan at an estimated cost of Rs. 20 lakh. Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar paid floral tributes to the memorial after unveiling it in presence of Kothagudem MLA Vanama Venkateshwara Rao, and Collector M.V. Reddy. He felicitated several senior citizens who participated in the first phase of Telangana movement.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS officials aggrieved over Centre’s orders||The latest order issued by the Central government allocating employees of the Home Department between the two successor Telugu States has come as disappointment to the State government officials. The Central government has issued orders allocating employees of the cadre of Superintendents of Police non-cadre, additional SPs (civil) and deputy SPs (civil) between the two States a couple of days ago along with the lists of employees allocated to the successor States. Telangana State Home Department officials are however aggrieved that the order was issued overruling an important clause in the allotment guidelines which could adversely impact the seniority and promotion opportunities of employees allotted to the State. Officials are quoting Section 18 (o) of the guidelines issued by the Department of Personnel and Training of the Central government which should be kept in mind while making allocation between the two States. Clause The clause read: “Cadre composition with reference to direct recruits/promotes and recruitment by transfer and reserved categories of persons as on the appointed day (observed percentage of reservations for different groups) may as far as practicable be kept in view while allocating personnel in the two cadres.” “The Centre, however, did not consider the State’s request for implementation of the guideline and it has in fact overruled the request,” a senior official told The Hindu . Officials lamented that there were more number of employees than the sanctioned posts and there was already anguish among the employees over allocation of posts to people of AP origin. The State had already raised its grievance with the Central government over the seniority list prepared by the neighbouring State which is “unilateral”.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High-risk COVID patient delivers triplets at Nizamabad hospital||In a rare case, a 27-year-old COVID-19 patient, who had conceived using assisted reproductive technology (ART), delivered triplets at the Government General Hospital, Nizamabad. This was a rare case as the woman, apart from suffering from severe COVID symptoms, had premature rupture of membrane at 35 weeks of pregnancy; the normal gestational period is 39-40 weeks. These two factors weighed heavily in the minds of doctors. Two boys, one girl Though the woman gave birth to two boys and a girl on October 22, doctors at the hospital let the news out on Wednesday only after ensuring that the mother and the triplets were in good health. They were discharged on Wednesday afternoon. The doctors were ecstatic as the three newborns tested negative for coronavirus when tests were conducted on them before discharge. The mother, too, has recovered from the infectious disease. “We were all concerned about health of the mother and the three newborns over the past 12 days. We kept them under close observation. Only after ensuring that they were in good health, we discharged them. They tested negative for COVID twice in tests conducted before discharge,” said D. Prathima Raj, superintendent of the government hospital. The woman was detected with COVID-19 at 35 weeks of pregnancy. A private hospital that she approached did not admit her due to her COVID-19 status. Instead, they directed her to the Government General Hospital. “The private hospital doctor informed us that a woman who had conceived through ART had tested positive for COVID and had premature rupture of membrane. The delivery had to be performed as soon as possible as there was risk to her and the triplets in her womb. Though we were a little wary as the COVID-19 was severe in her, there was no time to send her to Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad. We admitted her and performed C-Section delivery,” Dr Prathima said. After birth, the two male babies weighed around 1.2 kg each and the female baby weighed 1.5 kg. As they had low birth weight, the babies were admitted to the Special Newborn Care Units (SNCU) at the hospital. The mother was kept in isolation ward as she was a high-risk patient. Apart from specialists from obstetrics and gynaecology department, and anaesthesia department, doctors from general medicine, paediatrics, and those who took care of SNCU as well as a host of nurses were involved in taking care of the four patients who were discharged on Wednesday afternoon. In September, the team of doctors had performed delivery on another COVID-19 patient who delivered twins.  Though we were a little wary as the COVID-19 was severe in her, there was no time to send her to Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad. D. Prathima Raj, Superintendent, Government General Hospital, Nizamabad
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Skywalk cleared at Mehdipatnam||HMDA is coming up with a swanky skywalk/ broad walk for pedestrians at the busy Mehdipatnam junction, connecting the Military Garrison area with the Rythu Bazar on the other side of the road, beneath the PVNR Expressway. Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development, and acting HMDA Commissioner Arvind Kumar on Wednesday announced this through his social media account. He said the design for the glass & steel skywalk had received MA & UD Minister K.T.Rama Rao’s nod, and bids would be called for by the HMDA. The pedestrian facility on one of the busiest stretches in city would have six access points for the thousands of people attempting to cross the road from multiple locations every day. The walk way to be supported by suspension cords with 6.15 metres ground clearance, will have an overall travel length of approximately 380 metres which includes above ground retail activity.  Staircase, 10 lifts Each of the six access ways is being planned with a staircase, apart from 10 lifts of 36 passengers capacity, and six lifts of 15 passengers capacity. An elevator chair setting too is proposed for physically challenged persons, the concept note said. The walk way will be supported with heavy duty strands of suspension on either side, it said. The project also includes construction of a commercial complex with a two-lane bus bay on the ground floor, within an area of 2000 square metres. Estimated cost is Rs. 34.28 crore, along with obligation for operation and maintenance for two years. This is one of the eight sky walks proposed by the government in the city. While other locations have not yet been confirmed, the ones under serious consideration include Uppal, Dilsukhnagar, Lakdikapul, RTC Crossroads, Secunderabad Railway Station, Koti, and Madina Junction, officials said.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Why is Centre mum on aid to Mission Bhagiratha?’||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao criticised the Central government for not responding to the State’s requests to extend financial assistance for the prestigious Mission Bhagiratha. The initiative won accolades within the country and outside and it had been emulated by several states, which were implementing it with different names. The NITI Ayog had recommended that the Centre sanction Rs. 19,000 crore to Mission Bhagiratha and the State requested the Centre to extend financial assistance for the project more than once. “There has been no response from the Centre despite letters written by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and MPs from the State,” he said. The Centre should clarify as to why it had adopted a negligent attitude towards the representations made by the State regarding Mission Bhagiratha. The programme was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Gajwel in 2016 and the Mr. Modi appreciated the efficacy of the project and the State government’s initiative during his Mann Ki Baat programmes. Official delegations from different states, including West Bengal, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Karnataka, visited the State to study the implementation of the project that won several awards at the national level. The Centre had, however, turned a deaf ear to the requests made to at least extend financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 2,110 crore that would be required for the annual maintenance of the project. The requests of the State were not conceded in spite of the fact that the Central government’s flagship project Jal Jivan Mission drew inspiration from Mission Bhagiratha. Officials of the Central government visited the State several times to learn about the technology and engineering tools utilised for the project, which had been ranked number one in the country in terms of provision of clean drinking water to all households. The first of its kind project was taken up with an estimated Rs. 46,123 crore of which 80% funds had been obtained as loans from HUDCO, Nabard and commercial banks. The government had spent Rs. 33,400 crore so far and it was estimated that the full project works would be completed by spending another close to Rs. 5,000 crore. As a result, the State would save Rs. 8,000 crore. As many as 23,787 habitations were receiving water through it and the remaining 188 habitations would be covered soon.
05 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drunk driving: six-year-old killed, nine injured||A six-year-old boy died and eight other of his family were injured when an SUV driven by a drunk man lost control and hit the crash barrier before turning turtle on the Nehru Outer Ring Road near Shamshabad here on Tuesday night. They are the residents of Chevulapally near Shadnagar in Ranga Reddy district. The family was returning to Chevulapally from a pilgrimage to Yadadri (Yadagitigutta), around 60 km from Hyderabad city. While the victim, Akhil Babu, son of Shanker died on the spot in the fatal crash, his seven-year-old cousin Akshitha is battling for life at Osmania General Hospital. When the vehicle reached Kothwalguda ORR, between TSPA and Shamshabad, the car driver lost control on the wheel of the over-speeding vehicle and rammed the crash barriers. The ill-fated vehicles rolled over and came to a halt after it turned upside down, RGI Airport inspector P. Vijay Kumar said. He said that the victims were rushed to OGH for treatment and the SUV was moved away from the carriageway using a crane. The breath analysis to examine drunk driving revealed that the car’s owner-cum-driver Ramesh (32) was under the influence of alcohol. When examined his blood alcohol concentration (BAC) was 231 per 100 ml of blood. The permissible BAC limit as per the Motor Vehicles Act is 30 mg per 100 ml. The victims hired Ramesh’s vehicle for Rs. 4,500 for Yadagirigutta from their village, Mr. Kumar said. Other injured are Radha (37), Nandini (5), Ramdas (50), Akhil’s father Shankar (35), Nandu Kumar (3), Amrutha(30) and Kamala.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records highest COVID cases in three weeks||Telangana’s COVID-19 tally touched 2,44,143 with as many as 1,637 persons being diagnosed with the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. This is the highest number of cases recorded in a day since October 13. The high positivity rate could be attributed to more samples being put to test — 45,526, the maximum to be tested between October 13 and November 3. Results of 740 individuals were awaited. The new cases include 292 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 136 from Rangareddy, 129 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 118 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem, 101 from Nalgonda, 90 from Karimnagar and 74 from Khammam. The lowest of five cases were recorded in Narayanpet and just nine in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. This is the second consecutive day that a high number of cases were recorded in Bhadradri-Kothagudem. On Monday, 123 persons from the district had tested positive for the virus. Of the 45,526 people who got freshly tested, 42,380 had opted for government facilities and the rest 3,146 were examined in private labs. Six more patients died on Tuesday, pushing up the toll to 1,357. Since March 2 when the first COVID-19 case was detected in Telangana, a total of 44,39,856 samples have been tested. Of the total cases, 18,100 are active while 2,24,686 have recovered. While the case fatality Rate in the country is 1.5%, it is 0.55% in the State. The recovery rate in the State stands at 92.03%. At the 61 government hospitals, 4,608 oxygen beds and 1,382 ICU beds were available on November 3 while in the 225 private hospitals, 2,938 oxygen beds and 2,282 ICU beds were vacant. As many as 15,335 people are presently in home or institutional isolation.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Digital life certificate for pensioners now at their doorstep||Jeevan Pramaan, an Aadhaar-based biometric-enabled digital life certificate for pensioners, can now can be generated through post offices and at the doorstep of the pensioner through postmen. An individual whose Pension Sanctioning Authority (PSA) is available on Jeevan Pramaan and who is eligible for the certification can be found at https://jeevanpramaan.gov.in/ newassets/docs/List. Details required To generate the Jeevan Pramaan certificate, the pensioner must have an Aadhaar number, an existing mobile number, registration of the Aadhaar number with pension disbursing agency (bank/post office etc) done already, additional information like type of pension, sanctioning authority, disbursing agency, PPO number and account number (pension). The pensioner has to provide all such details along with his/her biometrics either iris/fingerprint at IPPB access point/ post office. After successful generation of Jeevan Pramaan, an acknowledgement SMS is sent to the pensioner’s registered mobile number by NIC including Jeevan Pramaan certificate ID details. Jeevan Pramaan ID is also displayed on PPB M-ATM (mobile) and the pensioner may note the Pramaan ID from there as well. One need not submit the digital life certificate to the bank/post office/pension disbursing agency; it will be automatically available to them electronically. A pensioner can download the certificate at https://jeevanpramaan.gov.in/ppouser/login. The service charge is Rs. 70 and a service request can also be placed through PostInfo APP, a press release from the Press Information Bureau said.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NMDC, IIT-H unveil initiative for startups||Public sector mining major NMDC in association with IIT-Hyderabad on Wednesday launched an incubation and fellowship programme to support deep-tech startups. A joint initiative of NMDC and i-TIC Foundation, a startup support system at IIT-Hyderabad, the NICE (NMDC Innovation and Incubation Centre) programme is to promote the spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation and to support the Startup India movement. 15 fellows and startups Launched by NMDC chairman-cum-managing director Sumit Deb in the presence of IIT-Hyderabad director B.S.Murty, it is a five-year joint programme that would support 15 fellows and 15 startups by providing them financial aid, mentoring support, co-working space and other infrastructural benefits, a release said. With the total programme budget of Rs. 10 crore funded by NMDC, NICE aims to support five startups every year with a financial aid of up to Rs. 25 lakh to convert their proof of concept into a scalable business. The programme would also support five fellows every year with the monthly stipend of Rs. 80,000 for 12 months to support their sustenance and prototype development. Mr.Deb said “as a responsible corporate entity, NMDC has always supported social causes which have potential impact on human lives. I am sure that the NICE initiative will be a go-to place for the young entrepreneurs to passionately pursue their entrepreneurship journey and create wealth for the benefit of society at large”. He also launched the NICE website (www.niceprogram.in). Mr.Murty said the vision of IIT-Hyderabad is to be the cradle for inventions and innovations. This joint programme is one important step taken towards that vision and also acts as a template for industry-academia collaboration to enrich the Startup India initiatives.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||App for Kaleshwaram irrigation engineers||As part of the State government’s decision for effective management of pump houses, barrages, balancing reservoirs and canals forming part of Kaleshwaram project, a mobile application has been made available to irrigation engineers of Godavari Basin projects in Telangana from Wednesday. The field engineers are expected to understand the functioning of the mobile app introduced as part of the Decision Support System (DSS) by taking up data entry on a daily basis. A day-long workshop for the engineers of Kaleshwaram and other projects in the Godavari Basin was held here on Wednesday to create awareness about the new system. Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation) C. Muralidhar, inaugurating the workshop, said all components for the effective management of the project would become available in the support system. Based on information, the engineers would be able to manage pump house, barrages, reservoirs and canals effectively as it would provide status of water available in the reservoirs, water required in the ayacut, position of groundwater table, rainfall, inflows into various reservoirs and others, Mr. Muralidhar stated. The State government has entered into an agreement with Vassar Labs for developing the support system. It would allow the CM to monitor the status of various components, take necessary decisions and give suggestions and instructions to engineers, the ENC explained.
05 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||50% seats for BCs in GHMC polls: Congress||Telangana Congress Core Committee that met on Wednesday took a decision to give 50% of seats to backward classes in the ensuing GHMC elections and also demanded the government to reserve 50% seats for backward classes. The meeting was attended by AICC in-charge Manickam Tagore, AICC secretary Bose Raju, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar and AICC secretaries Sampath Kumar and Vamshichand Reddy. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the party has decided to fix a fee for leaders seeking applications for ticket. Those contesting in the general seats would have to pay Rs. 10,000 each while those in reserved seats have to pay Rs. 5,000. He said the meeting discussed important issues and decided to take up programmes that include dharna at Indira Park on November 7 against attacks on Dalits, farmers rally in Khammam on November 11 against the new farm bills.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court seeks info on RTE enforcement||Telangana High Court on Wednesday sought to know if its earlier direction to identify sections of poor and deprived sections eligible to avail benefits under Right to Education Act were implemented by the State government. Hearing a batch of PIL petitions on RTE Act, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the direction was given on October 14. Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar, appearing for the government, said a counter affidavit was filed on the matter. He informed the bench that the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh government issued GO 44 to enforce RTE Act. But a bench of the HC passed a direction suspending the GO after Nalanda Educational Society filed a writ petition on the matter. This direction was still in force, the Special Government Pleader said. That petition was transferred to AP HC following bifurcation of the State, Assistant Solicitor General Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao said. The bench posted the PIL pleas to November 20 for next hearing. In a separate matter, Telangana HC on Wednesday said it would hear pleas relating to Agri-Gold depositors from Monday.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HYSEA summit today||A conference, expo and presentation of annual industry awards will mark the 28th edition of the annual HYSEA summit to be held on November 5. One of the much awaited programmes of the Infomration Technology industry, this year’s premier event of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association, called HYSEA Innovation Summit Awards 2020, will take place in a hybrid (virtual and physical) mode. The conference and the software products exhibition will be held virtually from 9 a.m. to 1.30 p.m.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP wants EC to probe voter lists division in GHMC||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to take cognisance of the “many irregularities” in the distribution of voters like “deleting scores of names from one division” and “adding several names illegally into another division” of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). At a press conference, former MLA and vice president N.V.S.S. Prabhakar and party leader Bhavarlal Verma said these “irregularities” had been most prominent in Ramanathapur, Tarnaka, Qutbullapur, Jeedimetla and several other areas of the twin cities with the active connivance of the TRS leaders with the municipal officials. “The voters lists were prepared in the offices without any physical verification. We will fight against these attempts to win by the forthcoming polls by hook or crook. We demand that the EC send teams to verify the lists,” they said.  ‘Encroachments on rise’ The party leaders also said that encroachments on water bodies, illegal constructions, mishaps due to open drains and manholes and so on have increased under the TRS regime in the last six years. “Corruption has become widespread with citizens bearing the brunt as it has become tough to get building permissions or any certificate from the municipal offices. The TRS is in a majority in the GHMC council yet citizens have not benefited either in terms of service delivery or infrastructure development,” they said. Mr. Prabhakar was especially critical of the manner in which the “paltry” compensation of Rs. 10,000 to each of the families was distributed in the flood-hit areas and observed that many people were yet to receive the ex gratia as ruling party corporators and others playing truant.
05 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Wine shop destroyed in fire||A major fire broke out at a wine shop near Medchal crossroads, around 32 km from Hyderabad, in the wee hours of Wednesday. No casualties or injuries were reported. Shamirpet Station Fire Officer Chitram Purna Kumar said that around 5.10 a.m. they got a call and soon they turned out a fire tender to the spot to douse the flames. “It took more than one-and-half hour to extinguish the flames,” he said. According to the officer, the complete wine shop gutted in the fire and the damage is estimated to be around Rs. 20 lakh. Officials are suspecting short-circuit to be the reason behind the fire. However, the exact reason is yet to be ascertained.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister draws parallels between MB and JJM||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister E. Dayakar Rao drew parallels between Mission Bhagiratha (MB) and Jal Jivan Mission (JJM) of the Central government. While Mission Bhagiratha envisages supply of water from the Krishna and Godavari, Jal Jivan Mission would utilise borewell water. While Mission Bhagiratha has adequate safeguards like filters at different places, Jal Jivan Mission would supply borewell water without filters giving scope for fluoride and other issues, he said. The government would spend Rs. 46,000 crore for Bhagiratha while JJM envisages spending of Rs. 3.6 lakh crore and released Rs. 22,813 crore for current year.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special sanitation drive delayed||The proposed special sanitation drive which was to begin on November 4, has been delayed, with no announcement about the next date of launch. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, during a preparatory meeting on Wednesday, said that the drive would be launched by Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao after all arrangements were in place. The drive was intended for complete clearance of garbage, fallen tree branches and debris which got deposited on the city streets post the torrential rains and floods. A mobile app was specially designed so that sanitation team leaders can upload the pictures of every 15 metres of road before and after the cleaning operations. A total of 960 team leaders have been designated.
05 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS gets possession of land in Delhi for party office||The TRS secured 1,100 square metres of land in New Delhi for construction of its office in the national capital. Two plots measuring 550 square metres each in Vasant Vihar were handed over by the Land and Development Office of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on Wednesday to TS Roads and Buildings Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy. Mr. Reddy, in a statement, said that it was a moment of pride for the people of Telangana and TRS workers as they can now construct a majestic building for the party in the national capital. He said the dream of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was realised with the Centre handing over the land. “KCR has led a two-decade-long fight for Telangana and the dream of having a party office in New Delhi has also been realised thanks to him,” he said, adding he was lucky to have been asked to accept the land on behalf of the party.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoU inked on Sona rice||Befach 4x Private Ltd, a Hyderabad-based company, on Tuesday signed a memorandum of understanding with Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University for sale of Telangana Sona (RNR-15408) with low glycemic index through its marketing network. The MoU was signed and exchanged by Registrar of the university S. Sudheer Kumar and Uday Nadiwade of Befach in the presence of Vice-Chancellor of the university V. Praveeen Rao. Telangana Sona released by PJTSAU in 2015 has the lowest glycemic index among all rice varieties, Director of Research R. Jagadeeswar said.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS-TDP to rejuvenate party||The Telangana unit of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has decided to take up a 100-day campaign to highlight people’s issues and rejuvenate the party from the grass-root level. The six-member coordination committee of the party, on Wednesday, decided to identify the issues, particularly those relating to farmers and weaker sections. The first step in this direction would be to re-constitute the State committee with a mix of experienced and youth leaders. “We are working out steps to keep the cadre motivated by taking up different programmes from time to time,” a senior leader said.
05 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bashiruddin memorial lecture tomorrow||Osmania Journalism Alumni Association and Department of Communication and Journalism, Osmania University, are organising the 16th Prof. S. Bashiruddin Memorial Lecture on ‘Irregular Medidal, Impossible Regulation’ at 6 p.m. on November 6. The e-lecture will be delivered by Madabshushi Sridhar, ex-Central Information Commissioner.
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Date extended||Last date for filing applications online for the two-year regular Master’s in Public Health (MPH) course by the Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad under affiliation to Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) Telangana, has been extended upto Nov.6. Details onwww.knruhs. telangana.gov.in.
05 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Moisture testing kiosks to be set up in Khammam||Moisture testing kiosks will be set up in the newly constructed Rythu Vedikas in all the 129 clusters across the district to enable cotton farmers to get the moisture content in the cotton measured accurately and help them secure the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce in a hassle-free way at the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI)'s procurement centres, said Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar. Speaking at the cotton market yard here at the Khammam Agriculture Market after inaugurating the CCI procurement centre on Wednesday, the Minister said the intense spell of unseasonal rains had affected many cotton farmers last month. The State government is trying to help the cotton growers affected by the untimely rains to surmount the difficulties. The CCI has started its MSP operations by opening 13 procurement centres across the district to buy cotton at the MSP of Rs. 5825 per quintal of cotton with 8% moisture content and at the stipulated MSP for cotton as per the permissible moisture content limit up to 12%. The State government has urged the CCI to relax the rules pertaining to the moisture content. The Minister asked the officials of the Marketing Department and the office-bearers of the Agricultural Market Committee to conduct surprise inspections of the procurement centres to ensure MSP to the cotton farmers and prevent their exploitation by errant private traders. Collector R V Karnan and Agriculture Market committee chairman M Venkataramana were present.
05 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘No paddy harvesting on Sundays’||Collector Prashant J. Patil said on Wednesday that every Sunday should be observed as a ‘harvest holiday’, in the wake of large-scale paddy stocks already reaching milling units leading to congestion and damage to grain before procurement. Along with SP A.V. Ranganath, he was addressing harvest machine owners at his office, and said that the request was to ensure smooth procurement process while also being able to guarantee MSP for quality harvest. Following a brief stand-off by rice millers on Tuesday in response to seizing a mill allegedly for procurement violations, which led to farmers waiting with their produce on the roads, various managements had submitted to the Collector that pendency of paddy-loaded tractors would continue for four days. Serpentine queues outside milling units and damage to paddy during the waiting period was indirectly affecting the miller’s ability to pay MSP, was the common complaint. Mr. Patil also requested owners to voluntarily call off harvest business on Thursday, so that long-waiting tractor queues could be cleared on priority.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||This chai needed more zing||In a mainstream film, even a few years ago, a businesswoman would be portrayed as a haughty shrew who needed to be tamed. Not someone who can lead by example. In that sense, it’s rare to have a story woven around a female protagonist who dreams of building a business empire on her terms and be unapologetic about it. Debut director Narendra Nath who has written Miss India (streaming on Netflix in Telugu, Tamil and Malayalam) along with Tharun Kumar, pits a young woman who hails from a middle class Indian family against a business giant in the US. Why the US? Because the idea is to sell Indian chai in a coffee-dominated market. A girl who understands the therapeutic effects of chai with different herbs made by her grandfather, an Ayurvedic practitioner (Rajendra Prasad), wants the world to appreciate it. Narendra Nath also weaves in issues of cut-throat business and everyday sexism. Manasa Samyuktha (Keerthy Suresh, who insists she isn’t just Samyuktha but Manasa Samyuktha through the film)’s family lives in Lambasingi near Visakhapatnam. Samyuktha is a class topper and when asked about her future plans, says she wants to be a businesswoman. Even as a passing reference, we don’t get a hint of who or what inspired her. Years later, when the family falls on hard times, her mother (Nadhiya) and older brother (Kamal Kamaraju) assert that she should look for a job that guarantees financial security. It’s a familiar conversation one would hear in many homes. This argument continues even after the family shifts to San Francisco where the brother has landed himself in a well-paying job and affords a spacious villa. There are hints to show that Samyuktha is no pushover — when she turns up in a black outfit after Naveen Chandra tells her that it wouldn’t suit her, and when she tells a colleague that a bridegroom cannot be ‘a good match’ if he and his family expect her to give up her dreams. And no, she doesn’t agree to a man’s proposal of ‘a simple life, a simple wife’ — in other words, a life with no scope for her entrepreneurial dreams. When she takes the first step towards her business, the director creates ‘mass’ moments. She has an idea, which is snubbed by the proprietor of a coffee chain, Kailash Shiva Kumar (Jagapathi Babu). In return, she remarks that fate will decide whether she will reach his level of success or surge past him. For all that smart talk, she hasn’t even done a Google check on him. She doesn’t know what he looks like when they first meet! Nevertheless, the business tug of war has a few fun moments to show that Samyuktha is a smart cookie. It could have definitely been a smarter battle of wits.  Miss India (the name of her chai brand) is well intentioned to show a woman fulfilling her dreams but it would have benefited from better writing than lame lines such as “Coffee is not my cup of tea”. This chai- coffee  tale feels underbrewed, despite the efforts of Keerthy Suresh and Jagapathi Babu. Rajendra Prasad and VK Naresh manage to make a mark within the limited scope their characters are given. Sumanth Shailendra fits the bill of a venture capitalist  (For full review, check www.thehindu.com)
05 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Elderly couple found dead in their flat||An elderly couple was found dead in a housing society in Greater Noida West on Wednesday, the police said. The deceased have been identified as Vinay and Neha Gupta, who hail from Saharanpur and ran a grocery store. The police said that when they reached the spot on the 9th floor of Cherry County Society, the bodies were found covered in blood. Prima facie, it seemed that they were hit by a solid object in the head. The front door was found open and it was the neighbours who informed the police. Local sources said the couple had two sons, one of them lives separately in Noida and the other lives outside India. It is also being said that Gupta had borrowed a big amount of money from private lenders. Love Kumar, Joint Commissioner of Police, said the crime was probably committed in the early hours of Tuesday.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||AQI deteriorates, remains in ‘very poor’ category||Smog engulfed the Capital as the air quality deteriorated but remained in the “very poor” category on Wednesday. The 24-hour average air quality was 343, based on data from 35 monitoring stations of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The AQI was 302 on Tuesday and had been 295 on Monday, which was in the “poor” category. Faridabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad were also in the “very poor” category. Only Gurugram settled in the “poor” category. By evening, several monitoring stations in the Capital were in the “severe” category. The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said that the air quality is likely to deteriorate further on November 5 and November 6. It will be on the higher side of “very poor” category as a shift of wind direction for a limited period may bring a plume of smoke to the Capital as upper wind speed is highly favourable. “This shift in wind is is likely to increase the share of stubble-related intrusion by November 5, which touched a minimum level in the morning on Wednesday,” SAFAR said. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’,201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. “The SAFAR synergised stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and neighbouring areas have marginally decreased, but is still significant and stood at 1,949 on Tuesday. However, the boundary layer wind direction is not favourable [South-westerly today morning] for efficient direct fire-related transport; stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air is estimated as 5% for Wednesday,” the SAFAR bulletin said.  The shift in wind is likely to increase the share of stubble-related intrusion by November 5 SAFAR forecast
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bio-decomposer technique a success, claims Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the bio-decomposer technique of converting stubble into manure has shown success. The governments who were claiming that there is no alternative to stubble burning now have a cheap alternative, he said. Mr. Kejriwal inspected a farm at Hiranki village in Narela where the bio-decomposing solution, developed under the guidance of the PUSA Institute, was being tried out by the Delhi government. Effective alternative Mr. Kejriwal said: “Delhi has provided a cheap and effective alternative for stubble burning to other States. The neighbouring States, where the practice of stubble burning is prevalent, should implement the alternative without any excuses.” He said that it was not only the people living in Delhi but also the farmers in Punjab and Haryana who have said that they are highly distressed due to the absence of alternatives to stubble burning, due to which they are left with no option but to burn stubble and bear the brunt of pollution. Mr. Kejriwal said: “We had sprayed the bio-decomposer solution on the farmlands across Delhi around October 13 and on inspecting it today, we found the entire stubble has been converted into manure and the fields are ready for sowing again.” He added that the government would present this alternative in the Supreme Court owing to its effectiveness and cost.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT to hear pollution cases beyond NCR||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday expanded the ambit of cases pertaining to pollution due to firecrackers beyond the National Capital Region and issued notice to 18 States and Union Territories where the air quality is beyond permissible limits. Ban on firecrackers A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel observed that notices had already been issued to the State governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh while Odisha and Rajasthan governments have already issued notices stating ban on firecrackers in the respective States. The tribunal in its order said: “With respect to non attainment of cities, where air quality as per record maintained by the CPCB is generally beyond norms, which are 122 in number, the tribunal may have to consider direction to prohibit use of firecrackers during the period air quality is beyond a threshold to protect the health of vulnerable groups.” The green panel observed, “... the scope of proceedings may need to be extended beyond the NCR so as to suggest that in all the States concerned where air quality is not satisfactory, may consider taking action on the pattern of action taken by the States of Odisha and Rajasthan.” The NGT on November 2 had issued notice to the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change and four State governments on whether to ban the use of firecrackers for the period between November 7 and 30 in the interest of public health and environment.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Policeman severely injured while chasing luxury vehicle||A police constable, Jitender, was severely injured when a car he was chasing hit him in south-east Delhi’s Sarita Vihar. The police have registered a case and begun the probe. One of the accused Kuldeep Bhiduri has been arrested, while Amit Bhadana is absconding. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said, on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, constables Jitender and Ankur were patrolling and when they reached Sarita Vihar, they saw a luxury car parked near an ATM and a cake kept on it. The occupants of the vehicle were making noise. “The policemen asked them to go home but they didn’t leave and started arguing with them. The men told them that they were locals and celebrating a birthday. So no one can stop them,” Mr. Meena said. Constable Ankur then called the Emergency Response Vehicle after which the group ran towards Madanpur Khadar. When the ERV started chasing them, the vehicle sped. “The constables tried to stop them but the car driver hit Mr. Jitender and ran over him, crushing his legs before fleeing,” Mr. Meena said, adding that the car was chased and it was finally found crashed a few km ahead. “While all other occupants of the car fled, one person was injured,” the DCP said. During probe, it was found that the car belonged to one Amit Bhadana, a resident of Faridabad, and he had given the vehicle to his cousin Kuldeep, who was celebrating his birthday with his friends.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Riots accused Saifi granted bail||In a hard-hitting order slamming the city police for unnecessarily arresting social activist Khalid Saifi in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots, a court here on Wednesday said chargesheeting Mr. Saifi in the case shows the extent of police’s vindictiveness. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav, while granting bail to Mr. Saifi, said the court did not find “any rationale” in the act of the police in involving the 39-year-old in this solitary case for the offence of conspiracy behind the riots. Questions rationale The judge questioned the rationale behind the police making a case of conspiracy against Mr. Saifi solely on the statement of a public witness who saw him, AAP former councillor Tahir Hussain and former JNU student and activist Umar Khalid go into a building at Shaheen Bagh on January 8. “I fail to understand from the statement how a lofty claim of conspiracy can be inferred. In my humble opinion, chargesheeting the applicant [Mr. Saifi] in this case on the basis of such an insignificant material is total non-application of mind by the police which goes to the extent of vindictiveness,” the court said. The court said if the principal accused in the case, Mr. Hussain, was moved or actuated by Mr. Saifi in the meeting that took place in Shaheen Bagh, then Mr. Saifi should also have been made co-accused in 10 other cases in which Mr. Hussain is an accused. Since that is not the case, the court said the police has unnecessarily brought in the material of another FIR investigated by Special Cell in this case. Dismiss argument The court also dismissed the argument raised by the Special Public Prosecutor that Mr. Saifi has been in regular contact with Mr. Hussain and Mr. Khalid over mobile phone as it “does not in any way go on to establish the criminal conspiracy alleged against the applicant in the matter”. The court took note that Mr. Saifi was not physically present at the scene of crime on the date of incident.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man killed for demanding money to buy liquor; 5 held||A 23-year-old man was killed allegedly by five men following a quarrel between them after he demanded money from them for buying liquor, police said on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that the victim has been identified as Akif and the accused as Rakesh (24), Rahul (22), Shyam (24), Mukesh (24) and Mahesh (22), all residents of Aadiwaashi Camp in Nehru Nagar. Police said that they received an information that a person was lying dead inside a park in Lajpat Nagar- 2 in south-east Delhi on Tuesday evening. The victim was identified and was found that he was earlier involved in at least two cases, including robbery and snatching, police said. Investigations revealed that the incident took place on Tuesday evening when Akif along with five other men were playing cards near a park in Lajpat Nagar. A quarrel broke out between them after the victim demanded Rs. 100 each to buy liquor. “It then led to a fight and Akif was later attacked with a spade, which led to his death,” Mr. Meena said. A case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered and the accused were arrested, he said.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Release funds to DU colleges by Nov. 9, HC tells AAP govt.||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the AAP government to release by November 9, the remaining amount of two quarters to four Delhi University colleges fully funded by it, to enable the institutes to release pending salaries of staffers. The court gave the direction while observing that Deepavali is round the corner and the government is depriving people of their salaries. The HC also directed the four colleges — Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies — to forthwith release the pending salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff, after receiving funds from the Delhi government. The court will hear the case again on November 11.
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||Yes Bank fraud case: High Court rejects bail pleas of Wadhawans||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday rejected the bail pleas filed by Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of the Dewan Housing Finance Limited, in the Yes Bank fraud case. A single judge Bench of Justice S.V. Kotwal was hearing the bail applications filed by the brothers challenging the rejection of their default bails by a special court on July 31. The pleas were filed on the ground that Section 173 (report of police officer on completion of investigation) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) was not filed within the time stipulated under Section 167 (procedure when investigation cannot be completed in 24 hours) of the Cr.PC. After hearing the matter at length, the Bench had on October 23 reserved it for order. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the duo, on Wednesday contended that Yes Bank gave loan to DHFL and then DHFL got complete dominance over the property. “The amount was given as a loan. Therefore, there could not be any criminal breach of trust committed by either of the accused. Similarly when the amount was given by DHFL to Rana Kapoor’s concerns even there was no criminal breach of trust. Both these entities and the accused had no grievance against each other and hence no offence of Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) is made out,” Mr. Singhvi said. The HC, however, said, “I completely disagree with these submissions. The allegations are not pertaining to criminal breach of trust committed by either of the accused in respect of each other’s property. The prosecution case is that public money which was deposited by the depositors with Yes Bank was used for committing this offence, for personal gain and for causing loss to the bank and its depositors. This offence was committed pursuant to the conspiracy among all the accused.” The Bench said, “The real victims were the depositors and shareholders, particularly of Yes Bank. That amount was not utilised for getting profit for Yes Bank, but it was used for personal gain of the accused. Thus, clearly offence of Section 409 of the IPC is made out. The ingredients of this offence are clearly borne out in the report filed before the special CBI court.” The 63-page judgement said, “Right to default bail for non-filing the police report within the stipulated period provided under Section 167 of the Cr.PC is an indefeasible right which flows from Article 21 (Right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. Such indefeasible right cannot be defeated by any subterfuge. The courts cannot be too technical while entertaining application for bail for not filing the police report within the stipulated period under Section 167 of the Cr.PC.”
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||Give copy of plea over Disha Salian’s death to Maharashtra govt.: HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked an advocate to serve the Maharashtra government a copy of his petition that seeks court-monitored CBI probe into the death of Disha Salian, former manager of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The petition filed by advocate Puneet Dhanda claimed that the deaths of Salian and Rajput were interconnected as they occurred under suspicious circumstances. When the plea was taken up for hearing on Wednesday by a Division Bench of Justices K.K. Tated and G.S. Kulkarni, the petitioner’s advocate Vineet Dhanda told the court that Salian died on June 8 and Rajput on June 14. “The Mumbai Police have not done their work and not carried out a proper inquiry into the deaths. The case (both the deaths) has created a hue and cry in the country,” Mr. Vineet Dhanda said. The Bench was, however, informed by the additional government pleader that the State had not been served a copy of the petition. Mr. Dhanda then claimed that he had already served a copy but would do so again. “You (petitioner) file an affidavit of service and also give them (government) another copy,” the Bench said, and posted the plea for further hearing on November 26. The petitioner, Mr. Puneet Dhanda, approached the Bombay High Court after the Supreme Court refused to hear the plea and directed him to move the High Court first. Salian (28) died after falling off the 14th floor of a residential building in Malad. Rajput (34) was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in Bandra.
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||Amitabh, Neerja Birla to run video campaign on mental health issues||Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan and the founder and chairperson of mental health service provider Mpower, Neerja Birla, have created a video to create awareness of the growing mental health issues. The video touches upon the harsh realities of mental health of people and the challenges they face because of it, and talks about the ways to handle it with compassion. The conversational video between Mr. Bachchan and Ms. Birla will be unveiled on Mpower’s YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram pages on Thursday. This campaign, #SunoDekhoKaho, aiming to encourage people to listen, be watchful, and speak up for help, will run for a month. “The mental health issue is a huge problem and more awareness needs to be created. Both I and Mr. Bachchan believe in this and thus we have come together,” Ms. Birla told The Hindu . “From schoolchildren to corporate professionals and from artists to politicians, it is never easy to understand what one might be going through, beneath the surface. It needs to be addressed,” she said. Ms. Birla, the wife of industrialist Kumar Mangalam Birla, said the video would dispel myths surrounding mental health and this was the first time that Mr. Bachchan had become associated with such a cause. “Mr. Bachchan’s involvement will help amplify the conversations on a taboo topic like mental health. This campaign will decode the importance of mental well-being. It’s an honour to have a legend like him to discuss a topic which is sensitive and a deep-rooted concern in our society,” she said. Mpower would provide support to all those in need in tackling mental health concerns, she said. During the initial days of the lockdown, Mpower had started a helpline for those facing mental health issues. Since then, it has received calls from 64,264 people of whom 72% were men and maximum calls came from those in the 26-40 years age group. “The causes included anxiety, depression and relationship issues,” Ms. Birla said. In anxiety, there were complaints of constant negative thinking, or tendency of overthinking which caused distress. Health anxieties were mostly related to COVID-19 for self and family members, examination and career-related issues, and exacerbation of past issues. In depression, there were complaints of low mood, sadness due to the current situation, loss of jobs, uncertainty in career, loneliness, and grief arising from death of a family member, or loss of a close relationship. Breakups with partners, and conflict between spouses or in-laws or with parents dominated relationship issues, Ms. Birla said.
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||Sameet Thakkar remanded in police custody till Nov. 9||Twitter user Sameet Thakkar, arrested by the Mumbai Police for posting allegedly objectionable comments against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his minister-son Aaditya Thackeray, has been remanded in police custody till November 9. He was arrested after being granted bail by a Nagpur court and was on Tuesday produced before a local court, which remanded him in police custody for further probe into the matter. Mr. Thakkar was granted bail by the Nagpur court recently in a case registered against him by the Nagpur police over the offensive comments on the micro-blogging site. Mr. Thakkar, who has 59,000 followers on Twitter and is followed by some prominent government functionaries on the social media platform, was arrested by the Nagpur police from Rajkot on October 24 for his posts on Twitter, including his ‘Baby Penguin’ remark against Mr. Aaditya Thackeray. The Nagpur police on Sunday filed a case against some Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) workers for protesting Mr. Thakkar’s arrest. The activists carried flags of BJYM, the BJP’s youth wing, and wore aprons with penguin photos on them. The protesters booked include Shivani Dani Wakhare, whose Twitter bio describes her as Maharashtra BJYM general secretary. Detractors of Mr. Aaditya Thackeray have been taunting him with that sobriquet after he insisted on bringing penguins in the Mumbai zoo. The municipal corporation, controlled by Mr. Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena, spent crores on the project that included the cost of creating an artificial environment for the flightless birds.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||With 6,842 cases, Delhi sees biggest single-day jump again||The Capital recorded 6,842 new COVID-19 cases — its highest single-day jump — on Wednesday, a government bulletin stated. Also, 51 deaths and 5,797 recoveries were recorded, the bulletin added. The total number of virus cases now stands at 4,09,938. With 6,703 deaths and 3,65,866 recoveries, there are 37,369 active cases in the city at present. As many as 58,910 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 11.61%. This is the second consecutive day when the number of daily cases crossed the 6,000 mark. The previous highest single-day spike here was 6,725 cases recorded on Tuesday. Commenting on the increase in the number of cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the spike could be called the “third wave” of the pandemic in the Capital, but told people not to panic and the government was monitoring the situation and ensuring that there are adequate beds for COVID-19 patients. He said that the shortage of ICU beds with ventilators in a few private hospitals would also be addressed in the next few days. “The Delhi government had increased the number of ICU beds in private hospitals, but unfortunately the Delhi High Court stayed our decision. We are moving the Supreme Court to urge it to vacate the stay,” Mr. Kejriwal said. In September, the Delhi High Court had stayed the AAP government’s decision to reserve 80% ICU beds for virus patients in 33 private hospitals. A high-level meeting has been called on Thursday to review the situation. Testing in markets Heath Minister Satyendar Jain said that the government has started conducting tests in markets and other crowded places to strengthen its surveillance mechanism. He said that aggressive testing strategy and contract-tracing were some of the reasons for the spike in cases, which wascontraryto the national trend and showing a dip in cases. Mr. Jain said that more cases are currently being recorded in upper-middle class and middle class segments.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Complaints pour in from students after discrepancies in DU OBE results||Complaints pertaining to results of open book examinations held by DU continued to pour in on Wednesday, with several students claiming that they had been either marked absent or had been failed despite appearing for the examinations. The open book examinations were conducted by the varsity for students, who were in their final year, in August owing to the pandemic. Students have also expressed anguish and concerns over the uncertainty of post-graduation admissions due to the error in the results declared. A. Sowgandhika, a final-year student of Lady Shri Ram College, said: “Out of the four papers that I appeared for, I have been marked absent in two, failed in one and only the last one has been graded correctly. I had mailed by answer scripts to DU and have acknowledgement slips for the same. It is impossible that I have failed in one paper as I am confident that I answered correctly.” Similar issues in past The Economics (Honours) student further said, “There were similar issues last semester as well, but while the “absent” was rectified the “zeros or fails” were not. We had to spend Rs. 1,000 to send the paper for revaluation. However, when the revaluation results got declared in April our names did not feature. So we still do not know what happened to that.” “In such a situation which university will grant me admission for post-graduation? No one will believe that the error actually happened on DU’s end,” she said. D.S. Rawat, Dean of Examinations in DU, however said that less than 2% of the 27,000 results declared were affected by such errors. “This is not the first time that students have been marked absent erroneously. Additionally, this time, several students either forgot to mention their roll number or did not write the title properly. Students facing such issues have been asked to contact the nodal officers and the exam department is trying to resolve the issue within three-four days,” said Mr. Rawat.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Three more Rafale jets arrive in India||A second batch of three Rafale fighter jets arrived at the Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat on Wednesday evening after flying non-stop from France, in a further boost to the strike capability of the Indian Air Force when India and China are locked in a bitter border row in Ladakh.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Saurabh- IGIA||Security has been beefed up at Delhi’s IGI Airport after a banned pro-Khalistan outfit, Sikhs for Justice, threatened to disrupt two Air India flights scheduled to leave for London on Thursday, the police said on Wednesday. The outfit issued a call to boycott Air India flights and urged the victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots to occupy the airport to “internationalise” the issue, they said. “We have made adequate security arrangements for passengers,” DCP (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said.
05 November 2020||Special CorrespondentPune,||Maharashtra’s active COVID-19 cases now down to 1.12 lakh||Maharashtra’s recoveries again outweighed its case surge, with 8,728 patients being discharged on Wednesday while 5,505 new Covid-19 cases were reported across the State. The cumulative recoveries have now risen to 15,40,005 with the State’s recovery rate standing at 90.68%. The total case tally now stands at 16,98,198. The number of active cases has now come down to 1,12,912. With 125 deaths, the total fatalities toll has reached 44,548. “Of a total 91,85,838 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,98,198 (18.56%) have returned positive with 65,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stood at 2.62%. Pune district saw a heightened spike of 751 cases to take its total case tally to 3,36,430 while 19 deaths on Wednesday saw its death toll climb to 6,978. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s recovery rate is currently 94.08% with its active cases now standing at 11,404. Mumbai reported 983 cases to take its total case tally to 2,60,840 of whom 16,576 are active. The death toll in the city rose to 10,352 with 29 deaths. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 329 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,03,198 of whom 4,342 are active. 13 deaths were reported. The district’s death toll stands at 2,811. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported three deaths, taking its cumulative death toll to 1,435. As many as 202 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 48,344 of whom 3,813 are active. Sangli reported 113 cases and four deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 47,281 of whom 2,626 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,612. Kolhapur recorded just 45 cases as its total case tally reached 47,416 of whom just 644 are currently active. Only one death was reported today, to take the total death toll to 1,611. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 400 cases as its total case tally reached 96,454 of whom 5,117 are active. With seven deaths, the district’s total death toll has now reached 1,592. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported 64 new cases and just one death as its total case tally reached 53,755 of whom only 1,586 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,360.
05 November 2020||Srinagar,||J&K’s district council polls from November 28||Elections to the first ever District Development Councils (DDC), to set up the third tier under the Panchayati Raj, will be held in eight phases in 20 districts from November 28 in J&K. “It will conclude on December 22. By-elections for the vacant seats of sarpanch and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) will also take place simultaneously,” State Election Commissioner K.K. Sharma said. The electoral rolls used in panchayat elections, updated on January 1, 2020, will be used for the DDC polls. “Delimitation has been done for the constituencies and 280 DDCs have been identified across the Union Territory of J&K. The term of the DDC will be five years,” Mr. Sharma said. Each district in J&K has been divided into 14 constituencies for the DDCs. For the first time, the West Pakistan Refugees (WPRs) will be entitled to exercise their right to vote. “COVID-19 protocols will be followed in spirit. Polling will take place through Electronic Voting Machines. However, postal ballots will be made available for COVID-19 patients in isolation, senior citizens and the physically unwell,” Mr. Sharma said.
05 November 2020||Washington,||Indian-American Democrats re-elected||All the four Indian-American Democratic lawmakers — Ami Bera, Pramila Jayapal, Ro Khanna and Raja Krishnamoorthi — have been re-elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. The Indian-American community has emerged as a force to reckon with for the first time in the history of the U.S. presidential election. Both the Democrat and the Republican campaigns had initiated several measures to woo the approximately 1.8 million members of the community who have emerged as a critical voting bloc in the battleground states of Florida, Georgia, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Texas. Samosa caucus The so-called ‘Samosa caucus’, a termed coined by Mr. Krishnamoorthi for informal grouping of Indian-American lawmakers, might expand with at least one more as physician Dr. Hiral Tipirneni was leading against Republican incumbent David Schweikert from the sixth Congressional district of Arizona when last reports came in. If elected, Dr. Tipirneni, 52, would be the second ever Indian-American woman to be elected to the House of Representatives. Ms. Jayapal, 55, was the first Indian-American woman to be elected to the House in 2016. The ‘Samosa caucus’ currently comprises five Indian-American lawmakers, including the four members of the House of Representatives and Senator and Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris, 56. Raja Krishnamoorthi, 47, easily defeated Preston Nelson, 30, of the Libertarian Party. When last reports came in, he had accounted for nearly 71% of the total votes counted. Third win Ro Khanna, 44, easily defeated fellow Indian-American Ritesh Tandon, 48, of the Republican Party with a margin of more than 50 percentage points. This was his third-consecutive win from the 17th Congressional district of California. Ami Bera, 55, the senior most member of the ‘Samosa Caucus’, won the seventh Congressional District of California for the fifth consecutive term. When the last report came in, he had established an inaccessible lead by more than 25 percentage points against his Republican rival 65-year-old Buzz Patterson. Sri Preston Kulkarni, 42, was giving a tough fight to the GOP’s Troy Nehls, 52, from the 22nd Congressional District of Texas. He was trailing by five percentage points when reports last came in. Republican Manga Anantatmula lost to Democratic incumbent Gerry Connolly in the 11th Congressional District of Virginia. Republican Nisha Sharma from the Republican Party also lost her maiden Congressional attempt. She was defeated by incumbent Mark DeSaulnier from the Democratic Party by more than 50 percentage points. The House of Representatives is the lower house of the U.S. Congress, with the Senate being the upper house
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||World waits nervously, impatiently for U.S. vote count||From Ford Model T cars that popped off the assembly line in just 90 minutes to 60-second service for burgers, the United States has had a major hand in making the world a frenetic and impatient place, primed and hungry for instant gratification. So waking up to the news on Wednesday that the winner of the U.S. election might not be known for hours, days or longer — pundits filled global airwaves with their best bets — was jarring for a planet weaned on that most American of exports: speed. In the absence of an immediate winner between President Donald Trump and challenger Joe Biden, the guessing game of trying to figure out which of them would end up in the White House, and how, quickly turned global. Government leaders scrambled to digest the delay and ordinary people swapped views, hopes and fears on feeds and phones. “I’m hearing it may take some time before things are sorted out,” said the finance minister of Japan, Taro Aso. “I have no idea how it may affect us.” In Paris, a Spanish resident, Javier Saenz, was stunned to wake up without a declared winner. “I thought there was going to be something clear. And I have read different articles, no one really knows who is going to win,” he said. “I am very shocked by that.” Concern in Europe But the lack of result was not that surprising to experts. In a year turned upside down by the coronavirus pandemic, many States made it easier to vote by mail. That meant a slowdown in compiling results because postal ballots mail often take longer to process than those cast at polling places. Still, the unease of not knowing was mixing with sharpening concerns about how America might heal after the divisive election and anxieties fuelled by Trump’s own extraordinary and premature claims of victory and his threat to take the election to the Supreme Court to stop counting. From Europe, in particular, came appeals for patience and a complete tally of votes. In Slovenia, the birthplace of first lady Melania Trump, the right-wing Prime Minister, Janez Jansa, claimed it was “pretty clear that American people have elected Donald Trump.” The German Vice-Chancellor, Olaf Scholz, insisted on a complete tally, saying- “It is important for us that everything be counted and in the end we have a clear result.”
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden ahead, but no clear winner yet||Mr. Trump held on to Florida — a State the winner has taken in the last six Presidential elections. Democrats invested much in campaigning in Florida and had hoped to win its 29 Electoral College votes. With its loss, the journey to 270 became harder for Mr. Biden. In addition to doing well with White voters in the State, Mr. Trump was backed by Latinos — including Cuban Americans and Puerto Ricans as per exit polls. While Mr. Biden won Miami-Dade county — where there is a concentration of Latinos — Mr. Trump ate into his vote share there. Mr. Trump also retained Ohio and Iowa. He finished strongly in Texas — which Democrats had hoped to win banking on the fact that some 60% of the red State’s electorate cast early ballots; Democrats tend to vote early relative to Republicans, who tend to vote on Election Day. The State, however, had not significantly expanded mail-in voting. Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin — “Blue Wall” States that flipped from Democrats in 2016 and carried Mr. Trump to the White House — were still in play mid-morning (Washington time) on Wednesday. By the early afternoon, with a lead of about 20,000, Mr. Biden looked like he was on track to win Wisconsin, with its 10 electoral votes. The Trump campaign announced that they would seek a recount in the State. Both candidates intensely courted voters in Pennsylvania in the last week of the campaign, with an eye on the State’s 20 Electoral College votes. The State is a mix of rural areas that support Mr. Trump and urban and suburban areas where Democrats are strong. The President had a wafer thin majority over Hillary Clinton in 2016, flipping a State that had voted Democrat since 1998. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump led Mr. Biden in Pennsylvania by almost 10 percentage points at the time of this writing. However, hundreds of thousands of votes were still being counted — the State has until the end of Friday to complete their count. In Michigan — with 94% of the counting done and mailed-in ballots still being tallied, Mr. Biden had squeaked ahead of Mr. Trump, winning 49.6% of the vote versus Mr. Trump’s 48.7% at the time of this writing. The President had flipped this long-time blue State in 2016 but Mr. Biden had the lead in the State in opinion polls going into Tuesday. “Most likely, Biden won, we just need to finish counting all the legally cast ballots,” Michael McDonald, a University of Florida Political Science Professor who runs the United States Elections Project, told The Hindu via email on Wednesday morning. The Hindu had asked Mr. McDonald what it would take for either Mr. Biden or Mr. Trump to win.     All 435 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives , currently controlled by the Democrats, were up for re-election. Democrats were expected to keep control of the House, which they took from Republicans in the 2018 midterm elections. As of this writing, Republicans had flipped seven seats, a net gain of five, with Democrats flipping two seats  .  In the 100-member U.S. Senate, where the GOP has a 53-47 majority, 35 seats were up for re-election. The Republicans are expected to keep control of the Senate.  .
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Anchors, pundits criticise Trump’s claims of fraud||Television news networks spent a meticulous election night reporting State-by-State results with prudence and context. Then President Donald Trump got involved. In a wee-hours appearance from the East Room of the White House early Wednesday, Mr. Trump claimed without evidence that the election was being taken from him by “a very sad group of people”. His baseless statements — including an unfounded claim that the election was “a major fraud on our nation” — stirred up anchors at major networks, some of which cut away from his remarks before he was finished. “This is an extremely flammable situation, and the President just threw a match on it,” anchor Chris Wallace told viewers on Fox News. Referring to Mr. Trump’s false claims that he had “clearly won” Georgia and North Carolina, neither of which have finished counting votes, Mr. Wallace said: “He hasn’t won these States. Nobody is saying he’s won the States. The States haven’t said that he’s won.” Every major network carried Mr. Trump’s remarks live around 2:30 a.m. Most offered a quick fact-check afterward, although NBC and MSNBC did not wait for him to conclude before breaking in. “We’ve got to dip in here because there have been several statements that are just frankly not true,” NBC anchor Savannah Guthrie told viewers. Brian Williams, helming MSNBC coverage, said: “We are reluctant to step in, but duty-bound to point out that when he says, ‘We did win this election, we’ve already won,’ that is not based in the facts at all.” CBS aired Mr. Trump’s appearance with an on-screen graphic declaring: “CBS NEWS IS NOT PROJECTING A WINNER IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE.” Afterward, anchor Norah O’Donnell told viewers that Trump was “castrating the facts” with his unfounded claims. Republican pundits on the networks also expressed disapproval about the President’s comments. Rick Santorum, a CNN commentator and former Pennsylvania Senator, said: “I was very distressed by what I just heard the president say.” Chris Christie, the former New Jersey Governor, who worked with Mr. Trump on his debate prep this year, said on ABC: “It’s a bad strategic decision. It’s a bad political decision.” Blunter reactions came from CNN’s Jake Tapper — who called Mr. Trump’s remarks “undemocratic, and false, and premature” — and the liberal co-hosts on MSNBC. Rachel Maddow called it a “‘Hee Haw’ laugh-track move”.
05 November 2020||BERLIN,||U.S. formally exits Paris pact on curbing climate change||The United States on Wednesday formally left the Paris Agreement, a global pact forged five years ago to avert the threat of catastrophic climate change. The move, long threatened by U.S. President Donald Trump and triggered by his administration a year ago, further isolates the U.S. in the world. Some 189 countries remain committed to the 2015 Paris accord, which aims to keep the increase in average temperatures worldwide “well below” 2 degrees Celsius, ideally no more than 1.5C , compared to pre-industrial levels. A further six countries have signed, but not ratified the pact. Scientists say that any rise beyond 2 degrees Celsius could have a devastating impact on large parts of the world, raising sea levels, stoking tropical storms and worsening droughts and floods. The Paris accord requires countries to set their own voluntary targets for reducing greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide.. The U.S. is the world’s second biggest emitter after China of heat-trapping gases such as carbon dioxide and its contribution to cutting emissions is seen as important, but it is not alone in the effort. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has said he favours signing the U.S. back up to the Paris accord.
05 November 2020||Washington,||Trump alleges ‘ballot dumps’ in some States||U.S. President Donald Trump alleged on Wednesday that there had been “surprise ballot dumps” in states where he had been leading Democrat Joe Biden in the race for the White House. “Last night I was leading, often solidly, in many key States, in almost all instances Democrat run & controlled,” Trump tweeted. “Then, one by one, they started to magically disappear as surprise ballot dumps were counted.” Mr. Trump did not offer any evidence for his allegation of “ballot dumps” and there have been no reports of any irregularities. The leads in numerous states have shifted back-and-forth between the candidates as votes are counted. Mail-in ballots Mr. Trump, who overnight prematurely declared himself the winner of Tuesday’s election, has spent months denouncing mail-in ballots, making unsubstantiated claims that they are liable to fraud. “How come every time they count Mail-In ballot dumps they are so devastating in their percentage and power of destruction?” he tweeted on Wednesday. The usage of mail-in ballots soared this election amid the coronavirus pandemic and the US Elections Project said a record 65.2 million Americans voted by mail.
05 November 2020||London,||India enjoys bipartisan support, says Shringla||India’s ties with the U.S. is based on bipartisan support and the two countries have forged a relationship that has withstood the test of time, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said, as he exuded confidence that the outcome of the U.S. presidential elections will not affect the bilateral ties. Mr. Shringla, who is on a seven-day trip to Europe to review bilateral ties and discuss matters of mutual interest with European nations, also said that India-US relationship is “very comprehensive and multifaceted.” Multifaceted ties “Our relations with the U.S. are based on bipartisan support. You see it in Congress, you see it at the public levels. We do believe that we have forged a relationship that today has withstood the test of time, is very comprehensive and multifaceted,” he told DW News in an interview. “We not only share the same values and principles, but we also have the same strategic vision in what could be bilateral, regional or multilateral relationship,” he added. Responding to a question on close ties between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Donald Trump, Mr. Shringla said that their relationship has been special. “PM Modi’s relationship with President Trump has been special But you have to remember that Prime Minister Modi’s relationship with President (Barack) Obama was also very special,” he said.
05 November 2020||Washington,||Congress gets its first openly gay Black member||Democrat Party’s Ritchie Torres has made history by becoming the first openly gay Black man elected to the U.S. Congress. Mr. Torres, 32, a New York City Council Member, won the election from New York’s 15th Congressional District, defeating Republican Patrick Delices to become the next representative, New York Daily News reported. Tonight, a new era begins for the South Bronx, Torres said in a statement. “It is the honour of a lifetime to represent a borough filled with essential workers who have risked their lives so that New York City could live.“The Bronx is essential, and the vibrant, loving and talented people who live here have shown time and again their power, fortune and perseverance. The Bronx is the heartbeat of New York City”, he said.
05 November 2020||London,||U.K. says ties with U.S. on strong footing||Britain on Wednesday insisted its close partnership with the U.S. was in safe hands whoever comes out on top of the tumultuous presidential election, while noting disagreement over the Paris climate pact. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, a populist ally of President Donald Trump, refused to be drawn in Parliament when grilled about the Republican’s premature claim of victory and his intention to ask the Supreme Court to halt the vote counting. But Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said: “I’m not worried about the relationship. “The contours of the opportunities and the risks always shift a little bit, but that needs to be set against the context of this bedrock and this wider set of interests which are so strong,” he told Sky News. Meanwhile, Mr. Johnson’s spokesman told reporters the transatlantic relationship would “go from strength to strength whichever candidate wins the election”.
05 November 2020||New York,||Rik Mehta loses contest in New Jersey||Indian-American Republican candidate Rik Mehta lost his New Jersey Senate election bid to Democratic incumbent Senator Cory Booker. Mr. Mehta garnered 37.9% of the votes at 1,071,726, while Mr. Booker got 60.6% with 1,714,375 votes in the November 3 election. In July, Mr. Mehta had become the first Indian-American to win the Republican primary for the Senate seat from New Jersey. Mr. Mehta, a former Food and Drug Administration official, had defeated his nearest rival Hirsh Singh, also an Indian-American, by a margin of 13,743 votes in the Republican primaries held in July. This was for the first time that a New Jersey senatorial race had candidates of colour nominees from both the parties. Booker, an African-American, had won the Democratic primary with 89% of the votes.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Fixing the rules of the economy||India has an incomes crisis: incomes of people in the lower half of the pyramid are too low. The solutions economists propose are: free up markets, improve productivity, and apply technology. These fundamentals of economics must be re-examined when applied to human work. Three solutions Economists say markets should be freed up for agricultural products so that farmers can get higher prices; and freed up for labour to attract investments. Without adequate incomes, people cannot be a good market for businesses. In fact, it is the inadequate growth of incomes that has caused a slump in investments. Ironically, the purpose of freeing up markets for labour is to reduce the burden of wage costs on investors just when wages and the size of markets must be increased. Human rights must prevail over economic considerations. Good markets enable smooth transactions between buyers and sellers of commodities. However, humans are not commodities, like agricultural produce and minerals are. Humans must not be put up for sale to the highest bidders which was the practice in slave markets. Human rights activists fought a long, hard battle to abolish the abhorrent idea that humans can be considered as commodities in markets. Improvement of ‘productivity’ is key to economic progress. Productivity is a ratio of an input in the denominator and an output in the numerator. The larger the output that is produced with a unit of input, the higher the productivity of the system. Economists generally use labour productivity as a universal measure of the productivity of an economy. The number of people in the system (the country/the economy) is the denominator, and the gross domestic product the people produce is the numerator. Companies also measure their productivity similarly, by dividing the total output of the enterprise by the numbers of workers employed. Companies can apply two broad strategies for improving their productivity. They can take the managerially more difficult route of increasing the total output of the factory while maintaining the number of workers. This may require adding more machines and technology to supplement the capacity of workers to increase total output. This is a good strategy for capital-rich enterprises and countries. Alternatively, employers can enhance their workers’ skills and create a culture of continuous improvement in the factory, whereby workers and managers cooperate to improve the capability of their system, and squeeze more output from limited capital resources. This is the strategy of ‘total quality management’, with which Japanese companies reduced their costs and improved the quality of their products in the 1960s and 1970s, becoming the most competitive enterprises in the world. The Japanese companies had lifetime employment contracts with their workers. They invested in their workers; and the workers — the companies’ ‘appreciating assets’ — grew their capabilities as well as contributed to the improvement of the total productivity of their enterprises. Humans are the only ‘appreciating assets’ an enterprise has. They can improve their own abilities. The values of machines and buildings depreciate over time, as any accountant knows. Whereas human beings develop when they are treated with respect, and are provided with environments to learn. The lazy management strategy for improving productivity is to reduce the denominator, i.e. the number of workers. Hire them when times are good, and fire them when the company cannot compete any more. Governments of countries cannot apply the ‘hire and fire’ strategy to improve a nation’s productivity that companies can. A company can fire people it is not able to use productively any more. They are off the company’s accounts. The company’s owners hope someone else will take care of them. Such ‘used and discarded workers’ are no longer their responsibility. However, if a country is not productive, in terms of GDP per unit of population, its government does not have the luxury of firing citizens. Where will they go? Who will take care of them? In desperation, they may try to migrate to other countries, which are reluctant to have them because they will have to provide them with productive jobs when there are not enough jobs for their own citizens. For capital-scarce and human resource-abundant countries, such as many developing countries, the correct ratio of productivity is output per unit of capital. This must be the driver of business as well as national strategies. This was the strategy of ‘Japan Inc.’ to make Japan an industrial powerhouse. This was E.F. Schumacher’s insight also. Schumacher, best known for his seminal idea ‘small is beautiful’ (and his book with the same title), was an economist ahead of his time. He understood where capitalism powered with technology would be heading. In his essay, ‘Industrialisation through Intermediate Technology’, published by the journal Resurgence in 1966, he wrote: “If we define the level of technology in terms of ‘equipment cost per work-place’, we can call the indigenous technology of a typical developing country (symbolically speaking) a £1-technology, while that of the modern West could be called a £1,000-technology. The current attempt of the ‘developing ‘countries, supported by foreign aid, to infiltrate the £1,000-technology into their economies inevitably kills off the £1-technolgy at an alarming rate, destroying traditional workplaces at a much faster rate than modern workplaces can be created and producing the ‘dual economy’ with its attendant evils of mass unemployment and mass migration”. Schumacher had warned there was a malaise brewing beneath the drive to ‘Westernise’ and ‘technologise’ economies. The harsh lockdown of the economy in India to prevent the spread of COVID-19 caused the malaise to spill out for everyone to see. The social contract A good job implies a contract between workers and society. Workers provide the economy with the products and services it needs. In return, society and the economy must create conditions whereby workers are treated with dignity and can earn adequate incomes. Good jobs require good contracts between workers and their employers. Therefore, the government, to discharge its responsibility to create a good society for all citizens, and not only for investors, must regulate contracts between those who engage people to do work for their enterprises, even in the gig economy. The economist Dani Rodrik, an authority on industrial policy and international trade, advocates reforms that will induce firms to employ more numbers of less skilled workers. He says, to increase productivity of firms, “too often they [governments] subsidise labour-replacing, capital-intensive technologies, rather than pushing innovation in socially more beneficial directions to augment rather than replace less skilled workers.” A turbo-charged, financial globalisation has made life very easy for migrant capital, while making the lives of migrant workers more precarious. The power to fix the rules of the game has become concentrated with wealthy investors and large multinational corporations. The rules do not favour workers and tiny enterprises because they have too little power. Large enterprises employ fewer people within their own organisations; therefore, labour unions have lost their traditional support bases. The power balance must shift. Small enterprises and workers must combine into larger associations, in new forms, using technology, to tilt reforms towards their needs and their rights. Arun Maira is author of ‘The Learning Factory: How the Leaders of Tata Became Nation Builders’
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Is linguistic nationalism on the wane?||At this time each year, there are raucous street celebrations of Rajyotsava in Karnataka, a commemoration of the day when the reorganised State came into being in 1956 (though it was known as Mysore until 1973). The red and yellow Karnataka flags fly high, street corners blast off iconic Kannada songs (‘naaniruvude nimagagi! naadiruvudu namagagi....’ , among others) and people have the day off to participate in programmes around the city. Celebrations continue for the whole month, in which both the State and society are involved. This year, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa declared that neither the token day nor month is good enough, and a whole year instead will be dedicated to the promotion of Kannada. But he does no more than echo the laments of the last three decades, which the Kannada Development Authority, set up in 1994, has done little to redress. This year, the spirit of Rajyotsava is definitely muted. The health terror that stalks our streets accounts only for a part of this lacklustre celebration, which is barely visible and audible. Apart from the Kannada press, English newspapers appear to have given the day a miss. A few red and yellow flags adorned the square in which Reverend Kittel’s statue stands in the heart of the city, an inconspicuous reminder of the missionary role in systematising Kannada grammar and producing a dictionary. A small posse of autorickshaws with flags attempts to infuse some spirit into the event, a 360-foot ‘Kannada bavuta’ is lifted high, but gigantism does not make up for the customary gaiety of the street corner — dominated by men of course — that is definitely missing. Instead, there is the annual hand-wringing about the urgency of building a robust contemporary language out of an undoubtedly well-established and hoary literary one, to keep up with science, and now the digital world. Clearly, the fight to declare Kannada as a classical language in 2008 did little to achieve this connect. Even the Kannada University, established in 1991, draws its formidable strength and influence from literary, folklore and cultural studies, rather than human and natural sciences. Several distractions Are we then witnessing the exhaustion of regional and linguistic nationalism as political capital? There is a good reason to think so. Distractions abound, not the least of which are the worries posed by a severely damaged economy and two by-elections that are possibly going to change the fate of the current government. Events in the past year briefly raised spirits and the fervent hope that Karnataka will not become the Uttar Pradesh of the south. The calls for a Claims Commissioner in riots cases, for a law against ‘love jihad’, and for a branch of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Bengaluru since it has become a “terrorism hub”, are withering that hope. The prolonged and creative anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests, in different locations, built new and unusual publics; the more recent farmers’ agitation against both the State’s new land reform Act, and the Central Acts transforming the marketing of agricultural produce, which allied with Dalit and other civil society groups, were another silver lining. Now all that has taken second place against the gathering force of the demand for reservations within reservations. Not a day passes when one or the other caste or sub-caste — led by one or another mathadeesharu(head of matha) — raises the demand for (and in some rare cases, against) proportional representation in reservations.  Gone too is the electrifying and unifying presence of a Rajkumar, whose formidable star power rallied the Kannada people — and not just in his famousMayura(1975) song. He changed the fate of the Gokak Chaluvali, a movement that sought first language status for Kannada in schools, in 1982. Even Rajkumar’s kidnapping by the brigand Veerappan in 2000 mobilised mass empathy and support for the actor, if not the language. Today, Gandhinagar’s ‘sandalwood’, as the centre of the Kannada film industry is ironically called, is in disarray, buffeted by the challenges of the box office and emerging OTT platforms, weak and hackneyed story lines (contrast contemporary Kannada cinema with its old-style villains and heroes, and the vibrant experiments being undertaken in Malayalam and Tamil cinema), and now a full-fledged drug scandal, in which many actors and associates are being clapped in irons. Class divide Kannada remains a beleaguered language in the State capital, Bengaluru, to which people from the entire country have flocked for jobs, education and opportunity. But it is not just the recent migrant over whom the language is unable to exert its hegemony. Its inferiorised status in everyday life stems from the long-held belief that the ‘cosmopolitanism’ of the city has freed middle-class migrants of any obligation of learning the local language (the working-class migrant can afford no such luxury). Thus, Bengaluru must be the only city in the country where people thrive as academics, business people, journalists, teachers, and salespersons, without acquiring even a smattering of Kannada. “How come you read Kannada!” is the oddly rhetorical question that many, including friends for decades, ask when they spot a book or newspaper in the language in my house, asserting its furtive presence in the middle-class home. No government action or programme can compensate for this profound diffidence. Bengaluru also must be the only city in the country where the local (again largely working-class) takes pride in speaking several languages, including those of most of its immigrants. It is the only Indian city — and I have lived in many — where even those who know the language feel offended if you spoke to them in Kannada, doing their best to reply in English.  Grievously damaged by the widespread desire for, and market in, English, and the inability to counter that tsunami with just a few ritual offerings per year, hopes of Kannada gaining self-confidence, even dominance, will be realised only when it sheds some of its addictions tosymbolismalone. The Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (and other Kannada organisations and even Opposition leaders) have taken umbrage at the significant absence of the Karnataka flag at the official functions on November 1 — to them, this is a sign of federal courtesies being violated. But is this, or the long-lasting damage that the GST fiasco has foisted on States, the more alarming sign of federal protocols being undermined? Is it better jobs for all, refurbished and reliable health care, and improved primary education, that States should take pride in, or symbolic bike rallies, that will rebuild some of the developmental achievements for which Karnataka was once justly known? Janaki Nair retired as professor at the Centre for Historical Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The financial capacity of States is being weakened||State governments drive a majority of the country’s development programmes. Greater numbers of people depend on these programmes for their livelihood, development, welfare and security. Varied economic growth and income levels across States confirm the primacy of State governments in the economic sphere as well. States need resources to deliver these responsibilities and aspirations. Unfortunately, the financial capacity of the States is structurally being weakened. The ability of the States to expand revenue has been constrained since the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime was adopted. The Centre’s resource mobilisation space vis-a-vis that of the States is now far greater. While both face a very challenging fiscal environment, the Centre, instead of finding mutually beneficial solutions, has repeatedly opted to undermine the current and future fiscal capacities of the States. It has systematically cut the share of States in taxes raised by the Union government (devolutions), it has reduced the pool of funds to be shared with the States by shifting from taxes to cesses and surcharges, and it is needlessly thrusting measly options to overcome the GST shortfall. Declining devolution Finance Commissions recommend the share of States in the taxes raised by the Union government. Their recommendations are normally adhered to. But the current Union government has discarded this constitutional obligation. Prior to 2014, devolution of funds to the States were consistently and cumulatively more than 13th Finance Commission’s projections. The year 2014-15 commenced with a shock: actual devolution was 14% less than the Finance Commission’s projection. Subsequent devolutions have been consistently less every year, ending the period 2019-20 with a whopping -37%. Between 2014-15 and 2019-20, the States got Rs. 7,97,549 crore less than what was projected by the Finance Commission. This is an undeniable and substantial reduction of the fiscal resource capacity of the States. Shrinking the divisible pool Various cesses and surcharges levied by the Union government are retained fully by it. They do not go into the divisible pool. This allows the Centre to raise revenues, yet not share them with the States. Hence, the Union government imposes or increases cesses and surcharges instead of taxes wherever possible and, in some cases, even replaces taxes with cesses and surcharges. When taxes are replaced with cesses and surcharges, as has been done repeatedly by this government in the case of petrol and diesel, the consumer pays the same price. But the Union government keeps more of that revenue and reduces the size of the divisible pool. As a result, the States lose out on their share. Between 2014-15 and 2019-20, cesses and surcharges soared from 9.3% to 15% of the gross tax revenue of the Union government. This systematic rise ensures that the revenue that is fully retained by the Union government increases at the cost of the revenue that is shared with the States. In 2019-20 alone, the Union government expected Rs. 3,69,111 crore from cesses and surcharges. This will not be shared with the States. This government has exploited this route to reduce the size of the divisible pool. GST shortfall Shortfalls have been persistent and growing from the inception of GST. Compensations have been paid from the GST cess revenue. GST cesses are levied on luxury or sin goods on top of the GST. Such cesses have justification independent of compensation needs. These are, and will be, levied irrespective of compensation needs. GST compensation will end with 2021-22. But cesses will continue. During 2019-20, the cess collected was Rs. 95,444 crore. With the abnormal exception of this year, the years ahead will generate similar or more cess revenue. This assured cess revenue, within the GST, can meet any contingency needs, even of an “act of God”, without burdening the Centre or the State governments. Hence, many States have been insisting outside and inside the GST Council that the Union government should borrow this year’s GST shortfall in full and release it to the States. The Union government will not have to pay a rupee of this debt or interest. The entire loan can be repaid out of the assured cess revenue that will continue to accrue beyond 2022. Of the nearly Rs. 3 lakh crore GST shortfall to the States, the Centre will only compensate Rs. 1.8 lakh crore. The States will not get the remaining Rs. 1.2 lakh crore this year. This cut is being imposed for no reason. In fact, it flies against the need of the hour to revive the economy. Governments ought to spend money this year to stimulate demand. Apart from the streams discussed above, Central grants are also likely to drop significantly this year. For instance,Rs. 31,570 crore was allocated as annual grants to Karnataka. Actual grants may be down to Rs. 17,372 crore. Due to the combined effect of cutbacks in devolution, the shrinking divisible pool, failure to pay full GST compensation this year and fall in Central grants, the States may experience a fall of 20%-25% in their revenues this year. To overcome such extreme blows to their finances and discharge their welfare and development responsibilities, the States are now forced to resort to colossal borrowings. Repayment burden will overwhelm State budgets for several years. As we peer into the years ahead, after paying loans and interest, salaries and pensions, and establishment expenses, what will really be available for development and welfare? The fall in funds for development and welfare programmes will adversely impact the livelihoods of crores of Indians. The economic growth potential cannot be fully realised. Adverse consequences will be felt in per capita income, human resource development and poverty. This is a negative sum game. States are at the forefront of development and generation of opportunities and growth. Strong States lead to a stronger India. The systematic weakening of States serves neither federalism nor national interest. Krishna Byre Gowda is former Agriculture, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister, Government of Karnataka. He was the Karnataka representative in the GST Council
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Shifting gears in Bihar||While the COVID-19 pandemic has still not subsided in India, it is shocking to witness large crowds thronging election rallies in Bihar, defying logic and safety concerns. In overlooking the gravity of the situation, the Election Commission of India has set a wrong precedent, and looking to gain out of it, the ruling parties have supported it. An indifferent Nitish Kumar, who was once seen to be the last frontier of ‘hope’ in the old socialistic bloc of Bihar, now signifies a rigid dichotomy between ideology and a survivalist political arrangement. Directly or indirectly, Mr. Kumar has ruled Bihar for the last 15 years. With Centrally-aided infrastructure projects and going the extra mile in strengthening the electricity system, he gave an impetus to growth in the State. However, one has to assess him with a fresh benchmark. His biggest failure has been to not pursue the case of Bihar’s industrial makeover in his long, heady rule; it was wrong for him or his Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Sushil Modi to blame the ‘earth’ for not giving the ‘ocean’ a passage through Bihar, when Mr. Kumar said large employment generation is not possible in Bihar since it is a landlocked State. Once believed to be Prime-Minister material, Mr. Kumar did major injustice to himself and the State by insulting the public mandate in the 2015 election. His sudden break-up with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), and revival of old ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) dissociated himself from Bihar’s political DNA. His handling of the Srijan scam, encephalitis cases, the Muzaffarpur shelter home case, falling law and order conditions, floods and droughts, COVID-19 and reverse migration, also affected ‘Brand Nitish’. Key adversaries With Lalu Prasad Yadav in jail and the untimely demise of Ram Vilas Paswan, Mr. Kumar’s key adversaries in the upcoming election are young Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan. Mr. Chirag’s sudden decision to fight against 143 NDA candidates, mostly from the JD(U), is believed to be a careful plan approved by the top order of the BJP. The BJP seems to have unofficially formed an alternative alliance with Mr. Chirag’s Lok Jan Shakti Party (LJP). In a bid to re-arrange the political equation, with the reduced size of Nitish Kumar and Sushil Modi, the LJP was probably given a certain space to rebel against the ruling NDA. The experiment, however, is expected to be counter-beneficial. With multi-polarisations and changed fundamentals, the JD (U)-BJP front is expected to lose a chunk of closely-contested seats, where the winning margin may be of less than 5,000 votes. Also, two political parties that quit the Mahagathbandhan, the Hindustani Awam Morcha and the Vikasshil Insaan Party, were later inducted by the JD(U)-BJP camp. Both parties, with weak turfs, are seen as loss-making entities. The BJP has also preferred other candidates over its old cadres, who served the organisation for over three decades. Tall promises In contrast, in a welcome departure from its old position, the RJD’s manifesto has turned its focus to the job crisis, and ‘resolved’ to fill the existing 4.5 lakh government vacancies. It has also promised to create 5.5 lakh more jobs in the government. And under pressure from such progressive commitments,the BJP, too, came out with a promise of ‘19 lakh Rojgar’ (19 lakh jobs). However, it was not received well, with the definition of ‘ Rojgar’ not akin to formal employment. The RJD, the Congress, the  LJP and the Left Front have been quite forthcoming in pledging to end the culture of ‘contract hiring’ and giving equal wages for equal work. The Mahagathbandhan’s manifesto also proposed to end the contentious farm Bills, and revoke the liquor prohibition that has long caused illegal trading and high rates of crimes. Meanwhile, the JD (U)-BJP camp has nothing new to offer after its three terms, and the ploy to present themselves as the only ‘viable option’ is also not going down well with people, many of whom have either noticed or lived through acute suffering during the pandemic, coupled with the government’s extremely poor response. Public sentiment is likely to favour big-bang changes. But even so, the JD (U)-BJP groups have their social bases formidably intact, and considering the State’s conventional voting patterns, some surprises may be in store. Beyond these fundamentals, Mr. Kumar is at odds with the State’s original brand of politics and his own past self. People have not forgotten that it was Mr. Kumar who was against Narendra Modi campaigning for the 2009 Lok Sabha and the 2010 State Legislative polls. Despite being in the coalition, he made the difficult choice. History will be kinder to him if he introspects and returns to where he belongs. Atul K. Thakur is a policy professional and columnist
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Labour’s anti-Semitism woes||The issue of anti-semitism has returned to haunt the British Labour Party. The Equality and Human Rights Commission’s recent report on the party’s handling of the issue is damning in terms of its addressing complaints of anti-Semitism and of a wider culture that creates a hostile environment for Jewish members and supporters. The issue, very swiftly, swivelled towards former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. Mr. Corbyn issued a statement on Facebook, in which he acknowledged the problem of anti-Semitism, but also suggested that instances had been exaggerated by his detractors. He was swiftly suspended from the Labour Party. Once again, the Labour Party has been torn apart, as it has been a number of times on Brexit. This is bad news, as the party, under the leadership of Keir Starmer, has been very effective in putting the Boris Johnson government on the mat over its sheer ineptitude. The Guardian’s parliamentary sketch writer, John Crace, almost incredulously noted, “Boris Johnson must be unable to believe his luck”. Accusations of Islamophobia over statements that Mr. Johnson himself made and Islamophobic attitudes within his Conservative Party have not been half as damaging as they have been for Labour over anti-Semitism. Brexit has let loose the genie of racism from the multi-cultural bottle that had hitherto contained it. The bottle had a label affixed to it, ‘Cool Britannia’, put there by another Labour leader and long-serving Prime Minister, Tony Blair, in what can only be called another one of his deceptive branding exercises. The escape of the racism genie in all its forms, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and the deep-seated prejudice against Blacks in Britain, reveals how the multi-cultural bottling never countered, but merely contained racism. Mr. Starmer’s response towards suspending Jeremy Corbyn is worrying and has been characterised as his decisive ‘clause four’ moment as he seeks to marginalise theLeft-leaning group withinhis party. Already, there have been adverse reactions to this from trade unions such as Unite, that were firmly behind Mr. Corbyn’s leadership. Mr. Starmer has perhaps not learnt any lessons from his predecessor, Tony Blair, who deleted clause four of the Labour Party’s constitution to sever its organic link with trade unions. Hard lessons A study by the V-Dem Institute at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden has found that right-wing parties across the world, such as the Republican Party in the U.S., the Conservative Party in the U.K., and the Bharatiya Janata Party in India, have become increasingly more authoritarian. Remarkably, as the Right behaves in the most unhinged fashion and can even then expect to win, the Left has to tread ever so nervously, never straying too far to the left. This explains Mr. Corbyn’s massive electoral defeat in parliamentary elections last year. Lessons were quickly learnt across ‘the pond’, as the Atlantic is so fondly referred to on both sides, when Bernie Sanders lost the Democratic party’s nomination and the left-wing consolidated itself behind Joe Biden. Comparisons are often made between politics in the U.K. and the U.S. Boris Johnson is the Trump clone on the other side of the Atlantic, as Joe Biden and Keir Starmer play political roles that almost mirror each other in terms of the caution they exercise from the left-wing of their respective political parties. That leaves us with Bernie Sanders as the American equivalent of Jeremy Corbyn. Mr. Corbyn has been very critical of the Israeli state and his sympathisers tend to believe that he is being hauled over the coals on the issue owing to his consistently critical stand against Israel. Notably, Mr. Sanders did not attend the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) conference earlier this year, referring to it as a platform for ‘bigotry’. Accusations of anti-Semitism are just likely to make the road back to power for Labour that much longer. Amir Ali teaches at the Centre for Political Studies, JNU, New Delhi
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Authoritarian turn||The mammoth task of vote counting is still under way in the 2020 U.S. presidential election, leaving the final outcome uncertain in the contest between incumbent Republican President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger and former Vice President Joe Biden. There have been no major shocks on the solidly “red” and “blue” States, which have a history of voting for only one party and are nearly impossible to flip. Among the swing States, whose electoral college votes are up for grabs, the performance of the two candidates has been mixed. At the latest count, a Trump victory appears certain in Florida, Ohio and Iowa and he is holding on to a lead, perhaps provisionally, in the critical States of Georgia, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania, with several mail ballots yet to be tallied. Meanwhile, Mr. Biden has consolidated his position by racing to victory in Minnesota, New Hampshire, and Virginia, while holding on to counting leads in Arizona, Nevada, Wisconsin and Michigan — States that should give him a path to 270 electoral votes if he holds on to the leads. But with his leads being narrow, his victory is not certain and Mr. Trump continues to perform well in the Rust Belt States as he did in 2016. Stepping back from the results, the big win for American democracy as such was that no major outbreak of violence or voter suppression occurred throughout the final phases of polling. Perhaps the absence of civil unrest was a testament to the spirit of a nation seeking to move past hateful ethnic, racial and religious divisions of its recent past. It was ironic, then, that a relatively peaceful election exercise in the world’s oldest democracy was overshadowed by Mr. Trump himself, who took a distinctly authoritarian turn when he claimed falsely that he had already defeated Mr. Biden, particularly that he had won the Rust Belt States, which in reality are still counting millions of votes, likely the surge in mail-in ballots. He went on to complain that the 2020 election was being stolen from him through a major fraud, reiterating his vow to take the matter expediently to the Supreme Court. There are three broad observations regarding this turn of events. First, it is unclear why Mr. Trump would attack the vote tallying process in the swing States, given that he is leading in some of them anyway. Second, his statement is tantamount to a demand that legally cast ballots shall not to be recorded, which, if true, implies an unprecedented attempt at mass voter suppression. Third, Mr. Trump appears intent upon escalating the matter to the Supreme Court, perhaps a strategy based on the idea of getting the conservative majority on that court, including his recent nominee Amy Coney Barrett, to rule in his favour. Such a course of action would set an ominous tone for what could be another four years of the Trump administration.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Star status||The Supreme Court’s stay on the revocation of the status of former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath as a ‘star campaigner’ for the Congress brings to the fore the power of the Election Commission of India and its role in ensuring a clean campaign. Chief Justice S.A. Bobde appeared convinced that the ECI has no such power, and ordered a stay on its order. Mr. Nath earned the ECI’s rebuke after a distasteful personal remark about a BJP woman candidate while campaigning for a by-election to the Madhya Pradesh Assembly recently. The Commission’s order dated October 30 said it was revoking his status as a leader of a political party (star campaigner). Section 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which relates to a candidate’s election expenditure, does leave it to the political party itself to decide who its “leaders” are and allows every party to submit a list of such ‘star campaigners’ to the election authorities. However, it should be noted that the ‘star campaigner’ status comes with a clear privilege: the expenditure incurred on the campaign done by those from the list of star campaigners is not included in the expenditure of the candidate concerned. In effect, an order of the ECI revoking the star status is actually a withdrawal of the right to campaign without incurring electoral expenditure on the candidates’ account. It stands to reason that the ECI, in exercise of its general and plenary power of control and direction over elections, ought to have the power to revoke the status of a campaigner, if there is an apparent breach of campaign norms or the Model Code of Conduct. After all, the star status ensures that some leaders can charter helicopters and travel extensively to cover more territory and constituencies without breaching any individual candidate’s spending limit. The ECI has cited the clause in the MCC that bars candidates from resorting to “criticism of all aspects of the private life, not connected with the public activities” of other leaders and party workers. Even though the model code is not statutory, it has been generally recognised that the election watchdog should have some means of enforcing its norms. In past orders, the ECI has cited the Supreme Court’s observation that when laws are absent, the ECI can invoke its residuary power to meet an infinite variety of situations that cannot be foreseen by lawmarkers. It is indeed debatable whether the ECI has been exercising its powers in an even-handed way in recent years. However, it is equally important that the ECI’s power to enforce poll norms and clean campaigns is not unduly abridged.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Democrats retain control of Congress in U.S. elections||Despite one of the most intensive election campaigns conducted by it in recent memory, the Republican Party of President Nixon to-day failed to get the kind of mandate it had sought from the American electorate. After to-day’s [November 4, WASHINGTON] outcome, the Nixon Administration will have to continue to live with a Congress dominated by the Democrats for another two years – and many of these Democrats are of an ideological persuasion different from that of Mr. Nixon. Most of the liberals who had been a thorn in Mr. Nixon’s side are back in the Senate. Though the Republicans were able to unseat some of them the Democrats in their turn have been able to displace some of the Nixon Republicans with a few new liberals. The new liberal-moderate coalition, in the Senate which is certain to oppose Mr. Nixon on key national and international issues will continue to be led by such stalwarts as Hubert Humphrey, Edward Kennedy and Edmund Muskie who have all won re-election. In the House of Representatives the only consolation the Republicans have is that they have not lost as many seats as a ruling party normally does in a mid-term election. But the Democrats have increased their already impressive majority in the House by another eight seats.
05 November 2020||MUMBAI,||SBI Q2 profit surges 52% to Rs. 4,574 crore||State Bank of India (SBI) on Wednesday reported second-quarter net profit jumped 52% to Rs. 4,574 crore as net interest income rose and the lender cut its provision for bad loans. Operating profit (excluding exceptional items) rose 12% to Rs. 16,460 crore, from Rs. 14,714 crore a year earlier, as the economy showed signs of revival. Net interest income grew by 14.6% and domestic net interest margin improved by 12 basis points (bps) to 3.34%, the country’s largest bank said in a regulatory filing. Loan loss provisions stood at Rs. 5,619 crore, 49.1% lower than the Rs. 11,041 crore in the year-earlier quarter. Total deposits grew 14.4%. Credit growth in the quarter stood at 6.02% as gross advances increased to Rs. 23,83,624 crore at the end of the second quarter, from Rs. 22,48,313 crore a year earlier. The growth was mainly driven by retail (personal) advances (14.6%), agricultural loans (4.19%) and corporate credit (2.82%). The loan book grew by 7.97%. Home loans increase Home loans, which constitute 23% of the bank’s domestic advances, grew by 10.3%. Net NPA ratio at 1.59% eased 120 bps from a year earlier, while the gross NPA ratio slid 191 bps to 5.28%. SBI Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said slippages rose in agriculture and SME loans, while in the case of corporate, there was a marked decline. Corporate slippages dropped to Rs. 1,232 crore during the quarter, from Rs. 8,593 crore in the same period last year. Slippages in agriculture loans increased to Rs. 9,513 crore, from Rs. 7,370 crore. Mr. Khara said while 35,000 MSMEs had applied for loan restructuring, only 42 corporates (none of them large) had together applied for loan restructuring worth Rs. 4,000 crore. Provision coverage ratio improved 696 bps to 88.19%. Slippages ratio declined to 0.46%, from 1.57% as of September 2019. COVID-19 related provisioning during the quarter was Rs. 4,083 crore, SBI said. Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) improved by 113 bps to 14.72%, the bank said.  Credit growth rebounds “Credit growth in retail is coming back to pre-COVID-19 levels. Sanctions and disbursements during Q2FY21 are significantly higher year-on-year across most retail products,” Mr. Khara said. “Asset quality outcomes are better than prior expectations. Collection efficiency in domestic loan book [excluding agri segment] as at the end of Q2FY21 stands at 97%,” he added. “There is sufficient liquidity [credit deposit ratio at a low of 61.3%] to fund credit growth which is on the mend,” the chairman said.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘GDP will be higher than forecast this year’||India’s GDP in 2020-21 is expected to be higher than currently projected by various agencies, with the economy poised to recover fast and reach pre-COVID-19 levels by the end of the year, the Finance Ministry said on Wednesday. Barring the risk of a second wave of COVID-19 infections in the country, the improvement in GDP performance would widen the fiscal headroom available for the government to pursue other priorities in spending, the ministry said in its monthly economic report for October. “India stands poised to recover at a fast pace and reach pre-COVID-19 levels by the end of the year — barring the incidence of a second wave that may be triggered by the fatigue with social distancing,” the ministry said. “The continuous improvement in forward looking RBI indices of consumption and business sentiment for the next year augurs hope of a strong economic rebound,” it added. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has estimated that India’s GDP will contract by 9.5% this year, while the International Monetary Fund and World Bank have forecast a contraction of 10.3% and 9.6%, respectively. Given that there are indications of India’s GDP groperformance “in the current year being higher than currently projected by various agencies, fiscal space is set to widen to accommodate other priorities of the government,” the ministry said. Rise in GST collections The rise in Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections to more than Rs. 1 lakh crore in October for the first time since February is evidence that the fiscal space would improve, it added. The constriction of fiscal space is neither unique to India, nor does it make the country’s public finances any more vulnerable than other nations, the ministry stressed, pointing to the additional spending the government undertook to alleviate the impact of the pandemic on the vulnerable sections of society as well as its measures to boost consumption spending. “The fiscal space is also characterised by recent measures announced to lend to States for increasing capital expenditure, providing them assistance under SDRF and borrowing on their behalf to meet GST revenue shortfall,” the Finance Ministry said in the report.  Constriction of fiscal space does not make the country’s public finances any more vulnerable than other nations
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Differential licensing will hurt telcos’||Telecom operators have collectively opposed any move to introduce differential licensing via unbundling of various layers, arguing that the proposal goes against regulatory consistency and would wreak unknown and unpredictable impact on investments made, leading to investor uncertainty. Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea, and Airtel, as well as industry body Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) have asserted that such unbundling is neither necessary nor desirable. Debt-laden Vodafone Idea has told the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) that that there is an urgent need to address underlying issue of poor financial health rather than recommend or implement yet another licensing framework that would ‘create ambiguity and additional challenges,’ and deter investments. Reliance Jio has said that a converged licence for network and service layer offers clarity, and certainty to an operator making investment in the network. Any move to split the functions would be ‘regressive’ and increase the sector’s compliance burden. Bharti Airtel said, priority areas like strengthening of telecom infrastructure would require enormous fund infusion. The investment requirements is estimated to be about Rs. 2,00,000 crore over the next 2-3 years. “For generating such an amount of investment, the government needs to provide incentives, reduce regulatory cost, provide appropriate policy and financial stimulus to the existing service providers under the current framework rather than changing the licensing regime itself.”
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Oct. services sector PMI signals first expansion since February||Indian services sector activity ended the seven-month sequence of decline and registered growth in October, supported by improved market conditions amid easing COVID-19 restrictions, a monthly survey said on Wednesday. At 54.1 in October, up from 49.8 in September, the seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index posted above the 50.0 no-change mark for the first time since February. A print above 50 means expansion and a score below that denotes contraction, as per the IHS Markit India Services Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI). “It’s encouraging to see the Indian services sector joining its manufacturing counterpart and posting a recovery in economic conditions from the steep deteriorations caused by the COVID-19 pandemic earlier in the year,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit. Ms. Lima further noted that “while a revival of the manufacturing industry began in August, only now the service sector started to heal. Service providers signalled solid expansions in new work and business activity during October.” New work intakes Services companies reported an increase in new work intakes, which they attributed to successful marketing efforts and strengthening demand. On the job front, there was another monthly decline in employment. The pace of job shedding was solid and matched that recorded in September. “Survey participants indicated that workers on leave had not returned and that a widespread fear of COVID-19 contamination continued to restrict staff supply,” Ms. Lima said.
05 November 2020||N. Anand,||Sundram Fasteners diversifies into aerospace, defence||Sundram Fasteners Ltd. has forayed into the aerospace and defence sectors to pare SFL’s dependence on its auto business given the cyclical nature of the industry, said Managing Director Arathi Krishna. “We have commenced operations in defence and aerospace to de-risk our business model and shelter it against the cyclical nature of the auto industry” Ms. Krishna said in an interview on Wednesday. “Currently, the auto to non-auto business stands at 80:20 ratio. Going forward, we would like that to be in the ratio of 75:25.” The firm’s defence business was raking in about Rs. 2 crore per month, while operations at the aerospace unit had just started in a small way, she added. The TVS Group firm had incorporated Sunfast TVS Ltd. in April 2019 and TVS Engineering Ltd. in February as wholly owned units to make components and parts for aerospace and defence. A budget of Rs. 100 crore was earmarked for this purpose. TVS Upasana, another wholly owned arm, had commenced a new division to make radiator cap covers, radiator cap housings, radiator cap lids and filter element parts for local and MNC customers. It plans to invest Rs. 17 crore over three years. Capital expenditure For the current fiscal, SFL had earmarked about Rs. 150 crore for capacity expansion of existing lines of business. It had already incurred Rs. 63 crore till September and the balance would be spent on expanding facilities in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Earlier, SFL reported a 37% jump in second-quarter standalone net profit at Rs. 97.4 crore. Revenue from operations was almost flat at Rs. 767 crore. The board declared an interim dividend of Rs. 1.30 per share. Domestic sales rose to Rs. 484 crore( Rs. 450 crore), showing clear signs of improvement in demand. However, export sales dipped to Rs. 260 crore (Rs. 291 crore). Following improved financial performance, SFL, which had cut salaries, restored them except for presidents and top management, she said. Stating that sales volumes had been picking up since the second quarter, compared with the year-earlier period, Ms. Krishna said she expected the coming quarters to augur well for SFL. On the impact of recent lockdowns in Europe, she said that SFL’s exposure was minimal and hence would not affect export revenue. Asked about SFL’s China subsidiary, she said,“It is a profitable venture and we will continue to operate it.”
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Gland Pharma’s Rs. 6,500-cr. IPO to open on Nov. 9||Hyderabad-based Gland Pharma’s initial public offering (IPO) to raise almost Rs. 6,500 crore, making it one of the largest IPOs in India’s pharmaceutical space, is set to open on November 9. The price band has been set at Rs. 1,490 – Rs. 1,500 per share (of face value Rs. 1 each). An injectables-focused company operating primarily under a B2B (business to business) model, Gland Pharma’s majority stakeholder is Shanghai Fosun Pharma. The IPO, which includes the sale of new shares and offer for sale from existing shareholers, will reduce Fosun Pharma’s holding from 74% to 58.3%. At the lower end of the price band, the issue size would be Rs. 6,444 crore and at the higher end, Rs. 6,479 crore. MD and CEO Srinivas Sadu also brushed off any likely impact on the firm on account of having a Chinese promoter in the backdrop of negative sentiments against the neighbouring country. “We always build the company around our strengths. We have a robust growth plan. We don’t see this impacting,” Mr. Sadu said. On India imposing curbs on Chinese companies, he said no restrictions were expected in the essential commodity sector in which Gland Pharma operates.  The firm expects the IPO to help it raise Rs. 1,250 crore, which will be used to fund incremental capital expenditure and working capital.  The IPO will reduce Fosun Pharma holding from 74% to 58.3%
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Coal India’s e-auction sales almost triple||State-owned CIL’s e-auction sales nearly tripled to 16.8 million tonnes (MTs) in October, amid a strong demand resumption for coal from the power sector. The quantity of coal booked under CIL’s e-auctions stood at 5.8 MT in the corresponding month of the previous fiscal.  The auction sale in October included a new auction outlet called special spot for coal importers, under which 1.6 MT was booked. “This opened an additional avenue for our coal companies to step up their sales,” a senior executive of the company said.
05 November 2020||new delhi,||Fundraising via markets falls 31% in Sept.||Companies garnered over Rs. 75,000 crore from capital markets in September, a decline of 31% from the preceding month, with private placement of debt instruments continuing to be the most-preferred route for financing business. The funds were mopped up mainly for business expansion plans, loan repayments and working capital requirements. According to data available with SEBI, companies raised a total of Rs. 75,230 crore in September as compared to Rs. 1.1 lakh crore in August by way of issuing equity and debt securities. Out of the Rs. 75,230 crore, Rs. 64,389 crore was mopped up from private placement of debt securities and Rs. 9,022 crore through private placement of equity.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Bourses to hold 1-hour special Diwali muhurat trading session on Nov 14||BSE and NSE will conduct a one-hour muhurat trading session on the occasion of Diwali on November 14. The session would be held between 6.15 p.m. and 7.15 p.m., the stock exchanges said. All trades executed in the session would result in settlement obligations. The exchanges will remain closed on November 16 on the occasion of Diwali Balipratipada.PTI
05 November 2020||Paris,||Liverpool and Bayern run riot||Diogo Jota scored a stunning hat-trick in Liverpool’s 5-0 demolition of Atalanta in the Champions League on Tuesday, as holder Bayern Munich scored six and Real Madrid struck late to beat Inter Milan in a thriller. On a prolific night across Europe which also saw a rampant Borussia Moenchengladbach hit six in Ukraine, the star individual performances came from Jota and Alassane Plea. Jota was brought into the starting line-up in place of Roberto Firmino and required just 16 minutes to open the scoring. Another emphatic finish double the lead before the break, and Mohamed Salah then broke away to get the third just after the restart. Salah set up Sadio Mane for Liverpool’s fourth before Jota got his hat-trick goal. “I’m playing in the best team of my career so far. I don’t know if it’s the best moment of my career but obviously scoring goals is my way of playing football,” Jota told BT Sport. With three wins from three, Liverpool is well on course to top Group D, with Ajax and Atalanta both five points back. French forward Plea had earlier scored a hat-trick as Gladbach claimed a stunning 6-0 victory over Shakhtar Donetsk in Kiev, the German side’s biggest European triumph since its 1970s heyday. Own goal The unfortunate Valeriy Bondar scored an own goal, with Ramy Bensebaini and Lars Stindl also scoring as Gladbach went top of Group B, a point clear of Shakhtar and Real Madrid. Gladbach coach Marco Rose said: “Six-nil is extraordinary. We did a lot right today — not to say almost everything.”  Real ran out 3-2 winner in a dramatic encounter with Inter behind closed doors at the Alfredo di Stefano Stadium, as Vinicius Junior set up his fellow Brazilian substitute Rodrygo to lash in the decisive goal 10 minutes from time. Reigning champion Bayern has now won a record-extending 14 consecutive Champions League games after a 6-2 victory against Salzburg in Austria. Hansi Flick’s side is firmly in control of Group A, five points ahead of Atletico Madrid, which drew 1-1 at Lokomotiv Moscow.Manchester City is firmly in control of Group C after Pep Guardiola’s side eased past Olympiakos 3-0, with Ferran Torres, Gabriel Jesus and Joao Cancelo netting.  The results:   Group A: Lokomotiv Moscow 1 (Anton Miranchuk 25-pen) drew with Atletico Madrid 1 (Gimenez 18); Salzburg 2 (Berisha 4, Okugawa 66) lost to Bayern Munich 6 (Lewandowski 21-pen, 88, Kristensen-og 40, Boateng 79, Sane 83, Lucas 90+1).   Group B: Shahktar Donetsk 0 lost to Borussia M’Gladbach 6 (Plea 8, 26, 78, Bondar 17-og, Bensebaini 44, Stindl 65); Real Madrid 3 (Benzema 25, Ramos 33, Rodrygo 80) bt Inter Milan 2 (Martinez 35, Perisic 68).   Group C: Manchester City 3 (Torres 12, Jesus 81, Cancelo 90) bt Olympiakos 0; Porto 3 (Marega 4, Oliveira 28-pen, Dias 69) bt Marseille 0.   Group D: Midtjylland 1 (Dreyer 18) lost to Ajax 2 (Antony 1, Tadic 13); Atalanta 0 lost to Liverpool 5 (Jota 16, 33, 54, Salah 47, Mane 49).
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Frightening all-round strength, playoff pedigree give MI the edge||Defending champion Mumbai Indians may have been thrashed by 10 wickets by Sunrisers Hyderabad, but going into Thursday’s first qualifier against Delhi Capitals at the Dubai International Stadium, it is the firm favourite. For MI, Tuesday's game was a dead-rubber, having already sealed top spot. It used the opportunity to rest three of its best players in Jasprit Bumrah (23 wickets), Trent Boult (20 wickets) and Hardik Pandya, a luxury most teams cannot afford. That’s how much of a well-oiled machine MI is. If anything, the match against SRH can be considered a positive, for skipper Rohit Sharma emerged unscathed after his return from a hamstring injury. In Quinton de Kock, Suryakumar Yadav and Ishan Kishan, MI has a power-packed top-order, but in its batting totem pole, Rohit has consistently occupied the highest position. To have the 33-year-old seemingly injury-free — even if the BCCI does not appear to agree — ahead of the most important part of the season is a big boost. Spinners Rahul Chahar and Krunal Pandya have been excellent too, picking up 20 wickets between them, while bowling at a healthy economy-rate of under eight. Troubles remain For a majority of the season, DC looked just as settled and convincing before things started unravelling. That it snapped its near-disastrous four-match losing streak to qualify second can give the side confidence, but teething troubles remain. Skipper Shreyas Iyer has crossed 25 just once in the last six matches, while Prithvi Shaw has totalled a meagre 30 runs from his six most recent outings. Ajinkya Rahane, batting at one-drop, shored up the brittle top-order with a match-winning half-century against RCB. Shikhar Dhawan’s return to form helped too. But to match MI’s might, DC’s power-hitting will have to come good. On the slow UAE pitches, DC has sorely missed leg-spinner Amit Mishra, but the performance of R. Ashwin and Axar Patel against RCB was encouraging. After going slightly off the boil, the express pace duo of Kagiso Rabada (25 wickets) and Anrich Nortje (19) was back on track, accounting for five of the seven batsmen dismissed. Following the win over RCB, Shreyas called his teammates “a fearless and amazing bunch of boys”. If they can carry DC to its maiden IPL final by beating a four-time champion, it will be a victory to savour.  Mumbai Indians has lost two out of its threematches in Dubai, but bothwere after Super Overs The one victory cameagainst Delhi Capitals bynine wickets Delhi Capitals has won fourout of seven in Dubai, but the three losses have come in its last three matches here
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Luus-powered Velocity edges out Supernovas||Velocity made heavy weather of chasing a low total, but two fine knocks under great pressure helped the team turn the tables on defending champion Supernovas in the opening match of the Women's T20 Challenge at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Wednesday night. Chasing a target of 127, wicket-keeper Sushma Verma (34, 33b, 2x6) and all-rounder Sune Luus’ 37 not out (21b, 4x4, 1x6) batted with admirable composure as they added 51 for the fifth wicket to turn the match around. After Sushma fell in the penultimate over, nine were required from the last over. The South African took Velocity home with a ball to spare and five wickets to spare. Earlier, a disciplined bowling effort by Velocity, backed up by excellent fielding, choked Supernovas. Opener Chamari Athapaththu (44, 39b, 2x4, 2x6) and captain Harmanpreet Kaur (31, 27b, 1x4, 2x6) were among those guilty of soft dismissals. They put on 47 for the third wicket, but Supernovas lost six wickets, including that of Atapattu, while adding 37 in the last seven overs. Left-arm spinner Ekta Bisht struck twice with the final two balls of the innings to finish with three for 22. Seamer Jahanara Alam and off-spinner Leigh Kasperek scalped two each. Earlier, the Supernova innings had got off to a slow, but steady start with Priya Punia and Atapattu playing it safe against the new ball. The Indian opener looked in good nick, tucking Jahanara for a boundary through fine leg and then playing a sweet, gentle cover drive off Shikha Pandey. Just when it seemed Supernovas would get through the PowerPlay without losing a wicket, Priya decided to give some catching practice to Veda Krishnamurthy at short mid-on, tame shot against New Zealand off-spinner Leigh Kasperek. A little later, Jemimah Rodrigues, the player of last year's tournament, was bowled, exposing her stumps while trying to sweep Ekta. Then Harmanpreet joined Atapattu and a recovery seemed on cards. Both the hard-hitters played some big hits, but neither stayed long enough.
05 November 2020||Bengaluru,||KSCA restarts cricket activities with a camp||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) restarted cricket activities here, with the commencement of a camp for Senior State Under-23 players at the KSCA ‘B’ ground on Wednesday. Batsmen R. Samarth, D. Nischal, K.V. Siddharth, B.R. Sharath, Luvnith Sisodia and a few others had a hit in the four nets in use, while the bowlers stayed indoors with a strength and conditioning session. Karnataka head coach Yere Goud and S. Arvind (bowling and assistant coach) were in charge of the session. The batsmen faced throwdowns as well as the bowling machine.  COVID-19 safety guidelines were followed, with players reminded of the do’s and dont’s through posters placed near each net. The players were also given a speech on safety measures and rules before the session.  Yere Goud and S. Arvind were in charge of the session
05 November 2020||Mumbai,||Bond reveals mantra for success||Less than a week after decimating Delhi Capitals by nine wickets, Mumbai Indians faces the same opposition at the same venue — the Dubai International Cricket Stadium — on Thursday to book a place in the IPL final. Ahead of the first qualifier, bowling coach Shane Bond stressed on sticking to the same combination as being the key for Mumbai Indians’ robust success in the IPL. “... that continuity of selection, planning of what we do is huge part of why we have been successful and we take that years of success with us at the back-end of this tournament and hopefully we can play the same things and have the same result,” Bond said on Wednesday. With the top spot assured, MI rested three of its players, including the top two wicket-takers, for Tuesday’s last league game. In their absence, the defending champion suffered a 10-wicket loss to SRH. But Bond said the loss won’t have any bearing on the final week.  “You have to give credit to SRH. They were obviously up for the game and it was a must-win [game] for them and they played beautifully. But you always have to take a long-term view in this tournament,” Bond said, adding that resting Jasprit Bumrah and Trent Boult was critical given the hectic week ahead. “Knowing that we have got at least two games coming up, and possibly three, you will hopefully get the benefits of giving those guys rest a week down the track, so that’s what we were hoping for and both boys enjoyed the rest,” Bond said. “We have a bowling squad, particularly the fast bowlers, who are all ready to play.”
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||We can beat any team: Dhawan||“We’ve got a quality team and we know we can beat any team. We just have to play good cricket and be very clear with our plans. I believe if we manage to do that, we can certainly win.” These words of Shikhar Dhawan reflected the mood in the Delhi Capitals camp ahead of Thursday’s first qualifier against Mumbai Indians. Addressing a virtual media conference on Wednesday, Dhawan did not consider Mumbai Indians was the favourite in spite of the defending champion scoring twice over Delhi Capitals in the league phase. Maintain form “I have scored over 500 runs for the past four years, but this season, I scored two centuries and had two ducks, like never before. But the key for me is to maintain my form and help my team.” said Dhawan. When reminded of Mumbai restricting Delhi to 110 for nine in the last match, with Trent Boult and Jasprit Bumrah taking three wickets each, Dhawan responded, “I’ve seen them plenty of times — have watched the videos and I already know their plans, so I am prepared, and will just go out there and perform.”
05 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Win against MI a confidence-booster, says Nadeem||Sunrisers Hyderabad’s left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem, who bowled a match-winning spell in tandem with leggie Rashid Khan against Mumbai Indians on Tuesday, feels the win against the champion outfit will give the team a lot of confidence ahead of the playoffs. “It feels good when you perform well in a crucial match and I feel nice to contribute to the win in such an important game against a strong team like Mumbai,” said Nadeem during the post-match briefing. “Though we were under a bit of pressure in this crucial match, we had the momentum having won the last two games. “We just took it like any other match and everyone did his best,” said the man-of-the-match award-winning bowler. Exceptional pacers Nadeem also felt pacers Sandeep Sharma and T. Natarajan bowled exceptionally well. “We have been training really hard in the nets. Murali Sir, Laxman sir and everyone else, including the coach and management, are supporting and motivating us by making every player feel important. This helps a lot,” said Nadeem.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anjum enjoying her training and painting||Back to the training camp after enduring months of uncertainty following the pandemic, shooter Anjum Moudgil has been combining diligent practice and spreading happiness. “It feels good to be back with the team and have good training at a proper range with coaches,” said Anjum. She had been training at home during the lockdown, before resuming training at the Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range in Tughlakabad in a bio-bubble atmosphere. “I did train in Chandigarh, but the 50-metre training was not going well, as there was no proper range. Otherwise, it was good to be training for the 10-metre. I enjoyed the fitness sessions,” recalled Anjum. Time utilised well The first Indian shooter to get a quota place for the Tokyo Olympics, with the World Championship silver medal in 2018, Anjum was happy to have utilised the time well during the last six months. “I did painting, did online courses, fitness and various other stuff with family.” Anjum had sold some of her paintings to raise funds to aid the temporary support staff at the Tughlakabad range during the lockdown.  She is now painting face masks with apt messages for fellow shooters. One of her masks reads ‘Yell and break things’. It beautifully captures the essence of shotgun shooting in which the shooter calls for the bird in a voice activated system and fires at the clay targets. Right mould With good training and guidance, Anjum believes that there would be competitions soon to put the shooters in the right mould in preparation for Tokyo. There will be a break for Deepavali before the shooters assemble again for a second stint.
05 November 2020||Paris,||Stefanos Tsitsipas knocked out of Paris Masters||Second seed Stefanos Tsitsipas was dumped out of the Paris Masters on Tuesday after losing to in-form Frenchman Ugo Humbert in a marathon second-round tie. Humbert, who is on a seven-match winning streak after winning the Antwerp title last month, missed four match points but battled to a 7-6(4), 6-7(6), 7-6(3) victory. He was visibly struggling in the final-set tie-break after over three hours on court, but Tsitsipas said he was also not at full fitness. “I'm just disappointed with the way I played,” said the World No. 6, who lost to World No. 1 Novak Djokovic in an epic French Open semifinal last month. “During the second set, my Roland Garros injury came back, and it wasn't as bad as at the French Open, but it kind of had me on the edge of things, and I wasn't sure if that's good for me to be out there. “But that's not an excuse, for sure. I still fought and gave my best out there, despite this thing that I had on court.” The 22-year-old Humbert will face former US Open champion Marin Cilic for a place in the quarterfinals. Tsitsipas will next defend his ATP Tour Finals title in London at the season-ending tournament which gets underway on November 15.  The results: Second round: 9-Pablo Carreno Busta bt Jan-Lennard Struff 7-6(3), 6-2; Norbert Gombos bt 8-David Goffin 6-4, 7-6(6); Marcos Giron bt 7-Matteo Berrettini 7-6(3), 6-7(0), 7-5; Marin Cilic w/o Corentin Moutet; Ugo Humbert bt 2-Stefanos Tsitsipas 7-6(4), 6-7(6), 7-6(3).   First round: Miomir Kecmanovic bt John Millman 6-4, 6-2; Yoshihito Nishioka bt Pablo Andujar 5-7, 6-4, 6-2; Adrian Mannarino bt Dusan Lajovic 7-6(5), 6-3; 12-Stan Wawrinka bt Dan Evans 6-3, 7-6(3); Tommy Paul bt Gilles Simon 3-6, 6-3, 6-3; Richard Gasquet bt Taylor Fritz 6-0, 3-6, 6-3; Lorenzo Sonego bt Alexander Bublik 6-1, 6-4; Kevin Anderson bt Laslo Djere 5-2 (retired); Pierre-Hugues Herbert bt Tennys Sandgren 2-6, 6-4, 7-6(4); 10-Milos Raonic bt Aljaz Bedene 6-3, 6-2 .
05 November 2020||Kingston,||Samuels calls it quits||West Indian batsman Marlon Samuels, who top-scored in both of the team’s T20 World Cup final wins during a career that also had its share of controversies including a two-year ban for corruption, has retired from all forms of cricket.  ESPNcricinfo reported that Cricket West Indies chief executive Johnny Grave confirmed to it that Samuels had told CWI of his retirement in June, having last played in December 2018. The 39-year-old played 71 Tests, 207 ODIs and 67 T20Is for the West Indies. He scored over 11,000 international runs and also picked more than 150 wickets. Man for big occasions While his overall batting average is not overwhelming, Samuels was known as the man for big occasions, evidences of which were his exploits in the team’s T20 World Cup title triumphs in 2012 and 2016.  In 2012, he smashed 78 off 56 balls and lifted his team from 32 for two after 10 overs to victory in the title clash against host Sri Lanka in Colombo. Four years later, Samuels became the only cricketer to be named player-of-the- match in two ICC tournament finals, having struck 85 off 66 balls for a four-wicket victory over England in Kolkata. Samuels, who began his international career way back in 2000, represented several T20 franchises around the world over two decades. He had stints in Pune Warriors, Delhi Daredevils, Melbourne Renegades and Peshawar Zalmi. He played 15 matches in the Indian Premier League (IPL), scoring 161 runs and picking up nine wickets.
05 November 2020||LONDON,||Wood still ‘chases the dream’ of playing Test cricket||England fast bowler Mark Wood has insisted he still wants to “chase that dream” of playing Test cricket despite being overlooked for a red-ball central contract. The 30-year-old Wood has played just 16 Tests since his debut five years ago, with his subsequent career blighted by as many as three ankle operations. “Growing up I always wanted to play for England across all formats and I’m still trying to chase that dream and hopefully I can get a few games this year and prove my worth in all three (formats).” Now Wood hopes to team up with Archer and take on the South African duo of Kagiso Rabada and Anrich Nortje after being selected for England’s Twenty20 and one-day series in South Africa later this month.  Hopefully, I can keep up with the battle-hardened players who have been in the IPL
05 November 2020||Eckental (Germany),||Ramkumar enters two quarterfinals||Ramkumar Ramanathan made the quarterfinals of singles and doubles in the €88,520 Challenger tennis tournament here. He got past Hiroki Moriya 7-6(1), 6-4, in the singles pre-quarterfinals, before pairing up with Purav Raja to pip Evgeny Donskoy and Ilya Ivashka 11-9 in the super tie-break.  The results:   € 88,520 Challenger, Eckental, Germany: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Hiroki Moriya (Jpn) 7-6(1), 6-4.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Igor Zelenay (Svk) & Divij Sharan bt Jamie Cerretani (US) & Zdenek Kolar (Cze) 5-7, 6-3, [14-12]; Purav Raja & Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Evgeny Donskoy (Rus) & Ilya Ivashka (Blr) 5-7, 6-4, [11-9].   $15,000 ITF, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Men: Singles (first round): Sidharth Rawat bt Guy Den Ouden (Ned) 7-5, 7-6(7).   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Vladyslav Manafov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Belal Abou Taleb & Faris Zakaryia (Egy) 6-1, 6-1; Sagadat Ayap (Kaz) & Miljan Zekic (Srb) bt Siddhant Banthia & Sidharth Rawat 6-1, 7-5.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The merchant of Avanti||Wicked people mock the Lord’s bhaktas, and yet the latter do not retaliate. Uddhava wants to know how the Lord’s bhaktas put up with such abuse, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. They bear taunts patiently, and such tolerance seems to come easily to them. They do not seem to make any special effort to keep their temper under check. It just happens automatically. How does such tolerance come to them? Why are others unable to achieve such self-control? Even one unkind word is enough to upset most people. How can a man become a mahaan, asks Uddhava. Lord Krishna tells him the story of the Avanti Brahmin. There was a Brahmin in Avanti who was a rich, but miserly merchant. The more money he made, the more miserly he became. His miserliness made him ill tempered. He kept all his relatives at arm’s distance. He was unfriendly. He did not speak much with anyone, for he felt none was fit to talk to him. He was arrogant even with his immediate family. He never donated for good causes. If someone is so much in love with wealth, it is certain that he will lose all his wealth, and that is what happened in the case of the merchant. As he became old, it became difficult for him to safeguard his wealth. His relatives were able to dupe him and make away with a portion of his riches. Thieves stole a portion of his wealth. He had buried some money, and that too was stolen. The king confiscated some of his wealth. In course of time, he lost everything that he possessed. When he became impoverished, his relatives distanced themselves from him. Gradually, it dawned on him that protecting the money one had earned was even more difficult than earning it. The merchant realised his mistake and became a sanyasi, and attained control of his mind.
05 November 2020||LONDON,||Pandemic has affected sport, charities, says Botham||England cricket great Ian Botham warned about the devastating impact of coronavirus on sport and charities during his maiden speech in the House of Lords on Tuesday. “It’s no secret that I’m a passionate and strong-willed man who will fight for the causes close to my heart — be it sport, charity, countryside and the world we are now living,” said Botham. The 64-year-old former England captain, one of the great all-rounders, said that he had seen the negative impact of COVID-19 in his position as chairman of northeast county side Durham. “We need to get these grounds open again to spectators in a controlled and safe manner,” said Botham. A noted fundraiser, Botham said the coronavirus was also affecting charities in their work.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||An army of stories||‘Stop him’, she said hoarsely. ‘I have seen those shoes before.’  The lines end the chilling Home Alone , a story in Rachna Bisht Rawat’s latest book Insomnia . It places the revered bond of an Army officer, his family and his buddy (referred to as batman,sahayakor Man Friday over the years) under a different spotlight, one that is often hidden behind the hedgerows that line the prim and proper world of cantonments. With tales such as these, Rawat steps away from her four previous books on the Indian Army that celebrate the soldier’s derring-do in the nation’s many wars. She instead turns the focus on human emotions — love, compassion, camaraderie, horror and trauma — that pepper the life of men and women in uniform and lifts the veil on their little-known personal lives. Rawat, an award-winning former journalist, wrote many of these stories when she was a young Army wife living in the sleepy border town of Ferozepur a decade ago. “These stories came much before my published books,” says Rawat over phone from Delhi. “This year during lockdown, with only Hukum, my golden retriever, for company, I wrote a few more. They helped me get over the sadness I encountered when interviewing families for my previous book, Kargil .” Rawat comes from sturdy Army stock. Daughter, sister and wife of Army officers, she has had “men in olive-green around for a lifetime, walking all over my carpet and my heart, with their dirty DMS boots, driving me insane with their unpredictable lives, and melting me completely with a salute and a smile.” The real picture But in the 17 stories in Insomnia (published by Penguin), Rawat portrays an emotive picture of the lives of soldiers, their families and their brotherhood — “stories which only could be written by someone closely related to the Army,” says former Chief of Army Staff General VP Malik in the book. Rawat, however, says that in writing about what war poet Wilfred Owen calls “the pity of war”, she has laid bare hidden facets of Army life. “Life in cantonments remains unchanged. Time stops here, the ethos is the same; so my stories written then will resonate even now. Although fictionalised, some of the stories are loosely based on real events. In writing about PTSD, murder, human rights violations and the horrors of war, I have not won brownie points with some in the Army fraternity. For my previous books, I had to get requisite permissions. This book, I wrote with my hands untied.” The stories are vintage Rawat. Sprinkled with equal measures of hope and horror, her lucid prose tells it as it is. But to get to this reality, a different register is used. There are heroes in ferocious combat assaults fighting the enemy while also fighting for the version of the truth that will be in the official records; a retired general who is haunted by voices of dead men; the emotional connection of enemy soldiers in freezing Siachen; the dark secret of a Major operating incognito in Kashmir; the surprise heading towards the all-male bastion of 13 Para; the spirits a child at Landsdowne Military Hospital converses with while she awaits brain surgery; and a speeding bullet on an ordinary day that changes the course of an extraordinary life. There are also a couple based on her own experiences; Munni Mausi that won a commendation for the 2008 Commonwealth Short Story Competition is a bittersweet tale of love, longing and loss. There are the landscapes that Rawat conjures — the mind-numbing freeze of the Greater Himalayas, the nimbus grey of Northeast India’s skies, dinner nights in teak-panelled messes, the officer as an unwilling tourist in Bangkok — and has down pat. And there is the mythic heft. In a country where, often, it is the heroism of these men that is highlighted, Rawat sidesteps undue triumphalism and shows them as boys next door, warts and all, trying to stay sane and human in difficult circumstances. This anthology should be read by anyone keen to know what lies beneath the Olive Green.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The great gazebo||The verandahs are alive with the sound of cutlery. Alfresco dining might not be a sparkly new trend but it certainly has found an ally in the pandemic. After many months of scarfing down takeaway on their couches, people are reviving their social lives as restaurants reopen. However, with COVID-19 still a threat, outdoor spaces are in demand. Bass & Soda, which launched in February this year, did brisk business before pulling its shutters down mid-March. The two-storeyed space spread across 6,500 square feet reopened this month after converting its outdoor smoking zone into a dining area. “We took an additional month to comply with the norms and work on our seating,” says S Naveen Chandra, founder of the resto-bar in Kottivakkam. The indoor area earlier seated 120 people, but this number is now evenly split across two levels. “We have made sure that each table has a five metre distance between chairs,” says Chandra. Once the pandemic is under control, he plans to go back to the original seating arrangement. “People who call to book first enquire if we have made changes to the seating plan. When we tell them we can seat them outside they are pleased,” he adds. As Deepavali approaches, he plans to add another 60-seater roof top dining space to this unit, offering sweeping views of OMR. Under starry skies Restaurants that have access to previously ignored open spaces are reworking them now. Furniture has been moved around, plants added to the decor and fans placed at regular intervals to battle humidity. Given the challenges of operating in these now fluid spaces, menus have also shrunk by 50%. Naveen Howie, brand and hospitality consultant, says this is a trend across many restaurants. “Right now, most places have 30 to 40% occupancy. They are cutting down pricing overall on offers and dishes,” he says. Howie’s new venture Koramingle, in Bengaluru, was redesigned in April to make more room for al fresco dining. “It now has an outdoor garden, a frat house setting and another separate terrace which was initially the smoking zone,” says Howie, adding that the multi-level, 12,500 square feet space, which earlier accommodated 300 people, now — adhering to the new rules — seats around 140. He notes that around 85% of Koramingle’s patrons choose to sit outside. “Every city has its own development rules,” says Anurag Katriar, president, NRAI (National Restaurants Association of India) and executive director and CEO of deGustibus Hospitality, which owns restaurants like Indigo, Indigo Deli, D:OH and Neel among others in Mumbai and Delhi. The NRAI is pushing for more open spaces. “If you look at markets like Delhi, the task of using outdoor spaces was actively being discussed when the lockdown was on,” he says, explaining how the NRAI sent applications to the governments of Maharasthra, Delhi and West Bengal to allow open-air seating. “In Delhi, the SDMC (South Delhi Municipal Corporation) has permitted it,” he adds. While work is underway to incorporate an open air section at Katriar’s Indigo Deli in Palladium Mall, Lower Parel, he says very few have the liberty of big, open spaces in Mumbai. Here, a restaurant has to take separate permission and pay an extra fee for an outdoor area. “In Mumbai, you have more high rises than flat spaces. That is why there are restrictions. Plus, there is the concern that people might misuse the area,” he says, adding “Laws governing the subject were made at a time before COVID-19.” The new normal Though cities like Mumbai and Chennai have never really been big on outdoor dining thanks to the heat and humidity, Katriar feels, given the safety aspect, it will pick up. Fortunately, at this time of the year, the weather is more conducive to sitting outdoors, with some help from pedestal fans. While the restaurant does save on air-conditioning bills, there are extra steps involved like those of handling mosquitoes, protecting the furniture placed outside and redoing the outdoor setting everyday. Luxury hotels are also re-purposing their spaces to provide clients with the option of dining under the sky. The ITC Grand Chola has a bespoke dining experience featuring gazebos by the poolside. This started in early October, following queries from guests seeking a well-ventilated place with a serene environment to dine in. These gazebos can accommodate anywhere between two to 10 guests who can choose from Indian, Italian and Asian cuisine. “As of now, guests dining here are small groups of four to six, including couples, and a combination of hotel residents and city guests,” says Zubin Songadwala — area manager, ITC Hotels South and general manager, ITC Grand Chola, Chennai. “While the age group of these guests is primarily between 25–50, we are also seeing an increase in the number of older guests too,” he adds. In September, The Verandah at Taj Connemara in Chennai, started serving meals by their poolside and could accommodate 25 guests. This was done to create additional dining spaces while keeping up with the social distancing norms, says Saleem Yousuff, senior vice president, operations, South, IHCL. Among its other properties, The Front Lawns at Savoy-IHCL SeleQtions, Udhagamandalam, has recently introduced Dining Under The Stars. The menu includes piping hot Anglo-Indian and local Badaga cuisines, and a crackling bonfire keeps the diners warm as the mercury dips. “Alfresco dining has a charm of its own — open skies and views. All this, together with enjoyable food for company, is just the right way to relax with friends and family,” adds Yousuff.  Changing spaces World over, restaurants, bars and cafés are coming up with innovative ways to revive the charm and theatre of dining out despite mandatory masks, hand sanitisers and temperature checks. Think glass igloos, dining bubbles, and marquees among others.  In May, Ransäter, in Sweden, reportedly set up a one-person restaurant (a single table and chair) in the middle of a meadow. It’s called Bord för en, which literally means table for one.  Around the same time, Mediamatic ETEN in Amsterdam, launched Serres Séparées, an outdoor dining area which has glass pods for two lined along a river.  With winter setting in, restaurants have a new challenge, that of keeping their diners warm. Heaters and heat lamps are being relied upon.  Meanwhile, yurts are popping up in Colorado’s town of Breckenridge. The Envoy Hotel in Boston has igloos sprouting over its rooftop so guests can stay cosy.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||‘ Miss India has mass moments’||The Telugu film Miss India , directed by debutant Narendra Nath and headlined by Keerthy Suresh, has just dropped on Netflix.    Miss India has also been dubbed in Tamil and Malayalam for the OTT platform. The film traces the journey of Samyukta, a young middle-class woman who has entrepreneurial dreams, moves to the US and launches a tea brand called Miss India, bolstered by the support of her grandfather (Rajendra Prasad). She takes on another Indian origin entrepreneur played by Jagapathi Babu, who sells coffee. The trailer hints at a ‘mass masala’ style face-off between the rivals. “Honestly, I didn’t expect this tremendous response for the trailer. Naren was confident that these ‘mass’ moments will make the audience cheer and clap. One normally sees these face-offs in a hero-centric film. Watching the trailer in my home theatre, I was so happy that it turned out well,” says Keerthy, speaking over phone after a press conference. This is the second OTT release for Keerthy, after the Tamil film Penguin in mid June. The digital space doesn’t trigger conversations about opening weekend box office collections. Nevertheless, Keerthy admits she goes through pre-release jitters. “Digital platforms have global reach. There’s quick analysis and word of mouth feedback; that’s enough to give me a sleepless night,” she says with a laugh.  Miss India was the first film she signed after Mahanati (2018). She had wanted something lighthearted after the Savitri biopic, but female-centric films like Miss India, Penguin and the forthcoming Good Luck Sakhi, where she plays a shooter from rural Telangana, came her way. She took it as recognition for her work in Mahanati and was game for new challenges. Now, she is also part of Mahesh Babu-starrer Sarkaaru Vaari Paata (Telugu), Rajinikanth-starrer Annatthe (Tamil), Mohanlal-starrer Marakkar (Malayalam), apart from Rang De (Telugu) with Nithiin. “I chose the best of what was offered to me,” she says. Keerthy had a break of nine months after Mahanati and saw it as an opportunity to prioritise health. “I had never worked out earlier; I was lazy,” she confesses. But when she heard how Naren wanted her to be styled for Miss India , like a chic businesswoman, Keerthy wanted to be fitter to carry off western clothes. “I drank three litres of water per day; I followed my regular South Indian diet but ate more proteins and fewer carbs. I love to eat and did not deprive myself,” Keerthy says. Within weeks, she got addicted to her fitness regime. Her love for food shows on her Instagram account, where she has archived stories on food: “I follow a healthy diet. Occasionally, I allow myself small portions of indulgences like French fries.” The physicality of being Samyukta was one part of her preparation for Miss India . She also watched an interview of Indra Nooyi which Naren had shared: “It helped me observe how a successful businesswoman conducts herself,” says Keerthy. With the help of stylist Indrakshi Pattanaik who had worked with her in Mahanati , Keerthy went through the five different stages of being Samyukta — as a middle-class Indian woman, when she is new to the US, the gradual transformation as she gets acclimatised to her surroundings, turning entrepreneur and finally calling the shots. “When we discussed costumes, we would refer to phase 1, 2, etc. We also mostly shot linearly, so that helped get into the groove,” says Keerthy. Keerthy had taken up a course in fashion design before she became an actor. However, she says it has not made it easier: “I can judge what looks good on others easily than I can do for myself, it takes time to understand what flatters your body. I love wearing sarees but in this film, I got to wear just one. I am mostly in western outfits, which I haven’t done before.” Straddling films in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam, Keerthy says she has been busy for years and the lockdown was an opportunity to slow down: “I must have been in high school when I last spent many months with my family. I worked out, learnt yoga, played the violin, cooked and spent time with family and friends.”  Digital platforms have global reach. There’s quick analysis and word of mouth feedback of the content Keerthy Suresh
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Your freezer goes gourmet||This weekly column tracks the city’s shifting culinary landscape. Heard of a new food venture? Tell me: shonali.m@thehindu.co.in
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||When rare visitors flutter by||Recently, the Branded Royal, rarely seen in India, made news when it fluttered through the Nilgiris after a gap of over 130 years. “It was last recorded in 1888 by British entomologist GF Hampson,” says Vinod Sriramulu. A trustee of the Wynter-Blyth Association (WBA) that comprises conservationists who document butterfly species in the Nilgiris, Vinod photographed the Branded Royal during a butterfly walk along the Kotagiri slopes. The four-year-old WBA has over 800 members. Butterfly season usually begins with the onset of the South-West monsoon; and the buzz tends to continue post-monsoon, well into February. “Now is the best time to watch them as they flit about in good numbers looking for nectar from tender greenery that springs up after the rains,” says P Mohan Prasath, founder of Act for Butterflies, the butterfly conservation NGO. This year, especially, many rare species have been sighted across the country. The Blue Mormon, a black-coloured velvet-winged butterfly, a species endemic to the Western Ghats, showed up in Patna. Another rare species, the Spotted Angle butterfly, has been sighted in the reserve forests of Chhattisgarh. The Liliac Silverline, a protected species whose only known breeding population is in Bengaluru, was sighted for the first time in the Aravalli range of Rajasthan. Mohan remarks, “Common Onyx showed up in the Western Ghats. It hides itself under canopies of mango trees, its host plant, and is rarely seen on the ground. All these sightings point towards a range extension of the habitat, or may be more people are observing unexplored habitats, home gardens and backyards especially during the COVID-19 lockdown.” Adding that species like Common Birdwing, Common Jester, Painted Jezebel and Vagrant have made an appearance at Telangana in the Eastern Ghats, much to the excitement of naturalists, he says, “Of the 1,339 species of butterflies in India, over 900 are seen in Arunachal Pradesh. Maybe, they are trickling down and this is indicative of climate change.” A recent study done by researchers Appanna Saragada, E Ramakrishna and Ramana Bhusala in the Eastern Ghats in Visakhapatnam district, documents a number of species recorded in the region for the first time. These include the African Marbled Skipper, the Tree Flitter and the Double-branded Crow. “We hope that the findings will help mobilise conservation research, action and attention for the Eastern Ghats forest habitats,” says Rahul Pandey, Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), Andhra Pradesh. Forest Section Officer (Visakhapatnam Division) Ramana Bhusala, who manages the Butterfly Park at Indira Gandhi Zoological Park, says that some of these sightings were particularly special, like the Orange-tailed Awl. “I spotted it at Kambalakonda forests during my regular visits. When I checked the records, I found it was a rare sighting, since it was never recorded before from this region,” says Ramana. Another special sighting was the Large Guava Blue. Saying there have been just three sightings in Tamil Nadu over the last six years, Sharan Venkatesh, a keen watcher adds, “It feeds on wild fruits such as figs, or common fruits like pomegranate and guava.” Isaac Kehimkar, the butterfly man of India, calls the winged creatures ‘fussy’. “They are sensitive to weather and habitat. They won’t settle for anything less. When the habitat is polluted, they abandon it. Once the habitat shrinks, the populations come out,” says Isaac. He considers catching a glimpse of the Northern Jungle Queen in Sikkim and the endangered Bhutan Glory in Arunachal Pradesh as a real treats. “The Bhutan Glory is endangered and protected under Wildlife Protection Act like tigers and elephants.” Butterflies are habitat specific and rarely wander off, he adds. For example, the Southern Birdwing, which can only be seen in South India. It comes up to the southern tip of Maharasthra, but never stops by in Mumbai. Says Isaac, “We have the Sanjay Gandhi National Park but perhaps that is not good enough. Habitats restrict butterflies. That is why they are called bio-indicators.”  With inputs from   Nivedita Ganguly   Rarer than Halley’s Comet The Striated Five-ring was sighted at Neyyar, Kerala in 2015-16 after 100 years. The Nilgiri Plain Ace was rediscovered by butterfly enthusiasts after 130 years.  The Marbled Map butterfly recorded for the first time in Visakhapatnam is protected under Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act. This ‘rare’ species is confined to the hilly forests of Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bhutan and Myanmar.  Malabar Banded Peacock is endemic to South India. So is Tree nymph, a large white butterfly with black spots resembling white paper wafting through the air.     Act for Butterflies, in association with Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam, conducts one-day online course on how to identify butterflies. Call 9843511233 or visit aeonct.org/one-day-butterfly-course
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Lentils, spice, and everything nice||Podis have always been a constant in South Indian kitchens. Be it the idli podi, sambar/rasam podi or the paruppu podi, aromatic powdered blends of spices and lentils, elevate a meal and make cooking easier. A surge in demand for podis through the lockdown has resulted in some intruiging new recipes. “Everyone wants to eat nutritious meals, which is why curry leaf and moringa leaf powders are popular and were constantly on demand during lockdown,” says Parul Bhatt, who markets her homemade range of spice powders via social media. She makes curry leaves and moringa leaves podi , tea masala and methia masala in small batches. “Tea masala is a herbal preparation, which can be added to tea or milk; it is beneficial during the winter months as it could protect us from cold and cough,” says Parul, who started making these powders for her family and friends, and later launched Parul’s Magic range of podi and pickles. The lockdown rendered Murali Rajagopalan, a wedding caterer, jobless for many months. He decided to venture into podi making, realising demand for the product was high and launched Aarohana Foods in June 2020, with a special focus on keerai -based powders. “My wife and I began experimenting on how to process and preserve the nutrient value of greens and blend them into coarse powders. Our idea was to extend the shelf-life of different types of keerai . After much trial and error, we nailed the final product,” explains Murali. “Our podi range is made of araikeerai , ponnankanni keerai and agathi keerai ,” says Murali, who prepares 13 types of ready-to-use podis . He procures the greens from three different farms that practise natural farming, cleans and dries them in the shade, combines them with roasted lentils and spices and grinds them. “About 85% of the nutrients of the greens will be intact even after processing. We use more of pepper and less of red chilli, in the traditional style. We make the powders only after we get orders so that they remain fresh and last longer,” says Murali. He says his products can be stored upto three months Octogenarian Radha Parthasarathy, founder of Sri Annapoorani Food Products says that the pandemic halted the demand for sathu maavu which her company prepared to be supplied to schools. “We were making two to three tonnes of sathu mavu (sprouted multigrain powder) every month, which were distributed to 3,300 school children in Chennai through various CSR initiatives by corporates,” says Radha, who founded Annapoorani Public Charitable Trust and brought together the women of Thandalam near Arakonam and trained them in making podis , vadams , millet dosa mix and sathu maavu . “We source raw materials from farmers in consultation with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University,” says Radha, adding that profits from the sale are divided among the women. Pre-mix powders for Kanchipuramidli, thavala adai , mor kulambu , pepper kulambu , and puliyodharai are among their popular products, apart from tea masala and curryma podi . Chef Shri Bala, who launched her line of podis a year ago, says the demand doubled during lockdown. Customising the product to suit the customer’s requirement is her USP. “Some families prefer less spice, some prefer it hot. Also, I avoid ingredients that customers are allergic to,” she explains. Shribala says demand has surged for rasam and curry podi (used for non-vegetarian gravies) over the past few months. She is currently working on aingaya podi , a combination of five health-promoting herbs, that detoxify and boost immunity. To get the maximum use out of these powders, the trick is to experiment with them. Cook-book author Mallika Badrinath says that podis can be used in the kitchen as multi-purpose spice powders. For example, try sprinkling garlic-flavoured idli podiover a vegetable stir-fry to add flavour. She also suggests making an easy rice dish with minced onions and garlic, garnished with a podi or two of one’s choice. Says Parul, “Moringa powder can be mixed with dosa batter or roti or paratha flour. It can be sprinkled over roast potatoes too. Similarly, it can be used to spice up any stir fry. Raw moringa powder can be used in multiple ways, in your smoothie, juices or in butter milk. Methia powder, which is ready-to-use pickle powder, can be sprinkled on vegetable salad.” Options are endless for the creative.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Now solve a murder mystery over a Zoom call||The first two months of the lockdown were difficult for the Bengaluru-based WeMove Theatre group. With theatres shut and shows abruptly cancelled, they were uncertain of how to manage finances. Theatre groups across the country shared a similar plight — many independent rural artistes even had to take up another profession. But as the pandemic continued, groups began using the online medium to restart work. They resorted to play readings on YouTube, performances over Facebook live and other things. WeMove, meanwhile, has devised a game using elements of theatre. “It’s a game for a group of four to 25 people. We give them a scenario, usually involving a murder. The objective is to find the murderer. We split participants into groups and one by one, they interact with the suspects, an investigating officer, and other officials, all played by our actors,” explains Abhishek Iyengar, WeMove’s co-founder. The game, comprising several rounds, lasts 80-90 minutes. “It’s been a great success for us,” says Abhishek. So far, the group has hosted 10 public sessions and 30 corporate sessions. “They have taken care of our financial needs.” The ticket for a public session is usually priced at Rs. 200 to Rs. 250. Abhishek says his teammates, Sindhu Hegde and Aditya Naik, came up with the idea in June. “During the lockdown, a friend wanted us to perform for a get-together. We knew staging a normal play wouldn’t work. It had to be interactive. That’s when Sindu and Aditya came up with this idea of involving the audience in the plot. It was a big hit. And, we thought we could refine it as a better product.” Abhishek’s teammate, Pavan Sharma, already had a bunch of murder mystery play scripts. “We tweaked them for the game. We have 15 different plots,” says Abhishek. This version sees the actors improvise a lot more than they do in a play. For, the participants’ questions cannot be scripted. “The basic things in the plot don't change. But, yeah, it’s a lot more dynamic than a play. And, there’s a lot of fun and laughter. So, no one is complaining,” says Abhishek. “The public sessions are more interesting because you play with strangers. I know two people who became friends through our session and went on a bicycle tour the next day.” Abhishek wants to experiment with this format in theatres. “Maybe we can have a green room at the theatre,” he says. “The game can be played online and offline. That would be interesting.”  For more information, visit facebook.com/wemovetheatre
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A song of one’s own||Nine songs, some reminiscent of lazy beachsides, others heady with simultaneous layers of percussion, string and voices reaching up to the heavens. The Indie100 2019 album has been almost a year in the making. In November last year teams from Chennai-based KM Music Conservatory, Eathsync and Queensland University of Technology, Australia sat together to help a few chosen, up-and-coming indie musicians put together their first recorded tracks in Chennai: the wait has been worth it. Not only for the nine musical acts in question, but also for anyone who cares to give it a listen. From the dreamy ‘Lucid Dream’ by Joint By The Sea to the electric ‘Lost Vegas’ by The SyZyGy and the spiritual-psychedelic dreamscape that is ‘The Rage of Reetigowla’ by The Cosmic Convergence, each track in this album holds its own. Not surprising, since all the artistes have been wowing the city’s indie circuit for a couple of years now. For this album in particular, they had the advantage of professional guidance, an assigned producer for their track, and KM’s on-campus resources including a recording room. Students of KM even lent their voices to the harmonies of some tracks. Bimal Thangachan, frontman of The Owl Monk Collective whose ‘Clarity’ kicks off the album, describes the process as a “roller coaster — not just for us but also for the producer helping us, Mr Deepak Sugadhan. I know that he had two more recording slots in the same day, including one with some heavy instrumentals.” Thankfully, a lot of the work was done beforehand. Each band walked in with a pre-mixed version of their song, so the producer could have a good listen and suggest changes if needed. Even then, each recording session lasted four hours, and some even spilled over. “I recorded by vocals later after the session and sent them to Deepak sir, so he could work on them,” says Bimal. The songs in the album might be slightly different from what these band’s fans are used to hearing online. For instance, Vajahath Ali of Joint By The Sea says, “We had brought along a drum set for the recording, but our producer — after hearing the track — felt it would sound better just as it is, without the drums.” Bimal, too, notices a much greater emphasis on the lyrics of ‘Clarity’ than he had put while performing it live. Besides this, there were a range of workshops — “from understanding copyright laws to recording deals, they covered it all,” says Vajahath. And what about the rights to these particular songs? The smile in Bimal’s voice is almost palpable as he says, “They released the album on Friday, but had sent us the masters ahead, on Monday. So we know they’re ours.”  Indie100 India 2019 can be   streamed on Spotify, Soundcloud and other platforms.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Acapella and beyond||With a break from the rigours of deadlines and daily chores, the lockdown, for most people, meant more time with their loved ones. That, however, was not the case with Chennai-based musician Pravin Saivi. His family left for Singapore on a vacation just a week ahead of the nation-wide lockdown. “Everybody turned to their families for comfort. I could not do that,” says the 37-year-old singer. Pravin turned to music instead. In the last few months, he has probably been more productive than before, having churned out five singles and having taken part in a television show as well. His latest single, ‘Vaanam Angey’, releases this evening. Under four minutes, it is an “Ed Sheeran-like Tamil song” according to him. “The song speaks about unconditional love,” says Pravin, of the single that revolves around two people from different countries and a relationship that unfolds during the lockdown. ‘Vaanam Angey’ is special not because it is his latest, but also because it is probably among a few music videos that National Award-winning film editor Praveen KL has worked on. “We [Praveen and I] go back a long way; he edited my very first music video when I was in Singapore. For ‘Vaanam Angey’, I wanted him to edit the trailer but when he saw the rushes, he wanted to do the entire song. Initially, the video ended in a certain manner, but thanks to Praveen’s vision, it was cut in a different way... and looks great.” The other thing that is looking great for the singer is his recent appearances in Star Vijay’s Super Singer: Champion of Champions , a show that brought him and his colleague Sakthi Amaran together after several years. “Coming back as a contestant was like rebirth,” says Pravin. The show saw the duo giving its own interpretations to several hit numbers, “It was great getting back with Sakthi. We realised how much we had to learn from each other.” The way forward The lockdown has seen a number of artists dabbling in independent music and Pravin is not an exception. Apart from the Mohamed Raffee-composed ‘Uruthi Kondu’, a musical tribute to frontline heroes that he put out during March, Pravin came out with ‘Kaargala Megam’ which was completed in under 24 hours, an English song titled ‘It’s Okay’ and the ‘Jobless Anthem’, penned by Premgi. “Tamil independent music is finding its way to listeners through the Internet. However, it has to be supported by radio channels for it to find the masses. I remember a time in Malaysia when there was a rule that every third song on air needed to be a non-film track. I’m hoping that, that day comes here soon.” He hopes that people see him in a different light henceforth and stop stereotyping him as “the guy who sings acapella and harmonies”. Pravin did that one last time — on a TV show for a tribute to the late singer SP Balasubrahmanyam — but that will be it. “I am hanging up my acapella boots,” he declares. So, what’s next? “More music videos and of course, connecting with audiences.”
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||The great gazebo||The verandahs are alive with the sound of cutlery. An al fresco dining might not be a sparkly new trend but it certainly has found an ally in the pandemic. After many months of scarfing down takeaway on their couches, people are reviving their social lives as restaurants reopen. However, with COVID-19 still a threat, outdoor spaces are in demand. Bass & Soda, which launched in February this year, did brisk business before pulling its shutters down mid-March. The two-storeyed space spread across 6,500 square feet reopened this month after converting its outdoor smoking zone into a dining area. “We took an additional month to comply with the norms and work on our seating,” says S. Naveen Chandra, founder of the resto-bar in Kottivakkam. The indoor area earlier seated 120 people, but this number is now evenly split across two levels. “We have made sure that each table has a five metre distance between chairs,” says Chandra. Once the pandemic is under control, he plans to go back to the original seating arrangement. “People who call to book first enquire if we have made changes to the seating plan. When we tell them we can seat them outside they are pleased,” he adds. As Deepavali approaches, he plans to add another 60-seater rooftop dining space to this unit, offering sweeping views of the OMR. Under starry skies Restaurants that have access to previously ignored open spaces are reworking them now. Furniture has been moved around, plants added to the decor and fans placed at regular intervals to battle humidity. Given the challenges of operating in these now fluid spaces, menus have also shrunk by 50%. Naveen Howie, brand and hospitality consultant, says this is a trend across many restaurants. “Right now, most places have 30% to 40% occupancy. They are cutting down pricing overall on offers and dishes,” he says. Howie’s new venture Koramingle, in Bengaluru, was redesigned in April to make more room for al fresco dining. “It now has an outdoor garden, a frat house setting and another separate terrace, which was initially the smoking zone,” says Howie, adding that the multi-level, 12,500 square feet space, which earlier accommodated 300 people, now — adhering to the new rules — seats around 140. He notes that around 85% of Koramingle’s patrons choose to sit outside. “Every city has its own development rules,” says Anurag Katriar, president, NRAI (National Restaurants Association of India) and executive director and CEO of deGustibus Hospitality, which owns restaurants like Indigo, Indigo Deli, D:OH and Neel among others in cities like Mumbai and Delhi. The NRAI is pushing for more open spaces. “If you look at markets like Delhi, the task of using outdoor spaces was actively being discussed when the lockdown was on,” he says, explaining how the NRAI sent applications to the governments of Maharasthra, Delhi and West Bengal to allow open-air seating. “In Delhi, the SDMC (South Delhi Municipal Corporation) has permitted it,” he adds. While work is under way to incorporate an open air section at Katriar’s Indigo Deli in Palladium Mall, Lower Parel, he says very few have the liberty of big, open spaces in Mumbai. Here, a restaurant has to take separate permission and pay an extra fee for an outdoor area. “In Mumbai, you have more high-rises than flat spaces. That is why there are restrictions. Plus, there is the concern that people might misuse the area,” he says, adding: “Laws governing the subject were made at a time before COVID-19.” The new normal Though cities like Mumbai and Chennai have never really been big on outdoor dining thanks to the heat and humidity, Katriar feels, given the safety aspect, it will pick up. Fortunately, at this time of the year, the weather is more conducive to sitting outdoors, with some help from pedestal fans. While the restaurant does save on air-conditioning bills, there are extra steps involved like those of handling mosquitoes, protecting the furniture placed outside and redoing the outdoor setting every day. Luxury hotels are also repurposing their spaces to provide clients with the option of dining under the sky. The ITC Grand Chola has a bespoke dining experience featuring gazebos by the poolside. This started in early October, following queries from guests seeking a well-ventilated place with a serene environment to dine in. These gazebos can accommodate anywhere between two to 10 guests who can choose from Indian, Italian and Asian cuisines. “As of now, guests dining here are small groups of four to six, including couples, and a combination of hotel residents and city guests,” says Zubin Songadwala, area manager, ITC Hotels South and general manager, ITC Grand Chola, Chennai. “While the age group of these guests is primarily between 25 and 50, we are also seeing an increase in the number of older guests too,” he adds. In September, The Verandah at Taj Connemara in Chennai, started serving meals by their poolside and could accommodate 25 guests. This was done to create additional dining spaces while keeping up with the social distancing norms, says Saleem Yousuff, senior vice president, operations, South, IHCL. Among its other properties, The Front Lawns at Savoy-IHCL SeleQtions, Udhagamandalam, has recently introduced Dining Under The Stars. The menu includes piping hot Anglo-Indian and local Badaga cuisines, and a crackling bonfire keeps the diners warm as the mercury dips. “Al fresco dining has a charm of its own — open skies and views. All this, together with enjoyable food for company, is just the right way to relax with friends and family,” adds Yousuff.  Changing spaces World over, restaurants, bars and cafés are coming up with innovative ways to revive the charm and theatre of dining out despite mandatory masks, hand sanitisers and temperature checks. Think glass igloos, dining bubbles, and marquees among others.  In May, Ransäter, in Sweden, reportedly set up a one-person restaurant (a single table and chair) in the middle of a meadow. It’s called Bord för en, which literally means table for one.  Around the same time, Mediamatic ETEN in Amsterdam, launched Serres Séparées, an outdoor dining area which has glass pods for two, lined along a river.  With winter setting in, restaurants have a new challenge, that of keeping their diners warm. Heaters and heat lamps are being relied upon.  Meanwhile, yurts are popping up in Colorado’s town of Breckenridge. The Envoy Hotel in Boston has igloos sprouting over its rooftop so guests can stay cosy.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||An army of stories||‘Stop him’, she said hoarsely. ‘I have seen those shoes before.’  The lines end the chilling Home Alone , a story in Rachna Bisht Rawat’s latest book Insomnia . It places the revered bond of an Army officer, his family and his buddy (referred to as batman,sahayakor Man Friday over the years) under a different spotlight, one that is often hidden behind the hedgerows that line the prim and proper world of cantonments. With tales such as these, Rawat steps away from her four previous books on the Indian Army that celebrate the soldier’s derring-do in the nation’s many wars. She instead turns the focus on human emotions — love, compassion, camaraderie, horror and trauma — that pepper the life of men and women in uniform and lifts the veil on their little-known personal lives. Rawat, an award-winning former journalist, wrote many of these stories when she was a young Army wife living in the sleepy border town of Ferozepur a decade ago. “These stories came much before my published books,” says Rawat over phone from Delhi. “This year during lockdown, with only Hukum, my golden retriever, for company, I wrote a few more. They helped me get over the sadness I encountered when interviewing families for my previous book, Kargil .” Rawat comes from sturdy Army stock. Daughter, sister and wife of Army officers, she has had “men in olive-green around for a lifetime, walking all over my carpet and my heart, with their dirty DMS boots, driving me insane with their unpredictable lives, and melting me completely with a salute and a smile.” The real picture But in the 17 stories in Insomnia (published by Penguin), Rawat portrays an emotive picture of the lives of soldiers, their families and their brotherhood — “stories which only could be written by someone closely related to the Army,” says former Chief of Army Staff General VP Malik in the book. Rawat, however, says that in writing about what war poet Wilfred Owen calls “the pity of war”, she has actually laid bare hidden facets of Army life. “Life in cantonments remains unchanged. Time stops here, the ethos is the same; so my stories written then will resonate even now. Although fictionalised, some of the stories are loosely based on real events. In writing about PTSD, murder, human rights violations and the horrors of war, I have not won brownie points with some in the Army fraternity. For my previous books, I had to get requisite permissions. This book, I wrote with my hands untied.” The stories are vintage Rawat. Sprinkled with equal measures of hope and horror, her lucid prose tells it as it is. But to get to this reality, a different register is used. There are heroes in ferocious combat assaults fighting the enemy while also fighting for the version of the truth that will be in the official records; a retired general who is haunted by voices of dead men; the emotional connection of enemy soldiers in freezing Siachen; the dark secret of a Major operating incognito in Kashmir; the surprise heading towards the all-male bastion of 13 Para; the spirits a child at Landsdowne Military Hospital converses with while she awaits brain surgery; and a speeding bullet on an ordinary day that changes the course of an extraordinary life. There are also a couple based on her own experiences; Munni Mausi that won a commendation for the 2008 Commonwealth Short Story Competition is a bittersweet tale of love, longing and loss. There are the landscapes that Rawat conjures — the mind-numbing freeze of the Greater Himalayas, the nimbus grey of Northeast India’s skies, dinner nights in teak-panelled messes, the officer as an unwilling tourist in Bangkok — and has down pat. And there is the mythic heft. In a country where, often, it is the heroism of these men that is highlighted, Rawat sidesteps undue triumphalism and shows them as boys next door, warts and all, trying to stay sane and human in difficult circumstances. This anthology should be read by anyone keen to know what lies beneath the Olive Green.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Lentils, spice, and everything nice||Podis have been a constant in South Indian kitchens. Be it the idli podi, sambar/rasam podi or the paruppu podi, aromatic powdered blends of spices and lentils, elevate a meal and make cooking easier. A surge in demand for podis through the lockdown has resulted in some intruiging new recipes. “Everyone wants to eat nutritious meals, which is why curry leaf and moringa leaf powders are popular and were constantly on demand during lockdown,” says Parul Bhatt, who markets her homemade range of spice powders via social media. She makes curry leaves and moringa leaves podi , tea masala and methia masala in small batches. “Tea masala is a herbal preparation, which can be added to tea or milk, beneficial during the winter months,” says Parul, who started making these powders for family and friends, and launched Parul’s Magic range of podi and pickles. The lockdown rendered Murali Rajagopalan, a wedding caterer, jobless for many months. He ventured into podi making, realising demand for the product was high and launched Aarohana Foods in June 2020, with a focus on keerai -based powders. “Our podi range is made of araikeerai , ponnankanni keerai and agathi keerai ,” says Murali, who prepares 13 types of ready-to-use podis . He procures the greens from three different farms that practise natural farming, cleans and dries them in the shade, combines them with roasted lentils and spices and grinds them. “About 85% of the nutrients of the greens will be intact even after processing. We use more of pepper and less of red chilli, in the traditional style. We make the powders only after we get orders so that they remain fresh and last longer,” says Murali. Octogenarian Radha Parthasarathy, founder of Sri Annapoorani Food Products says that the pandemic halted the demand for sathu maavu which her company prepared to be supplied to schools. “We were making two to three tonnes of sathu mavu (sprouted multigrain powder) every month, which were distributed to 3,300 school children in Chennai through various CSR initiatives by corporates,” says Radha, who founded Annapoorani Public Charitable Trust and brought together the women of Thandalam near Arakonam and trained them in making podis . “We source raw materials directly from farmers in consultation with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University,” says Radha, adding that profits from the sale are divided equally among the women.
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Solve a murder mystery over a Zoom call||The first two months of the lockdown were difficult for the Bengaluru-based WeMove Theatre group. With theatres shut and shows cancelled, they were uncertain of how to manage finances. Theatre groups across the country shared a similar plight — many independent rural artistes even had to take up another profession. But as the pandemic continued, groups began using the online medium to restart work. They resorted to play readings on YouTube, performances over Facebook live and other things. WeMove, meanwhile, has devised a game using elements of theatre. “It’s a game for a group of four to 25 people. We give them a scenario, usually involving a murder. The objective is to find the murderer. We split participants into groups and one by one, they interact with the suspects, an investigating officer, and other officials, all played by our actors,” explains Abhishek Iyengar, WeMove’s co-founder. The game, comprising several rounds, lasts 80-90 minutes. “It’s been a great success for us,” says Abhishek. So far, the group has hosted 10 public sessions and 30 corporate sessions. “They have taken care of our financial needs.” The ticket for a public session is usually priced at Rs. 200 to Rs. 250. Abhishek says his teammates, Sindhu Hegde and Aditya Naik, came up with the idea in June. “During the lockdown, a friend wanted us to perform for a get-together. We knew staging a normal play wouldn’t work. It had to be interactive. That’s when Sindu and Aditya came up with this idea of involving the audience in the plot. It was a big hit. And, we thought we could refine it as a better product.” Abhishek’s teammate, Pavan Sharma, already had a bunch of murder mystery play scripts. “We tweaked them for the game. We have 15 different plots,” says Abhishek. This version sees the actors improvise a lot more than they do in a play. For, the participants’ questions cannot be scripted. “The basic things in the plot don't change. But, yeah, it’s a lot more dynamic than a play. And, there’s a lot of fun and laughter. So, no one is complaining,” says Abhishek. “The public sessions are more interesting because you play with strangers. I know two people who became friends through our session and went on a bicycle tour the next day.” Abhishek wants to experiment with this format in theatres. “Maybe we can have a green room at the theatre,” he says. “The game can be played online and offline. That would be interesting.”  For more information, visit facebook.com/wemovetheatre
05 November 2020||November 05 2020 00:00 IST,||When rare visitors flutter by||Recently, the Branded Royal, rarely seen in India, made news when it fluttered through the Nilgiris after a gap of over 130 years. “It was last recorded in 1888 by British entomologist GF Hampson,” says Vinod Sriramulu. A trustee of the Wynter-Blyth Association (WBA) that comprises conservationists who document butterfly species in the Nilgiris, Vinod photographed the Branded Royal during a butterfly walk along the Kotagiri slopes. The four-year-old WBA has over 800 members. Butterfly season usually begins with the onset of the South-West monsoon; and the buzz tends to continue post-monsoon, well into February. “Now is the best time to watch them as they flit about in good numbers looking for nectar from tender greenery that springs up after the rains,” says P Mohan Prasath, founder of Act for Butterflies, the butterfly conservation NGO. This year, especially, many rare species have been sighted across the country. The Blue Mormon, a black-coloured velvet-winged butterfly, a species endemic to the Western Ghats, showed up in Patna. Another rare species, the Spotted Angle butterfly, has been sighted in the reserve forests of Chhattisgarh. The Liliac Silverline, a protected species whose only known breeding population is in Bengaluru, was sighted for the first time in the Aravalli range of Rajasthan. Mohan remarks, “Common Onyx showed up in the Western Ghats. It hides itself under canopies of mango trees, its host plant, and is rarely seen on the ground. All these sightings point towards a range extension of the habitat, or may be more people are observing unexplored habitats, home gardens and backyards especially during the COVID-19 lockdown.” Adding that species like Common Birdwing, Common Jester, Painted Jezebel and Vagrant have made an appearance at Telangana in the Eastern Ghats, much to the excitement of naturalists, he says, “Of the 1,339 species of butterflies in India, over 900 are seen in Arunachal Pradesh. Maybe, they are trickling down and this is indicative of climate change.” A recent study done by researchers Appanna Saragada, E Ramakrishna and Ramana Bhusala in the Eastern Ghats in Visakhapatnam district, documents a number of species recorded in the region for the first time. These include the African Marbled Skipper, the Tree Flitter and the Double-branded Crow. “We hope that the findings will help mobilise conservation research, action and attention for the Eastern Ghats forest habitats,” says Rahul Pandey, Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), Andhra Pradesh. Forest Section Officer (Visakhapatnam Division) Ramana Bhusala, who manages the Butterfly Park at Indira Gandhi Zoological Park, says that some of these sightings were particularly special, like the Orange-tailed Awl. “I spotted it at Kambalakonda forests during my regular visits. When I checked the records, I found it was a rare sighting, since it was never recorded before from this region,” says Ramana. Another special sighting was the Large Guava Blue. Saying there have been just three sightings in Tamil Nadu over the last six years, Sharan Venkatesh, a keen watcher adds, “It feeds on wild fruits such as figs, or common fruits like pomegranate and guava.” Isaac Kehimkar, the butterfly man of India, calls the winged creatures ‘fussy’. “They are sensitive to weather and habitat. They won’t settle for anything less. When the habitat is polluted, they abandon it. Once the habitat shrinks, the populations come out,” says Isaac. He considers catching a glimpse of the Northern Jungle Queen in Sikkim and the endangered Bhutan Glory in Arunachal Pradesh as a real treats. “The Bhutan Glory is endangered and protected under Wildlife Protection Act like tigers and elephants.” Butterflies are habitat specific and rarely wander off, he adds. For example, the Southern Birdwing, which can only be seen in South India. It comes up to the southern tip of Maharasthra, but never stops by in Mumbai. Says Isaac, “We have the Sanjay Gandhi National Park but perhaps that is not good enough. Habitats restrict butterflies. That is why they are called bio-indicators.”  With inputs from   Nivedita Ganguly   Rarer than Halley’s Comet The Striated Five-ring was sighted at Neyyar, Kerala in 2015-16 after 100 years. The Nilgiri Plain Ace was rediscovered by butterfly enthusiasts after 130 years.  The Marbled Map butterfly recorded for the first time in Visakhapatnam is protected under Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act. This ‘rare’ species is confined to the hilly forests of Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bhutan and Myanmar.  Malabar Banded Peacock is endemic to South India. So is Tree nymph, a large white butterfly with black spots resembling white paper wafting through the air.     Act for Butterflies, in association with Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam, conducts one-day online course on how to identify butterflies. Call 9843511233 or visit aeonct.org/one-day-butterfly-course
05 November 2020||Washington,||Democratic hopes to flip Senate dim||Democrats picked up seats in Colorado and Arizona, and Republicans picked one up in Alabama in the battle for control of the U.S. Senate in Tuesday’s elections. In Georgia, a Republican-held seat was now headed to a January run-off. Elsewhere, Republicans held off Democratic challengers in five of the 14 most competitive races, bolstering their chances that they would retain a majority in the 100-seat chamber. The final outcome may not be clear for some time. Republicans currently hold 53 seats. Democrats need to win four seats to take a majority, or three if Joe Biden wins the White House, which would give Vice-President Kamala Harris the tie-breaking vote. A Democratic victory could lead to a new era in U.S. politics, if the party also captures the White House and holds onto the U.S. House of Representatives. Here are the results so far, based on projections by television networks and Edison Research: In Arizona, Democratic former astronaut Mark Kelly topped Republican Senator Martha McSally after holding a wide fundraising lead. Ms. McSally, a former U.S. representative and U.S. Air Force combat pilot, was appointed to the seat once held by the late Republican Senator John McCain after losing her 2018 Senate bid to Democrat Kyrsten Sinema. In Montana, Republican Senator Steve Daines held off a challenge from two-term Governor Steve Bullock, a former presidential candidate, who branded himself as an independent-minded Democrat. Mr. Daines, a former congressman and software executive, is known as a reliable conservative and has touted his ties to Mr. Trump. In Iowa, Republican Senator Joni Ernst defeated Democratic challenger Theresa Greenfield. Ms. Ernst used her role in U.S. Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett’s confirmation to appeal to conservative-leaning voters. Ms. Greenfield, an urban planner and real estate developer, accused Ernst of being a rubber stamp for President Donald Trump and not taking the COVID-19 pandemic seriously enough. Georgia tie In Georgia, Republican Senator Kelly Loeffler and Democrat Raphael Warnock were headed to a January 5 run-off election after neither secured a majority in a multi-party, multi-candidate “jungle primary” special election. The unusual race was prompted by the retirement of Republican Senator Johnny Isakson. Ms. Loeffler was appointed last year to fill his seat. The contest featured 21 candidates in all, including another prominent Republican, Representative Doug Collins. In Kansas, Republican Representative Roger Marshall defeated Democratic State Senator Barbara Bollier in a surprisingly competitive race. Democrats haven’t won a Senate seat in Kansas, one of the country’s most reliably Republican states, since 1932. But Ms. Bollier mounted a strong challenge in the race for the seat of Republican Senator Pat Roberts, who is retiring. In Alabama, Republican Tommy Tuberville, a former football coach, defeated incumbent Democratic Senator Doug Jones. In Colorado, Democratic challenger John Hickenlooper defeated incumbent Republican Senator Cory Gardner. Mr. Gardner, a former U.S. representative who entered the Senate in 2015, was among the most vulnerable Senate Republicans partly because of his allegiance to Mr. Trump in a state that has gone Democratic in the last three presidential elections. In South Carolina, Senator Lindsey Graham, one of Trump’s closest allies in Congress, held off a surprisingly strong challenge from Democrat Jaime Harrison, who raised staggering amounts of money. In Texas, Veteran Republican Senator John Cornyn held off a challenge from Democrat M.J. Hegar. Texas, once a Republican stronghold, has grown increasingly competitive in recent years as the population has grown more diverse and Trump’s polarizing presidency has alienated suburban women. Republican-held seats In Alaska, Freshman Republican Senator Dan Sullivan is favoured to hold onto his seat in a closely contested election battle against Al Gross, an independent who is running as the Democratic Party nominee. In Georgia, First-term Republican Senator David Perdue, a wealthy businessman who promotes himself as a Trump ally, faces Democratic challenger Jon Ossoff, an investigative journalist and media executive. The seat is one of two in Georgia that could be settled by a January runoff if no candidate receives more than 50% of the vote. In Maine, four-term Republican Senator Susan Collins, a New England moderate long known for her independence, faces Maine House of Representatives Speaker Sara Gideon. North Carolina has erupted into one of the most dramatic Senate races in the country, with Democrat Cal Cunningham’s candidacy tripped up by a sex scandal after he had dominated the campaign for months. The Republican incumbent, Thom Tillis, declared victory, though the race had not yet been called. Democratic held seat In Michigan, Democratic Senator Gary Peters has been favoured to hold onto his seat against Republican challenger John James in a state that represents a major battleground for Mr. Trump’s re-election bid.
05 November 2020||Patna,||Rahul takes a swipe at media, EVMs||A day before the campaign ends for the third and final phase of the Bihar Assembly election, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the electronic voting machine (EVM) was actually a “Modi voting machine (MVM)”. Mr. Gandhi alleged that Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar had betrayed the people of Bihar and had done nothing for them. Mr. Kumar, BJP president J.P. Nadda and Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav were among the other leaders who addressed public meetings and undertook roadshows on Wednesday in the Seemanchal (border) areas of northeast Bihar, where the election is scheduled for November 7. “This time, Bihar’s youth are angry and they have decided to oust the NDA government from power,” Mr. Gandhi said at a public meeting at Araria in northeast Bihar. He also took a jibe at a section of the media, calling them “ Modiji ka media ”.  ‘I am not scared’ “Be it EVM or MVM, the mahagathbandhan [grand alliance] is going to win the election... Whether it’s MVM or Modi ji ’s media, I’m not scared of them… I’m fighting a war of ideology against this man [PM Modi],” he said. “Both PM Modi and CM Nitish Kumar had promised jobs for the youth in Bihar in their previous election campaigns… Did they give you jobs?” Mr. Gandhi asked the crowd. During the 2015 Assembly election, Mr. Kumar had sought votes against the BJP. But he “betrayed” the mandate when he embraced the BJP once again. “First he stabbed you in the back, then in the stomach… two or three times... Nitish ji didn’t stab you one time, but two or three times,” Mr. Gandhi said. At Kishanganj, Mr. Nitish Kumar listed the steps his government had taken for the development of Bihar in the last 15 years of his regime. “Development with justice” had been the mantra of his government. “We did a lot of work for the development of the State and the people… If given another chance to serve you all, we’ll bring water for irrigation to every farm and safe drinking tap water to every household,” he said. RJD leader and grand alliance’s Chief Minister face Tejashwi Yadav addressed a series of meetings, and repeated his promise to “provide 10 lakh government jobs to the youth, if voted to power.” He condemned the act of throwing onions at Mr. Kumar at a public meeting in Harlakhi (Madhubani) on Tuesday. “There is no place for such things in democracy,” he said. “Today the basic issues plaguing Bihar is padhai, dawai, kamai, sinchai aur mahangai (education, medicine, income, irrigation and price rise) and when our government comes, we will address these issues first,” he told the crowd at Dhamdaha public meeting in Purnia district. “Has Nitish Kumar done anything at all for you?” he asked as the crowd responded with a “No.” “ Tab chup-chap, Lalten chhap [then vote for Lantern silently],” he said.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||Facing officers’ shortage in J&K and Ladakh, says Centre||The Union Home Ministry has written to several government departments to seek the consent of officials willing to be posted to the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The letter sent to Ministries and departments of Railways, Defence, Commerce, Customs and Excise, Posts and Telecommunications said that “The new Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh are beset with acute shortage of officers.” The former State of J&K was bifurcated into Union Territories on August 6, 2019. According to the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019, officers belonging to the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), the Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (IFS) in the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir “shall continue to function on the existing cadres,” till the Lieutenant Governor of J&K determines the final allocation of such officers between J&K and Ladakh. A year after the reorganisation of J&K, the cadre allocation is yet to be completed. Now faced with shortage of officers, the MHA is asking various government departments to depute Group A service officers to the two UTs to overcome the shortage. In an office memorandum sent to the Ministry of Defence on October 26, the MHA said, “it is requested that the willingness of Central Civil Services Officers, selected through Central Civil Exams conducted by the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission), in the (I) Indian Defence Accounts Service (IDAS), (ii) Indian Ordnance Factories Service (IOFS), (iii) Indian Defence Estates Service (IDES), may please be obtained and provide the name(s) of suitable officer(s), eligible for deputation in terms of existing guidelines and willing to serve in the Governments of UT of J&K/UT of Ladakh, along with cadre controlling authority’s consent/no objection and vigilance clearance of the officers at the earliest.”
05 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Democrats keep House, but lose incumbents to GOP||Democrats drove Wednesday toward extending their control of the House for two more years but with a potentially shrunken majority as they lost at least six incumbents and failed to oust any Republican lawmakers in initial returns. By 4 a.m. EST, Democrats’ only gains were two North Carolina seats vacated by GOP incumbents after a court-ordered remapping made the districts more Democratic. Though they seemed likely to retain House control, their performance was an unexpected disappointment for the party, which hoped for modest gains of perhaps 15 seats. After decades of trying, Republicans defeated 15-term Rep. Collin Peterson from a rural Minnesota district that backed President Donald Trump in 2016 by 31 percentage points, Mr. Trump’s biggest margin in any Democratic-held district. Mr. Peterson, who chairs the House Agriculture Committee, opposed Mr. Trump’s impeachment and is one of the House’s most conservative Democrats. He was defeated by Republican Michelle Fischbach, the former Lieutenant Governor. Also losing were freshmen Democrats Debbie Mucarsel-Powell and Donna Shalala, Health Secretary under President Bill Clinton, in adjacent South Florida districts where Mr. Trump seemed to consolidate support among Cuban voters. Others defeated were Democratic freshmen Joe Cunningham of South Carolina, Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico and Kendra Horn in Oklahoma, who had surprising victories in 2018 in districts Trump carried decisively in 2016. The fight for Ms. Torres Small’s seat cost around $35 million, making it one of the country’s most expensive races. She was defeated by Yvette Herrell, a former state legislator. Before votes were counted, both parties’ operatives said the GOP would be fortunate to limit Democratic gains to a modest single digits. Democrats control the House 232-197, with five open seats and one independent. It takes 218 seats to control the chamber. A smaller majority would make it tougher for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to unite her lawmakers as a handful of progressive freshmen arrive for the new Congress.
05 November 2020||Washington,||Twitter flags Trump tweet accusing Democrats of ‘stealing’ election||Twitter on Wednesday flagged a tweet in which President Donald Trump accused Democrats of trying to steal the presidential election. “We are up BIG, but they are trying to STEAL the Election,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter moments after Mr. Biden told supporters he expected to win. Twitter quickly flagged and hid the Trump tweet, saying “some or all of the content shared in this Tweet is disputed and might be misleading about an election or other civic process.” In his tweet, Mr. Trump said nothing to back up his charge of theft. Throughout the campaign Trump has sought to cast doubt on the integrity of the electoral process, repeatedly alleging for instance that mail-in voting will lead to fraud.
05 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Woman shot in head in ‘robbery bid’||A 26-year-old woman, who works with a multinational company, was shot in the head in a suspected robbery bid on Golf Course Extension Road in Sector 65 here on Tuesday night, the police said on Wednesday. They said that prima facie, it appeared to be a robbery attempt, but could also be a case of personal enmity. The woman, Pooja Sharma, is under treatment at Medanta Hospital and is said to be critical. Ms. Sharma, who hails from Jharkhand, and her male friend Sagar Manchanda (30), a resident of Sector 40, were returning from M3M Sky City residential project after seeing a flat. They were in their car when they saw three men on a motorcycle driving towards them. Ms. Sharma slowed down the car as the men approached them. Two men got down from the two-wheeler and came on each side of the car. Both had their faces covered. They whipped out weapons and signalled the duo to roll down the window glasses. When Ms. Sharma and Mr. Manchanda did not heed, the man on the side of Mr. Manchanda moved back a few steps and fired at the windscreen. Mr. Manchanda ducked and escaped unhurt. At this, the second man fired at the woman through the window glass and the bullet hit her in the head. The three then escaped. Mr. Manchanda, in the FIR, said he could not note down the registration number of the motorcycle. Mr. Manchanda then drove the vehicle to Medanta Hospital. The police said that CCTV footage in the area was being scanned, but the culprits were not identified as yet. Mr. Manchanda hails from Haridwar in Uttarakhand. The woman’s family has been informed.
05 November 2020||Guwahati,||Assam govt. asks districts to step up vigil||The Assam government on Wednesday asked the authorities of districts bordering Mizoram to step up vigil as the economic blockade on National Highway 306 — lifeline of Mizoram — continued for the eighth day. Top officials of the two northeastern States said efforts were on to ease tension along the 164.6-km border after the last rites of a 48-year-old man from Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district who died in Mizoram were performed. Emotions ran high after the man identified as Intiaz Ali Laskar died in a hospital at Vairengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district on November 1.  Body handed over While the Assam government said he was abducted by miscreants, the Mizoram government claimed he was a drug dealer who succumbed to injuries sustained while trying to evade capture by members of a Mizo tribal NGO. The Mizoram police had handed Mr. Laskar’s body over to their Assam counterparts on Tuesday.
05 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women, youth behind NDA, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the people of Bihar preferred the politics of good governance and that women and the youth supported the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the State. In a series of tweet in Hindi, Mr. Modi said his recent rallies in Bihar had the commonality of women and young people participating in large numbers. He said the NDA was able to win with the support of women and the youth, who saw hope in the alliance. He said only the NDA government could provide people with security, employment and new opportunities of self-employment to the youth of the State.
05 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘No action for keeping exotic animals after voluntary disclosure’||The Delhi High Court has said that once a person voluntarily discloses keeping exotic birds or animals under the Centre’s Voluntary Disclosure Scheme, he can’t be investigated for their ownership, trade and breeding. The court said that once a voluntary disclosure is made under the scheme within the stipulated time period of six months, no inquiry or action can be initiated against the person for possession, breeding or transportation of the exotic species within India, by the officers of any government agency or department. “Action of subsequent inquiry by the government after voluntary disclosure would defeat the very purpose of the scheme,” the court said.
