06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China hold talks, agree to resolve differences peacefully||India and China on Friday held talks between their Foreign Ministries and agreed to follow a consensus that differences should be handled peacefully and should not become disputes, in the highest-level diplomatic engagement since tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) erupted in May. Both sides agreed “to handle their differences through peaceful discussion bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities, concerns and aspirations and not allow them to become disputes”, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. The MEA said the two sides “reviewed the state of bilateral relations, including the current developments”. Military-level talks will be held between two Lieutenant Generals on Saturday On Friday, Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs Naveen Srivastava held a videoconference with Wu Jianghao, Director General of the Asia Department at the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The MEA said both sides noted the “consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, that peaceful, stable and balanced relations between India and China will be a positive factor for stability in the current global situation”. A readout issued by China’s MFA said both agreed to “implement the consensus that the two countries do not constitute a threat to each other” and “do not let differences rise into disputes”. It called for enhancing strategic mutual trust and properly managing differences.
06 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||A boat ride home finally ends in a longing to return||Just six weeks ago, they bought a boat to sail from Chennai to Odisha to escape the travails of the COVID-19 lockdown and unemployment. But today the fishermen of Ganjam are waiting for a train to take them back to their jobs as crew on fishing vessels in Tamil Nadu. These Odisha fishermen made a big splash as they were the first to take the sea route home even as millions of other migrants set out on foot, as the lockdown closed jobs and other options for livelihood and left many facing starvation. But just weeks after that eventful voyage home, Pokala Dilesh is keen on returning to Chennai, faced with low wages of just Rs. 200 per day from fishing on the Odisha coast and the mounting pressure of sustaining his family. “Who does not want to stay at home and make a living with family members around? [But] if earning does not meet requirement, it is better to migrate,” said Mr. Dilesh. M. Bairagi, a fisherman of Markandi village, too, resumed fishing after their post-voyage quarantine, but the meagre catch has him worried. “The earning from fishing in Odisha will help arrange two square meals a day, but cash for a marriage or house construction won’t come from the sparse catch,” he said. Mr. Dilesh and 38 other fishermen are still reeling from the travails of their voyage from Chennai to Ramayapatna in Odisha’s Ganjam district in April. Post-lockdown Chennai posed several problems for them. The value of their catch dropped sharply from Rs. 50 to Rs. 10 per kg after the lockdown was announced by the Prime Minister on March 24. Soon, there was nothing to do. With uncertainty over train and bus movement growing every day, the group decided to return home by sea. They bought a boat with three engines at Rs. 1.83 lakh, contributing Rs. 5,000 each. Diesel and food for the journey pushed up costs to Rs. 2.20 lakh. Aiming to clock six nautical miles per hour, the fishermen thought they could cover 514 nautical miles in 100 hours. High on hope, they set out on April 24 from Chennai. But the sea threw up troubles very soon. “Near Kakinada, one of the engines seized and around same time, we faced a nor’wester mid sea. Strong winds almost turned our boat upside down. When it was all over, we screamed with joy,” recalled Mr. Dilesh. They finally reached their coastal village on April 27. And then came the quarantine till May 12. Inspired by their daring sea voyage, another group of 42 fishermen too made it back to Odisha in a boat in the first week of May.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Eight die, 143 test positive for COVID||The State recorded the highest number of COVID deaths in a single day, with eight persons succumbing to the virus on Friday. The deaths pushed the total number of fatalities to 113, as the State had breached the 100-mark on Thursday. Since May 19, Telangana has been recording fatalities regularly. As many as 143 new COVID positive cases were recorded on Friday, spiking the total number of cases reported across the State to 3,290. 116 cases in GHMC limits  According to the health bulletin, of these 143 cases, 116 cases were reported in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, followed by eight cases in Rangareddy, five in Mahbubnagar, and three in Warangal districts. Khammam, Adilabad, Medchal, Sangareddy and Karimnagar districts recorded two cases each, and Mancherial recorded one. While the total number of positive cases among migrants, foreign deportees and returnees stand at 448, no fresh cases were recorded among these groups on Friday. Till date, as many as 1,627 patients were discharged and another 1,550 patients are under going treatment at hospitals. The health bulletin stated that as many as 212 deportees who tested positive for coronavirus are being treated in addition to 206 migrants. The Health department has urged that children under 10 and senior citizens should avoid going outdoors and underscored the need for wearing face masks.
06 June 2020||UDUPI,||COVID-19: Udupi district records highest single-day rise in positive cases||As many as 204 persons, including seven children, tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Friday. This is the highest increase in a single day in the district. Of the 204 cases, 203 persons have a travel history from Maharashtra and had returned to the district recently. The remaining case is a police staffer who was on duty at a check-post in the district and tested positive. The 204 cases included 157 men, 40 women, and seven children. All these persons had been shifted to the designated hospitals in the district. Over 2,000 swabs tested G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said here that the administration had tested over 2,000 swabs of the returnees and hence, there were 204 cases. So far, 8,500 persons had come from other States. The testing of samples of these persons was now coming to an end, he said. “Once this is completed, the number of persons who test positive will come down. Then we will intensify surveillance of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza-like Illness (ILI) cases in the district,” Mr. Jagadeesha said. With Friday’s cases, the total number of positive cases in the district since March is 768. Presently, there are 685 active cases in the district. One death There was one death owing to the disease on May 14. As many as 82 persons had recovered from the disease and had got discharged after treatment. The district had recorded only three cases from March 29 to May 14. But the number started increasing in the district since May 15. The district recorded 150 cases on June 2.
06 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State registers record 111 cases in a day||The State’s daily COVID-19 caseload crossed the three-digit mark on Friday with 111 cases being reported. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan issued a dire warning to the people to be really aware of the situation ahead when the disease could spread rapidly in the community. As more and more cases of local disease transmission through contacts were being reported daily, people should ask themselves if they were exercising the high level of vigil and caution that was evident in the early containment stages, he said. Situation grave: CM “With over-a-lakh people slated to return to the State from abroad this month, lockdown relaxations are likely to lead to a state of heightened disease transmission. It is time that our people understood the gravity of the situation ahead. This is a war against COVID-19 and unless every individual becomes a warrior himself and practises physical distancing, universal mask use and hand sanitisation religiously at public places, workplaces and inside public transport systems, the situation is poised to go out of control,” Mr. Vijayan said. He pointed out that the case burden had been climbing exponentially. Of the 111 cases reported, 98 were imported cases of infection in people who had returned from abroad and other States. The number of cases contracted through local transmission had also gone up to 13, including three health-care workers. 22 recoveries The State currently has 973 active cases. With 22 more recoveries reported on Friday, the number of those who have recovered from the disease now stands at 712. Till date, the State has chalked up 1,697 cases and 14 deaths. The total number of people under surveillance and in quarantine is 1,77,106, of whom 1,545 are isolated in hospitals. Mr. Vijayan said only a small proportion of those who had returned to the State after May 7 from abroad and other States had tested positive for COVID-19. Of the 1,77,033 persons who had come, just 680 had been diagnosed with the disease, with 343 having come from abroad and 337 from other States. One lakh samples The total number of samples tested also crossed one lakh and now stands at 1,04,045. Five new hotspots were declared on Friday in Wayanad, Kozhikode and Kannur districts, taking the total number of hotspots in the State to 128.
06 June 2020||Tirumala,||‘Darshan for devotees at Tirumala from June 11’||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday said darshan at the temple of Lord Venkateswara will be resumed from June 8 but in line with the health advisories issued by both Central and State governments. TTD employees would be allowed for darshan on the first two days followed by local inhabitants on an experimental basis ahead of opening the temple to the general public on June 11. Briefing the media, Mr. Reddy said devotees would be permitted to enter the temple between 7.30 a.m. and 7.30 p.m. About 6,000 devotees would be allowed to have darshan every day. While 3,000 tickets would be made available online, the rest could be availed at the offline Slotted Sarva Darshan (SSD) counters at Tirupati. Online darshan tickets for the entire month would be made available from June 8. Devotees could simultaneously book their cottages linked to darshan tokens, but only two persons would be allowed to stay in one suite. VIP break darshan would be organisedbetween 6.30 a.m. and 7.30 a.m. Devotees above 65 years and children below 10 years would not be permitted, he added. For the present, it has been decided to open the Alipiri trekking route (footpath) and permit the devotees between 6 a.m. and 4 p.m. No ‘theertham’ and ‘satari’ would be provided and pilgrims would not be allowed to visit sub-shrines inside the main temple complex. Devotees should refrain from touching the hundi and use herbal hand sanitisers provided by TTD ahead of depositing their offerings. Food would be served under the Nitya Annadanam scheme but in strict adherence to physical distancing.
06 June 2020||Belagavi,||Flood alert in Belagavi dist. after heavy rain||Following heavy rain in the district this week, officials have issued a flood alert to farmers living on the banks of the Malaprabha. An alert issued by the Assistant Commissioner’s office asks farmers to shift to higher altitude as heavy rain in Belagavi and Khanapur taluks are likely to push up water level in the river. The Naviluteertha dam on the Malaprabha near Saundatti has 12 tmcft of water as against its total capacity of 37 tmcft. A flood in the Malaprabha would affect villages in Belagavi, Bagalkot and Gadag districts. The flood caused by heavy rain and discharge from Maharashtra, in August last year affected over 112 villages on the banks of the Malaprabha. A national disaster response force team of 40 persons has descended in Yadur on the banks of the Krishna river near Chikkodi. The team members will go around villages and study the course of the river and other relevant issues, revenue officers said. As against the annual aggregated average of 10 mm, the district has received 38 mm of rain in the first five days of June. This is 270% higher than the average. Officials however, clarified that there was no need for panic. “This is just an alert and not a warning,” said Assistant Commissioner Ravindra Karalingannavarr. We have asked farmers to move to higher planes, stop cultivating crops in low-lying areas and pull out all their irrigation pumpsets from the river bed. The NDRF team is here as part of the precautionary measure. They are studying the situation and will help as the pre-emptive team for other NDRF or SDRF teams that may land in case of floods. Maharashtra officials have told us that they have only an average of 10% water stored in the 14 reservoirs on the Krishnariver. Water levels in the reservoirs in Karnataka are also less. There is no need to worry as of now, he said. According to him, the first round of meeting of officials from Maharashtra and Karnataka for exchange of information has been conducted. There will be a meeting of Water Resources Ministers soon. That will decide the future course of action,” he said. Flood in the Krishna and Malaprabha plains in Belagavi and Bagalkot district left nearly 40 persons dead and crops on lakhs of hectares of land destroyed. The discharge from Maharashtra crossed 600 tmcft of water and rainfall in the two districts was around 2,500 mm in 100 days.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Deaths on Shramik trains not due to lack of food, water’||The government on Friday told the Supreme Court that not a single migrant worker had died on Shramik Special trains due to lack of food, water or medication. Their deaths were due to “earlier illnesses”. In turn, a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, asked the government to complete the transportation of migrant workers, whether by rail or road, in the next 15 days. The Bench said the exodus cannot continue indefinitely. The court was hearing a suo motu case on the migrant workers’ crisis. It reserved the case for final orders to be pronounced on June 9. Explaining reports about the deaths on Shramik Specials, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta briefed the court that “an enquiry found that no deaths were caused by lack of food, water or medication... The people who died had some earlier illnesses. Railways has the details. People who showed signs of illness were shifted to the nearest hospitals”. No official number Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi said according to news reports, a total of 80 individuals lost their lives while travelling on the Shramik Specials. However, no official number has been released till date. Further, media reports said 644 migrant labourers died in the lockdown. “Absence of data on the actual number of migrant labourers aggravates these calamities by leaving the administering agencies under-prepared to deal with the challenges,” he argued.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Massive spike in foreign flows into market||In just under a week in June, the quantum of foreign flows into the equity market has surpassed that of any other month in the current calendar year. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought shares worth Rs. 20,814 crore in just five trading sessions in the current month. This is the highest in any month of 2020, with the previous high registered in May at Rs. 14,569 crore. Market participants are of the view that the sudden surge was on account of the rights issue of Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), the stake sale in Kotak Mahindra Bank, and the slight uptick in optimism even as pandemic concerns continue to linger. “These two corporate events saw major participation by FPIs,” said Arjun Yash Mahajan, head, Institutional Business, Reliance Securities, while referring to RIL’s rights issue, and Uday Kotak selling 2.83% stake in Kotak Mahindra Bank. “Add to these two events, the broader benchmark Nifty saw a breakout and added over 4.5% since the close on May 29. The current rally has seen money flow into sectors like automobiles, private banks and pharmaceuticals as there is continued hope of the worst being left behind,” added Mr. Mahajan. RIL rights issue RIL’s rights issue — the country’s largest at Rs. 53,124.20 crore — closed on June 3 and was subscribed 1.59 times with many foreign institutional investors putting in significant bids. On Tuesday, Uday Kotak sold shares worth around Rs. 6,800 crore of Kotak Mahindra Bank.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||States to decide on reopening of schools||The State governments will each make their own decisions on when to reopen schools, School Education Secretary Anita Karwal said on Friday, emphasising that the Centre would not intervene in the issue. However, the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development has prepared guidelines for sanitation, quarantine and physical distancing norms to be followed by schools whenever they reopen, she said. Ms. Karwal was speaking at a virtual conference on school education and the COVID challenge, hosted by Ashoka University. Consultations on “The safe school operation guidelines are actually ready. We are doing some consultation with the States, and there is some kind of rumour going around that these guidelines are actually going to tell the date of school reopening. No, there is no such thing, I must clarify,” she said. “Because school reopening dates are entirely within the purview of the State governments and the Union Territories and they have to decide depending on the local situation. The Centre does not intervene on this. We are only trying to prepare guidelines for sanitation and social distancing and how to do classroom transactions with all these guidelines.”
06 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Jodhpur policeman pins man down with knee||A video showing some policemen throwing a man on the ground and one of them pressing his neck with the knee in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur town has gone viral on social media. The police claimed that the man, identified as Mukesh Kumar Prajapat, 38, was roaming around without a face mask and had turned violent when confronted by on-duty constables. The scenes bear an eerie resemblance to the recent episode in Minneapolis, U.S., where a 46-year-old African American, George Floyd, died after a white officer knelt on his neck for several minutes while he was pinned to the floor, sparking massive protests across the country. Mr. Prajapat allegedly started fighting with the policemen when they stopped him for not wearing a mask in Jodhpur’s Chopasni Housing Board area on Thursday evening. When the constables proceeded to fine him, he allegedly attacked them and tore their uniform. According to eyewitness accounts, the accused started slapping and punching them. A video of the incident shot by a passer-by showed one of the policemen kneeling on Mr. Prajapat’s neck for a few seconds and others holding his legs. Dev Nagar police station SHO Somkaran Charan told The Hindu that a criminal case was registered against the man and he was produced in the court. Judicial custody The court remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days on Friday. Mr. Prajapat is said to have mental health issues and his father had filed a case against him last year alleging that his son had gouged his eye. A chargesheet has since been filed in the court in connection with that case.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots case probe team in quarantine||A Delhi court hearing the bail application of a man arrested in connection with a murder during the north-east Delhi riots was informed that the entire team of Crime Branch probing the case has been quarantined at home. On June 3, an Assistant Commissioner of Police told the court hearing the Rahul Solanki murder case that the “entire team of the investigating officer (IO) of this case has been in home quarantine and cannot appear today”. Official sources confirmed that around eight officers of the Crime Branch are in home quarantine after a canteen worker was found positive for COVID-19. Following the ACP’s submission, the court called for a “fresh reply from IO through e-mail and to send link to all concerned parties through their respective e-mail IDs for Webex online meeting for the next date” on June 6. The court was hearing the bail plea of accused Sirajuddine, who was picked up by the police on March 28 from his house and is currently in Mandoli Jail. The FIR based on which he was arrested relates to the death of 26-year-old Solanki on February 24 from gunshot injury. ‘Targeted persecution’ While the police arrested Sirajuddine on account of his purported involvement in the acts mentioned under the FIR including rioting, the bail plea argued that the FIR “does not even remotely mention” his involvement in rioting and vandalising property. “The arrest of the applicant can certainly be termed as targeted persecution of the poor and marginalised section of the society,” the bail plea said, submitting that Sirajuddine is the breadwinner of the family and has to earn a living on a daily basis.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Five Ministers to oversee containment efforts||As cases have been spiking in Chennai over the past few days, the government on Friday nominated five Ministers to ensure effective containment zone management, focused testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine management to prevent COVID-19 from spreading further. The Ministers will also supervise the COVID-19 relief work being carried out by the Greater Chennai Corporation in its 15 zones, along with the designated field support teams. Relief work Some of the relief works undertaken by officials include providing dry rations, arranging alternative accommodation for people in highly populated containment areas, taking preventive measures to stop the spread of the virus and providing masks. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar will be responsible for zones 3, 4 and 5; Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan will oversee containment efforts in zones 13, 14 and 15; Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Kamaraj will look after zones 8, 9 and 10; Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management R.B. Udhayakumar will be in charge of zones 1, 2 and 6; and Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar will supervise the efforts being made in zones 7, 11 and 12.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,||TDB not to lease out properties for cultivation||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has given an undertaking before a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court that it would not implement its decision to lease out properties of various Devaswoms for cultivation. The undertaking was given by counsel for the TDB on Friday when a case challenging a board decision to lease out some Devaswom properties came up before the Bench. The TDB, in an affidavit, further submitted that it owned an extent of more than 3,000 acres of land, most of which were lying idle. Many temples under it bought flowers and other essential articles for conducting pujas and making payasam from outside. Therefore, the board thought it fit to make use of the vacant land for cultivation after setting apart enough space required for festivals. The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed by R.V. Babu, general secretary, Hindu Aikya Vedi.
06 June 2020||GUNTUR,||HC: Dr. Sudhakar free to shift to another hospital||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday ordered that K. Sudhakar, the anaesthesiologist based in Visakhapatnam, can get himself discharged from the Government Hospital for Mental Care for better treatment as per procedure. After hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by his mother, Kaveri Bai, a Division Bench consisting of Justices A.V. Sesha Sai and Justice K. Lalitha Kumari observed that since Dr. Sudhakar was not in the custody of either the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or the police, he could go to any hospital for better treatment if he so desired, after following procedures. Delivering the orders, the court said Dr. Sudhakar should cooperate with the CBI. The High Court had, in its order on May 22, directed that Dr. Sudhakar’s case be handed over to the CBI. CBI questions RDO Meanwhile, CBI officials on Friday visited Narsipatnam and questioned RDO K. Sivajyothi and Narsipatnam Municipal Commissioner K. Krishnaveni. They were there for about three hours with both the officers.  Verdict hailed Ms. Kaveri hailed the High Court ruling on habeas corpus petition in her favour. Speaking to mediapersons, she alleged that the government had tried to make him mentally unstable by retaining him in the government hospital. She alleged that there had been pressure on her from the government since the case was filed against her son. In a late night development Dr. Sudhakar's family members informed the press that he has been released by the Government hospital and has been shifted to a private hospital.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Masked relief||
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Deve Gowda should contest’||The Janata Dal (Secular) at its legislature party meeting on Friday passed a one-line resolution that party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda should contest the Rajya Sabha polls. While party sources said that Mr. Gowda contesting with Congress’s support is almost certain, his son and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy maintained that his father was yet to take a final call.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||1,438 new cases in T.N.||For the sixth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu added 1,000-plus cases of COVID-19 on Friday. The State recorded 1,438 new cases of COVID-19, with Chennai accounting for 1,116 cases. The State’s tally has climbed to 28,694 while that of Chennai is inching to the 20,000-mark.Page 2
06 June 2020||ONGOLE,||Mild tremors shake Ongole||Mild tremors were felt in some parts of Ongole and its surroundings on Friday. Panic-stricken people rushed out of their homes in, among other places, Thuravagunta, Devuducheruvu, Vaddepalem and C.S.R. Sarma college around 10.15 a.m. The tremors measured 2.7 on the Richter scale, according to National Centre for Seismology sources. The epicentre of the temblor was located five km north north-east of Ongole, D. Srinagesh, senior scientist at the CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) told The Hindu . Prakasam District Joint Collector J. Venkata Murali, who himself felt articles changing their place in his office, said people need not fear as the temblor was a “mild one”. The region witnessed 12 earthquakes in the past, including two major ones in 1967 and 1959, with magnitudes of 5.4 and 5 respectively.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19: India overtakes Italy||India on Friday registered 9,332 new COVID-19 cases and 297 deaths. The tally now stands at 2,36,047, including 1,16,258 active cases, and 6,647 deaths. The country now has the sixth highest number of cases, surpassing Italy.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The untiring warrior||
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||China appoints new commander||China has appointed a new Army commander, Lieutenant General Xu Qiling, to oversee the People’s Liberation Army Ground Force on the India border, amid the ongoing tensions across the Line of Actual Control.page 9
06 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||138 fresh COVID cases in State||Two persons died and 138 fresh positive cases of coronavirus have surfaced in the State in tlast 24 hours ending Friday morning, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 4,250. Of them, 2,556 (35 new cases) have recovered, 1,621 of them are ‘active’. The two deaths take the total toll dur to the virus to 73. Of these 138 fresh cases, 50 have been identified as locals, four of them are foreign returnees and the remaining 84 are either migrant returnees or people from other States.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Now, UAPA slapped on second Pinjra Tod activist||The police have filed an FIR against Devangana Kalita, who is associated with the ‘Pinjra Tod’ group, under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a case related to communal violence in north-east Delhi in February, a police officer said on Friday.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records 1,330 new virus cases, 25 deaths||The Capital recorded 1,330 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 26,334, and 25 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the Delhi government health bulletin released on Friday.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,||State records 515 cases in a day||Karnataka on Friday recorded a whopping 515 cases on a single day, 482 of which are inter-State travellers. As many as 474 of them had returned from Maharashtra. This single-day spike indicates the galloping rate of the spread.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,||KSRTC keen on services to neighbouring States||The KSRTC that had stopped inter-State services on March 22, may resume services to some neighbouring States. It has requested the State government to take up the matter with its counterparts in Goa, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,||HC to restrict functioning as judges test positive||The Madras High Court on Friday decided to restrict its functioning once again and take up only select cases for hearing from Monday after three judges and some court staff tested positive for COVID-19.Only two Division Benches and three single judges would hear cases through videoconferencing.
06 June 2020||Chennai,||Staff shortage hits govt. hospitals as cases spike||With COVID-19 cases continuing to rise in the city, government hospitals are faced with a shortage of staff. A number of doctors working in the four government hospitals said there was a definite need for more manpower.
06 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rapid community spread possible: Kerala CM||Telangana reported eight deaths on Friday, raising its total fatalities to 113. The State had a total of 3,290 cases, of which 1,550 were active. Andhra Pradesh reported two more fatalities. Sounding a note of warning, Kerala Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said on Friday that COVID-19 could spread rapidly in the community, as fresh cases in the State touched 111. As more cases of local disease transmission through contacts got reported, people should ask themselves if they were exercising the high vigil and caution as in the early containment stages, now that lock down concessions were made more generous, he said. “With over a lakh more people slated to return to the State from abroad this month, lock down relaxations are likely to lead to higher disease transmission. It is time that our people understood the gravity of the situation. This is a war against COVID-19 and unless every individual becomes a warrior and practises social distancing, universal mask use and hand sanitisation at public places, workplaces and in public transport systems, the situation could go out of control,” Mr. Vijayan warned. The case burden was climbing exponentially. Of 111 new cases, 98 were imported (returnees from abroad and other States), but the number of cases through local transmission also rose to 13, including three healthcare workers. The State had 973 active cases. With 22 more recoveries, the number of those who had recovered stood at 712. Till date the State counted 1,697 cases and 14 deaths.  Mr. Vijayan said only a small proportion of those who had returned to the State after May 7 from abroad and other States were positive for COVID-19. Of the 1,77,033 persons who had come, just 680 were diagnosed with the disease, with 343 having come from abroad and 337 from other States. Kerala had tested over one lakh samples, at 1,04,045. Five new hot spots were declared on Friday, in Wayanad, Kozhikode and Kannur districts. There were 128 hotspots in the State. Friday’s daily coronavirus count in Andhra Pradesh was 138 cases, taking the tally of COVID-19 to 4,250. Of these, 2,556 (35 new cases) had recovered, 1621 were ‘active’ and, with two new deaths, there were 73 fatalities. Of the 138 fresh cases, 50 were identified as local individuals, four foreign returnees and the remaining either migrant returnees or people from other states. In Telangana, 143 new cases were recorded on Friday, raising the total to 3,290. Of these, 116 cases were in Greater Hyderabad, followed by eight cases in Rangareddy, five in Mahbubnagar, and three in Warangal districts. Khammam, Adilabad, Medchal, Sangareddy and Karimnagar districts recorded two cases each, and Mancherial recorded one. For the sixth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu added 1,000-plus cases. The State recorded 1,438 new infections, with Chennai accounting for 77% of the fresh cases. With this, TN’s total tally of cases climbed to 28,694*, while that of the city is inching closer to the 20,000-mark. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said of the 1438 new cases, 33 persons had returned from abroad and other States. “Chennai accounts for 1,116 of the new cases. The State has reported 12 more deaths including in government and private hospitals, co-morbidities and incidental deaths,” he said. He said that the State government was transparent in declaring the COVID-19 positive cases. On Friday, a total of 861 persons were discharged from hospitals. This took the total number of persons discharged to 15,762, while the active cases stood at 12,697.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai Bureaus)
06 June 2020||Chennai,||China appoints new Army commander for India border||China has appointed a new Army commander to oversee the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Ground Force on the India border, amid ongoing tensions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The appointment was first publicly confirmed on June 1 in a Chinese media report that identified Lieutenant General Xu Qiling as the new commander of the Western Theater Command Ground Force. It is unclear when the appointment was made. Indian and Chinese forces have been in stand-offs along the LAC since early May. Lt. Gen. Xu will report to General Zhao Zongqi, who is the commander of the Western Theater Command and oversees all forces there, including the Ground Force, the Air Force and the Rocket Force. The command is responsible for the India border and is the biggest of five theater commands. Theater commands are usually headed by generals. Gen. Zhao was the Western Theater commander during the 2017 Doklam stand-off. In October 2017, he was appointed to the Communist Party’s 19th Central Committee. Gen. Zhao’s counterpart in the Eastern Theater Command, General He Weidong, was in charge of the Ground Force in the west, before his promotion in January to head the entire Eastern Theater Command. Lt. Gen. Xu’s appointment can be thought of a lateral move, as he previously held the same position in the Eastern Theater Command. China doesn’t usually comment on military appointments. While the appointment may have been routine — it isn’t clear if the PLA had filled the post after Gen He’s promotion in January — the timing coincides with rising border tensions. Two former Indian Generals said on Wednesday that the current stand-offs were different from past incidents, which were generally localised. The scale of the stand-offs in at least four different spots on the LAC and in two sectors suggested a higher level of planning, they said. Planning tasks The responsibility for planning generally lies with the Western Theater Command, which is also the point of responsibility for managing the border situation. Lt Gen Xu and Gen Zhao are key figures in decision-making. Only in January, then Northern Commander Lt. Gen. Ranbir Singh headed a delegation to China, and met Gen. Zhao at the command’s headquarters in Chengdu in a visit aimed at improving communication between the militaries. In an editorial on Friday, the Communist Party-run Global Times said Saturday’s meeting “has brought hope for the two countries to further ease tensions on border issues.” It noted that “Chinese and Indian officials have kept a low profile on the border frictions.” “The China-India border line and the LAC are still unclear. In the past, the two militaries had few chances to encounter during patrols. But as both militaries are increasing their modernisation level, their infrastructures are also extending to the border areas, leading to more disputes,” the editorial said. “China does not want to fall foul of India...We have no reason to make India our enemy,” the newspaper said. “But China will not give up any inch of territory. Once India makes a strategic misjudgment and nibbles away at China’s territory, China will never condone it. China is bound to make strong countermeasures.”
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Can private hospitals treat all at Ayushman Bharat rate, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to respond to whether COVID-19 patients, who are not beneficiaries under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, can be treated in private hospitals at the same subsidised rates offered under the scheme. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde heard petitioner-advocate Sachin Jain argue that COVID-19 treatment costs only Rs. 4000 for an Ayushman Bharat beneficiary in a private hospital, while others have to shell out a minimum of Rs. 50,000 for treatment in the same hospital. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta argued that the Ayushman Bharat scheme was meant for an identifiable category drawn from the poorest of the poor sections of society. The scheme cannot cover every strata of society. Mr. Mehta said it was untrue to say that the government was “supporting” corporate hospitals. “The government is doing its best to support the poor”, he submitted. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, for hospitals’ associations, countered that their revenue was already down by 60 to 70%. Mr. Salve submitted, “We also have Ayushman Bharat patients. There are other patients covered by their private insurance. What Mr. Jain wants is insurance companies should also be covered by Ayushman Bharat”. Mr. Rohatgi said “nobody is coming to a hospital now unless it is an emergency operation”. The court asked the government to file its response in two weeks on the question of extending relief under Ayushman Bharat. Charitable hospitals The court, meanwhile, questioned why charitable hospitals reaping “huge profits” while functioning on public land received at concessional rates cannot treat COVID-19 patients free of cost. “In this issue, we are not likely to grant anything against private hospitals... But what about charitable hospitals who have taken land from the government? Why can’t charitable hospitals who made huge profits and continue to make profits... let them continue... but why can’t it be ensured that they do some service to society”, CJI Bobde asked the government. Mr. Mehta said the law did not bifurcate between private charitable hospitals functioning on public land and others. Another virtual court Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan also issued notice on a petition filed by Avishek Goenka, who alleged that private hospitals were charging exorbitant amounts to treat COVID-19 patients.
06 June 2020||Kolkata,||Close to 28% of Sunderbans damaged in Cyclone Amphan||About 28% of the Sunderbans have been damaged by Cyclone Amphan, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday at the launch of a drive for planting mangroves and trees to mark World Environment Day. She said 1,200 sq km of the 4,263 sq km forests had been “destroyed”. The Indian Sunderbans, an area south of the Dampier Hodges line, is spread over 9,630 sq km, of which the mangrove forest accounts for 4,263 sq km. Principal Chief Conservator of Forest Ravi Kanta Sinha said the damage was mostly in the Patharpratima and Kultali areas of South 24 Parganas. “The damage has been much more on the Indian side and not on the Bangladesh side,” he said. On trees turning yellow and red after the cyclone, he said the phenomenon was mostly due to salinity. “The trees that turned yellow were not mangrove trees, it was mostly due to the dense fog of saline water. We are not sure whether the trees will survive. Maybe if the salinity of the soil comes down, some trees can survive,” he said. Despite the massive plantation drives, it may take years to restore the mangroves, officials said. Experts say the mangroves not only reduce wind speed but also break the waves during a cyclone. The Chief Minister said the Forest Department should be prepared to plant 3.5 crore mangrove trees by July 14, World Forest Day. Ms. Banerjee said 16,000 trees were damaged in Kolkata. About Rs. 100 crore would be spent on plantation drives in Kolkata and adjoining areas. Trees had been lost not only on the streets but also in parks and gardens. The Chief Minister wrote on Twitter, “We must all work together to restore the greenery in our State.”
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tough negotiations ahead: experts||Ahead of the crucial talks between military commanders of India and China to resolve the month-long stand-off on the border, experts have expressed caution on the outcome of the discussions, saying it would take some hard negotiations to get China move back to its previous positions and require a diplomatic intervention as well. “These military to military talks will ensure that there is no escalation on the ground between the two sides. But resolution is not going to happen from military talks alone. It will take some long, hard negotiations and would require diplomatic intervention as well,” Lt. Gen. (retd.) D.S. Hooda told The Hindu . Push and pull India would want restoration of status quo ante before May 5 and China would not accept it immediately, the former Northern Army Commander added. On Saturday, in the first-ever ground level talks at the level of Lieutenant Generals, the Army’s 14 Corps Commander will lead the Indian delegation for talks with his Chinese equivalent to be held at the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on the Chinese side. Separately, responding to questions on the border talks, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said they continue to maintain close communications though military and diplomatic channels and were committed to “resolve the relevant issue.” Lt. Gen. S.L. Narasimhan (retd.), Member of the National Security Advisory Board and Director General of the Centre for Contemporary China Studies, said talks have been going on at different levels on the ground since the beginning of the tensions early last month. “Since the meeting is at a higher level and the first time such talks are taking between the top military commanders, some positive movement is expected,” he stated and added total resolution was tough. The stand-off began a month back with scuffles on the night of May 5 at Pangong Tso, resulting in serious injuries on both sides. There was another scuffle on May 9 at Naku La in Sikkim. Beginning then, China has systematically brought in large number of troops inside Indian territory at various points at Pangong Tso, Galwan and Hot Springs in Ladakh. Strategic level Another former Northern Army Commander, Lt. Gen. HS Panag (retd.) said meetings between military commanders would be appropriate to resolve a localised incident like in the past. “This is not a small incident. The decision is at the strategic level. And would have been taken politically at the highest levels in the Chinese government.” “The backdrop of the push by China is to reassert its hegemony in the light of other developments and make us back down on our infrastructure development and so the resolution of this problem has to be at that level”, he stated. “Military commanders can at best spell out the expectations on both side, what they can do to diffuse the situation. Then the ball will get thrown to the political level.” Negotiating a pullback by China from Pangong Tso and Galwan would be tricky, he said. On Pangong Tso, the Indian side should negotiate to restore status quo before May and urge China to move back from Finger 4 with a promise of not developing infrastructure beyond the point. On Hot Springs, he said, there shouldn’t be any problem as it was a minor incursion. Galwan had not been an area of contention in the past and “that will be a tough one,” he added. Chinese response MFA spokesperson Geng Shuang said in Beijing that the current situation in the boundary region was “overall stable and controllable.” “We have full-fledged border related mechanisms and we maintain close communications though military and diplomatic channels. We are committed to properly resolve the relevant issue,” he stated.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ahead of vote for UNSC seat, India launches campaign brochure||India will highlight international terrorism, United Nations reforms and Security Council expansion, streamlining the world body’s peacekeeping operations and technology initiatives during its upcoming tenure as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) in 2021-22, said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar here. “The normal process of international governance has been under increasing strain as frictions have increased. Traditional and non-traditional security challenges continue to grow unchecked. Terrorism is the most egregious of such examples,” said Mr. Jaishankar, releasing a campaign brochure ahead of the vote. “Unreformed and under-representative” global institutions and the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic impact would increase challenges for the UNSC, he added. “India’s overall objective during this tenure in the UN Security Council will be the achievement of N.O.R.M.S: a New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System,” he stated. This will be the eighth time India will occupy a non-permanent UNSC seat, with its last stint in 2011-2012. Guaranteed place India is guaranteed a place in the UNSC as it is the sole candidate for Asia-Pacific, but needs two-thirds of the 193-member General Assembly to vote in its favour in a secret ballot scheduled for June 17 in New York. Mexico is also expected to be elected unopposed for the Latin American group but there will be a battle for 2 seats of the West European and Others Group (WEOG) between Canada, Ireland and Norway, and for the African seat between Kenya and Djibouti. While India is expected to sail through with the 129 votes required for the seat, the government is setting its sights on much higher numbers than that ahead of the election. In 2010, when India stood for the UNSC seat of 2011-2012, it won 187 of the 190 votes polled. The government launched its plan for the UNSC seat as far back as 2013, officials said, with a keen eye on 2021, the year that will mark its 75th year of Independence. “We were asked to identify an uncontested spot, which was a problem as the first such slot would only come available in 2026,” Asoke Mukherji who was the U.N. Permanent Representative in 2013 told The Hindu . “To our good fortune, the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan agreed, in a gesture to our friendship, to step aside for the 2021-22 seat. They cleared the decision in their Cabinet and then we wrote jointly to the General Assembly,” he added The next big challenge was to pursue the Asia-Pacific grouping nomination without any last minute contenders being propped up against India. Diplomatic talks “While diplomacy between capitals certainly helps, the vote had to be tied down by negotiations on the ground,” said a diplomat, explaining how India was able to win a unanimous endorsement from the 55-nation grouping that included both China and Pakistan, in June 2019. However, given rising tensions in relations with both those countries since then, as well as criticism from countries such as Turkey and Malaysia and other groupings like the OIC (Organisation of Islamic Cooperation) over the government’s decision on Article 370 last August as well as the Citizenship Amendment Act, officials admit that the challenge to win the maximum votes at the General Assembly this time is going to be more uphill than in the past.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Draft rules prohibit use of drones for delivery||Food delivery by drones in India is quite sometime away despite the DGCA’s nod to aggregators like Zomato and Swiggy for trials. The Centre has notified draft rules prohibiting “carriage of payload” as well as “dropping of articles” by unmanned aerial vehicles. The Ministry of Civil Aviation notified the draft rules, known as Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2020, on June 2 for importing, manufacturing and owning drones as well as for drone ports, or airports for drones. It has invited comments from stakeholders within 30 days, following which the rules will be finalised. The draft rules by the Centre come 18 months after it mandated that drone owners will have to get their equipment registered with the DGCA and allowed their use within the visual range. Rule number 36 and 38 in the Ministry’s draft state that no unmanned aircraft shall carry any payload, unless specified by the Director General of DGCA. Neither shall a person “drop or project or cause or permit to be dropped or projected from a UAS (unmanned aircraft system) in motion anything,” except when specified. The rules come at a time the DGCA has permitted food startups like Zomato and Swiggy to conduct trials for drones beyond the visual line of sight (BVLOS). As many as 13 consortia, including SpiceJet, have received permissions from the aviation safety watchdog to conduct trials. A DGCA official explained that trials for these 13 companies could take up to six months to conclude. Each of these companies will then submit a report to the DGCA, which will then examine the feasibility of remote operations of drones. An official of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, too, said that a separate set of rules which will enable use of drones for e-commerce or delivering medical supplies may take at least a year. This time-frame may be too optimistic, as regulatory clearances are slow and tardy. It was way back in August 2018, at a press conference to announce rules for commercial use of drones, that the then Minister of State for Civil Aviation Jayant Sinha had spoken of of starting trials for VLOS operations. Now, nearly two years later, the trials are yet to conclude.
06 June 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra reports highest fatality surge with 139 deaths||With 139 COVID-19 related deaths reported on Friday, Maharashtra posted its highest fatality surge yet to take the State’s total death toll to 2,849. Another spike of 2,436 new cases saw the State’s total case tally breach the 80,000-mark to reach 80,229. Of the total case tally, only 42,215 are active positive ones, said State Health Department officials. As many as 1,475 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the total number till date to 35,156. Recovery rate “The State’s recovery rate currently stands at 43.81% while its case fatality rate is 3.55%,” said State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate. Mumbai’s total case tally reached 46,080, with the city reporting 1,149 new cases. Of these, 25,768 are active cases. With 54 new fatalities, Mumbai’s total death toll has risen to 1,519. As many as 30 deaths were reported from Thane district to take the district’s toll to 131. Fourteen deaths were reported from Pune district to take the district’s toll to 390. However, Pune district authorities said the death toll had already risen to 393. The total tally, as per State Health department figures, has reached 9,051, with the district reporting more than 200 new cases on Friday. After a period of relative calm, Malegaon – a major virus hotspot in Nashik – reported eight fatalities to take its total to 66. Ratnagiri district in the Konkan reported five deaths to take its total count to ten. The district, which has witnessed a significant spurt in new cases in the past fortnight, now has reported a total of 344 cases, 205 of them active.
06 June 2020||Petrapole (North 24 Parganas),||At the largest land port in the country, no signs yet of unlocking trade||On the first day of Unlock 1.0, Jessore Road in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas returned to life with people and vehicles emerging after two months. The road culminates in India’s largest Customs port, Petrapole, on the India-Bangladesh border. It accounts for a majority of bilateral trade. Even after trade activities started, the largest international land port wore a deserted look. The Indian and Bangladesh flags stood still. Custom clearing agents and a handful of traders from both sides stood around the pole and spoke in a high pitch. “In the past two-and-a-half months, we have written several letters to the authorities in the State and at the Centre, including the Prime Minister’s Office, for resumption of trade, but the issue is far from being resolved,” said Kartik Chakraborty, secretary of the Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association. Mr. Chakraborty and other Customs clearing agents go so far as the zero point, talk to Bangladesh traders about the resumption of trade and leave. A kilometre away from the international checkpoint is a large shed surrounded by trucks. This is the area where trucks from India cross to Bangladesh and vice versa. BSF officer Pradip Singh said two companies of soldiers were deployed round the clock to check the trucks passing from both sides. He said that on an average, 500-600 trucks passed through the checkpoint daily. Bilateral trade was suspended in the last week of March. It resumed at the intervention of the Union government on April 30. But only a few trucks plied as the locals protested and alleged that the resumption of trade would help in the spread of COVID-19. The district authorities expressed their inability to resume the trade. According to the clearing agents, a handful of people were protesting, demanding that the drivers returning from Bangladesh be quarantined for 14 days. While the BSF removed the protesters from near the checkpoint, trade could not be resumed. The State government was upset at the resumption of trade. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said on April 30 that the State should have the final word on such matters. District officials are tight-lipped about the resumption of trade. “We have nothing to say about export and import,” North 24 Parganas District Magistrate Chaitali Chakrabarti said. Asked whether the district administration had any objection, she said, “We do not have any objection. It has to start at zero point.” The BSF said it was fully prepared to facilitate trade. “We are ready with our Standard Operating Procedure and the protocol to deal with COVID-19,” said S.S. Guleria, DIG, Public Relations, South Bengal Frontier of the BSF. While there is no official figure on trade losses, Mr. Chakraborty, the secretary of the Customs clearing agent association, said it could be around Rs. 2,000 crore. Rising uncertainty Until a few weeks ago, 2,000 trucks were lined on the road leading to the checkpoint. Not knowing when the trade would resume, many drivers had parked their trucks and left. At the BSF shed, there are several trucks from Bangladesh awaiting clearance and hundreds of trucks from India. Drivers are waiting for the trade to start so that they can unload the goods and return. Binod Kumar is a truck driver from Rajasthan and Pratap Singh is from Haryana. They have been waiting with their trucks full of cotton since early March. “It took us seven days from our States to reach here. We have been waiting for three months,” they said. Jamsedh Ali Mondal, an Indian trader, says his truck carrying machine parts has been stuck in Bangladesh since March 18. The trade through Petrapole (India) and Benapole (Bangladesh) has been a bone of contention between the Union government and the State government during the pandemic. On May 5, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to the Chief Secretary that an “unilateral action on the part of the Government of West Bengal to stop cross-land border movement of essential goods would have larger implications for the Indian government with regard to its legally binding international commitments.” Mr. Bhalla said letters were issued on April 24 to allow transport of goods through the India-Nepal, India-Bhutan and India-Bangladesh borders. On May 9, the West Bengal government suggested an alternative route. Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said there was an “emotive issue” among the locals who feared the spread of the contagion if the trade resumed and suggested a railway route from Gede (Nadia) to Darsana (Bangladesh).
06 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Despite decline in virus cases, Rajasthan keeps strict watch||Despite a decline in the number of people with symptoms staying at home and institutional quarantines, a strict watch is being kept in Rajasthan on the position of the novel coronavirus infection. The State Medical and Health Department is monitoring the health of infected persons, while ensuring adherence to all health protocols. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said at a review meeting on the COVID-19 lockdown that though a capacity of 2.5 lakh beds had been created in the institutional quarantines, the need for utilising them on a large scale had not arisen so far. “The school and college buildings, which have not been used, may be sanitised for the next academic session,” he said. Mr. Gehlot said the pandemic was under control in the State, with the recovery rate reported at 70% and the infection's doubling rate touching 20 days, while more than 4.5 lakh diagnostic tests had been conducted. No COVID-19-related deaths had occurred in several of the districts in the State, he added.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru/New Delhi,||Mallikarjun Kharge nominated for RS||Congress general secretary M. Mallikarjun Kharge on Friday was announced as the party’s official candidate from Karnataka for the Rajya Sabha (RS) elections. The elections to four RS seats from Karnataka have been scheduled for June 19. Of the four seats, the Opposition can win two while the ruling party can win two. The RS elections assume significance in Karnataka as it could bring old allies, the Congress and the JD(S), together again. With 44 first-preference votes required to elect Mr. Kharge, the Congress will be left with 24 surplus votes in the elections. The Congress is expected to support the former Prime Minister and JD(S) patriarch H.D. Deve Gowda, if it gets support from the JD(S) in the election to seven seats of the Legislative Council, later this month. The JD(S) needs 10 extra votes to send Mr. Gowda to the Upper House as the party has only 34 members in the Legislative Assembly. The Congress’ choice of its RS nominee will also change the internal dynamics of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) that will now be headed by D.K. Shivakumar. The Congress’ choice of its RS nominee will also change the internal dynamics of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) that will now be headed by D.K. Shivakumar. With a RS berth, Mr. Kharge — currently the general secretary in-charge of party affairs in Maharashtra where the Congress currently shares power with the Shiv Sena and the NCP — will make a return to national politics and is expected to add heft to the Congress benches in Parliament.   The former leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha lost to the BJP’s Umesh Jadhav from Kalaburagi in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Congress insiders in Karnataka said though the former president Rahul Gandhi had a younger candidate, his mother and current party chief Sonia Gandhi decided on Mr. Kharge because of his parliamentary experience. Also, Mr. Kharge’s nomination will help the Congress manage a delicate balance of power between Mr. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Siddaramaiah, who had emerged as the tallest Congress leader during his tenure as Chief Minister. In fact, a couple of recent meetings between Mr. Shivakumar and Mr. Kharge had given rise to speculation that the two may have come together to keep Mr. Siddaramaiah under check. But officially, Mr. Kharge has been supported by all camps in the Karnataka Congress.
06 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,||Case against Maneka Gandhi for remarks on Malappuram||The police here registered a case against animal activist and BJP MP Maneka Gandhi following a series of complaints against her after she made inciting remarks about Malappuram and its people in connection with the death of an elephant in Palakkad district. An FIR (No. 321/2020) against Ms. Gandhi was registered at the Malappuram police station on Friday under Section 153 of the Indian Penal Code for “wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot”. Although there were seven complaints against her for the same reason, only one FIR was filed for all of them. Among those who complained were the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), the Youth Congress, the Democratic Youth Federation of India, the Solidarity Youth Movement and Supreme Court lawyer K.R. Subhash Chandran. The police said they would investigate the matter and would add other charges, if required. While responding to the elephant death that took place in the Mannarkkad forest division of Palakkad district on May 27, Ms. Gandhi had tweeted against Malappuram and described it as the most violent district in the country. Her tweet read: “Mallapuram (sic) is known for its intense criminal activity, especially with regard to animals. No action has ever been taken against a single poacher or wildlife killer; so they keep doing it. I can only suggest that you call/email and ask for action.” Her comments were followed by a plethora of hate messages against Malappuram and its people, sparking furious reactions. She was accused of adding communal colour to an animal-related issue. IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, and working secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, condemning Ms. Gandhi, said that the attack on Malappuram and its people was part of an attempt to implement the political agenda of the BJP government.
06 June 2020||Adilabad,||A2 tiger sighted yet again near SCCL office in Adilabad||As if to remind people that Friday was being celebrated as World Environment Day, a tiger appeared in full view near the Singareni Srirampur Area General Manager’s office in Srirampur in Mancherial district in the small hours of Friday. Some of those who were present around the place videographed the big cat which is apparently ‘A2’ and was being sighted since the last few weeks. The information had forest and police authorities swinging into action to protect the tiger. While Forest Department teams started monitoring its movement, the police was led by Ramagundam Commissioner of Police V. Satyanarayana in inspecting its pug marks around the GM’s office. The Commissioner of Police warned people against causing any harm to the tiger. He said stringent action will be taken if anyone harms the big cat or the forest. Mr. Satyanarayana reminded people of the case against poachers last year to instill fear of law in the hearts of those who may be inclined towards harming the tiger. Jaipur Assistant Commissioner of Police G. Narender, Srirampur CI Koteshwar and SI Mangilal accompanied the CP.
06 June 2020||Srinagar,||Rising infections among pregnant in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir has recorded a spark spike in pregnant women testing positive for COVID-19, with 70 such cases in just the first four days of June. The total number of pregnant women infected as on Friday is 181. Experts suggest that the growing numbers are a stark indicator of the community spread of the disease in pockets of Kashmir, just days ahead of the scheduled re-opening of many sectors. Mandatory testing Indicating a rising trend, June 1 saw 10 pregnant women testing positive, June 2 recorded 14, June 3 at least 26 and June 4 saw another 20 cases, according to official figures. The government has made it mandatory to test pregnant women ahead of delivery to ensure segregation. “Pregnant women have been more susceptible to infections. Besides, only travellers and pregnant women are being tested constantly, with no testing for the general population. The pregnant women do represent the general population, and a marker of low risk population. It does indicate community transmission,” Dr. Salim Khan, nodal officer for COVID-19 and head of department of the Social and Preventive Medicine (SPM), Government Medical College, Srinagar, told The Hindu.  According to official figures, out of 161 pregnant women testing positive till June 3, Anantnag district tops the list with 53 cases, followed by 38 in Baramulla and 31 in Kulgam. “In Anantnag, most pregnant women tested positive in the belt of Nowgam-Pati Pushroo-Somburuna-Kotihar, which has already reported 59 cases and Kharpora, which has 22 positive cases,” an official said. Similarly, Kulgam’s Chattabal (with 89 cases) and Nursingpora (with 17 cases) have seen a steady trend of pregnant women testing positive. “Baramulla has 38 women pregnant out of the total of 303 cases, with areas of Hard Ichloo, Venkara and Khawaja Bagh showing cluster cases,” the officials said. Srinagar bucks trend Srinagar has not shown any signs of community spread so far with just three pregnant women testing positive so far. “Over 400 tests conducted on pregnant women in two collection centres in Srinagar showed a very negligible presence of the infection,” officials added. The U.T. is witnessing a spike in cases in triple figures, as 222 cases were registered in a the highest single day increase on June 4.
06 June 2020||Bhopal,||Dalit settlement gets its own water source after a long wait||Taunts, casteist slurs and borewell motor being turned off at whim by upper-caste households have haunted members of a Dalit settlement at a village in Rewa district for 20 years. But a Right to Information (RTI) query has got them a borewell dug — a water source they can finally call their own. At the Nevaria settlement in Gangeo block, around 100 members of Dalit families took turns, mostly girls and women, to fetch water from handpumps and private borewells controlled by upper caste Mahajans more than a kilometre away. “The only route passed through their fields and you can’t cross them half the year as they are ploughed and crops cultivated,” said Krishna Saket, 21, a resident of the settlement. Since 2017, the group has been demanding the government provide for a separate water source, closer to them.  “We even approached the local MLA ... he is a messiah of only seeking votes from us. Shivanand bhai is our real messiah as he sent some papers over WhatsApp to some official and got the job done,” said Mr. Saket. Shivanand Dwivedi, a social worker, sent to the district Public Health Engineering Department an RTI query, seeking information on the action taken to dig a borewell in the settlement. As the matter pertained to the life and liberty of persons, he contended authorities had to provide the information within 48 hours under section 7(1) of the RTI Act, 2005. When the department didn’t respond, he first approached the first appellate authority, and then the Information Commissioner Rahul Singh, who on June 2 called for a hearing via WhatsApp video call two days later. The night before the hearing on June 4, authorities reached the settlement and dug the borewell. “They told me during the conference the borewell has been dug,” said Mr. Singh. The officials were not fined for not providing information within 48 hours. “Staff crunch and limited resources due to the lockdown probably caused the delay in the response,” said Mr. Singh.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Positive crew cases spook AIE||Nine crew members, including two pilots, of Air India Express, which handles the bulk of the Vande Bharat mission repatriation flights to Kerala, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 despite following all protocols and standard operating procedure has put the airline on tenterhooks. The percentage of the crew infected by the virus is negligible considering the fact that the airline handled 28 flights in Phase I, 38 in Phase II, and 95 in Phase III of the mission. Airline sources say they have been boarding flights after undergoing mandatory medical tests, wearing face shields and personal protective equipment (PPE), and repeating medical tests after the evacuation of expatriates The airline has found that one of the cabin crew had contracted the virus before reporting for duty at the Kozhikode international airport. With a spurt in cases in the State in the last week, the chances of contracting the virus from outside the aircraft cannot be ruled out. Crew from Delhi and Mumbai were also mobilised for the repatriation flights.  The six-member crew for a flight, including those in the cockpit, is not allowed to disembark from the flight once it reaches the foreign soil. “They are confined to the aircraft during the nine to 10 hours of flight duty time.” They step out only after the flight returns to India. On the aircraft, there is no service to the flyers and all attempts are made to maintain physical distancing. The PPE worn by the cabin crew are disposed of at the airport terminal on arrival. The Health Department is assessing whether the crew members erred in taking precautions. The airline is also hit by the leakage of personal details of those infected and residents denying them permission to occupy their apartments on return from the long-haul flights.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No negligence in Tablighi meet investigation, Centre tells SC||The government has said that the Delhi Police investigation into the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at the centre in Nizamuddin amid the national lockdown was at an advanced stage. The Ministry of Home Affairs denied the charge that the gathering took place because of delay or negligence on the part of the authorities. The Ministry promised that it would file a “comprehensive status report in a sealed cover” about the probe. The government’s reply came on a petition accusing the authorities of negligence. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde asked petitioner Supriya Pandita on Friday to file her rejoinder to the government affidavit. The Ministry said there was no need whatsoever to transfer the investigation from the Crime Branch, Delhi Police, to a central agency. The 23-page affidavit said the Delhi Police had contacted the centre’s authorities as early as on March 21. It said the centre’s authorities were advised to take immediate action to prevent the spread of the virus. They were asked to send back the foreigners and others staying there. The affidavit said an audio recording was circulated in social media “asking followers to defy the lockdown, social distancing and to attend the religious gathering.” The centre’s authorities were told about the “menace and hazard” of the virus during a huge gathering. A meeting was also held by the Station House Officer with them. They also did not inform the health department about the huge gathering and “deliberately, wilfully, negligently and malignantly disobeyed the lawful directions promulgated” during the lockdown, the affidavit said.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,||NGT forms panel to study case||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal on Friday took suo motu cognisance of the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala and appointed a joint committee to ascertain the facts and to recommend the steps to be taken to prevent man-animal conflict in the future. The Bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta said the case was being taken up in an effort to avoid such incidents and to provide a long-term strategy to reduce man-animal conflict in wildlife areas or fringe villages adjoining the forests.  The Bench directed that a joint committee, comprising a senior officer not below the rank of Chief Conservator of Forests, Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala, a senior officer from the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, Southern Zone, Wildlife Warden, Silent Valley division and Divisional Forest Officer of Mannarkkad and Punalur, and the District Collector, Palakkad, to look into the issue and submit a factual and action taken report, including a long-term management plan. “If there is already any such scheme, what is the stage of implementation and how effectively is it being done, and whether any further improvements will have to be made in this scheme to avoid such tragedies. Submit a report along with suggestions and recommendations so that the tribunal can give certain directions to the government to implement them,” the Bench said.
06 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Video of Jodhpur policeman kneeling on man’s neck goes viral||A video depicting some policemen pinning a man down on the ground and one of them kneeling on his neck in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur town has gone viral on social media. Police claimed that the man was roaming around without a face mask and had turned violent when confronted by them. The man, identified as Mukesh Kumar Prajapat, 38, allegedly attacked the policemen when they stopped him in the city’s Chopasni Housing Board area on Thursday and questioned him for not wearing a mask. The government has made it mandatory for citizens to wear a mask at public places during the COVID-19 pandemic. When some constables initiated the process for charging him a fine, Mr. Prajapat allegedly attacked them and tore their uniform. A video of the incident shot by some passersby shows one of the policemen kneeling on Prajapat’s neck for a few seconds and others holding his legs. Dev Nagar police station’s SHO Somkaran Charan told The Hindu that a criminal case was registered against Mr. Prajapat and he was produced in the court. The court remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days on Friday. Mr. Prajapat is said to be mentally challenged and his father had filed a case against him last year alleging that his son had gouged his eye. Some social media users compared the Jodhpur incident with the recent incident in U.S., where an African American, George Floyd, died in a similar assault.
06 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Phone charger cord extracted from man’s urinary bladder||A doctor in Guwahati extracted a mobile phone charger cord from the urinary bladder of a 30-year-old man, but not before the patient “misled” them into operating on his stomach. Walliul Islam, a consultant surgeon, shared on his Facebook page on Thursday a post about the patient who “challenged” his “intellectual and surgical skills” by “lying” about having accidentally ingested a headphone. “He came to me complaining about severe abdominal pain. X-ray revealed there was something in his lower abdomen and an endoscopy confirmed a cord. But I found nothing in his gastrointestinal tract after surgery a few days ago,” Dr. Islam said. An X-ray in the operation theatre showed the mobile phone charger cord in his urinary bladder. “The cord was removed successfully... But the surgery could have been avoided had he told the truth. The cord could have been extracted via the penile urethra through which he had inserted [it],” he said.
06 June 2020||Kolkata,||Amphan leaves Bengal’s book trade in tatters||A couple of days after the super cyclone Amphan hit Kolkata, a tall, dark man was seen in College Street, the city’s gigantic book bazaar, drying books on the road in front of a shop, ‘Dhyanbindu’, a serious publisher. Abhik Bandyopadhyay, who owns the publishing house, said: “ Boi ar bikri kora jabe na [it would be difficult to run book business].” The cyclone damaged the books at his workstation-cum-shop and the the desktop, erasing manuscripts, a half-constructed e-catalogue and accounting files. Subrata Das of Setu Prakashani said COVID-19 was the last nail, while cyclone Amphan buried the coffin of books in boi-para , as College Street is usually described. “Business stopped over the last three months. Counters were closed ... Now, online sales are up by about 10% but our College Street counter sales is still zero,” he said. Susmita Basu Singh of Rritobak, a new publisher, said: “I started crying when I entered my office the day after the cyclone. The books are gone ...The computer, which had about 70-80 edited manuscripts, is dead.” “There are so many workers ... who are not skilled in any particular way, and they are out of work,” she added. Bengal’s book trade, with an annual turnover of about Rs. 1,000 crore, is labour intensive. It employs not less than 5 lakh people, from publishers to porters, according to an estimate of the Publishers and Booksellers Guild. The Guild has donated a seed fund of Rs. 5 lakh, seeking donations. “The Guild is inviting applications from June 3 till June 30 from publishers, with an estimate of their losses...” said the Guild’s president, Tridib Chatterjee. The support is only for publishers from College Street, where the damage is to the tune of Rs. 5 crore, he said. Other estimates pegged the damage from Rs. 15 crore-Rs. 20 crore. Meanwhile, Indrani Mitra Roy, owner of 87-year-old publishing house Mitra and Ghosh, had raised about Rs. 15 lakh till Friday afternoon, using a crowd-funding platform. A tweet from politician Shashi Tharoor helped her, she said.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Call to protect pepper, nutmeg farmers||The State Agriculture Department has urged the Centre to enforce minimum import price (MIP) for black pepper and hike the import tariff on nutmeg to mitigate hardships faced by local farmers. In a June 2 letter to Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said dumping of low-quality black pepper from abroad has hit the income of pepper farmers in Kerala, a State which accounts for more than 60% of the area under black pepper cultivation in the country. Although the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had introduced an MIP in 2018 prohibiting import of black pepper below Rs. 500 per kg on cost, insurance and freight (CIF) basis, pepper importers had obtained a stay on it.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Shramik train deaths not due to lack of food, water’||Senior advocate Kapil Sibal said the government has not yet revealed the “minimum standards” of hygiene, food and water quality it had mandated in relief camps, etc. But Mr. Mehta said the “substantial part of the ordeal is over”. Approximately a crore of migrant workers have “reached their destinations”, he said. “Now we will provide trains to any State who wants them,” Mr. Mehta assured the court. The Centre has been running the Shramik trains from May 1 to transport stranded migrant workers during the national lockdown amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Railways have run 4,228 trains to transport stranded migrant workers till June 3. He said the Railways ran an average 250 trains a day for the workers. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the transportation of migrant workers back to their villages should be over in the next 15 days. It reserved final orders in the suo motu case for June 9.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||5 held for raping Kerala woman, abusing her son||In an incident that triggered mass outrage, five men have been arrested for the alleged gang-rape of the wife of one of the accused in the presence of the couple’s son in Kadinamkulam on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram late on Thursday. The Thiruvananthapuram rural police have intensified the probe to ascertain the possibility of the case being linked to a sex trade racket. Besides the victim’s husband, four others, identified as Rajan, Mansoor, Akbar and Arshad, all from the same locality, were arrested by the police. According to the police, the victim’s husband took her and their two sons from his house in Pothencode to Puthukurichy beach around 4 p.m. on Thursday. He later took them to Rajan’s house nearby, where they force-fed the victim with liquor. “As if on cue, the husband left the house with the younger son and the others. After some time, some of them returned and began to misbehave with the victim. Sensing something amiss, the woman tried to leave the house with her elder son. However, they were prevented from doing so by the gang, which misled her into believing that her husband was involved in a scuffle nearby,” a police officer said. The gang took the victim and her son to a deserted location in Channankara, where the woman was allegedly sexually assaulted. They also manhandled the five-year old child. The victim, however, managed to escape the gang’s clutches after she offered to return to the place after dropping her child home. The duo was rescued by a group of youth who safely transported her to her house near Kaniyapuram. Learning of her ordeal, the group also alerted the police, following which the victim was taken to the Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital. Despite her husband purportedly attempting to dissuade her from pressing charges, the victim decided to proceed with the case. Her statement was recorded by a magistrate on Friday, following which the arrests were recorded. Pointing out that the accused had been booked on various charges, including rape and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) B. Asokan said the investigating team was pursuing the possibility of the incident being premeditated. With the victim claiming that her husband received money from Rajan during their visit to the same house the previous day, the police are also investigating the possibility of sex trade. While those arrested will be produced at a court on Friday, efforts were on to apprehend one more person in connection with the case.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Massive spike in foreign flows into market||The shares were bought by FPIs like the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, T. Rowe Price, Aberdeen Asset Management, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Oppenheimer Developing Market Fund, among others. The cumulative foreign flows in equities this year, however, is still negative at Rs. 19,531 crore, since March and April saw huge outflows. Incidentally, March witnessed a record outflow of Rs. 61,973 crore, which was followed by selling worth Rs. 6,884 crore in April. According to Mr. Mahajan, while the current rally is based on optimism, investors need to be cautious and can even look at booking some profits and wait for better entry levels amidst the coronavirus pandemic-led disruptions caused in April and May.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China agree to resolve differences||The MEA statement also said both sides exchanged views on the challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and cooperation in multilateral forums. The Chinese readout said both sides discussed planned initiatives to mark the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations and ensure the relationship would be steered in the right direction. It mentioned: “the two countries should oppose politicising the epidemic situation” and “support the World Health Organization”. This was not mentioned in the MEA’s readout. The Chinese readout also said both sides “will resolutely safeguard and promote multilateralism, oppose unilateralism, protectionism and hegemonism, jointly safeguard international fairness and justice, and safeguard the common interests of developing countries.”
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||States to decide on reopening of schools||Rigorous health screening and quarantine protocols, hygiene measures, and students coming to class in shifts while others study from home are some of the measures that have reportedly been suggested. 25 crore students India has almost 25 crore school students from Classes 1 to 12, all of whom have been affected by the shutdown of educational institutions for the past two-and-a-half months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. They study in 15.5 lakh schools, of which 70% are run by the Central and State governments. School boards in some States are yet to complete classes and examinations for the 2019-20 school year, while the others are yet to determine when to begin the 2020-2021 academic session. Ms. Karwal noted that the post-COVID education experience will be different from life before the pandemic, even where schools are able to reopen. “The way learning happens in classrooms is going to change because of the various safety and social distancing norms. There are going to be a lot of adjustments for students and teachers, which cannot happen overnight and may take longer for some learners,” she said. “There will be a lot of home schooling for some time and there is the possibility of blended schooling also: a bit at home and a bit at school. So we need to prepare a framework for that.” Ms. Karwal slammed the way many schools have approached online learning.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Major reshuffle in Home Ministry’s media wing||Almost the entire team looking after media at the strategic Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has been shifted and a new one, led by senior Indian Information Service (IIS) officer Nitin D. Wakankar, was appointed on Friday, officials said. Mr. Wakankar replaces Vasudha Gupta, who has been shifted as Director General of the fact check unit under the Press Information Bureau. Mr. Wakankar, a Director General (DG) rank officer, was shifted to the MHA from the Bureau of Outreach and Communications of the Press Information Bureau (PIB), where he was serving as the Director General. Rajkumar, another senior IIS officer, has been appointed in the media wing of the MHA as Additional Director General (ADG), according to an order issued by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Praveen Kavi, a Deputy Director, has been appointed to the media wing of the MHA. Amandeep Yadav, an Assistant Director, has also been appointed in the media wing. Two Deputy Director rank officials, Virat Majboor and Harit Shelat, have been shifted from the MHA media wing to All India Radio and the Directorate of Publications Division, respectively.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown in India has failed: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi shared a set of graphs on Friday to depict what a “failed lockdown” looks like, while his party charged that the Narendra Modi government was only “manufacturing slogans” to divert people’s attention from the problems arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a Twitter post, Mr. Gandhi compared India with countries like Spain, Germany, the U.K. and Italy post lock down. “This is what a failed lockdown looks like,” said Mr. Gandhi in the tweet that displayed graphs that showed cases in India shooting up massively post four stages of lockdown, while the European countries registered a decline. At the Congress party’s online press conference, former Law minister Kapil Sibal questioned the Prime Minister’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self Reliance campaign) and the Rs. 20 lakh crore financial package. “We are only manufacturing rhetoric, statements and slogans. That is the only thing we make in India and we are masters at that under this government,” Mr. Sibal told reporters. ‘Only rhetoric’ He said both the self reliance campaign as well as financial package are jumlas (empty rhetoric). “This is an act of self-deception. This is another jumla that you sell to the people of the country,” he said. The former Minister asked how India could become self-reliant until it created innovation and intellectual property in its universities. India’s spending on Research and Development was among the lowest, he asserted.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A boat ride home finally ends in a longing to return||But the sea threw up troubles very soon. “Near Kakinada, one of the engines seized and around same time, we faced a nor’wester mid sea. Strong winds almost turned our boat upside down. For four hours, we kept praying for a miracle. When it was all over, we screamed with joy,” recalled Mr. Dilesh. The group faced another nor’wester off Srikakulum coast in Andhra Pradesh, barely over 100 km from their village. The wind was so strong that they had to sail in the opposite direction for 20 km. They finally reached their coastal village on April 27. And then came the quarantine till May 12. Soon enough, inspired by their daring sea voyage, another group of 42 fishermen too made it back to Odisha in a boat in the first week of May. “We anyway had to return home,” said Nanda Dinabandhu of Markandi village, matter-of-factly. Their return many not be all that smooth as Pugazhendhi, an owner of two trawlers in Chennai, is unwilling to employ rookie fishermen. “I will only accept seasoned and experienced fishermen. A larger fish catch would compensate for the loss I incurred during the lockdown,” Mr. Pugazhendhi said by telephone from Chennai.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||People for Animals site hacked by Kerala group||The official website of the People for Animals (PFA), an animal rights NGO founded by BJP MP Maneka Gandhi, was hacked on Friday by a Facebook group called ‘Kerala Cyber Warriors’ in an ‘operation against communal hatred.’  Long message The PFA website now displays a long message put up by the hackers along with a Google Map of Ambalappara in Palakkad district where a pregnant elephant died recently. The message posted in the PFA page says: “Maneka Gandhi dragged the sad death of a pregnant elephant for dirty politics. Since you are an ‘environmentalist’ and not an expert in geography, we are introducing ‘google map’ to your little brain. Ambalappara is in Palakkad district and we all know that you deliberately brought up Malappuram district to spread communally motivated false information targeting Muslims.” The message further says: “Your agenda is clear, love for animal is intertwined with hate for Muslims. Spreading false information by a person especially being an ex-minister and a Lok Sabha member is a real threat to the nation and not acceptable. The bond between Hindu and Muslim in Malappuram is strong.” The page was reinstated later in the evening.
06 June 2020||ADILABAD,||Bankers to give more as farm loans||The Telangana Grameena Bank has decided to advance an additional 10 % agriculture loans to individual farmers this season in view of the COVID-19 influenced economic upheaval in the lives of poor farmers. TGB Mancherial Region Advances Manager N. Raghavender Reddy announced in response to Kumram Bheem Asifabad Collector Sandeep Kumar Jha seeking enhanced loans at a meeting of the District Consultative Committee at Asifabad on Friday. The Collector asked bankers to sanction commercial loans in the next 15 days and all agriculture loans before September 30.
06 June 2020||Hyderabad,||NGT issues notice to KTR on farmhouse||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) issued notices to the Telangana government and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao on the construction of a farmhouse at Janwada on the outskirts of the city, allegedly in violation of the Government Order 111 that bans construction in the catchment area of Himayathsagar and Osmansagar reservoirs, according to Congress leaders. The notices were given on a petition filed by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president and Parliament member from Malkajgiri constituency A. Revanth Reddy, who alleged that a farmhouse in the area was constructed by KTR in violation of the GO. The NGT also ordered constitution of a fact-finding committee consisting of Principal Secretary, Irrigation, Telangana, commissioner of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), commissioner of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), and Rangareddy District Collector, among others, Mr. Reddy claimed. “The NGT asked the committee to inspect the constructions in violation of GO 111 and submit the report within two months,” he said. Mr. Reddy, two months ago, had claimed that a farmhouse built in violation of GO 111 at Janwada belonged to Information Technology (IT) Minister K.T. Rama Rao and also showed some pictures shot by a drone in support of his claims. He had also taken a media team to show that the government was silent on the issue. However, Mr. Reddy and his followers were arrested by the Narsingi police for violation of peace and unlawful assembly at a private place. Case filed A case was filed against Mr. Reddy and eight others for shooting pictures with a drone without permission endangering the lives of the inmates. Mr. Reddy was denied bail in the case and spent more than a week in jail on the charge of breaching the security of a person. In a statement here, Mr. Revanth Reddy demanded the resignation of KTR, saying the members of the committee constituted by the NGT directly worked under his Ministry and the probe could not be fair. “If he doesn’t resign, the Chief Minister should dismiss him,” he said.
06 June 2020||Hyderabad,||KTR supports actor Meera Chopra||IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao requested Telangana DGP M. Mahender Reddy and the City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar to take stern action against those abusing actor Meera Chopra. In a tweet he said, ‘Ma’m, I have requested @TelanganaDGP and @CPHydCity to take stern action as per law based on your complaint’. Earlier, the actor tweeted accusing the fans of Jr. NTR of abusing and threatening her with rape and murder for her remarks in an interaction with fans that she likes Mahesh Babu in Tollywood and she doesn’t know Jr. NTR. The actor tagged Mr. Rao and former MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha. Ms. Chopra tweeted saying: I have been abused of gangrape, acidattack, cyberbullied and slutshamed by your state.’ The Hyderabad police had already filed a case under Section 506 and 509 of the IPC after the actor complained of the trolling and online bullying. Jr. NTR’s fans apparently got annoyed after she said in an online interaction with fans that she has special admiration for Mahesh Babu. To another question on Jr. NTR, she replied saying she never worked with him and she was not his fan. This apparently angered the fans who started trolling with highly objectionable content. Ms. Chopra was also shocked that Jr. NTR did not intervene to urge his fans to stop the harassment forcing her to lodge a police complaint. The actor argued that what was wrong in her opinion and the trolling was uncouth. Meera Chopra, who made her debut in Telugu with Pawan Kalyan in Bangaram in 2006, felt that Jr. NTR should have responded to contain his fans when a woman was attacked for no fault of her. A big star like NTR with a huge fan following base should use his influence positively, she felt.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to entertain plea on prisoners||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition relating to de-congestion of prisons amid the COVID-19 pandemic, saying it could not pass specific directions as the situation was not similar in all States. The court allowed the petitioner to withdraw the petition and granted him liberty to approach the High Courts concerned. On March 16, the court had taken suo motu cognisance of the overcrowding of prisons and said it was difficult for inmates to maintain physical distancing to prevent COVID-19 spread. The plea came up for hearing before a Bench led by CJI Bobde. “Counsel for the petitioner seeks permission to withdraw this petition with liberty to move the jurisdictional High Courts. Permission sought for is granted. The writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn,” it said.
06 June 2020||Bhopal,||NHRC seeks action on M.P. man’s assault||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed the Chhindwara Superintendent of Police (SP) to take appropriate action within eight weeks in an incident relating to the thrashing of a man by the police in May. The Commission on June 3 was responding to a petition filed by New Delhi-based advocate Brajesh Singh, and asked the SP to inform him of the action taken in the matter. In a video that went viral on the social media, a policeman is seen thrashing the man, who they claim was drunk, with a baton till he collapses to the ground, where he endures another set of blows and a kick. Then, he is lifted and taken inside a police van. The police have so far suspended two personnel reportedly involved in the incident, and an inquiry is pending. “This incident is very brutal, therefore the intervention of the commission is much more warranted,” Mr. Singh said.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Guest workers’ want to stay back, Kerala tells SC||The Kerala government on Friday told the Supreme Court that “guest workers” in the State did not want to return to their native States amid the lockdown. Of the 2.81 lakh migrant labourers in Kerala, 1.61 lakh do not want to leave the State, which has effectively checked the spread of the COVID-19. “Most of the industries opened in Kerala and some of the guest workers are now not demanding to go back,” according to Kerala’s written submissions before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan. The Kerala government also said it wanted its “guests” to stay back and prosper. “They are a quintessential element in Kerala’s industry, agriculture and services sector. The government have even started ‘Apanaghar Project’ for providing dwelling places to them at a reasonable rate,” it said. It was highlighted that Kerala was the “only State in the country providing the highest wage for its guest workers. Most of them are getting at least Rs. 600 as wages per day and also provided with overtime, bonus and statutory measures”.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Centre releases advisories on waste management||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA) Ministry on Friday released advisories for effective waste management on the occasion of World Environment Day. HUA Minister Hardeep Singh Puri released documents covering material recovery facilities for municipal solid waste, landfill reclamation and on- and off-site sewage management practices.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Trade unions to stage protest on July 3||Ten Central trade unions on Friday said they would hold protests against the government’s “anti-worker” policies on July 3. In a statement, the unions said they held a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the “continuous aggressive attack on workers’ rights ignoring all the representations to the government on the matter.” The unions had protested against the planned dilution of labour laws by several States and the treatment of workers during the COVID-19 lockdown.
06 June 2020||Guwahati,||OIL draws up compensation plan for blowout-hit villagers||Oil India Limited (OIL) has drawn up a compensation plan for the villagers affected by the blowout at one of its natural gas-producing well in Tinsukia district of Assam. “We will be providing Rs. 30,000 to each affected family in immediate relief. The detailed beneficiary list with names and bank account details will be prepared by the district administration,” an OIL spokesperson said.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||9,851 new cases recorded; Seek help early, says Govt.||The country registered 9,851 new cases and 297 deaths in the last 24 hours. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the country stood at 2,36,047 with 1,16258 active cases on Friday. The recovery rate is 47.93%. The Union Health Ministry has said that in case of symptoms like fever, cough or difficulty in breathing, citizens should call 1075 (toll free) and seek immediate help.
06 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Another Cong. MLA quits in Gujarat||The exodus of Congress MLAs in Gujarat continues ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha election to four seats, with one more legislator resigning on Friday. Brijesh Merja resigned as MLA as well as from the primary member of the Congress. On Thursday, Congress MLAs Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary tendered their resignation.
06 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat reports 510 new cases, 35 deaths||Gujarat on Friday recorded its steepest increase in COVID-19 infection, with 510 fresh cases and 35 deaths, taking the tally to 19,119 cases and 1,190 deaths. Since Monday, the State has been reporting over 400 fresh cases a day. On Friday, 344 patients were discharged. The number of those discharged now stands at 13,011. Experts say the State’s infection curve is likely to rise sharply.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED official, 2 contract workers test positive||Two contractual workers and an official posted at the Enforcement Directorate headquarters have tested positive for COVID-19. Over 20 officials, including those of the rank of Assistant Enforcement Officer, Assistant Director, had reportedly come in contact with one of the persons in the past two weeks.
06 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Spike of 285 cases pushes Assam tally past 2000||The biggest daily surge of 285 cases on Thursday saw Assam’s COVID-19 positive count double in less than a week to 2,153. Of these, 1,687 were active cases, 459 discharged while four had died and three migrated to other States. The count had crossed the 1,000 mark on May 29 and more than doubled by noon on Thursday.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Good rainfall activity expected next week: IMD||Rainfall activity in central and south India is likely to pick up pace next week due to a cyclonic circulation, which is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal and aid in the progress of the monsoon, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday.PTI
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Class 10, 12 students with special needs availing scribe facility can skip pending board exams: CBSE||Children with special needs availing scribe facility can choose not to appear for the pending class 10 and 12 board examinations, due to be conducted from July 1 to 15, as it will be difficult to comply with social distancing norms, said the CBSE. Their results will be declared as per an alternative assessment scheme.PTI
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Civil services preliminary exam on October 4: UPSC||The civil services preliminary examination, postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, will be held on October 4, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) announced on Friday. It said personality tests of candidates selected through last year’s preliminary and main examinations will resume from July 20.PTI
06 June 2020||BODI,TAMIL NADU||Once on board, this man takes care of his passengers||“Every morning, when I leave for work, I take 200 face masks with me to give to those passengers not wearing one,” says Karuppasami, a conductor with Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Dindigul region, and a resident of Bodi in Theni district. With the government relaxing the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in phases, TNSTC has started operating 50% of its fleet within the particular zones, except in four districts, including Chennai. Mr. Karuppasami told The Hindu that he used to discuss the pandemic situation with his family members at home and one day he hit on the idea of giving away face masks to passengers of his bus so that even the uninformed can protect themselves from the infection. When he spelt out the idea, his family members were all in favour of it. So immediately on receiving his salary, he bought face masks in bulk. “I decided to give a mask to every passenger who boarded the bus without wearing one. I carry about 200 pieces with me daily. Some do not even have an idea about the novel coronavirus infection and the seriousness of the issue,” Mr. Karuppasami says. One of his friends and a colleague had this to say: “When his wife reminded him about the educational expenses of his son and daughter, the children quickly intervened and said - let appa go ahead with this gesture. We can pay the college fee next month when he gets his salary.” A video footage of the conductor wearing a full cover overall and addressing his passengers is going viral on the social media. This unassuming man says, “We have to fight the COVID-19 with grit and defeat it.”
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At 1,438, State records yet another massive spike in cases||For the sixth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu added 1,000-plus cases of COVID-19 on Friday. The State recorded 1,438 new infections, with Chennai accounting for 77% of the fresh cases. Tamil Nadu’s case tally stood at 28,694*, while that of the State capital inched closer to the 20,000-mark. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that of the 1,438 new cases, 33 persons had returned from abroad and other States. “Chennai accounts for 1,116 of the new cases. The State has reported 12 more deaths, including those in government and private hospitals, those among persons with co-morbidities and incidental deaths,” he said. He said the State government was being transparent in declaring positive cases. “We have been releasing all the data in the public domain through the press bulletins. Sometimes, political leaders, including the Opposition leader, or persons taking part in debates say the government is concealing data such as those pertaining to deaths. There is no such underplaying of deaths and testing details in the State. Each test has a unique ID number, and the result is uploaded on the portal of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” he said. On Friday, a total of 861 persons were discharged from hospitals. This took the total number of patients discharged thus far to 15,762, while the number of active cases stood at 12,697. The State’s toll increased to 232. This included a 44-year-old woman from Chennai who was admitted to Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 2. She had chronic kidney disease and systemic hypertension. She died on June 3. Among the fresh cases were 584 women and three transpersons. Chengalpattu reported 86 cases and Tiruvallur, 64. There were 15 cases in Kancheepuram, 14 in Ranipet and 13 in Tiruvannamalai. Five persons who had returned from Dubai, six from Qatar and one from Sri Lanka tested positive. Apart from them, three persons who had returned from Maharashtra by flight also tested positive. A total of 18 persons — 14 from Delhi and four from Maharashtra — who had returned by road and on trains tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 1,773 persons who have returned to the State on international and domestic flights, trains and ships, and by road, have tested positive so far. With 15,692 samples tested on Friday, the total number of samples tested so far stands at 5,60,673. A total of 5,35,254 individuals have been tested so far. The Minister said the trial of convalescent plasma therapy was going on successfully at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), while the Solidarity Trial for remdesivir was in progress at both the RGGGH and the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar. “Today, we have got the approval for ICMR-guided BCG vaccine research for vulnerable groups. We will start this research activity in two days,” he said. Portal for pvt. hospitals Citing complaints from the public that they were being made to run from one private hospital to another for want of beds, he said, “We are linking 30 private hospitals in Chennai. We are readying a portal in two days. This portal will have details on the total number of beds and ventilators available in these hospitals. People can look up the portal, find the details on bed occupancy/vacancy and admission before visiting the hospital. They can check with the hospital over the phone. This will avoid unnecessary hassle.” He said the fee structure for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals would be released shortly. “There are 1.58 crore Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme cardholders in the State. Nearly 77% of the population is covered under the scheme. For the remaining 23% of the population, we will fix a cap for treatment charges in private hospitals,” he added. In Chennai, COVID-19 patients were being managed at the four government medical college hospitals, ESI Ayanavaram, and five COVID-19 Care Centres. “We have appointed nodal officers for these 10 centres. We are ensuring that patients are admitted without any waiting period. With doctors’ advice, healthy and asymptomatic patients who have facilities at home are being sent on home quarantine in Chennai alone,” he said. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secretary calls for revising strategy in Chennai||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam has written to Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner G. Prakash pointing to certain gaps in the approach to managing COVID-19 and called for dynamically revising the strategy. The State was advocating specific intervention strategies based on micro plan besides focused testing, efficient contact tracing and quarantine management, smooth patient management etc., by positioning zonal team headed by IAS officer for each zone. While appreciating the GCC’s efforts in battling the pandemic, Mr Shanmugam said the strategy should be dynamically revised to deal with the changing disease trend. He commended the Zonal Team for preparing a streetwise micro plan, which gives an opportunity for more effective and problem specific interventions. “I hope the Corporation team and other zonal team will replicate this model implemented in Zone V,” he said. Review meeting After a review meeting on June 3, the Chief Secretary said when positive cases were increasing on a daily basis, it was essential to analyse whether such increase was due to intensive survey being done to identify symptomatic persons in containment area or outside, with parallel operations of running fever clinics camps or due to other reasons. “These analysis in Zone IV & V shows that in Zone IV the increase is not significantly influenced by such fever clinic but for other reasons. In Zone V, more positive cases are detected through fever clinics, which is a good attempt for early identification to reduce mortality,” he added. Mr. Shanmugam pointed out that unmindful of the rising number of cases being detected at fever clinics or intensive survey, “if the increase is due to other reason, we need to identify the cause and attend to it with specific intervention strategies.”
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. hospitals in Chennai facing severe staff shortage’||With COVID-19 cases continuing to increase in the city, government hospitals are faced with a shortage of staff equipped to cater to the growing number of patients. A number of doctors working in the four government hospitals in the city said that there was a definite need for more manpower, especially with the surge in COVID-19 cases. Doctors and staff nurses at these hospitals are also deputed to COVID-19 Care Centres, raising the need for additional workforce. Stretched to the limit “We are stretched non-stop during every shift. We work for six hours without a break and need to triage and attend to sick patients. If more people are deployed, better care can be provided," a doctor on COVID-19 duty said, on condition of anonymity. At the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital, doctors said that about 100 of them and 30 postgraduate students were posted on COVID-19 duty in shifts. “We don’t have adequate workforce. The department has not brought in additional workforce. As a result, there is repeated exposure of doctors and other staff. We have to manage nearly 400 patients admitted for treatment. At least one-fourth of them require monitoring. How is this possible with an inadequate workforce," a doctor questioned. He went on to state that considering the present patient load, and "to address the peak in cases, they need to triple the workforce across all cadres". A senior doctor of a government hospital complained that they do not have sufficient staff nurses. "We are managing with around 200 staff nurses. A mjority of them are exhausted and it has affected their mental well-being. We are having a tough time motivating them every day. There is one staff nurse for every 30 patients. We need at least 200 more staff nurses and 100 to 150 more doctors, so that we can be in a good position to cater to the requirements in the future. This way, we will have one doctor for every 10 patients, and one staff nurse for every five patients," the doctor said. Besides, if more patients were to come to hospital in a critical condition, additional nurses would be required for IV lines, provision of oxygen and conduct of blood tests, the doctor added. Incidentally, many persons who had been recruited on a contract basis were not joining duty. "We have been calling them to join duty but very few have come forward. The government has to pay them more or appoint them on a permanent basis,” an official said. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, a doctor said that only around 160 of them were repeatedly posted on COVID-19 duty on a rotation basis. Doctors from affiliated institutions such as Regional Institute of Ophthalmology and Institute of Mental Health were being diverted to work at the COVID-19 Care Centre at Nandambakkam. A doctor said that more patients were getting admitted of late. “As we are increasing more wards, we require more manpower," he said. Another senior doctor pointed out that several healthcare professionals/workers were testing positive for COVID-19. “They have to go into quarantine for four weeks for recovery. A few of them have returned after testing negative at the end of 14 days. In such a time, the available manpower in a healthcare facility is reduced, and the government needs to augment the manpower. It is learned that most of the service postgraduates who have completed their course will be posted. Every institution should be adequately staffed," the doctor said. At RGGGH, a senior doctor said that while the number of doctors and nurses was “quite adequate” now, “if there is an increase in cases, we will require more hands.”  We work for six hours without a break and need to triage and attend to sick patients
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal launches volunteer initiative for COVID-19 relief||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday launched ‘Naame Theervu’ (We are the solution) – an initiative to bring volunteers together to help Chennai in its efforts to control the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Haasan said that while the State and Central governments had made mistakes, this was not the time for criticism. “We have gotten tired of waiting, [thinking] they will do something. Naame Theervu is an attempt to do something on our own. Lakhs of people have begun helping others on their own, thinking they are the only solution. This is an effort to create a movement to save Chennai. We are creating a volunteer army to care for people who need it as we emerge from the lockdown,” he said. Mr. Haasan said the aim was to provide medical help and protective equipment in places where people get together. Naame Theervu will involve volunteers working across the barriers of language, caste and party affiliation to help those in need in Chennai. “Chennai is known for being the medical capital, and we shouldn’t let it become the corona capital. We have already conveyed our criticisms of the government, but this is not the time for criticism or petty politics. This is the time for us to become our own solution,” Mr. Haasan said. “The waves of COVID-19 will be coming back again and again. No State government can fight this alone. The State government should accept the help of volunteers,” he said.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special e-pass likely for transit air passengers||Air passengers who transit through Chennai may soon have to get a special transit e-pass from the Tamil Nadu government. Every day, on an average, 3,000-3,500 passengers travel through Chennai airport. Of these, there are many transit passengers — ones who arrive from a city at Chennai airport, spend some time, and then take a flight to another city. After domestic flights resumed, many passengers stopping over at Chennai airport have had a slew of queries about whether they need to acquire the regular Tamil Nadu e-pass or stay at a quarantine facility. “We have been considering bringing out the special e-pass option for passengers having Chennai airport as transit. Discussion held “They can get this before arriving in Chennai. We had an elaborate discussion with the airport officials recently,” a source in the State government said. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that they have also been asked to earmark a space at the airport for transit passengers, especially if the wait is within six hours.  Can stay in hotel For passengers whose transit time is beyond six hours, they can stay at one of the hotels identified by the State government till it is time for their next flight. “Sometimes, passengers have to stay for a day in Chennai as their flight may only be on the next day. In such cases, any passenger whose transit time is over six hours can stay in the hotels we have identified. We have already spoken to some of the hotels in this regard,” the source added. No quarantine Besides, transit passengers need not be quarantined in the city. “They have to be in quarantine only after reaching their final destination,” an official explained.  Every day, on an average, 3,000-3,500 passengers travel through Chennai airport
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Skilled volunteers to help those under home isolation||The Greater Chennai Corporation is set to deploy 1,500 skilled volunteers, paying them an honorarium for their services, for COVID-19 containment. The volunteers are expected to play a key role in helping COVID-19 patients who are under home isolation, and are expected to be at work for at least four months in the city. The volunteers will monitor the health of persons in home isolation, coordinate disinfection of their houses and facilitate initiatives to speed up their recovery. Currently, there is a shortage in the number of employees required to help residents who have been isolated at home after testing positive for COVID-19. This is a major cause of concern in various neighborhoods of the city. With a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in all 15 zones in the city, the Corporation is not able to mobilise adequate employees for COVID-19 containment and relief. As a consequence, the civic body has planned to use the services of skilled volunteers, attracting them with a honorarium. Zones such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Kodambakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Adyar, Valasaravakkam, Anna Nagar and Teynampet have reported more than 1,000 COVID-19 cases each. Royapuram remains the zone with the highest number of cases in the city. Residents of zones in the added areas, which have reported fewer cases so far, have also tested positive for COVID-19 in the past few days. More tests “We are planning to increase testing of people in all the wards. The tests per million is expected to cross 20,000 shortly. Proper isolation of COVID-19 cases in homes remains a challenge. We need more skilled employees to help such isolated residents who have tested positive for COVID-19,” said a Corporation official. Senior Corporation officials on Friday inspected the testing facilities in various parts of the city. Residents complained that manpower was inadequate to test persons in many localities. The tests in 40 centres were conducted only for a short duration. While testing stopped by 3 p.m. at the Corporation centres, it continued till well past 3 p.m. at private labs, a resident pointed out.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid bankruptcies in U.S., experts stress need for timely filing of claims by Indian exporters||With major companies filing for bankruptcy in the U.S. amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Indian exporters who supply materials to them should be aware of their rights and file their claims, experts have said. Major U.S. retailers and firms like J.C. Penney, Neiman Marcus, J. Crew, Gold’s Gym and True Religion Apparel, among others, have filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 (a.k.a Reorganization Bankruptcy) of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the past few months. “The U.S. Bankruptcy Code provides for a notification to be given to the foreign creditors, which also mentions details on how and where to file [claims], along with timelines. The foreign creditors are not discriminated [against] under the U.S. Bankruptcy laws, except for certain tax claims or [those] which may be governed by a treaty,” said Anant Merathia, a Chennai-based corporate lawyer. Mr. Merathia has helped three of his clients file their claims with the bankruptcy trustee of the U.S. companies undergoing the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process. “Filing of claims is both a legal right and a duty of the creditors who, in this specific case, are Indian suppliers and exporters who would be affected by these bankruptcies, especially if their claims are not scheduled in the debtor’s schedules or are disputed, contingent or unliquidated,” he said. Debtor’s schedule “If the claims of a creditor were part of the debtor’s schedule, they need not be filed separately. However, a properly filed claim would supersede any claim in the schedules. A claim would provide a sense of certainty on the part of the creditor rather than merely relying on the debtor’s schedules,” Mr. Merathia said. It was important that claims were filed at the right time and, given the advantage of technology, creditors could file them online, he said. Mr. Merathia noted that many Indian companies may assume the amounts owed by the U.S. firms in the bankruptcy process as a write-off, but having an awareness of the process and being a part of it could help them and give them a ray of hope. “It is advisable for Indian creditors/suppliers/exporters to submit proof of their claim and monitor the proceedings. There may just be a favourable reorganisation plan that is approved, paying unsecured creditors,” he said.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to inaugurate CII event today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will inaugurate a session on ‘Luminous Tamil Nadu’, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), on June 6. The event will be held via videoconference. Mr. Palaniswami will also deliver the inaugural address and release a book on Tamil Nadu’s industrial prowess. According to an official press release, the government is taking numerous measures to ensure Tamil Nadu remains a favoured destination for industries. Over 500 leading industrialists are expected to take part in the event. CII Tamil Nadu president Hari K. Thiagarajan, past presidents R. Dinesh, and B. Santhanam, Preetha Reddy of Apollo Hospitals, Vijay Sankar of Sanmar Group, Srivats Ram of Wheels India and Satyakam Arya of Daimler India Commercial Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. are among those who will be attending the virtual event. The programme will focus on ways to take the State’s economy forward and attract more investments into Tamil Nadu.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guidance Tamil Nadu eyes Chinese investors||To get more multinational firms to set up shop in the State, Guidance Tamil Nadu, the nodal agency of the Tamil Nadu government for investment promotion and single-window facilitation, has roped in a person who can speak Mandarin into its country-specific desk. Officials feel that having a person who can speak the local language would boost investor confidence. The department has also stationed a representative, E. Prakash, in Taiwan to get leads on potential investors and firms looking to set up operations in Tamil Nadu. In the Chennai office, the department has appointed an associate vice-president, Clifford Li, who can speak Mandarin and is sending all email communications in that language. “Having a person who can speak the [local] language makes a huge difference and removes the communication gap. They also have deep knowledge about the country, which is an added advantage,” said Neeraj Mittal, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Guidance Tamil Nadu. Plans to induct more members who can speak various languages are on the anvil. The Guidance Tamil Nadu office in Chennai has country-specific desks, which are instrumental in attracting investments from each of those regions and also provide assistance to firms that have already invested here. The department has Japan, Korea and U.S. desks, among others. Government sources said small initiatives like these were being taken to ensure that companies looking at India as an investment destination post-COVID-19 make Tamil Nadu their first priority. During a recent interaction with The Hindu , Tamil Nadu Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam indicated that many Chinese firms had evinced interest in setting up operations in India. “Tamil Nadu is well-poised to attract these investments,” he said. Aneesh Sekhar, Executive Director, Guidance Tamil Nadu, said many firms from China and other regions had already evinced interest in Tamil Nadu, adding, “We are waiting for international flight services to resume.” “We have virtually shown land parcels to some firms. Sipcot has done GIS mapping of land with drones, and those aerial pictures are being shared with investors,” he said.  Officials feel that having a person who can speak the local language would boost investor confidence
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three High Court judges test positive for COVID-19||The Madras High Court on Friday decided to restrict its functioning once again and take up only select cases for hearing from Monday since three of its judges and a few more court staff have tested positive for COVID-19. It has been decided that only two Division Benches and three single judges would hear cases through video conferencing from their residences from Monday so that minimal number of court staff could be deployed for official work. Urgent cases Immediately after a nationwide lockdown was announced by the Centre from March 24 this year, the High Court had restricted its functioning too and decided to work with just two Division Benches and three single judges for hearing urgent cases alone. However, then, physical hearings were held in the court halls until April 19 when a staff of the Government Pleader’s office tested positive for COVID-19 and he was found to have attended the court proceedings on a couple of days. This triggered panic and immediately judges and lawyers were subjected to tests and quarantine. The High Court also decided to close down all its court halls and ordered that hearings shall be held only through video conferencing from judges’ residences. Subsequently, it also postponed the summer vacation due in May and continued the virtual court proceedings through that month but from June 1, all judges of the court were asked to hear cases through video conferencing from their chambers in the court complex. Since then, as many as three judges of the court have tested positive for COVID-19 forcing the Administrative Committee, comprising top seven judges, to convene an urgent meeting on Friday to discuss the further course of action. After a marathon meeting spanning for a few hours, it was decided to restrict the functioning of the court once again. In the meantime, a personal security officer attached to a High Court judge in its Madurai Bench too tested positive.  Hearings shall be held only through video conferencing from judges’ residences
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Karti Chidambaram, wife move HC in I-T case||Sivaganga Member of Parliament Karti P. Chidambaram and his wife Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram have moved the Madras High Court challenging the refusal of a subordinate court to discharge them from criminal prosecution launched by the Income Tax department in 2018 for alleged tax evasion in 2014-15 and 2015-16. Justice N. Sathish Kumar on Friday permitted the special public prosecutors for the I-T department to take notice on the criminal revision petitions filed by the couple and adjourned the cases to June 19 for hearing. A special court here, for hearing cases against legislators, had dismissed their discharge petitions on January 7. The dismissal order was passed when two petitions filed by the couple in the High Court, were pending. After filing those petitions, the couple also filed two more petitions in the High Court with a plea to quash the entire proceedings.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rethink staff deployment policy during pandemic’||With around 25 Secretariat employees testing positive for COVID-19, the Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association (TANSA) has urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to rethink the staff deployment policy during the pandemic. It earlier urged the government to revert to working with 33% staff strength in each department instead of 50%. In a letter to the Chief Minister, TANSA president S. Peter Antonysamy charged that despite orders being issued to departments that staff will have to work on a rotational basis, many employees were being forced to report to work daily. “In the Planning, Development and Special Initiatives Department, all employees are being forced to come to work daily. In some departments, office assistants, stenographers, personal staff of secretaries are forced to come to work every day. If this continues, the spread of the virus will increase,” he said. A copy of the TANSA’s letter was released to the media. The TANSA said departments must function as per protocols issued in the Government Order. Departments must be advised to not force office assistants, stenographers and personal staff of secretaries to come to work daily. It demanded that employees living in coronavirus hotspots should not be deployed till the COVID-19 lockdown ends. The TANSA requested the government to consider the isolation period of employees who test positive for COVID-19 as Special Casual Leave. The offices in the Namakkal Kavignar Maaligai must be modified to provide ventilation as air conditioners were not allowed. The TANSA also asked the government to make travel arrangements for employees.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fish vendor hacked to death||A 31-year-old fish vendor was hacked to death in Thirumullaivoyal on Friday. The name of the victim has been given as Pandian, a resident of Pattali Nagar. Two persons took him out from his house at 6.30 a.m. and hacked him to death. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Ambattur) Esawaran visited the spot.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire safety expert arrested for sexually abusing his daughter||All Women Police, Pulianthoppe, Friday arrested a 39-year-old fire safety expert for sexually assaulting his six year-old daughter repeatedly. The offender runs a fire safety company in Secunderabad. His wife died under suspicious circumstances in Hyderabad three months ago. He has a son and a daughter. He shifted to Chennai and the children have been under the care of their maternal grandmother in Perambur. He continued to assault the six-year-old child at her grandmother's house. The victim complained to her grandmother who in turn reported to the police and the All Women Police, Pulianthoppe, and a case was registered against her son-in-law. The complainant said the accused married her daughter who died three months ago in Hyderabad. Thereafter, the offender returned to Chennai along with his children and repeatedly attacked his six-year-old daughter. The victim was taken to hospital for treatment. The offender is lodged in Central Prison. The child handed over to her grandmother after counselling, a senior officer said.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Villivakkam murder: eight held||The Villivakkam police apprehended a gang of eight members for its involvement in the murder of a 23-year-old youth and recovered petrol bombs and other weapons. The police said on Thursday, Shajahan, 23, of Villivakkam, was riding his bike in Annai Sathya Nagar. Six persons on three bikes hacked him with machetes. The police, who were searching for the suspects, rounded up the gang that was hiding under the railway bridge and recovered petrol bombs and other weapons from the accused.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Renowned ghatam vidwan no more||Renowned ghatam and konnakol vidwan T.H. Subash Chandran died on Friday evening at his residence in West Mambalam in Chennai. He was 74. Mr. Chandran had fever and chest congestion for a few days, said his son-in-law Ganesh Kumar, a kanjira vidwan. Mr. Chandran hails from a family of percussionists and was the recipient of many awards and titles, including Asthana Vidwan of Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam. He is the younger brother of the famous percussionist and ghatam player “Vikku” Vinayakram. Mr. Chandran is survived by wife Geetha, a daughter and a son.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Karti Chidambaram moves HC in I-T case||Sivaganga Member of Parliament Karti P. Chidambaram and his wife Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram have moved the Madras High Court challenging the refusal of a subordinate court to discharge them from criminal prosecution launched by the Income Tax department in 2018 for alleged tax evasion in 2014-15 and 2015-16. Justice N. Sathish Kumar on Friday permitted the special public prosecutors for the I-T department to take notice on the criminal revision petitions filed by the couple and adjourned the cases to June 19 for hearing. A special court here, for hearing cases against legislators, had dismissed their discharge petitions on January 7.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow students to take exams at their current place of stay’||At a time when the State is gearing up to conduct the Class X examinations, the Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association has appealed to the School Education Department to allow students to take the examinations at their current place of stay and deploy teachers for examination duty in districts where they are presently put up. The appeal comes in the backdrop of the Department’s decision to utilise teachers coming under the Directorate of Elementary Education too for examination duty, as more centres are being set up to allow students to take the exams in the schools where they study. Inter-district travel However, pointing out that inter-district travel was still difficult because of the COVID-19 lockdown, the teachers’ association said that the government must consider allowing students to take the exams in their current place of stay. “Teachers must also be assigned duty in districts where they are staying now,” said P.K. Ilamaran, State president of the association. In a statement issued on Friday, he said that students and parents were already anxious about the examinations, with the number of cases in Tamil Nadu increasing rapidly. “Moreover, people travelling from a newly-classified zone to another zone in the State might be required to undergo a period of home quarantine, making it impossible for them to attend the exams,” Mr. Ilamaran added.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stay home, Stalin tells elderly party members||With DMK legislator J. Anbazhagan undergoing treatment at a hospital for COVID-19, party president M.K. Stalin on Friday urged elderly functionaries and those who have ailments or have undergone surgeries in the past to safeguard themselves and stay at home. “Please don’t be careless. Save your precious life, and also keep in mind the interest of your families while serving the public at the same time,” he said in a letter to party cadre. He said he was getting regular updates about Mr. Anbazhagan’s health from Dr. Ilankumaran Kaliamoorthy, CEO, Rela Institute, and party MP Jagathrakshakan. MLA’s condition Mr. Anbazhagan had been getting 80% oxygen through a ventilator, and due to continuous treatment, the requirement has now reduced to 45%. According to doctors, his condition has improved, the DMK leader added. Recalling Mr. Anbazhagan’s contribution to the party, Mr. Stalin described him as a hard worker. “In our conversations on corona[virus] relief work, I told him to take care of his health. I advised him not to strain himself. But he functioned like a soldier,” Mr. Stalin said. He urged party cadre to look after their health, take necessary precautions amid the pandemic and eat food that boosts immunity.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ramp up testing to 30,000 a day’||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Friday said the State government should substantially increase testing for COVID-19 to prevent further deaths. In a statement, he said that medical experts had suggested that the increase in the number of deaths was due to the fact that the disease was being detected very late. He further said that according to media reports, the council of medical experts advising the Chief Minister had stated that there could be close to 1 lakh positive cases in Chennai. “Around 30,000 swab tests should be done,” he said.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin condemns arrest of DMK cadre||Condemning the arrest of party cadre who organised a protest against Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani in Coimbatore on Friday, DMK president M.K. Stalin demanded their immediate release as well as withdrawal of cases filed against them. The protest was organised by party’s east unit in-charge and MLA N. Karthik, north unit secretary C.R. Ramachandran and west unit in-charge M. Muthusamy, alleging that the Minister was behind the arrest of DMK men who questioned his corrupt practices, mismanagement of the municipal administration and water supply department. “The protest was organised in front of various local body offices by following the physical distancing norms. However, police have arrested 1000 of cadres,” Mr. Stalin said and alleged that the Minister was behind the arrest. He also warned that if this attitude continued, a massive protest would be organised exposing the alleged corruption of the Minister.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC poser to govt. in Rajiv murder case||The Madras High Court on Friday wanted to know whether the State government was not aware of the “international ramifications” the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had and the reported “overseas contacts of the convicts in the case with banned outfits” before taking a decision to release all seven of them. Justice N. Kirubakaran raised the question during the hearing of a case seeking permission for two of the convicts, S. Nalini and her husband Murugan alias V. Sriharan, to talk over phone to the latter’s mother Somani Ammal in Sri Lanka and sister Raji in London. M. Radhakrishnan, counsel for the convicts, said that the Inspector General of Prisons cited international ramifications of the offence and the alleged overseas contacts of the convicts with banned outfits to deny permission.
06 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Works to rejuvenate River Noyyal at Rs. 230 cr. take off||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Friday participated in the groundbreaking ceremony to kickstart the Rs. 230 crore River Noyyal Rejuvenation Project. A district administration release quoting Mr. Velumani said Coimbatore would get Rs. 174 crore of the Rs. 230 crore to rejuvenate the 72km stretch of the River. Tiruppur and Erode districts would get the rest. The administration would use the money to repair, re-construct and line with concrete the subsystems of the 18 of the 21 anicuts. The subsystem included 22 tanks, their inlet channels, sluices at the mouth of the inlet channels, sand vents at the anicuts and shutters used for letting water to agriculture lands, the release said and added that it would utilise the money not for the entire subsystem but only at places that needed those, though. Also as part of the work, the administration would create new check dams, dredge channels, tanks and the River and remove bushes. The administration would also work with local bodies to ensure that domestic and industrial sewage did not enter the River Noyyal system. And, to oversee the work, the administration would form a committee involving officials from the Public Works Department’s Water Resource Organisation, Revenue Department, local bodies, farmers’ associations’ leaders and members of non-governmental organisations. The release also said that the Tiruppur and Erode, which with Coimbatore, formed the Kongu belt would gain from the River Noyyal Rejuvenation Project as the groundwater table would increase and also the quality of water. Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly V. Jayaraman, Collector K. Rajamani, members of the Legislative Assembly and officials were present at the inauguration.
06 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Micro units face challenges in getting bank loans||Micro and small-scale manufacturing industries here say they face several challenges in getting the additional bank loan announced by the Union Finance Minister for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). According to J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, there are three categories of units: those who get the additional loan, those that do not get the loan, and those that have one or two months dues pending for the existing loans and are hence, unable to get the additional loan. Banks had sent messages to industries. But it was the bigger industries among the MSME sector that were getting the additional loan, he said. Those who had pending dues for the previous loans for just one or two months and had not been declared NPAs were not given the additional loan. These units need fund support now as they remained shut for more than a month and did not have any income, he said. Members of the federation of 19 industrial associations, representing the micro and small-scale units, met Vanathi Srinivasan, State general secretary of BJP, and explained the challenges the units faced. There were also efforts to come out with an online database that would help the officials and the industry owners trace the loans given to units with bank details, applications pending and reasons for the delay, he said. According to P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association, all the banks have sent messages to the MSMEs on the additional loans. The government has said the interest rates for the additional loan should be between 7.25 % to 9.25 %. Several banks have decided to give loans at the higher rate. Further, there were many units that had just one or two machines, had only current account with banks, and did not have loans. These units also need financial support now as they were into manufacturing activity and the additional loan should be extended to such industries too, he said.
06 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Class X exams: lack of clarity over collection of hall ticket||Lack of clarity in instructions saw students of government schools line up at their institutions to collect the hall ticket for Class X examinations, while the students of private schools got to download it, without having to go to their schools on Friday. While the Directorate of Government Examinations released the Class X hall tickets on Thursday, the government schools in the district called their students on Friday to receive a copy of the hall tickets. A headmistress of a government school in Coimbatore city said that only 10 students were allowed in a class room to receive the hall tickets in multiple time slots, in an effort to avoid crowding as a COVID-19 preventive measure. “We issued two masks per student along with their hall tickets,” she said, adding that a third mask will be kept as a spare mask for the students in case if they failed to bring it during the examinations. All the students came to the school with their parents, wearing masks, and there were no complaints, the headmistress said. On the other hand, all the private schools instructed their students to download a copy of their hall tickets from the Directorate of Government Examinations website ( www.dge.tn.gov.in ) by entering their respective examination roll number and date of birth. “We are not compelling them to come to the schools for collecting their hall tickets,” said R. Visalakshi, president of Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association. All schools have been asked to download two copies of the hall tickets and issue one to the students. “As the students will write the examinations in their own schools (548 examination centres in the district), they may also collect their hall tickets on the day of examination,” Ms. Visalakshi said. A school education official in the district said government schools called the students to issue the hall ticket in person because many students might not have computers or internet connections at home to download the hall ticket. Instructions regarding COVID-19 precautionary measures as well as transport arrangements were also given to the students in government schools while issuing the hall ticket, the official said.
06 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||ITF to develop sustainability blueprint for textile units||The Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF), a textile association with members across the textile value chain, has launched a project called ‘India for Sure’ to develop a sustainability blue print for textile units in Tamil Nadu. Target areas According to a release from the association, the blueprint will highlight the sustainability target areas, showcase the achievements of its members in these areas and their strengths. On Friday, the association launched a data collection drive on the sustainability efforts of its members. In a month, the federation will come out with the blue print. Brands in the global market are focusing on sustainability. Certifications are more for products now. Certifications for processes are just emerging. There will be individual success stories on sustainable efforts. “We want to brand Tamil Nadu textile industries as sustainable manufacturers,” says Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of the federation. Bangladesh had marketed its sustainability efforts in a big way for the last three years. But, the manufacturers had gone in for mainly green buildings. Wind and solar energy The textile and clothing manufacturers in Tamil Nadu had invested a lot in wind and solar energy and waste water processing. These need to be showcased, he said. “This is the right time as brands are speaking about change in product portfolios.”
06 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages protest||Over 2,000 members of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) staged a protest in front of the local body offices in the district on Friday, condemning the “high-handed” approach of Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani. DMK east district unit in-charge and MLA N. Karthik alleged that Mr. Velumani was behind the arrest of 10 of his party cadre in the last two months because he was against the DMK exposing his misdeeds. To condemn the arrest of its partymen, the DMK had given a call for protest on Thursday. The party had said that the members would protest in front of all local body offices in the district by adopting physical distancing norms. Mr. Karthik led a group of partymen protesting in front of the Coimbatore Corporation head office in Town Hall. The partymen raised slogans against Mr. Velumani and the AIADMK government. Mr. Karthik told presspersons that Mr. Velumani’s latest victim was the DMK’s south unit in-charge ‘Thendal’ Selvaraj. The Minister was vindictive because the DMK asked questions that were uncomfortable. Scam Under his leadership, the Coimbatore Corporation had not carried out any work in the last few years and the latest allegation was that the Corporation had not followed the rules in purchasing bleaching powder. This was a scam of Rs. 200 crore, Mr. Karthik said and sought the release of all the arrested DMK cadre. In Periyanaickenpalayam, the Coimbatore north unit in-charge C.R. Ramachandran led the protest and in the Coimbatore west unit, in-charge Muthusamy led the protest. In Pollachi, DMK MP K. Shanmugasundaram led the protest.
06 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Foundation laid for biomining project||Coimbatore Corporation’s ambitious plan to process the accumulated waste at its dump yard in Vellalore got off to a start on Friday with Municipal Administration Minister S.P.Velumani starting the groundbreaking ceremony. Project cost The Corporation aims at processing 9.4 lakh cubic metre waste that remains accumulated in over 60 acre at Rs. 60.01 crore. The Corporation sources familiar with the project said the company that won the project – a consortium of three companies – would process the waste through segregation using trommels, bioculture and dump the rejects at the landfill. Though the Corporation had given two years to complete the project, the contract company was hopeful of completing the project in half the time. Once completed, the Corporation would reclaim 60 – 65 acre in Vellalore. The sources said the company would process around 2,000 cubic metre waste a day and for processing each cubic metre the Corporation would pay Rs. 640. The accumulated waste is the mixed waste – containing degradable organic waste and non-degradable inorganic waste – that the Corporation had dumped over the years. The sources said that of the 1,000 tonnes to 1,200 tonnes waste the city generated a day, the Corporation gave around 450 tonnes to a contract company in Vellalore for processing and the rest it dumped. The dumped waste had accumulated over the years. The sources also said that to process the accumulated waste the Corporation had contemplated various methodologies and had settled for floating a technology-neutral tender to let the competing companies to come up with their own technology. The accumulated waste had been a source of worry for both the Corporation as the waste would catch fire and the residents in and around the Vellalore dump yard as it polluted ground water. The sources added that the contract company would resume the work soon as it had to install machinery. It would function out of the 10 acre site that the civic body had earmarked for the biomining project.
06 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Traders back at T.K. Market after talks with Coimbatore Corporation||Many traders at the T.K. Market resumed business on Friday. The traders decision to reopen shops followed the T.K. Market Vegetable Traders’ Association petitioning Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and holding talks with Coimbatore Corporation officials on Thursday. The Corporation that had closed the market as a step towards battling the spread of COVID-19 had permitted the reopening of shops Friday onwards. The Association president M. Rajendran said the organisation has told the Corporation at the Thursday meeting that its main demand to the Corporation was that it should permit all the traders to reopen shops and not just a few in the guise of enforcing physical distancing. It had assured the civic body that the traders would suo moto abide by the physical distancing norms. Based on its assurance, the Corporation permitted reopening of all shops and on Friday the traders at all the 176 stall shops who paid rent to the Corporation resumed business. The first day after the leave saw customers turn up in good numbers, but it was fewer than what the Market saw during the pre-COVID-19 days. The floor shops with and without roofs would become functional from Saturday onwards, Mr. Rajendran said . The Association was contemplating restricting business hours, carrying out various disinfection measures like placing hand sanitisers, giving masks to customers who did not wear one and restricting entry of customers, he added.
06 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Body found||Police found an unidentified body of a man, estimated to be 50 years old, at Thirumalayampalayam near K.G. Chavadi on Friday. The body had injuries on the head, abdomen and left knee. Residents saw three men quarrelling at that spot allegedly in an inebriated state on Thursday, police said. K.G. Chavadi police registered a case. Woman run over by car An elderly woman was run over by a car near Sungam in Ramanathapuram on Friday. Police said Subbulakshmi (65) and Marimuthu (60), both construction workers, were hit by a speeding car. The woman died on the spot and Marimuthu was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The police arrested driver Santhosh on Friday.
06 June 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Govt will help migrant workers go home: Minister||The government was willing to provide all assistance to migrant workers seeking to return home from Dharmapuri, Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan said here on Friday. There were over 2,600 migrant workers from across the country working in Dharmapuri. So far, 763 workers from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Assam, Jharkhand, and Delhi had left for their hometown since the lockdown. On Friday, 266 workers left by buses to Hosur, from where they boarded a train to West Bengal. According to Mr. Anbalagan, there were 19 workers from Madhya Pradesh, and 109 from Chattisgarh, who wanted to go home. Arrangements would be made to help them go home in the coming days. According to them, there were 1451 workers remaining in the district. They have expressed interest to stay back and work.
06 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Woman kills three-month-old baby, commits suicide||Depressed over having given birth to a second daughter, a 34-year-old woman allegedly killed the three-month-old baby and committed suicide at Perundurai block here on Thursday night. Gunasekaran (40), a farmer of Chavadipalayam village in Vijayamangalam was married to Sangeetha and has a nine-year-old daughter. Gunasekaran’s mother Chinthamani was also living with them. Police said the couple was expecting a male child, but Sangeetha gave birth to a girl child three months ago. Upset over it, they did not name the baby. On Thursday evening, Gunasekaran went to Vijayamangalam while Chinthamani took the cattle to graze. When he returned home around 7 p.m., he found the baby drowned in a container full of water. And, Sangeetha’s body was found hanging from the ceiling. Perundurai police registered a case. Those with suicidal tendency can contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.
06 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Inflow into KRP dam increases amid low storage capacity due to repair works||The shutter works in KRP dam are edging towards the final stages with the scheduled date of completion slated for Mid-July. With the works under way, the storage level in the 52 feet reservoir is only 30 feet, just below the crest level. Therefore, the inflow into the reservoir beyond the temporary storage level is currently being drained out. The past three days have seen an increased inflow into the reservoir from Kelavarapalli dam. On Friday, the inflow into KRP dam was 370 cusecs and the outflow was 370 cusecs. The water inflow had touched 605 cusecs during the week and the entire water was being drained out into the river through the dam’s sluices. According to a Public Works Department source, the works are in the final stages, with sandblasting and epoxy primer works pending as of date. The reservoir will be ready to hold full capacity by mid-July, in time to receive the inflow from the monsoons. The shutter works were being expedited just in time for the monsoon after a delay by over two years since one of the shutters had breached from corrosion in 2017. The shutter was replaced a year later under the State funds. The reservoir’s full capacity of 52 feet was lowered after the breach raised concerns on the structural safety of the other shutters. In 2018, the project to replace the remaining shutters was set in motion, under the funds of the World Bank under its Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project in place here.
06 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Storage facilities come in handy for farmers||Farmers have been optimally using storage facilities provided for free by the district administration to hold on to their produce during the COVID-19 lockdown, said Madurai Market Committee secretary V. Mercy Jeyarani. The district administration on April 29 announced that farmers who did not get a good price for their produce can use free space available in godowns and transaction sheds in four areas. While Madurai has a total of 500-tonne space, Usilampatti, Vadipatti and Tirumangalam can together accommodate around 2,000 tonnes. There is also a 25-tonne cold storage facility in Tirumangalam. The godowns in Vadipatti and Mattuthavani predominantly store paddy and the godown in Usilampatti has multi-crop storage. This includes paddy and small millets. The Tirumangalam facility mostly caters to horticulture produce, Ms. Mercy said. “The cold storage facility in Tirumangalam and the godowns in Mattuthavani have reached almost full capacity. In Usilampatti, farmers are using the drying yards to dry their crops and eventually store them. Almost 90% of the capacity has been reached,” she said. Dry godowns come to the rescue of farmers during times when prices are low and middlemen get maximum gain, said district president of All India Agricultural Workers Union V. Uma Maheshwaran. “When the lockdown started, farmers were desperate to sell their produce and people desperate to buy. Commission agents benefited immensely during this time because they had transport and resources to set high prices for the consumer. The district administration’s move towards providing the facility for free came at the right time,” he said. Ms. Mercy said that though traders who store paddy at the godown have been taking it to rice mills, farmers are still waiting for a good price, as the last year production was good. “If more people are interested, they can contact officers at Madurai 96775 50210, Usilampatti 98946 22582, Tirumangalam 81100 54595 and Vadipatti 96008 02823 to avail the facility,” she said.
06 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Decorators seek further relaxation||Tamil Nadu Tent Dealers and Decorators Association has demanded that they be allowed to continue in their vocation by relaxing the COVID-19 lockdown norms. In a novel protest, members of the association distributed flower bunches at the Collectorate here on Friday before giving a petition to Collector T. G. Vinay. Association district president P. Praveendas said around five lakh people in Tamil Nadu were involved in setting up decoration, providing sound and light, shamianas and tables for catering. “A majority of weddings and festivals are held in April, May, June and July. If a year has 60 muhurtams, half are held between these four months. It is difficult for us to sustain because of the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions,” he said. A majority of them had to pay rent for their offices and godowns despite nil revenue. Decorators in rural Madurai have started going for daily wage work while those in urban areas have been pawning their jewellery or taking loans with high rates of interest. “Rats have bitten into our decorative material and destroyed some of our stuff. In order to sail through these tough times, we request the State government to allow the opening of marriage halls in areas which are not containment zones. We do not want financial assistance. Just let us do our job and we ensure to maintain physical distancing and small crowds,” he said. He added that since the limit for conducting weddings is only 50, decorators were offering a package that involved food, make-up, decoration and small halls for Rs. 1 lakh. “We are making do with what we have,” he said.
06 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Pursue higher studies after executing bank guarantee’||The State government informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that it has decided to permit medical practitioners, who have not yet completed the period of compulsory service under the bond executed by them, to pursue higher studies on condition that they shall furnish a bank guarantee equivalent to the bond amount. Following the execution of the bank guarantee equivalent to the bond amount for the period of higher studies, the original documents of the medical practitioners would be returned for that period on the understanding that it would be re-submitted on reporting for duty to complete the required period of compulsory service, the State said. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Gautham who completed his MBBS in 2013. He sought the return of his original certificates so that he could pursue further studies in DNB (Post-Diploma). He executed a bond for Rs. 20 lakh so that it could be encashed by authorities concerned, if he failed to join duty after completion of the course. Taking cognisance of the fact that the original certificates were returned to Gautham, Justice P.D. Audikesavalu disposed of the petition directing the petitioner to re-submit the original certificates to the authorities concerned when he reports for duty, after completing higher studies. A posting order should be issued to him, the court said. Following this, the petitioner shall be entitled to apply to the court for refund of the amount deposited with accrued interest. In the event of the petitioner failing to report for duty after the completion of the course, it is open to the authorities concerned to apply to the court for encashing the deposited amount for non-compliance of bond conditions, the court said.
06 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Custody of baby entrusted to Mazhalai Illam||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has entrusted the custody of a male child to the Grace Kennett Foundation Hospital here after the court was informed that it would require more time to conduct a DNA test, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The court was hearing the petition filed by a woman from Salem district who sought the custody of the child, currently under the care of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in Virudhunagar district. It was said that the woman and her husband who were under financial stress had decided to give up their child for adoption. The child was adopted by a couple in Virudhunagar district, but no legal procedures were followed. Taking cognisance of the matter, CWC Virudhunagar district took custody of the child and initiated an inquiry into the issue. A police complaint was also registered in this regard and the investigation was on. Under these circumstances, the woman moved the High Court Bench seeking custody of the child. During the course of the hearing, it was submitted that a DNA test would take considerable time due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan entrusted the custody of the child to Mazhalai Illam, a home for abandoned children in the Grace Kennett Foundation in Madurai as the DNA test would take some more time and an inquiry was pending in the case.
06 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Reaching out to the needy||In the trying times of COVID-19 pandemic, people have been put to hardship, financially and psychologically. Good Samaritans have stepped in to help needy by giving them essential commodities for sustenance. The Madurai Division Commercial Taxes Department Retired Officers’ Welfare Association contributed Rs. 2.32 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The amount collected from the members was handed over to the Collector by its president T. Sivasubramanian, secretary M. Mohan and treasurer R. Jeyaseelan. The Mannar Alumni Association of Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College has adopted Uchapatti village near Tirumangalam. Rice and essential commodities worth Rs. 12 lakh were handed over to 700 families comprising daily wagers in the village. Association president S. Muralidharan, secretary K.S. Senthil Kumar and treasurer V. Jeyakumar distributed the assistance. Tamil Cinema Nadigargal Sangam general secretary P.M. Vinoth distributed rice, essential commodities, groceries, kabasura kudineer and face masks to over 200 drama and folk artiste who were left without work due to the lockdown.
06 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth gives tense moments to police||Tirumangalam Town police had a tough time on Thursday when an electrician, P. Prasanth, 26, climbed atop a cell phone tower and threatened to jump down to his death if he was not united with a girl he had been in love with for two years. The youth stayed atop the tower from 11 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. Holding a can of petrol, he threatened the police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel who tried to bring him down. At one point, he even poured the petrol on two Fire and Rescue Services personnel who had to retreat immediately. Only after revenue officials pacified him saying everything could be sorted out at the police station did he come down. The police have booked him for trespass, attempt to commit suicide, preventing government officials from discharging their duty and for criminal intimidation, based on a complaint from the local village administration officer. He was sent to judicial custody. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.
06 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DYFI stages protest against Minneapolis incident||Members of Democratic Youth Federation of India staged a demonstration here on Thursday in support of the protest against the death of Afro-American George Floyd in the U.S. The agitators flayed the recent incident in which George Floyd was killed in a crual manner by a group of police personnel in Minneapolis in the United States of America. There was public outrage across the world over the brutal murder in particular and racial discrimination in general. The DYFI youths carried placards with the last words of Floyd, ‘I can't breathe.’ DYFI State secretary Bala took part.
06 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Locust attack less likely in South India’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday closed a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the Central government to set up a Locust Warning Organisation facility in Tamil Nadu, in view of desert locusts attacking farmlands, particularly in North India. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi closed the petition filed by V. Jeevakumar of Thanjavur district. The petitioner said that a centre must be set up in Tamil Nadu in order to monitor the movement of locust swarms. But the State submitted that the locust swarms were less likely to reach South India. The court took cognisance of the counter affidavit filed by Agriculture Production Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi who submitted that Special Committees were formed at district levels to monitor on a daily basis the position with regard to the possible movement of desert locusts from North India towards Tamil Nadu.. He said that all districts were directed to ensure the availability of plant protection equipment such as sprayers, tractor-mounted sprayers and fire engines. Wide publicity and awareness campaigns were also organised at village level to sensitise the farmers on control of locusts by spraying neem- based biopesticides called Azadirachtin. Mr. Bedi had a meeting with Vice-Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Director of Agriculture and Director of Horticulture and Plantation Crops on preparatory measures taken by the State to face the menace of desert locusts, if and when it occurred, the counter affidavit said.
06 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||The way ahead for colleges||Financial setback owing to COVID-19 would be felt more by private colleges in semi-urban and rural areas, said M. Palaninatha Raja, Dean, Planning and Development, Thiagarajar College of Engineering. He said here recently that people all over the world had been calling for refund of partial tuition fee and accommodation fee and adjustment of fee with their respective institutions. The colleges must come up with creative solutions “Though students do not have access to high speed Internet and uninterrupted power supply, there has been increased access to digital learning at a low cost,” he said. “It is the high time all institutions compulsorily trained their faculty members in this domain. Hybrid or blended learning proved that remote digital learning is a viable and cost-effective solution for certain courses,” he said. Institutions can also engage subject experts from different parts of the world to enrich the learning experience. They can collaborate with organisations and industries and co-create courses and allow their employees to pursue some degrees at discounted fees. Shared educational services by making collaborative efforts would reduce the overheads, he said. Students should also be given remote internship to facilitate remote mentoring and counselling. This will aid their upskilling and reskilling in a cost-effective way, he said.
06 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Special pujas held at temple||The ninth day of Vaikasi brahmotsavam of Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple was a low-key affair on Friday as only a handful of temple staff witnessed priests performing special pujas. Every year, thousands of devotees used to draw the temple car on the ninth day, said an official at the temple. “Due to COVID-19, we cancelled the car festival and instead performed Alangara Tirumanjanam , special abishekam and deeparadhana . Devotees were not allowed inside the temple,” the official said. The pujas started at 9 a.m. and went on till 10.30 a.m. amid tight security. It was not telecast on television or social media platforms, the official said. “We prayed for world peace. We can only hope that COVID-19 passes soon,” he said.
06 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 112.70 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 32 cusecs and a discharge of 125 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 37.96 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 1,621 mcft. Periyar dam recorded a rainfall of 6.2 mm and Thekkadi 1.6 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday.  The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 42.10 feet (permissible level is 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 404.05 cusecs and 100 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam (permissible level is 118 feet) stood at 70.35 feet. The dam had an inflow of 34 cusec and 325 cusecs of water was discharged.
06 June 2020||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||Voice grows louder for rail link||After declaration of district status for Mayiladuthurai by the State Government, the voice of the public demanding creation of rail link to Karaikal has grown louder. Profitability in the route was a certainty owing to the presence of Karaikal port and a number of educational institutions along the Mayiladuthurai-Tranquebar-Karaikal section, R. Seyon, Chief Co-ordinator, Federation of Advocates for Mayiladuthurai District, said. The Railway Board must consider in right earnest the directive issued by the Madras High Court earlier this year to act on the petition filed by former MLA Kuttalam Kalyanam, Mr. Seyon said in a representation. Rail travellers have for long been emphasising the revival of Mayiladuthurai-Tranquebar rail link and extending the same to Karaikal for bringing about connectivity to important tourist destinations and according a thrust for the economic development in delta region. The Railway Ministry, according to official records, had carried out a survey in 2005-06 to explore the feasibility of extending the line to Karaikal via Thirunallar for a total length of 47.3 km, heeding to suggestions that the section will provide a circular rail route covering the Cauvery delta linking Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Tranquebar, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, and Tiruvarur. The project is in the recommended list of the State government too as it would connect major pilgrimage centres alongside ushering in development in the region. C. Sentilvel, president of Mayiladuthurai Chamber of Commerce, said profitability in the proposed line in the Mayiladuthurai-Thirukadaiyur-Tranquebar-Thirunallar-Karaikal section was a certainty. It would cater to the transport requirements of several thousands of students every day, he said, recalling the initiatives taken by the student community in recent years to drive home the importance of the project to the Railway Ministry by sending post cards individually.
06 June 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Kudimaramathu works inspected||The Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of Tamil Nadu Water Resources Conservation and Rivers Restoration Corporation K. Satyagopal inspected the kudimaramathu works in canals and rivers and other restoration work of the water bodies being undertaken in the district on Tuesday and Wednesday, and instructed the Public Works Department to expedite the process. Accompanied by the District Collector Praveen P.Nair and other senior officials, Mr. Satyagopal took stock of the progress of the works on restoration of water bodies being carried out at a cost of Rs. 77 lakh in Nagapattinam block. He also inspected the desilting works being undertaken for a 15-km stretch at Suramangalam village in Thirukuvalai block, and the kudimaramathu works at Venmanacheri village. For 2020-21, the government has sanctioned Rs. 51 crore for 131 kudimaramathu works and 80 repair works of water bodies undertaken by the Public Works Department and Water Resources Organisation. The government was keen on completion of the works before release of water into the Cauvery from the Mettur Dam, Mr. Sathyagopal said. On Tuesday, he inspected the works in progress along Mudikondan river bed at Kattumavadi village, and at Valappar river in Narimalam village, being undertaken at a cost of Rs. 99 lakh. Desilting works are being undertaken at a cost of Rs. 29 lakh on the Mudikondan river bed, and rectification of weir and canal desiltation at Sannamangalam is being carried out at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh. A sum of Rs. 50 lakh is being spent on water storage point at the tailend of Valappar river. Mr. Satyagopal also took stock of the Kudimaramathu works involving expenditure of Rs. 64 lakh being undertaken in Tiruvenkadu and Melayur villages in Sirkazhi block.
06 June 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Two train passengers test positive||A 40-year-old woman and 12-year-old daughter, who arrived here by Tiruchi – Nagercoil Intercity Express on Wednesday, have tested positive for COVID – 19. The two from Methukummal were isolated and blood and throat swab samples taken from them. As they tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday night, they were admitted to the treatment ward of Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam. “Since the two had come to Tiruchi from Chennai by car, efforts are on to trace the car driver. Moreover, steps are being taken to track passengers who travelled in their coach,” said Department of Public Health sources.
06 June 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Electricity charges not hiked’||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani said electricity charges have not been increased and only units used had been divided over two bills. Talking to presspersons after conducting a review meeting at the District Collectorate here said, “Since it was lockdown, all of them remained at home and the power usage increased. The bill amount has not increased, only the number of units used has been divided over two bills. Only the usage has been split, and not the bill amount.” Mr.Thangamani alleged that Opposition leader M.K. Stalin had issued a statement based on false information. He added that a clarification has also been given to actor Prasanna who tweeted about the increase in power charges. Mr.Thangamani said, “We have also given a clarification to actor Prasanna, who has accepted it.” The actor's power usage was divided into two and he had some previous bill dues. Tangedco advised him to pay it along with current bills. “As an actor, he has made false allegations against the organisation without understanding the reality,” he charged. On allegations that poor quality electric poles were erected, Mr.Thangamani said only high quality electric poles were being erected and anyone could check their quality. Stalin’s charge Mr. Stalin had urged the AIADMK government to resolve the confusion around calculations involved in electricity bills. In a statement, he pointed out that many consumers were shocked over exorbitant power bills accumulated over four months and alleged that the State government was ignoring their concerns. Mr. Stalin said the bills were collected based on tariff slabs and the [free] units were not deducted. He said the explanation given on this issue by the Electricity Department was not satisfactory. He added that the government was putting a huge burden on people who are facing issues like job and income losses due to the COVID-19 lockdown and this was condemnable. The DMK leader said MSMEs had been impacted due to the lockdown, and the government should not collect the previous month’s bill from them. The government should either waive the previous month’s bill or the charges as per latest reading, Mr. Stalin said. He also sought subsidies on power bills for the next six months for MSMEs.
06 June 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Inform about returnees: Collector||District Collector K. Megraj has asked the public to inform the district administration of persons in their neighbourhood who had come into the district from other districts, States or foreign countries. The information could be provided on phone number 8220402437 or helpline number 1077. Mr. Megraj said in a press release on Friday that 14 check-posts had been set up in the district and quarantine facilities had been arranged for such persons. Mr. Megraj said the administration had learnt that some persons had entered the district through some lanes, bypassing the check-posts on the highways.
06 June 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Exams to be conducted in 308 centres in Namakkal||District Collector K .Megraj said that 308 centres have been readied in the district for the conduct of Class X examinations. After reviewing arrangements at these centres, Mr.Megraj told presspersons that as many as 21,305 students would be appearing for the examinations in the district. Eight centres have been arranged in the Kolli Hills, and there are eight government vehicles that the students could use to reach the centres. Mr. Megraj said that students can collect their hall tickets on June 8 and 9. “Students will be screened before entering halls and they will be provided with masks. Students should reach the examination centres by 8.45 a.m. so that they get time to sanitise their hands and relax for sometime before the start of the examination,” he said. He added that a few students studying in matriculation schools in Namakkal have to reach the district from Tiruchi. “We have spoken to the school authorities and school buses would be used for the purpose,” he said. Mr. Megraj added that 30 special centres have been arranged for students with COVID-19 symptoms to take the examinations.
06 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Regular services to commence at IGMCRI from Monday||Five new COVID-19 cases were diagnosed in Puducherry on Friday. While three patients were admitted at IGMCRI, two were taken to Jipmer. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said regular services will be restored at the IGMCRI from Monday.
06 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector leads drive to make people wear mask||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Friday led a drive to sensitise people to wear face masks and ensure personal distancing while venturing out to carry out their essential works in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Collector hit the streets to carry out surprise inspections to check whether people were wearing masks and also handed over masks to those who were not, even while explaining the importance of personal safety to them. The Collector went around Keezha Raja Veedhi - the main area in Pudukottai Town inspecting the State Bank of India’s branch and various shops along that stretch checking whether personal distancing was being maintained and people wore face masks. The Collector advised the bank officials to screen the customers using thermal scanner prior to allowing them inside. She also advised them to switch off the air-conditioning unit and have separate queue system for the elderly and the different-abled persons. Ms. Uma Maheswari also inspected some outlets selling fruits and fruit juices and asked the shopkeepers to ensure protective measures at their respective outlets. Those who fail to wear mask while venturing out are liable to be pay penalty, Ms.Uma Maheswari said. Shops which fail to adhere to the government guidelines issued in respect of COVID-19 would be sealed, she said. State Transport Department officials were advised to allow only passengers with mask and ensure personal distancing inside buses.
06 June 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||More narcotic substances seized||As a follow-up to the major seizure of narcotic substances last month at Thiruvadanai in the district, the police teams seized more drugs based on the confessions of the accused, said Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, he said that on May 24, the teams had cracked a smuggling network and arrested as many as nine persons and seized banned drugs, including heroin and brown sugar. As the case involved serious investigation since the network appeared to be larger, DGP J. K. Tripathy had transferred the case to the Narcotics Investigation Bureau - CID police. Meanwhile, discreet probe by two SIs of Police Thangamuniasami and Jesudas enabled in more seizure of narcotics and psychotropic substances. Amphetamine, heroin, cocaine, Methamphetamine, a lion’s teeth and two deer antlers. To test the purity of the drugs and genuineness of the lion’s teeth, it would be sent to a laboratory and to forest department officials, the SP said and added that the investigation would be handed over to the NIB officers soon.  Another case solved The SP said that a case of murder was also solved. On March 16, a woman’s body was found at Odakarai, near Anandoor here. Initial inquiries revealed that it may have been a murder for gain. A SI of Police Satish, who was entrusted with the task, unravelled the case by arresting two persons identified as Saminathan and Asaithambi. A vital clue from a family member helped the police in zeroing in on the killers, Dr Varun Kumar said and added that they had committed the crime as they were in debt. To settle the debt, they had snatched gold jewellery from the woman and to ensure that she didn’t reveal their identity, they had killed her.  23 stolen cars recovered Complimenting a Traffic Inspector A. K. Siva, the SP said that a car-stealing gang had been busted in Rameswaram. As many as 23 cars from different districts in Tamil Nadu were stolen by gangs and disposed off for paltry sums to people who were dealing in selling second hand cars in different parts of Tamil Nadu. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, as many people had left their cars unattended, it had come in handy to the thieves, it is suspected. Explaining the sequence of the case, the SP said that the Inspector had sent an e-challan for a violation under the MV Act. The car owner on receipt of the SMS, called the police to inform them that his car was missing. In a swift action, with the assistance of a team formed by DSP Mahesh, the car was caught in the island town and the driver confessed to have purchased the car from a broker in Guduvancherry, Chennai. The police arrested two persons - Gnanasingh Durai and Ebenezer. The SP said that they suspect four more persons to be linked to the crime and hunt was on to secure them.
06 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation sets up urban forest at two places||As part of World Environment Day celebrations, the Salem Corporation on Friday set up urban forest to increase green cover within the city. Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh launched the programme near the micro-composting centre in Selanaikenpatti and at Auto Colony in Thadampatti. Green cover Mr. Sadheesh said that about 500 trees would be planted at both the places and it would improve green cover within urban limits. He added that native varieties were planted here. Mr.Sadheesh said under the Jal Shakti Abyan scheme, the Corporation had set up urban forest at five places within the city and planted about 4,200 trees. “All these trees have grown well in a short period of time and it will help reduce pollution within city limits and improve groundwater level. It will also prevent flood-like situations here,” he said. The Corporation had also planted 10,120 saplings on its various office premises, he added. The Commissioner said that the groundwater table had improved through water body rejuvenation carried out under the Abyan and it prevented water scarcity issues during this summer season. However, a request had been made to the authorities concerned to study the changes in groundwater levels and give a report, Mr. Sadheesh said.
06 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||7 new positive cases in Salem||Seven new positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in Salem on Friday. Among them, two are contacts of a previous case and the others are persons who came from Maharashtra, Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. They are undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. 26 discharged Twenty-six persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease were discharged on Friday. The patients, who belong to different parts of Salem, had returned from Chennai and Maharashtra. The discharged patients included seven women and 19 men. Dean of the medical college hospital R. Balajinathan, Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal, Head of the Department of General Medicine Suresh Kanna, Deputy Director of Health Services J. Nirmalson and other officials were present when the patients were discharged. The patients were also given hand sanitisers, masks and an immunity-building concoction. They were advised to be in home quarantine for the next 14 days.
06 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Continue free power: farmers||A joint committee for protecting free electricity rights has petitioned Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for steps to have the Electricity (Amendment) Bill withdrawn and continue the free electricity for farmers. The farmers demanded that the Centre should withdraw the Bill as it was against the interest of farmers. Free electricity for farmers and weavers should continue, they said. The petitioners also demanded the Government to provide the connections at the earliest.
06 June 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||School booked||Virudhunagar district administration has booked Sivakasi Jaycees Matriculation Higher Secondary School for conducting special classes for students of 10th and 11th on Friday. Based on an alert, Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar sent a team of officials from the Department of Education to the school. Over 90 students were found attending special classes inside the school. The Sub-Collector also ordered booking a case against the school administration. The officials have booked them under the provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and under the Indian Penal Code.
06 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Three held for forcing woman into prostitution||The Vallam All Women Police have arrested three persons on the charge of forcing a woman into prostitution and abandoning her at Sengipatti in the district recently. According to police, the Hindi-speaking woman was spotted by the All India Democratic Women’s Association members at Sengipatti on June 1 and was rushed to the Thanjavur Medical College hospital as she was found unwell. Subsequently, the Sengipatti police were informed about the rescue of the woman and on interrogation it was ascertained that the woman was employed as a domestic helper at a house in Thanjavur. Her employers have allegedly beaten her and abandoned her at Sengipatti as the woman insisted that she be sent back to Bengaluru where her family resides. Meanwhile, during treatment at TMC hospital it was ascertained that she was pregnant. Further interrogation revealed that the woman who had been brought to Thanjavur from Bengaluru had been forced into prostitution by her employers. Subsequently, three persons Senthilkumar and Ramachandran and a woman Rajam of Thanjavur were arrested under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act on Thursday night, sources said. The police are also on the lookout of another person who was involved in this crime.
06 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Books turn ‘stress busters’ for inmates of isolation camps in Thoothukudi||Being in isolation in the sweltering heat along with a few strangers is a painful situation. And it become s unbearable when a returnee from other State or a foreign destination gets isolated even before meeting his family. Though they can speak to their loved ones over the phone from the isolation camp, the pain of separation is always there. To assuage this pain at least to some extent, the Thoothukudi Corporation has started giving books to those who have been kept in three isolation camps in the district on their return from other States andforeign countries. The district administration has created ‘isolation camps’ at the Government Engineering College, Government Polytechnic College and Annammal College of Education to keep those who return home from other districts, States or foreign countries. While returnees from other districts or States are allowed to go home after being in the ‘isolation camps’ for a couple of days if they test negative, the foreign returnees have to stay there at least for a week even though they test negative for COVID-19. “So, it would be really tough for them to spend a week in the ‘isolation camp’ on returning from abroad. As a stress buster, we’re giving books to them to read and spend their time in a valuable fashion,” says V.P. Jayaseelan, Corporation Commissioner. The urban local body has purchased 100 short stories and as many novels and given the books to the isolation camp inmates so they can handle the situation with ease. “We can understand their agony of being in isolation for a week. The books however lessen their pain to some extent. While some of them love novels, others love short stories of great writers. For most of them, the isolation camp has given an opportunity to read again the novels they had enjoyed during school or college days, says Mr. Jayaseelan.
06 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||World Environment Day observed||The World Environment Day was observed here on Friday. Corporation Commissioner V. P. Jayaseelan, who planted a tree sapling on the Corporation premises, released songs on solid waste management that ensures environment protection. The songs have been composed by activists Ramani and Chandran. After the release the compact disc was posted on various social media platforms. City Engineer of the Corporation Parthiban and City Health Officer Arun Kumar were present.
06 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||29 new COVID 19 positive cases||Twenty-nine persons tested positive for COVID 19 in the Central region, with Tiruchi district accounting for 12 cases, on Friday. There were five new cases in Pudukkottai district, four in Tiruvarur district, three in Nagapattinam district, two in Ariyalur district, and one each in Perambalur, Thanjavur and Karur districts. Of the 12 cases in Tiruchi district, five were family members of a COVID positive case, and three contacts. Three other new patients were also family members of a COVID positive patient who had returned from Chennai, and another person was also Chennai returnee. The district authorities are also determining if a person belonging to Saradamangalam near Mannachanallur Govindaraj (40) who was returning home from Chennai with his family members had died of COVID 19 infection. Officials had to intervene in burying the body in the village after residents raised objections. Swab samples have been lifted for testing, official sources said. In Nagapattinam district, two of the three confirmed cases were children of a Chennai returnee, and the third person had also returned from Chennai where he had worked as a driver in the harbour area. In Ariyalur district, a medical team deputed by the Central Government took stock of the effectiveness of the containment measures on Friday. Accompanied by Collector D. Rathna, the team member S. Dinesh Kumar of JIPMER, Puducherry, monitored the steps taken in the containment zones, and the effectiveness of treatment provided to the COVID 19 patients at the Ariyalur Government Hospital. As on Friday, 11 COVID 19 positive patients are undergoing treatment at the Ariyalur Government Hospital, two patients in KAPV Medical College Hospital, Tiruchi, and one in Chennai. Of the 17 COVID 19 positive patients of Pudukottai district undergoing treatment, 10 are in Ranees Government Hospital, five in old Government Hospital, and two in KAPV Medical College Hospital, Tiruchi. Twenty nine COVID 19 positive patients - 20 from Tiruchi and the rest from neighbouring districts - are currently undergoing treatment in the KAPV Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi. All the patients are in good health, official sources said. Eleven patients were discharged in Tiruchi on Friday. Two patients were discharged from the Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital.
06 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Traders threaten to suspend sales||The Tiruchi Gandhi Market All Wholesale and Retail Traders Association announced that wholesale and retail vegetable traders in the city would suspend business from Sunday night unless and until the Gandhi Market was reopened. The association issued an advertisement in a vernacular evening daily on Friday making the announcement after its office-bearers presented representations seeking the reopening of the market to Ministers Sellur Raju and Vellamandi N.Natarajan here on Thursday. In the representation addressed to Collector, Ve. Govindarajalu, president of the association, pointed out that the Gandhi Market had been remained closed for over 70 days since the enforcement of the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the COVID 19 pandemic. The temporary wholesale market, allowed to function in the nights, was initially functioning on the service lanes on Chennai By-pass Road but later shifted to G.Corner grounds citing poor social distancing practices. Apart from poor business at the G.Corner grounds, traders were also forced to carry on business under unsafe conditions as vegetable sacks were being stolen and exposed to rain. On May 17 and 24, vegetables worth several lakhs of rupees were damaged due the spells of heavy summer showers. Although traders were permitted to operate till 4 a.m. at the market, pressure was mounted on them to shut shop earlier, Mr.Govindarajalu alleged. “With the relaxation in the lockdown norms, all major business establishments have opened. Under the circumstances, keeping the Gandhi Market closed was not justified. The market houses scores of other shops include flower shops, groceries and a host of other products, besides the vegetable shops. The livelihood of all these traders have been adversely affected,” Mr.Govindarajalu said. Traders, if allowed to function, would adhere to the government norms of social distancing and other safety measures, he said urging the Collector to order the reopening of the market by June 7, failing which all wholesale and retail vegetable trade in the city would be suspended indefinitely.  Consumers oppose move Meanwhile, the Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations has taken exception to the traders’ threat to suspend sale of vegetables in the city. Urging the government not to give in to the demand of reopening of the market now as it could pose a threat to not only the general public but also to the traders. Expressing concern at the spread of the novel corona virus, M.Sekaran, president, of the federation, in a statement pointed out that the restrictions announced in operation of buses are hardly adhered to by the people. In such a situation, it would be risky to reopen the market, he said after a meeting of the federation members. The Gandhi Market should be renovated and modernised and opened only for retail trade. The market should not be opened again with the congested and unhygienic conditions that existed there prior to its closure, he said.
06 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Greening drive marks Environment Day||Institutions in the city celebrated the World Environment Day with renewed vigour this year while observing safe practices in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Botany Department of Bishop Heber College hosted a greening drive early on Friday morning, in which nearly 2000 seed balls were dispersed on the banks of the Uyyakondan canal. With each seed ball containing over 10 seeds of local trees, at least 20,000 trees are expected to grow naturally along the 2-acre stretch of the canal where the drive took place. The programme was held in collaboration with the Heber Au Sable Institute, NCC Air Wing, Nature Club, Green Stewards, CSI Tiruchi-Thanjavur Diocese and Global Nature Foundation, Thuraiyur. “In keeping with the rules on public gatherings, a small team of college officials, diocesan clerics and volunteers participated in the greening drive,” V. Anand Gideon, Head, Department of Botany, Bishop Heber College, told The Hindu . A little later in the day, Kauvery Group of Hospitals launched its 5 acre ‘Kauvery Garden’ afforestation project in Kondayampettai, Thiruvanaikovil, with a tree planting ceremony. Also being created in collaboration with Global Nature Foundation, the project, which has 727 planting pits, hopes to literally grow a forest within a year, using a new cluster-sowing method. Around 3,000 saplings and 1,000 seed balls have been used in the project. “We have used natural fertilizer made from the biodegradable waste generated by the Kauvery Hospitals, and drip irrigation to ensure that the project will be an environment-friendly addition to our surroundings,” said S. Chandrakumar, Founder and Executive Chairman of Kauvery Group of Hospitals, who led the planting drive with senior physicians. Doctors of the hospital were encouraged to participate in the planting drive with their families through the day, while observing the requisite social distancing norms. Some 200 student volunteers from three colleges were involved in making the seed balls, said K. Naveen, director of Global Nature Foundation. “We had made the balls using seeds of 25 local plants like fig, Terminalia arjuna, beechwood, Madhuca longifolia and so on, three months before the lockdown was announced,” said Mr. Naveen. “Since the soil is well-watered here naturally, we expect dense forest growth within the next year. Our main challenge will be to do the weeding for the first three months. Once the tree canopy is formed, Nature will take over,” he said. The Kauvery Garden is using a planting technique that is different from the Miyawaki method. It allows for graded empty spaces between the trees which helps to maximise plant growth while bringing down expenses. “The project has cost Rs. 3 lakh for 5 acres with this method; it will be much higher if we went for Miyawaki,” said Mr. Naveen. A webinar titled ‘Environment Stories Sollatuma’ was organised by Students Exnora of Holy Cross College and Youth Exnora International – Tiruchi chapter. The Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited Township in Tiruchi was among the 12 BHEL townships in the country that have been declared as single-use-plastic free based on third party certification, according to R. Padmanabhan, Executive Director, BHEL, Tiruchi. “Our commitment towards conservation of biodiversity was evident from translocating more than 200 fully grown trees for a proposed flyover project and replanting them at various places the campus,” Mr. Padmanabhan said while inaugurating World Environment Day celebrations. More than 20,000 saplings of different species have been planted over the last one year as part of mass tree plantation drive in the BHEL campus. Rainwater harvesting and use of treated waste water for horticulture was a regular feature, Mr. Padmanabhan said. Mr. Padmanabhan also administered the World Environment Day pledge to general managers, products and functional heads and representatives of participative unions and other employee associations. Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari inaugurated a tree saplings planting drive at the Municipal Office campus in the town, while authorities of the Pudukottai Government Medical College planted about 50 saplings inside the campus. AL.Meenakshisundaram, Dean of the college, said the hospital administration was planning to plant 400 saplings inside the campus this year. Thanjavur Planting of saplings and environment awareness campaigns were held in Thanjavur. Collector M.Govinda Rao led the World Environment Day events held at the Rajah Serfoji Government College where he planted a sapling to mark the inauguration of the day-long events. Oratorical and essay competitions through web were organised by the Clean Thanjavur Movement. Tiruvarur ICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Needamangalam, organised a webinar in association with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and the Green Needa Organisation. Sapling plantation on the KVK premises preceded the webinar.
06 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railways to open more counters for cancellation and refund of fare||The Tiruchi Railway Division is arranging full refund of ticket fares for trains cancelled from March 22 to June 30 due to COVID-19. Refunds were already being provided at reservation counters at Tiruchi Junction, Thanjavur Junction, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai Junction, Ariyalur and Villupuram Junction with effect from June 1. In addition to the above, passenger reservation system counters would be opened for cancellation and refunds at Puducherry, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur Junction, Vriddhachalam Junction, Tiruvannamalai, Chidambaram, Tiruppadirippuliyur and Srirangam with effect from June 8. The working hours of the counters at the above locations would be from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Refunds would be made available in a staggered manner to minimise queue at the counters. A Southern Railway press release said for counter tickets 100% refund would be made available for all the cancelled trains (after March 22, 2020) up to 180 days from the date of journey. No person would be allowed at the counters without wearing masks. The staff were instructed to wear gloves and masks.The refund of ticket fares was being granted online atwww.irctc.co.infor all tickets on the website, the release added.
06 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Firefighters begin spraying disinfectants at night||Battling at the frontline to check the spread of COVID-19, firefighters across the central region encompassing nine districts, including Tiruchi, have embarked on the task of spraying disinfectants at night. The exercise of spraying disinfectants in the late hours also covering the interior pockets started in a full-fledged manner from last week, with the firefighters wearing coveralls executing the task. Firefighters have been involved in spraying disinfectants at various locations in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The activity at Tiruchi started from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Since then, the firefighters have been carrying out this exercise across the region during day time covering various spots in a bid to prevent the spread of the disease. Of late, this exercise is being done from midnight till the early hours the next morning in all the 95 fire stations located over the central region. This was being done on the instruction of the Director General of Police / Director, Fire and Rescue Services, C. Sylendra Babu. The exercise during late night hours was taken up since there was public and vehicular movements during day time with roads not getting cleared. Operation during night hours enables the firefighters to carry out the task easily and cover more interior pockets without any hindrance, says the Deputy Director, Fire and Rescue Services, Central region, Meenakshi Vijayakumar. The firefighters were utilising mobile units and quick response vehicles to spray disinfectants, Ms. Meenakshi Vijayakumar said, adding that the quick response vehicle could manoeuvre and reach narrow lanes as well. Disinfectants were being sprayed at hospitals, schools, residential localities, business hotspots, police stations and police quarters. The night operation lasts longer that the similar day day time exercise, she said. The Fire and Rescue Services Department had been using special pumps to spray disinfectants which proved to be more effective. Ms. Meenakshi Vijayakumar said the department had provided personal protective equipment, face shields and masks to all the 2,300 firefighters serving in the central region.
06 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers sent home||A total of 403 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh who had been working in various districts, including Tiruchi, were sent to their native State by a Shramik special train from here on Friday. The labourers were brought from various districts, including Karur, Namakkal, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Sivaganga and Cuddalore to the Tiruchi railway junction. They were given food packets and ensured personal distancing while they boarded the train. Collector S. Sivarasu saw them off at Tiruchi Junction, an official release said. Meanwhile, a total number of 108 Malaysian nationals who were stranded in the State due to the lockdown left for Kuala Lumpur by a Malindo Air flight on Friday. The flight landed here at around 10.17 a.m. and left for Kuala Lumpur at around 11.47 a.m., airport sources said.
06 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Woman murders mother-in-law||A woman R. Pradeepa (23) allegedly murdered her mother-in-law by setting her ablaze after pouring kerosene, in their house at Maniyampalam near Vallathirakottai in Pudukottai district on Wednesday. The victim A. Rajammal (58) succumbed to severe burns at Pudukottai Medical College Hospital on Thursday. Pradeepa was arrested. Police said there were differences between Pradeepa and her mother-in-law ever since the former got married two years ago. Neighbours rushed Rajammal to hospital. The accused was remanded.
06 June 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli gets Rs. 8.41 crore as COVID-19 assistance package||This is good news for promoters of rural business ventures that have been hit hard by the lockdown, as the district has received Rs. 8.41 crore under the COVID-19 assistance package, known as ‘Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Programme’. The State Government, with World Bank fundting, has rolled out this programme on an outlay of Rs. 300 crore to be executed by the Department of Rural Development. The initiative aims at financially supporting a host of rural enterprise activities such as production of masks, sanitiser, soap and hand wash, garments, dairy, poultry, fisheries, small food centres, agro-product sale, production of various raw materials, artificial jewellery, beautician work, wood carving / craft works and home appliances repairing etc. Financial assistance will be given to both existing rural enterprises and new ones under five categories. New employment The move aims to rejuvenate rural industries and create new employment in 102 village panchayats in Palayamkottai, Radhapuram, Nanguneri and Valliyoor blocks. The assistance being extended under this scheme would revive enterprises being run by self-help group members, physically challenged, Farm Producers’ Organisations and also enable the youth who have returned to their villages in the wake of the pandemic, to start their business ventures. Under this programme, 816 persons in these four blocks will get working capital assistance as long-term loan of Rs. 50,000 each through panchayat-level federations to start their ventures, one-time capital grant of Rs. 1.50 lakh each to 41 producers’ groups having 1,025 members, another one-time grant of Rs. 1.50 lakh each to eight existing groups, each having at least five members, Rs. 1 lakh assistance to skilled migrant youth returnees as start-up grant support for establishing their business ventures, Rs. 10 lakh each to three farm producers’ collectives, having 500 members each. The scheme also paves way for giving financial assistance of Rs. 20,000 each as long-term loan to the differently- abled persons, widows, transgenders and other vulnerable sections. “In all, 1,851 persons will benefit under this programme as we disburse Rs. 8.41 crore to them to start or revive their business ventures in four blocks of the district,” said Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish. Interested persons may contact panchayat-level poverty alleviation groups, block offices concerned or the District Rural Rejuvenation Programme Office at 25, Perumalpuram Main Road, Tirunelveli or call 0462 – 2904211.
06 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||11 fresh cases in Thoothukudi district||While the number of imported cases stood at zero on Friday, Thoothukudi district recorded 11 indigenous cases to take its tally to 306. Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts recorded 2 cases each - both indigenous - to take the tally to 382 and 98 respectively. Kanniyakumari district reported only one imported case that jacked up the total to 77. According to the State medical bulletin, the number of discharged persons stood at 323 in Tirunelveli, 168 in Thoothukudi, 77 in Tenkasi and 48 patients in Kanniyakumari. Madurai Nine people tested positive in Madurai, taking the count to 291. While two were returnees from Tiruvottiyur in north Chennai, two others were from other parts of the capital. Two cases were cross-notified since their permanent address is in Chennai. There were one each from Mela Anuppanadi, Sellur and Bethaniapuram. The youngest was a 13-year-old boy from Tiruvottiyur, and the oldest a 72-year-old woman from Mela Anuppanadi who arrived at Government Rajaji Hospital with cough and cold. Six of the nine patients did not display any symptoms. According to the State bulletin, three people were discharged and the number of active cases remained at 92. Virudhunagar Seven cases were reported in Virudhunagar district taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in the district so far to 143 - 52 indigenous cases and 91 imported ones. However, the total number of active cases are 45 as 98 patients have been discharged so far from different hospitals. Theni Two persons in Theni district tested positive. According to health officials, they had been to Chennai and returned recently to their houses in Veerapandi and Andipatti respectively. They have been admitted to Theni Government Medical College Hospital. In Dindigul district, three persons - a pregnant woman and two others - tested positive. They have been admitted to Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. There were no fresh cases in Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts.
06 June 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Use private hospitals for COVID-19 patients’||The State Government should reserve 50% of the beds in private hospitals for COVID–19 positive patients as the number of fresh cases is on the rise, said Member of Parliament Su. Thirunavukkarasar here. During an informal chat with reporters here on Friday after distributing essential commodities to the Corporation’s sanitary workers, he said the action being taken by the Central and the State Governments to contain the viral infection was “far from satisfaction” and it had resulted in the spike in the fresh cases. Even as the number of fresh cases was on the rise, both the governments had not taken any effective measure to contain the spread of the disease. The State Government should promulgate an order reserving 50% of the beds in all private hospitals for treating COVID-19 positive patients and bear the medical expenses since people from all walks of life had been hit hard by the pandemic. Moreover, the State Government should give Rs. 15,000 to every family as relief while migrant labourers should be given Rs. 10,000. The MP also urged the State Government to cancel the SSLC public examination.
06 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Railway officials distribute colouring books to children||Officials of the Salem Division of Southern Railway distributed colouring books and crayons to children of migrant workers boarding the Shramik special train at Tiruppur Junction on Friday. Under the ‘Operation Muskaan (Smile)’ initiative, 250 children received the colouring books and crayon sets from Divisional Commercial Manager P.V. Manoj and Tiruppur Junction Chief Commercial Inspector Elango. The children and their parents were among the 1,600 passengers who boarded the train to Dhanbad, Jharkhand, that left Tiruppur Junction at 7.45 p.m. Besides, 800 migrant workers received cloth bags to mark the World Environment Day. Mariyalayam, a women’s organisation, distributed groceries to 18 contract cleaning staff employed at Tiruppur Junction.
06 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers observe fast in Tiruvarur||Farmers owing their allegiance to the Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu observed a fast here on Friday in support of their demands, including withdrawal of the amendment to the Electricity Act. The farmers who observed the fast in the front courtyards of the residences of the office-bearers throughout the State urged the Union government to withdraw the amendments to the Act aimed at bringing reforms in the sector. They also condemned the Union government’s action of bringing the Cauvery Water Management Authority under the purview of the Ministry of Jal Shakti. While condemning the Union government for its ‘anti-Tamil Nadu farmers’ initiatives, the committee urged the Tamil Nadu government to suspend the ongoing Mettur Dam-Sarabanga project as it would deprive the rights of Delta farmers over the Cauvery water. The committee president P.R.Pandian led the demonstration at Mannargudi. In Tiruchi, a group of farmers led by Dikshidar Balasubramanian and others observed a fast urging the government to desist from making any change in the free power supply to farmers and withdrawal of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020. B. Hemanathan, district secretary, K.C. Arumugam and other representatives of the District Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations, participated.
06 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man injured in elephant attack dies||A 31-year-old man, who was injured by a wild elephant near a tea estate in Devarshola, Gudalur on May 31, died on Thursday, forest officials said. The deceased was identified as O. Sumith from Jharkhand. He had been working in a tea estate in the area. He suffered serious injuries in the elephant attack and was taken to Coimbatore for treatment. Forest officials handed over interim compensation to his wife.
06 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Government hostels to open on June 11||All Government-run hostels for school students would reopen on June 11 to facilitate accommodation for students who would appear for the 10th public examination that is slated to begin on June 15. In a statement, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said that 47 hostels run by the Department of Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Denotified Community Welfare would be reopened on June 11. Similarly, 52 hostels run by the Adi Dravida Welfare Department would also be opened. The hostel buildings would be completely cleaned and disinfected to prevent any kind of infection, the Collector said. The Collector said that students can return to their hostel and attend the 10th public examination. A total of 26,000 students from the district would appear for the examination in over 350 centres.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Green corridor case: farmers flay NHAI petition||Farmers from Pullavari and nearby places protested with black flags on Friday condemning a petition filed by the National Highways Authority of India demanding early hearing regarding green corridor case in the Supreme Court. The farmers, who are against the Salem-Chennai green corridor project protested with black flags in their farmlands. They condemned the State and the Central governments for their anti-farmer stand and for trying to implement the project despite strong opposition. R. Mohanasundaram, one of the farmers said, “we strongly condemn the move and we don’t understand the urgency behind implementing the project. While there are highways already connecting Salem and Chennai what is the purpose of constructing the eight-lane corridor acquiring several heactares of farmland. It is said that it would require Rs. 10,000 crore for implementing the project. The nation is going through economic crisis due to COVID-19 lockdown and the amount should be utilised for improving the economic condition of the country.” He added that the governments should consider the plea of farmers and withdraw efforts to implement the project forever.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Army jawan killed in J&K||An Indian Army jawan from Edappadi here was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in the Sunderbani sector in Jammu on Thursday. Officials said his mortal remains were expected to reach his native village by Saturday. The jawan, P. Madhialagan (40), hailed from Vethalaikarankadu. Madhialagan is survived by his wife and two children. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami expressed his condolences and announced a solatium of Rs. 20 lakh to his family. Officials said the body would be received by the officials at the airport and brought to his native village in Edappadi and buried with State honours.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM orders release of water for irrigation||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami ordered release of water from Aliyar and Bhavanisagar dams for irrigation purposes. The Bhavanisagar dam will be opened on June 6 till June 15 for a period of 10 days and release 241.92 mcft of water. The Aliyar dam will be opened for 146 days from June 7 till October 31 and will release 1,156 mcft of water for irrigation.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As on June 5||Persons tested positive so far: 155 Persons recovered: 145 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 8    House quarantined: 1,229 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on June 5) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A legacy in Gandhian and rationalist thoughts||Saturday marks the birth centenary of noted educationist, physicist, freedom fighter and rationalist H. Narasimhaiah. Given his simplicity — always clad in Khadi panche and jubba and living in a student hostel — he would have shunned any ostentation around the day if he were alive, say his long-time associates at the National Education Society (NES). HN, as he was fondly called by students, taught physics at National College at Basavanagudi, which was run by the society, and later headed it. In a way befitting his memory, the society has decided to mark the centenary with a year-long expansion of laboratories for Internet of Things, Robotics, Data Science, and Artificial Intelligence at National Colleges, said S.N. Nagaraja Reddy, secretary of NES. Humble beginnings Born into a poor family at Hosur, Kolar district, in 1920, the young Narasimhaiah walked to the city (over 85 km away) to join National High School in 1935. The school also became a platform for his interaction with Mahatma Gandhi the very next year, when the latter visited it and young Narasimhaiah was the translator for his speech. He became a lifelong Gandhian. He was jailed during the Quit India Movement. While he went on to do his Ph.D in nuclear physics at Ohio State University in 1960, he remained a strong votary of non-violence and peace and idolised Albert Einstein. Since the day he joined National High School, he remained associated with NES till his last breath. He studied, taught at, and headed it for decades, and also expanded its horizons. He went on to be Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University in 1972-77, when he shifted it to the Jnana Bharati campus, and started many departments — Performing Arts, Psychology, Business Administration, and Mass Communication. “He believed education and rational thinking were the means to uplift the masses. He started five schools and colleges in remote villages of Kolar district, including at his native Hosur, taking affordable public education to the underdeveloped district’s villages,” said H.V. Venugopal, a former principal at National College, Basavanagudi. Fighting godmen A firm believer in science, Narasimhaiah is best known for his campaigns against godmen and their so-called miracles. “He was a rare public intellectual — a sceptic and rationalist who questioned godmen and all claims of miracles. He influenced a generation of youngsters to question,” said Dr. Venugopal. Narasimhaiah instituted the first ever Committee to Investigate Miracles and Verifiable Superstitions within Bangalore University, when he was V-C. The committee’s efforts to probe the miracles by Sathya Sai Baba, who often conjured sacred ash, lemons, watches, and gold ornaments out of thin air, led to a heated debate in the State. “If Sai Baba can create objects out of thin air, I request him to give me a pumpkin,” he once said. Narasimhaiah resigned as Vice-Chancellor when Govind Narain, a Sathya Sai Baba devotee, took charge as Governor of the State in 1977. “I thought about it. The Chancellor is a devotee of Sai Baba, while the Vice-Chancellor is the chairman of the committee to investigate his ‘miracles’. I resigned to avoid any conflict,” hewrote in his autobiography Horatada Hadi (A Path of Struggle). The very next day, he returned to National College and resumed teaching. His work as chairman of the legislative committee that probed incidents of Bhanamati (black magic) in Kalaburagi and Bidar in 1980 played a key role in creating awareness that some of them were manifestations of mental health issues and were treatable. “The rationalist movement in Karnataka was a low-key affair until he started creating ripples,” said Narendra Nayak, president of the Federation of Indian Rationalist Associations. He was instrumental in starting Karnataka Rajya Vijnana Parishat and Bangalore Science Forum — two forums that have been working for decades to spread scientific temper. In today’s world Narasimhaiah was a lifelong sceptic with one motto — “never accept anything without questioning” — something heborrowed from Gautama Buddha. “His motto is all the more relevant now. In an age of cult following in every sphere of life, the only way we can rescue ourselves is by a simple act — questioning,” said Nagaragere Ramesh, former principal of an NES college.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State records 515 cases in a day||Karnataka on Friday recorded a whopping 515 cases on a single day, 482 of which are inter-State travellers. As many as 474 of them had returned from Maharashtra. This single-day spike indicates the galloping rate of the spread, given that the first 500 cases in the State had been reported 48 days after the very first case was detected on March 9. With the Friday’s figures, the total number of positive cases in the State shot up to 4,835. They include 57 COVID-19 deaths, two non-COVID deaths, and 1,688 discharges. Of the 83 people discharged on Friday, the highest recoveries — 32 — are from Hassan. The number of active cases crossed 3,000 on Friday which is 63.86% of the total cases now. Friday’s numbers also pushed Karnataka to the 10th position in the country from 12th. Udupi highest again Among the new cases, Udupi recorded the highest at 204. This coastal district recorded the highest number of cases for the second consecutive day. All the 204 cases are returnees from Maharashtra. With this, Udupi now has the highest number of cases in the State. While a total of 768 cases have been reported from this district so far, it has 685 active cases now. Yadgiri follows Udupi with 74 cases, all of whom except one are returnees from Maharashtra. Although thousands of samples from this district are still under the process of being tested, it has been reporting less than 10 cases in the last three days. On May 31, 44 cases were reported from this district. While 53 cases have been reported from Vijayapura, 42 have been reported from Kalaburagi. Bidar and Belagavi saw 39 and 36 cases, respectively. Raichur — which had reported 88 cases on Thursday, 76 of whom had been infected by five Maharashtra returnees — did not see any positive case on Friday.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t expend more than 50% of budget allocation’||With finances taking a severe beating over the last two months owing to the lockdown, the State government has made a downward revision of budget allocation to department plans and is tightening its belt by asking departments not to exceed 50% of the budget allocation in their expenditure till tax collections improve. The directions that will remain in place for a period of six months - between June and November - will be reviewed by the year end and depend on the buoyancy in tax collections. While the government has told the departments to compulsorily seek the Finance Department’s concurrence to any project that is more than Rs. 10 crore, departments also cannot start any new project without FD approval.  Financial prudence Departments, in detailed guidelines issued, have been asked to maintain financial prudence in their expenditure, and they been asked not to spend money on purchase of vehicles, furniture, or spend on repair or construction of buildings. No new projects will be taken up without FD approval even as the departments have been asked to prepare a new action plan to move forward in the midst of the pandemic. “For social security pensions, food security (Anna Bhagya), salary and pension and expenditure on basic infrastructure have been exempted from the stringent guidelines,” government sources said. A head of the department said, “We have been asked to prioritise ongoing work and no new projects will be taken up this year. Some ongoing projects may not receive enough money. Even if our action plan exceeds 50%, we will have to seek Finance Department concurrence again.” It is mostly Centrally funded projects that will be going on. These are also expected to see a cut in allocation. State-funded projects could take the beating.  Revenue collections Revenue to the government has been severely hit. Excise duty collected in May - after the sale of liquor was allowed after over a month - has been Rs. 1,387 crore, far less than the anticipated collection. While the State gets about Rs. 3,200 crore a month as its share in GST collection, it collected about 20% of it in April, and received about 60% in May, which is mostly deferred payments as time has been extended for filing returns. The GST collection in May, including SGST and IGST settlement was about Rs. 1,987 crore as against Rs. 3,142 crore in the corresponding period last year. Karnataka Sale Tax collection in May was Rs. 536 crore, less than half of the normal monthly collection. The collections from the registration fee and stamp duty have also not reached normal yet. On an average, monthly collection in the Stamps and Registration Department would be about Rs. 1,000 crore. The collection since April has just been Rs. 420 crore, sources said. Another source said that as against the average collection of about Rs. 50 crore a day, the current average collection is about Rs. 15 crore.  For social security pensions, food security (Anna Bhagya), salary and pension and expenditure on basic infrastructure have been exempted from the stringent guidelines. Government sources
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Some city colleges set exam dates||Although the State and Central governments are yet to decide on when colleges will resume, a few colleges in the city have plans to open in the first week of July. One college has scheduled undergraduate practicals for June 15. Managements have instructed students from other States to plan their return to Bengaluru in such a way as to quarantine themselves for 14 days. National College at Jayanagar informed students last week that practical examinations will begin on June 15. Teachers have informed students that they will have to produce a certified letter from authorities that they have complied with quarantine norms. B.R. Parineetha, principal, National College, Jayanagar said that the examination timetable announced was tentative. “We will follow the government’s decision, but we want students to be prepared to appear for the exams. If students are in other States, we want them to return and make sure that they follow the quarantine protocol,” she said. The college has started collecting examination fees; students who cannot pay online can visit the campus to do so. Students are unhappy with this decision and claim they were not informed that the dates were tentative. A second-year BA student said, “We questioned teachers why the examinations were scheduled before the government had taken a decision. Some students even asked if the college would take responsibility if they contracted the virus on campus.” Students of Mount Carmel College (MCC) claim to have received similar instructions with July 1 as the scheduled examination date. They have started an online petition appealing for the college to postpone the semester end examinations until normalcy is restored or to make arrangements for them to appear for the papers online. Sr. Arpana, principal of MCC, said that the management had neither decided on the examination dates nor had asked students to return to Bengaluru. “There was some miscommunication. We have asked students to follow announcements on the website, and not listen to anyone, including their teachers,” she said. “MCC has always kept the interests of students in mind. The college website and student portal are the only primary authentic sources of information.” A second-semester student of a pharmacy college claims that she was told to return to Bengaluru at the earliest. “I am unable to return (from West Bengal), but the college management wants me to return immediately if I need to appear for the examination in two weeks,” she said. Online examinations A few colleges have shifted the entire examination process online, especially for final-year students who have placements that will start soon and will need to show their final-year marks sheet to their employers. Students have been instructed to ensure that they have laptops or other devices, but online examinations have disadvantages, too. A video of a Benglauru engineering college professor asking students to ‘beg, borrow or steal laptops’ to attend an online test went viral on Friday. Students had written to the management that almost 85% of them don't have functional laptops or the budget to buy new ones. After the video went viral, the college issued a circular to students stating that it was miscommunicated to them that the purchase of laptops was mandatory. “Students are doing this to evade online assessments. They will now be allowed to take the online test using their mobile phones,” said M.J. Balachandar, chairman of MVJ College of Engineering.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wedding planners adapt to new reality, offer sanitiser, mask, cuddle curtain||When Suhas Nataraj (name changed on request) got engaged last month, many of his family members and close friends attended it, virtually. They all were part of the videoconference engagement. As a medical professional who was on the frontline of the pandemic, Dr. Nataraj knew only too well the risk involved in having a traditional function with everyone presentphysically. “Only around 20 members, including my fiancé and I, gathered at home for a private function. We took utmost care even during preparations. Any items that were bought were kept out in the sun for 72 hours,” said Dr. Nataraj. With COVID-19 cases showing no signs of decreasing, people are figuring out how to get on with their lives with all possible precautions in place. It has changed the face of weddings and engagements as the government has restricted crowds to no more than 50. Functions can be held only after getting permission from the jurisdictional police. Event planners are adapting to this new realityquickly. Brochures, advertisements and websites highlight instance of thermal screenings for guests, hand-sanitiser stations, and even ‘cuddle curtains’. A product of a world dealing with COVID-19, a cuddle curtain — usually like a shower curtain with plastic sleeves — allows people to hug each other. Masks are a given. Such measures are now being highlighted along with other services such as invitation card designing, bridal make-up, photography-cum-videography and catering. Many planners also provide assistance to Web telecast rituals. Bare minimum Manisha Porwal, an event planner specialising in weddings, said families now want the bare minimum. “Wedding dates are not being postponed, as it is considered inauspicious. Many are planning small private affairs now, in the hope of having a bigger event later in the year, when there is some semblance of normalcy,” she said and added that many theme-based and destination weddings had been cancelled. “I have planned weddings that were held on the terrace of the client’s residence, in a farmhouse. Though small, clients want the wedding to be beautiful and are investing in decoration,” she said. While wedding planners are able to adapt, owners of marriage and convention halls have not been so fortunate. Satish B.R., the owner of Sri Ram Convention Hall, said almost all bookings had been cancelled. “There are hardly two to three enquiries. We have had to return the advance paid when clients cancelled the booking after the lockdown was imposed. All we can do now is wait and watch,” he said.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown changes lives of nomadic families||The lockdown has brought change in the lives of four nomadic families, traditionally known as ‘Duramurgi’, in Haveri district of north Karnataka, thanks to the Centre’s flagship rural job scheme. The families, for generations, have been seeking alms roaming around villages carrying idols of deities on their heads. But with wandering made impossible under lockdown, and villages barring their entry, perhaps for the first time, they shunned their traditional lifestyle and took up work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) at Kaginele village in Byadagi taluk of Haveri district. Four members — Nagaraj, Ramanna, Gutteppa, and Lakshmavva — initially approached the Kaginele panchayat office seeking monetary support for their daily life. Panchayat development officer Vishwanath Kattegowdar convinced them to take up manual job under the MGNREGA. “They enrolled their names under the job scheme and we assigned them silt-removal work in the panchayat limits,” Mr. Kattegowdar told The Hindu . First income The four persons, who are illiterate, worked for seven days and received their first income on the ninth day, last month. The panchayat staff helped them open bank accounts and daily wages of Rs. 285 were credited to their accounts, Mr. Kattegowdar said. Mr. Nagaraj was thrilled, and he and the others celebrated by distributing sweets to panchayat officials. “We begged for years. No one respected us. We will continue to work under this scheme,” he said. There was lack of awareness about the scheme among his community members, he added. Noticing the dramatic change, Rural Development Principal Secretary L.K. Atheeq tweeted about the development. About 30 members belonging to ‘Duramurgi’ reside in the village in hutments. The panchayat has provided jobs worth nearly Rs. 50,000 during the first few days of the lockdown, Mr. Kattegowdar said.
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Learning about climate change from COVID-19 pandemic||As the novel coronavirus continues its rampage, scientists have warned that the threat posed by new bacteria and viruses cannot be taken lightly anymore. And climate change, they say, is likely to throw up more such unpleasant surprises. As the global mean temperature continues to increase, soils frozen for thousands of years (called permafrost) will release new viruses and bacteria trapped in them, explained J. Srinivasan, Distinguished Scientist, Divecha Centre for Climate Change, Indian Institute of Science (IISc). S.K. Satheesh, professor, Centre for Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, IISc., told The Hindu that it is known that climatic conditions affect epidemic diseases. “Studies have shown that the sudden changes in temperature and increased number of extreme weather events provide an ideal breeding ground conducive to virus modification and the emergence of infectious diseases. Climate change is the most likely reason for the changes in infectious disease transmission patterns,” he said. In addition to this, a “combination of rapid urbanisation and deforestation” raises the chances of a zoonotic virus jumping from animals to human beings, Prof. Srinivasan said, referring to higher chances of transmission as there is more interaction between humans and wild animals on account of deforestation because of increasing population. “Urbanisation and air travel allow the virus to spread rapidly,” he added. Learning lessons Shikha Lakhanpal, Fellow, Climate Change Mitigation and Development, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Environment, said the COVID-19 pandemic and the dangers of climate change parallel one another in significant ways. “In the case of the virus, the danger is overburdening our healthcare systems and the final collapse of the health-based infrastructure; in the case of climate change, the danger is that the tremendous growth in emissions will severely overwhelm our ability to respond to and manage disasters such as flood, drought, and other extreme events,” she said. “One of the biggest lessons from the pandemic that we can apply to climate change is that we are only as safe as our most vulnerable populations. The impoverished, the elderly, and the marginalised have fewer resources at their disposal and are at increased risk of contracting the virus. In the case of climate change, the more vulnerable populations and their livelihoods need to be protected first and climate risk for them has to be mitigated on a significantly urgent basis,” she said, advocating a change in consumption patterns such as fewer international flights, remote teleconferencing and other measures to reduce global carbon emissions. Prof. Satheesh said, “The lockdown has resulted in improved air quality and water quality in rivers and lakes. However, it has been reported that after the partial lifting of the lockdown, some of these positive effects have started disappearing. The sources and the impact of air pollution are immediate and local. We can take up local action to mitigate the impact.” However, he added that reducing economic growth was not the pathway to achieving climate goals. “In India, we still have large numbers of people living below the poverty line; continued economic growth and development is critical. Climate goals have to be achieved by sustainable growth and conscious mitigation efforts such as energy decarbonisation, reforestation, improved and well-planned land use and so on, besides adequate planning for climate adaptation. It is possible to create better models for sustainable development that balance profit and biodiversity by assigning appropriate monetary value to the ecosystem and the services they provide for the economy,” he said.  (Three-part series concludes)
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No violation if those aged above 65 go out for duty, govt. tells HC||The Union government on Friday clarified to the High Court of Karnataka that if persons aged above 65 visit outside for any important unavoidable work or duty, it will not be a violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms as they are “only advised” to stay at home as per the notification issued on May 30. A statement in this regard was filed before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by B.N. Jayadeva, a city-based 68-year-old practising advocate. “The present guidelines states that persons aged 65, those with comorbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 are advised to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes. Hence of any person aged above 65 visits outside for any important unavoidable work or duty, they will not violate orders leading to prosecution under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the Centre clarified. The petition, filed prior to May 30, had complained that restrictions issued in the earlier lockdown guidelines impacted the lives of persons aged above 65 as they were confined to the four walls of their houses. The petitioner had also contended that several politicians aged above 65 and holding high public offices move around freely though there is no exemption granted to them but ordinary senior citizens were discriminated against when compared with the political leaders.
06 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ group keen on starting campaign for simple wedding after lockdown is lifted||The system of simple marriages, which has become the order of the day amid COVID-19 pandemic, has been hailed by farmers’ leaders and agriculture experts. They feel it should continue to be the norm in rural areas even after the lockdown is lifted to prevent farmers from the burden of loans.  Financial distress The Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’Association has decided to take up a campaign soon after the lockdown is lifted to create awareness among farmers about the need for keeping marriages simple in the interest of their financial health even post-lockdown. The association wants to hold seminars and discussions at the grass-roots level to promote the concept of simple marriage.President of the association Kurubur Shanthakumar observes that grand marriages are one of the main reasons for farming families migrating to cities in search of small jobs after abandoning farming. “Lavish marriages push farmers into so much financial and social distress that they not only borrow heavily to meet the expenses, but also end up selling their farmland when they are unable to payback loans. After losing their farmland partially or completely, the farming families migrate to urban areas in search of jobs to earn their livelihood,” said Mr. Shanthakumar. “All the farmers’ organisations have been striving to promote simple marriages for a long time. But now, we should take it up aggressively,” he said, and suggests that the government should not hesitate imposing penalty or punishment if there are too many guests at any wedding even after the lockdown is lifted. Experts agree that lavish weddings and social ceremonies are among the reasons for rural distress. The former UAS-B Vice-Chancellor K. Narayana Gowda observed that lavish weddings often contribute to rural distress as they make the families to borrow heavily or divert funds meant for agricultural operations.  Lavish marriages are one of the reasons for rural distress and migration as they force farmers to borrow and sell farmland Kurubur Shanthakumar, farmers’ leader
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC keen on running buses to neighbouring States||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) that had stopped inter-State services on March 22, may resume services to some neighbouring States. It has requested the State government to take up the matter with its counterparts in Goa, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for permission. However, due to the high prevalence of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the corporation is not keen on resuming services to these States, said sources. “KSRTC is the first State road transport corporation in the south to propose to resume inter-State services. Three days ago, we approached the State government requesting taking up the matter with four neighbouring States. We are hopeful of getting consent from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Approval from Goa and Kerala may take some time,” said a KSRTC official. Prior to the lockdown, KSRTC operated 1,070 services, including its luxury fleet of Airavat Club Class, Ambari Dream Class and Fly Buses that connect to KIA. Inter-State services are one of its major sources of revenue, but like most sectors and services, it has suffered huge losses. “Due to the lockdown, KSRTC is losing Rs. 1 crore per day owing to non-operation of inter-State services,” the official added. Officials hope to first resume a limited number of non-AC buses and gradually increase operations before introducing air-conditioned services. “If we are allowed to run buses, we may start with 10-15% of services, and gradually increase depending on patronage. We have to maintain social distancing and other norms in operations,” an official said. Over 2 lakh passengers When it first resumed within Karnataka on May 19, KSRTC was running just 5% of its regular bus services. In a little over a fortnight, this has increased to 32%. The number of passengers, too, has increased from 60,000-70,000 per day to over 2 lakh during this period.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Second patient on road to recovery through plasma therapy||Three days after the success of plasma therapy on a 65-year-old male patient at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, a 38-year-old female patient has benefited through the therapy in the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre in Victoria Hospital, Bengaluru. She was shifted out from the hospital’s ICU to the ward on Thursday. The patient was admitted to the hospital with severe COVID-19 symptoms. She also had diabetes with poor sugar control. Moved to the ICU, she was put on high flow nasal oxygen, antibiotics, and COVID-19 treatment as per the protocol. She underwent convalescent plasma therapy on May 27. “After the plasma therapy, there has been a steady improvement in her condition. The patient wasweaned off high flow nasal oxygen on June 2 and was moved to the ward on Thursday. She is at present on two litres per minute oxygen,” said BMCRI dean and director C.R. Jayanthi. Describing it as a “significant and reassuring development”, she added, “We hope to see her recover completely and will closely monitor the condition.” In a tweet, Health Minister B. Sriramulu congratulated the doctors for the successful treatment. Last month, the first patient, who had received convalescent plasma therapy in the trauma centre at Victoria Hospital did not benefit from the therapy. He succumbed to the infection in the COVID ward. The 60-year-old man, a resident of Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh (P-796), was the first COVID-19 patient to be administered plasma therapy in Karnataka. He was admitted to Victoria Hospital with severe pneumonia, respiratory distress, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus, and died following a cardiac arrest. The therapy, however, later met with its first success in Hubballi where a 65-year-old man recovered.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC exam: hostel arrangements for students in need||Class 10 students who reside in places far away from examination centres will now be given the option to stay in hostels for the duration of the SSLC exam. This decision has been taken by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education to help those who live in isolated settlements in coastal and hilly areas. S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary, Primary and Secondary Education, said, “Many students have to cross rivers and struggle to reach schools. With the onset of monsoon, it will be difficult for many of them to get to their exam centres. We have told the Deputy Directors of Public Instruction to collect information of students who will be affected and to ensure they are given accommodation and provided food. They must be housed in a hygienic environment,” he said. This measure will not only reduce the time spent on commuting, but will also reduce the risk of exposure to the novel coronavirus. Department officials have been instructed to go the extra mile and decide on what help they can give to students at the local level. V. Sumangala, Director, Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board, said they have been asked to map and collect details of how each child will get to the exam centre. Outside Karnataka The department will not conduct SSLC exam in other States, though this idea had been proposed initially. Students who live in border towns in other States have requested the department for permission to stay home and come to the State to write their papers. “In States like Maharashtra, the students will come to the border and we will send buses to pick them up and bring them to the exam centre,” said Mr. Umashankar, adding that they would write to the Health Department to relax quarantine norms forsuch students. The department has also approved the requests of 12,674 students seeking change in exam centres on returning to their home towns.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S)LP resolves that Deve Gowda should contest RS polls||Amidst mounting pressure from the party legislators to contest the Rajya Sabha seat, former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda will be in all likelihood the party’s candidate for the June 19 election. “We have passed a one line resolution that Mr. Gowda should contest the Rajya Sabha polls. In all likelihood, all the four candidates who will be in fray would be elected unanimously,” said a senior party leader, who attended the JD(S)LP meeting here on Friday. A group of legislators also met Mr. Gowda at his residence later to convince him to contest. While the suspense over Mr. Gowda contesting Rajya Sabha elections continues, his son and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy also said that the JD(S) legislators have been unanimous in seeking his entry to the Upper House. However, speaking to reporters after the JD(S)LP meeting here, Mr. Kumaraswamy said that Mr. Gowda had neither shown interest in contesting nor has said anything about it. “However, our legislators feel that because of his hard work over the years, and in the prevailing circumstances in the country, his presence is needed in Rajya Sabha.” Though there is pressure from party legislators, no decision has been made yet, he added.  Neither Cong. nor BJP Mr. Kumaraswamy said that legislators felt that neither Congress nor BJP may field their candidates if Mr. Gowda contests since both the parties do not have the requisite numbers. “When the time comes we will see and we will have to discuss this only when Mr. Gowda contests. Let us see later,” he added. To a question on the developments in BJP over the leadership issue, he refused to comment, saying it ‘did not matter’ to him.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Presence of litigants in family courts not mandatory for filing cases: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday said there was no legal basis for the practice adopted by some family courts in the State insisting on the personal presence of litigants at the time of filing of case. “Their personal presence is not required when a petition is presented by an advocate as an authorised representative of the petitioner or petitioners... In the same way, when a notice of proceedings filed in the family court is served, on the returnable date the family court cannot insist on the personal presence of the respondent when the respondent enters appearance through a legal practitioner as an authorised agent,” the court said. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on a PIL petition, initiated suo motu by the court to find solutions to legal and technical issues in conducting proceedings in trial courts owing to the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. Through an advocate “The petitioner can file a petition in the family court through an advocate acting as an authorised agent. The petition can be accompanied by an application seeking permission to be represented by the advocate as an authorised agent,” the court observed, while referring to two earlier judgments on the issue of allowing legal practitioners to represent litigants before family courts.  When a written complaint as contemplated by Section 190 (1)(a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) is filed and when the complainant is represented by an advocate, the courts of magistrate cannot insist upon the personal presence of the complainant at the time of filing of complaint. “In case of a complaint alleging offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, it is not necessary for the magistrates in every case to insist upon the personal presence of the complainant for examining him or her upon oath as contemplated by Section 200 of CrPC, if such a complaint is accompanied by an affidavit from the complainant or an authorised representative,” the court observed.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress panel to submit report on leaders’ admission||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar has constituted a 12-member panel headed by senior leader and former KPCC president Allum Veerabhadrappa for submitting a report on a list of leaders from other parties who are willing to join the Congress. Leaders who earlier quit the Congress and wish to return and leaders from other political parties will be admitted in after consultations with State- and district-level leaders. The committee will examine applications of leaders, Mr. Shivakumar said. Collective decision “I don’t want to take any individual decision on admitting them. I am for a collective decision. Moreover, for the sake of power they should not join the party. Loyalty to the party and commitment to the party’s ideology is important,” Mr. Shivakumar told presspersons. The committee, after examining the applications, would submit a report to the KPCC, a press release stated.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘I’ll have more time for farming’||Though many farming families had reservations over simple weddings in the initial phase of the lockdown, they now appear to be adapting themselves to the change and are happy with the fact that it saves time and money. C.T. Nuthan, an young and educated farmer from Chikkamarali village in Mandya district, whose wedding is scheduled for the second week of June, said he is very proud that his wedding is going to be a simple affair. ‘Fantastic system’ “It is a fantastic system. About 2,000 people would have attended our marriage if it was held in a grand manner during normal times. But now, it will be held in a nearby temple and confined to only 50 people as per the government’s restrictions,” he said. “In the earlier system, we needed at least a month for preparations. Now, we need just a day’s preparation as marriage is going to be a ceremony of just a few hours. This saves a lot of time which I can invest on farming. It saves the time of hundreds of people as they too would have to attend the wedding,” he said.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sarige Sampada special||A COVID-19 special of Sarige Sampada , an in-house magazine of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), was released on Wednesday by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The magazine covers the KSRTC’s activities during COVID-19. A documentary on KSRTC and BMTC also covering the activities on COVID-19 was screened, said a release from KSRTC.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BLF begins today, but online||Bangalore Literature Festival (BLF) has reinvented itself, adapting to the COVID-19 scenario. Unwilling to give up the festival this year, BLF has partnered with Bangalore International Centre (BIC) to turn the event into a series of webinars through the year with three such events every month. The series kickstarts today with noted crime fiction writer Anthony Horowitz in conversation with Paro Anand. Webinars with several international and Indian authors, like Pico Iyer and Chetan Bhagat, have been lined up. “Instead of a two-day mega event, BLF will take place through the year. Using technology, we are aiming to get more international authors at these webinars,” said V. Ravichandar, one of the organisers of BLF. BLF also has plans for a low-key two-day literary meet with limited participants in December.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State receives Rs. 4,314.12 crore pending GST||The State, which is grappling with a severe financial crisis, received a breather with the Union government releasing Rs. 4,314.12 crore towards pending Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation for the months between December 2019 and February 2020. Sources in Finance Department said that after this disbursal, the total pending GST compensation that the State is to receive for the months of March, April and May remains at Rs. 8,700 crore.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Amnesty criticises police for FIR against ex-official||The Executive Director of Amnesty International India, Avinash Kumar, criticised the police for registering an FIR against the organisation’s former India head and journalist, Aakar Patel, for a Twitter post in which he allegedly urged people to protest peacefully against police brutality in the wake of the death of George Floyd in the US. “This is just another example of how the right to dissent is being increasingly criminalised. The Bengaluru police must stop abusing its authority,” said Mr. Kumar.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Court complex closed today||The Mayo Hall Courts complex will be closed on Saturday for sanitising theentire building after an accused tested positive for COVID-19. The accused was produced before the X Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate on June 1 at 4.45 pm, said a notification from the High Court on Friday.
06 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Rain boosts sowing activities in Dharwad||Following good rain in the last few days, farmers have given a push for sowing activities in the district. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa said the district has received slightly more than average rainfall this year. Farmers have placed more demand for green gram and soyabean. The district has sufficient quantity of seed storage, she said. Ms. Deepa instructed the Agriculture Department officials to ensure that the demand for seeds and fertilizers are met in time for kharif sowing. The officials should procure sufficient quantity of seeds and fertilizers to meet demand and open additional sales points for sale of sowing seeds to farmers in time. Apart from Raitha Sampark Kendra (RSK), additional sales point should be opened at specific locations, she said. She said there were reports about delay in distribution of seeds due to delay in data entry in the computerised Information Management System. The district administration would shortly appoint additional data entry operators to speed up the process, she said. Agriculture Department Joint Director Rajshekar Bijapur said 15 sowing seed sales point had been opened in addition to the existing 14 RSK. There was demand for 978.9 quintal of green gram sowing seeds and so far, 732 quintal seeds had been sold. Similarly, there was demand for 14,030 quintal soya seeds, and 8,088 quintal seed had been sold.
06 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Teachers worried about SSLC exam outcome this year||Teachers working in rural schools are worried about the results of SSLC examination this year as they have had no access to their students for months due to the lockdown. A majority of rural students do not have smartphones to attend online classes. Even those, who can afford the phones, faced network issues. Many students in rural areas used to spend many hours in the school engaged in group studies. The COVID-19 scare denied them the opportunity. For the last two years, the government high school at Attavara in Hassan taluk recorded 100% result. In the 2018-19 academic year, all except for one secured first class in the examination. This time, the teachers were hoping to register 100% result for the third consecutive term. The school used to conduct night classes ahead of the exams. “We could register an impressive result because of the efforts we put in weeks before the exam, besides the year-long plan. This time, we could not execute it,” said K.P. Narayan, headmaster of the school. The school conducted online classes for 25 SSLC students. However, only 10 with smartphones could attend. “In every school, there will be around 20% students, who study independently even if there are no teachers to discipline them. But, for the rest, teachers have to be around. In the present scenario, we cannot bring such students on track,” he said. Many teachers felt that online classes did not yield good response, as many students did not have smartphones and those with phones could not afford the data connection. Phone-in programme The Department of Public Instructions and Government Home Science College in Holenarsipur, on Thursday, conducted a phone-in programme for SSLC students. Clinical psychologist Mohan Raj S. responded to questions raised by students. A few students said they could not prepare well for the examination at home. A student wanted to know if he could go to school so that he could study there. Another student said she could not study at home as she had to do other works. Similarly, another student opined that if he could study in the school environment he could understand the subject well, but at home, he was not able to understand. The psychiatrist suggested to the students to have a time-table and devote more time for studies.
06 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||SWR to build world’s longest railway platform at Hubballi station||South Western Railway has initiated works to build the world’s longest railway platform at Hubballi station by extending the present 550-m Platform No. 1 to 1,400 m. According to railway authorities, the platform is getting converted into a 1,400-m long and 10-m wide full platform. As of now Hubballi station has five platforms and under the Hubballi- Bengaluru railway line doubling project, there will be eight platforms. The station has two entrances and a third one is coming up. The total cost of the project is Rs. 90 crore which includes remodelling of the Hubballi railway yard and other works including electrical and civil works. The work is likely to be completed in a year’s time, according to authorities. Presently, Gorakhpur railway station in U.P. has a 1,366-m platform, which is the longest in the world.
06 June 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Reverse migration has increased demand for MNREGA work: KSE||The COVID-19-induced reverse migration has resulted in increased demand for work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) across the rural areas of the State, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has said. “Migrant labourers who have returned to their native places in the rural areas are increasingly seeking jobs under the MNREGA and we are giving job cards and jobs to all. Except for people’s representatives, government employees and tax-payers, everybody can seek job under the scheme. Works have started in all villages in over 5,900 gram panchayats,” he told media representatives, after inspecting an MNREGA worksite at Honna Kiranagi village in Kalaburagi district on Friday. The Minister also made it clear that all pending wages were cleared after the Centre released Rs. 1,861 crore. “After clearing the wage dues, we have over Rs. 1,000 crore at hand and job creation for the needy is underway. Under the scheme, we are focussing on works that could help raise the groundwater table. The wages have been increased from Rs. 249 to Rs. 275 a day. The Union government allocated Rs. 60,000 crore to the scheme in Budget and it has added Rs. 40,000 crore to it in the recently announced Rs. 20 lakh crore special package to revive the economy, enabling us to increase the wage days from 100 days to 150 days a year,” he said. When asked, the Minister accepted the presence of dissidence within his party by stating that the party known for discipline would resolve internal issues.
06 June 2020||KOPPAL (GANGAVATI),KARNATAKA||Leopardess killed in accident||A five-year-old leopardess was killed in an accident near Hemagudda in Gangavati taluk of Koppal district on Friday morning. The leopardess was hit by an unidentified speeding vehicle as it was crossing the road, after hunting a dog. Forest Department officials visited the spot and recovered the carcass for medical examination. The officials warned villagers around Hemagudda against venturing out in the night as leopards had been spotted in the area.
06 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kateel: Padil-Pumpwell Road will be concreted under Smart City Mission||The Padil-Pumpwell Road, which is the main entry point to the city from NH 75 (Bengaluru-Mangaluru), will be relaid as a concrete road at an estimated cost of Rs. 26 crore under the Smart City Mission, according to Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP. A city-level advisory committee of the mission in its meeting, presided over by Mr. Kateel, gave its approval for the proposal on Thursday. The MP told the meeting that funds have been reserved under the mission to relay the 2,800 m road. Mr. Kateel said that the Cabinet has already approved to take up the construction of a modern bus stand at Pumpwell at an estimated cost of Rs. 445 crore under the public-private partnership model. Bids have been invited to take up the project and people can apply till July 27. The MP said that a proposal to have one-way traffic on the Clock Tower to A.B. Shetty Circle Road is not feasible as it would only add to increase in the traffic in Hampankatta. The meeting decided to drop the proposal to develop the Deputy Commissioner’s office as a heritage building from MSCL. It decided to develop Venkatarama Swamy Temple Junction on the Car Street with a special design. The meeting approved Mangaluru City Corporation’s proposals submitted to MSCL to develop nine roads in the city at an estimated of Rs. 20.5 crore. It decided that a modern slaughter house can be developed if the city corporation gave an alternative land than the one at Kudroli. Mohammed Nazir, Managing Director, MSCL, said that the Central Market in the city will be rebuilt at an estimated cost of Rs. 145 crore.
06 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Suspected poachers nabbed after hot chase near Bandipur||Forest Department personnel thwarted five persons suspected to have hatched a plan to poach wildlife and took them into custody after a prolonged chase near Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Friday. Based on a tip-off, forest guards spread a dragnet and waited at critical points to intercept the five persons. One forest squad waited at Muttigehundi Circle near Beladakuppe in the Hediyala range of the tiger reserve. Another team waited near Hoskote in Moleyur range. Around 7 a.m. a van with five persons sped towards the Hoskote solar shed, but on sighting the Forest Department staff, the vehicle made a swift U-turn and sped towards Hediyala. The vehicle with five suspected poachers — on sighting the other squad — swerved again in order to escape. A chase ensued and the foresters closed in, but the vehicle carrying the gang lost control near Halsur gate while negotiating a curve and turned turtle. All five persons were pulled out and taken into custody. No one was injured. T. Balachandra, director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, said the offenders were from Gurupura in H.D. Kote taluk. The accused were identified as Devaraju, Shivaraju, Umesh, Manju, and Veerabhadra. A country-made rifle and other material were recovered from them.
06 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah opposes amendment to Electricity Act||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Friday joined the opposition to proposed amendments to the Electricity Act 2003. Though electricity fell in the concurrent list of the Constitution, States exercised control over the power sector. The proposed amendment, which envisages setting up of an Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority by the Centre, was a conspiracy to deny autonomy to States in the sector, he alleged while speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Friday. Karnataka extends subsidies amounting to Rs. 14,000 to Rs. 15,000 crore every year to various sectors including farmers owning irrigation pumpsets. Under the proposed amendment, the Centre has taken a stand to reimburse the subsidy amount only after the bill is paid. “Is this possible for the farmers?”, he asked.
06 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Wedding hall owners told to refund customers||After receiving several complaints of wedding hall owners not refunding money even after the cancellation of scheduled wedding dates owing to lockdown, the district administration has directed all hall owners to immediately refund the money. In a release, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said many people have started complaining that hall owners are insisting on rescheduling dates and are not willing to refund. Meanwhile, during the recent visit of district in-charge Minister, Shashikala Jolle, some people urged the Minister to take action against such wedding hall owners. They said that only a few are thinking of rescheduling the dates, while several of them are asking for the refund. “The hall owners have no right to keep the money when they are not offering any service,” said one of the complainants. Ms. Jolle asked the Deputy Commissioner to take necessary action.
06 June 2020||Vijayapura/Kalaburagi/Hassan/,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura records 53 new cases in a day, Kalaburagi 42||Vijayapura district recorded 53 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday. The cases are from containment areas and people who have returned from Maharashtra. With this, the total number of positive cases increased to 187. After the discharge of 65 persons and five deaths, active cases are now at 117 in the district.   Kalaburagi district reported 42 new positive cases of COVID-19 on Friday taking the total to 552 (second highest in State). So far, 128 persons have recovered, and there are 417 active cases. Bidar district recorded 39 new cases, increasing the district tally of total cases to 214, with 41 recovered and 168 active cases. In Hassan Three more people, who returned from Mumbai, tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Friday. With that, the total number of confirmed cases in the district crossed 200. The district has recorded 201 cases since May 12, when the first five cases were reported. So far, samples of 8,345 people were collected. As on Friday, the number of total active cases stands at 101. Hundred people have been discharged after treatment. A majority of the cases reported in the district had a travel history to Mumbai.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Restaurants and malls in the city gear up to ‘serve with safety’||After a gap of around 70 days, hotels and restaurants are gearing up to resume dine-in services from June 8. They have started putting in place systems and safety precautions in accordance with the Standard Operating Protocols (SOPs) issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Arun Kumar Adiga of Vidyarthi Bhavan, an iconic restaurant in the city, hopes that patrons will return, but is bracing for fewer customers. “We have placed partitions on each table. The seating arrangements have been changed, as we are allowed to function at only 50% capacity. We will be upgrading our token and phone booking system,” he said, adding that managing crowds in the waiting area would be a challenge. Mr. Adiga said that they have provided face shields to employees, who have also been given training as per Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) guidelines. P.C. Rao, president of Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association (BBHA), said that employees of hundreds of hotels and restaurants had undergone FSSAI mandated training and that they are prepared to “serve with safety”. Restaurateurs claim that based on their capacity and requirements, they are taking measures over and above those prescribed by the government. Taking cues from other sectors, restaurant owners are looking at ways to provide a ‘near contact-less’ experience, thereby reducing risk for patrons and staff. “With the aim of encouraging cashless transactions and direct ordering, we are planning to introduce a QR-code-based menu, ordering system and payment gateway,” said Mr. Rao. Another hotelier plans to introduce a token system and phone reservations. “Patrons should continue to adhere to safety guidelines, including keeping a safe distance, avoid gatherings, and wearing masks when possible,” said one restaurant-owner. Establishments are also thinking of installing foot-operated washbasins. According to Chandrashekar Hebbar, president of Karnataka Pradesh Hotel and Restaurants’ Association (KPHRA), most hotels and restaurants have commercial dishwashers, which are safe. “We will give more emphasis to sterilisation and hot water immersion of cutlery,” he said.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State allows night bus services||The State government has allowed road transport corporations to run night services. Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, in an order issued on Thursday, said all four corporations in the State – KSRTC, NWKRTC, NEKRTC and BMTC – can operate from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. The order also states that passengers, who travel in night service buses, can book an auto or taxi to reach the bus station or their homes during these hours. However, passengers and operators need to follow the health protocols issued by the Health Department. After getting the order from the government, the KSRTC, on Friday, started night services from Bengaluru to Belagavai, Hubballi, Raichur, Ballari and some other destinations. “Starting Friday, we have introduced night services. We operated 25 buses till 11 p.m. We will gradually increase the number of services in the coming days based on demand,” said a KSRTC official. Prior to this, passengers who arrived at their destination late in the night or in the wee hours, had a tough time reaching their homes as autos were not available from the bus stand. “Now, they can rely on autos and taxis to reach home after getting down at their destinations,” the official added. Taxi and auto drivers are hoping to earn some revenue by ferrying passengers. Though auto and taxi services resumed on May 19, drivers say that revenue remains low. BMTC ridership low The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is not keen on running night services as ridership remains on the lower side with people working from home. “At present, we are operating services with around 4,600 buses between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. Around 8 lakh people are using BMTC during these hours. Due to poor patronage, we will wait for some time to introduce night services,” an official said. Prior to the lockdown, over 35 lakh people used to travel in city buses every day.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Malls conduct trial runs||Many malls and shopping complexes, which are set to open on Monday, have been conducting trial runs for their staff. “We taken all safety measures and trained our staff regarding maintaining alternate slots and safe distancing on escalators, and cleaning procedures and practices,” said T.G. Vinod of Elements Mall. The Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) had issued comprehensive guidelines on measures to be taken. ‘Gone beyond guidelines’ “As members of SCAI, we have taken measure over and above prescribed in the guidelines and SOPs issued by the Union government. Rebuilding confidence in people is important. Such steps are inevitable,” Mr. Vinod added. However, managers at retail outlets for non-essential items wonder if they will actually be able to make any sale given that pay cuts are fast becoming the norm.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pray with care||All places of worship will open to the public from Monday, but guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare must be strictly implemented, senior officials in the State government said. These include a ban on large gatherings, distribution of prasad, holy water, and choirs or singing by groups of people in the premises. People will have to maintain a distance of six feet from each other while standing in queues. Staggered entry and exit of devotees, mandatory masks, use of hand sanitisers and thermal screening at entrances are some of the other measures that have to be followed. “Managing crowds at pilgrimage centres will be tough. But we will implement social distancing,” said a senior official.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Leopard caught||A leopard which had created terror among residents of Devaragennur village of Babaleshwar taluk was finally captured by Forest Department officials on Thursday night. For the last 10 days, people of the village and nearby areas were in fear after reports of some residents sighting the leopard and it attacking cattle. Though some people were claiming it was a leopard, some doubted it as there was no forest nearby. Some thought it was a hyena. “We constituted a team with the help of villagers. We set four traps and installed eight CCTV cameras,” an official said.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||14-year-old boy in quarantine passes away||A 14-year-old boy, who returned from Mumbai along with parents on May 16 and was in institutional quarantine in Deodurga, died due to health issues related to abdomen pain. He developed pain on Thursday early morning and was shifted to RIMS hospital immediately. But, doctors declared him brought dead, Santosh K., assistant commissioner of Raichur, told The Hindu . According to the parents, the boy was suffering from heart-related problems, the AC said, adding that body was cremated as per the norms of COVID-19.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Herbal plants garden on court premises||In a unique move to mark World Environment Day, the Karnataka High Court and the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) on Friday launched a Herbal and Medicinal Plants garden on its premises across the State, including the three benches of the High Court in Bengaluru, Dharwad and Kalaburagi. The initiative is being taken up in all the 178 taluks wherever the court has its own premises. The Herbal and Medicinal Plant gardens in the premises of the three benches of the High Court are designed in a unique way by creating an outline of a human body based on the model of Charaka, who grouped plants by the specific organ/organ system that they work on. “The garden has been divided into eight plots, each containing medicinal plants, which act on particular body parts. We are planting samplings of 250 species in Bengaluru,” said Justice Aravind Kumar, a judge of the High Court and Executive Chairman of the KSLSA. The gardens in Dharwad and Kalaburagi will have 350 species of plants.
06 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Five more cases in Alappuzha||The district on Friday reported five more COVID-19 cases. According to officials, four had come from Mumbai and one from a foreign country. Those from Mumbai — three young men hailing from Ambalappuzha, Champakulam and Thaikkattusserry respectively along with a 58-year-old man from Karuvatta — had reached the district by train on May 25. They were in quarantine. The fifth patient, a youth from Cheruthana, came from Dubai on May 22. He was in quarantine after reaching the district. Meanwhile, four persons admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 in the district have been tested negative. The district has so far logged 79 COVID-19 cases. As many as 12 people have recovered while one person succumbed to the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district now stands at 66.
06 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||11.03 lakh saplings for Alappuzha district||Planting and distribution of saplings marked World Environment Day in the district on Friday. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran inaugurated the district-level celebrations organised under the aegis of the Forest Department by planting a sapling at ESI Hospital here. The Forest Department is planting 5.45 lakh saplings of 25 varieties in the district as part of World Environment Day. Various local bodies, government departments and organisations in the district also planted saplings to mark the day. Mr. Sudhakaran later inaugurated the district-level distribution and planting of saplings of fruit-bearing trees as part of the Subhiksha Keralam project. The Minister planted saplings of different species at K.K. Kunjupillai Memorial Higher Secondary School, Ambalappuzha. As part of the initiative, 11.03 lakh saplings will be distributed to farmers in the district. In the initial phase, 4.75 lakh saplings will be distributed by June 20.
06 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||All-party meetings to be held to tackle COVID-19 spread: Minister||An all-party meeting chaired by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran here on Friday decided to convene similar meetings at constituency and grama panchayat levels to adopt steps to contain the spread of COVID-19 and address eventualities related to natural calamities. Addressing the meet, Mr. Saseendran said preventive steps should be intensified against the spread of the pandemic as the number of COVID-19 cases were on the rise in the State after a considerable increase in the inflow of people from abroad and other States. Hence, a collective attempt of the public, irrespective of political differences, was the need of the hour, he added. The government would ensure digital facilities to all students, especially those in remote tribal hamlets, in the district for online classes, said the Minister. The district administration had adopted steps to tackle natural calamities during the monsoon, said District Collector Adeela Abdulla. Incident response system had been set up in the district and taluk headquarters for the purpose, she added. Civic bodies in the district had also drafted disaster management projects. MLAs O.R. Kelu, C.K. Saseendran and I.C. Balakrishnan, District Police Chief R. Ilango and representatives of various political parties attended the meet.
06 June 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Temple committee slams curbs on festival||Stakeholders have raised objection against the decision taken by the District Collector to impose restrictions on devotees during the Kottiyoor temple festival. The order of the Collector restricted the visit of devotees to the temple and allowed only a few concerned persons to perform rituals as per tradition. Manathana Kulangarayath Palliyara Devi Temple maintenance committee said the steps taken by the district authorities were condemnable. Former BJP leader P.P. Mukundan and patron of the committee said apart from the restriction on devotees, the authorities also banned the construction of Parnasalas. This was only for 28 days and was an important part of the rituals, he said. “Instead of restrictions, the district administration has imposed a total ban on devotees,” Mr. Mukundan alleged.
06 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Bid on E.P. Jayarajan’s life: all accused acquitted||The Thalassery Fourth Additional Session Court on Friday acquitted all 38 accused in a murder attempt on Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan. Mr. Jayarajan was serving as Communist Party of India (Marxist) Kannur district secretary when the incident took place on December 2, 2000. Justice V.N. Vijaykumar acquitted all the accused in the case for want of evidence. Two of the accused had died during the proceeding. The incident took place when a gang threw bombs and stones on the car in which Mr. Jayarajan and some other leaders were travelling after a public function. Four years ago The trial proceedings were completed four years ago, but the jurisprudence of the Fourth Additional Court occasionally changed and there was no replacement. As the witnesses were mostly leaders of the CPI(M) and the forensic report found no explosive debris from the car, the case turned in favour of the accused.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Electric boats to set sail from December||Electric boats procured under the Kochi Water Metro project will begin services from December, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The project envisages a total of 78 ferries. Of them, order has been placed with the Cochin Shipyard to construct 23 ferries, each having 100 seats. The rest will have 50 seats. The first lot of ferries is slated to operate on the Vyttila-Kakkanad route. In 2019, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), government of Kerala, and German funding agency KfW had signed an agreement of ‘accompanying measures’ (grant of 1.8 million Euros) for the Rs. 740-crore Water Metro project. The grant is for identifying the needs of capacity building for the operation and maintenance wing of the project. It includes training needs and modalities of operation and maintenace structure and training of trainers. The project will cover 16 routes in the Greater Kochi area, connecting 38 terminals across 10 island communities, across a 78-km channel length. The aim is to provide better connectivity of islands around Kochi with the mainland, which will in the long run also augment patronage for the Kochi metro. This apart, the Kochi metro’s reliance on solar power will go up to 60% in another six months. Steps are also being taken to increase the number of electric vehicles in the State to bring down pollution. Efforts are being made to roll out 6,000 electric buses by 2025. E-autos too will be introduced on a larger scale (a dozen of them operate in Kochi now). Already, Kerala has the first solar ferry in India (which operates on the Vaikom-Thavanakadavu stretch), Mr. Vijayan said at a webinar hosted by the Council for Science, Technology and Environment. He added that five canals in Kochi would be cleaned and renovated as part of a Rs. 1,200-crore scheme.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSINC prepares to chart a new course||The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), which recorded profit, for the first time since its inception, during last fiscal, is readying for business tie-ups with French firms, in order to achieve its targeted revenue of Rs. 100 crore in the current fiscal. A team of experts from shipping and related sectors in France held discussions with officials of the agency early this year. The French firms are expected to send their profiles, from which a list of firms will be prepared, depending on their expertise in areas like construction of ships, boats and canal-cleaning equipment, and freight forwarding, said a senior KSINC official. The COVID lockdown played spoilsport with further meetings with French firms. A web conference has been planned for September, he added. The impending tie-up with French firms is seen as a precursor to the agency expanding its operations to districts other than Ernakulam (where it operates a cruise ship, tourist vessels, a pair of ro-ro vessels, and barges) and other States. The agency has bagged orders to build vessels for District Tourism Promotion Councils. It has also taken up the Malabar-Malanad river cruise circuit (Rs. 4.69 crore) in which it will build boats. Its other ventures include Ashtamudi lake circuit (Rs. 2.37 crore), Kumarakam water sports, Changanassery water sports, Kodimatha water sports (all three at Rs. 83 lakh each), Kappil Priyadarshini Club water sports (Rs. 93 lakh), and other projects of the Tourism Department. CRZ clearance “We have also ventured into facilitating CRZ clearance for boat jetties. Projects identified in other States include those in Odisha, Bihar, and Lakshadweep. They include one to build vessels to operate in Chilika Lake in Odisha and the Kanika National Park in Bihar. “A blueprint of an all-weather 25-seater boat for the Lakshadweep Administration had been submitted for approval, while preparations are on to sign agreements with the governments of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Assam,” said the official. KSINC is also awaiting government sanction to build floating boat jetties for the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) at Kadamakudy, Mattancherry, and Kakkanad in Kochi.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No lockdown blues for Tilapia seed import||Last week, a chartered freighter Boeing 737-700 from Kolkata arrived at the Cochin International Airport (CIAL) with some unusual passengers — 35 lakh Tilapia fish seeds. “Almost 2,000 farmers across Kerala were waiting desperately for Tilapia seeds to arrive,” says Anandhu Ramesh, seed supplier, breeder, and farmer based in Kochi. Anandhu runs Cochin Aquatics at Perumbavoor, which deals with fish breeding and farming. He supplies fish seeds — frys and fingerlings — to farmers in the State. He sources them from Kolkata. Once they arrived, the seeds were released in prepared fish pens. “The fingerlings will grow table size in six months, just in time for Christmas,” says Anandhu, adding, “Our entire Tilapia stock had been consumed during Easter. That is why even during the lockdown we decided to charter a flight and bring fish seeds.” The next tranche, approximately the same quantity, is expected to arrive later this week. Also called aquatic chicken or broiler fish, Tilapia is the second most farmed fish in the world with a global market of 11% to 12% per annum, but its commercial farming is largely unorganised. In 2018, MPEDA set up the Multispecies Aquaculture Complex (MAC) at Vallarpadam to supply seeds to licensed farmers in Kerala. “So far, we have supplied seeds to 2,569 beneficiaries. The present estimated annual GIFT seed requirement in Kerala is around 12 million,” says S. Sreekumar, Secretary, MPEDA. Kerala has been witnessing a growing community of Tilapia farmers, who are turning to aquaculture for scientific production.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to ensure safe disposal of waste in quarantine flats||Waste management in apartments where individuals are undergoing home quarantine has come into sharp focus following the spike in those coming from abroad and other States. Incidentally, there is no clarity among apartment associations on the protocol to be maintained even as the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) Clean City Movement has requested them to provide advance information on apartments with persons in home quarantine. “This is key as we would be able to inform our staff in advance about the safety precautions to be taken while collecting waste from the doorstep. Non-disclsoure will expose not only our workers but also others to possible health threats,” said Shiju Joseph, project manager, Credai Clean City Movement (CCCM). The NGO takes care of the scientific collection and disposal of both biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste in nearly 430 apartment complexes in Ernakulam. “We have advised our staff to collect waste from the doorstep of such apartments only after completing collection and disposal of waste from other apartments. They have to use proper masks and gloves while collecting waste and burn it using the in-house incinerator,” said Mr. Joseph. Indian Medical Association State president Abraham Varghese recommended cutting down on waste generated by apartments and homes with people in quarantine. “Those in home quarantine should not waste food. They could preferably opt for reusable cloth masks as it would also help in reducing daily waste,” he said. Dr. Varghese pointed out that those in home quarantine were duty-bound to adhere to government guidelines and not risk the lives of others by violating them. “We have come across instances where a few had violated quarantine norms by venturing out of homes before the completion of the mandatory period. Home quarantine may not yield results if there is a spike in such cases,” he said. V.K. Sankarankutty, president, All Kerala Apartment Owners’ Apex Association, said it was a matter of concern that there were incidents where owners had failed to intimate the associations on their decision to undergo home quarantine. “We are planning to approach the High Court seeking guidelines on home quarantine in apartments,” he added.  Those in home quarantine should not waste food. They could preferably opt for reusable cloth masks as it would help in reducing daily waste Abraham Varghese IMA State president
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Protesters hold Jalasamadhi on Chellanam seashore||On Friday, the 220th day of their indefinite relay strike demanding a permanent solution to sea ingress at Chellanam, the Chellanam Janakeeya Vedi held a Jalasamadhi on the seashore. Father Samson Anjiliparambil inaugurated the day’s protest at Companypady, saying that the authorities had always turned their back on coastal people. In a coastal State like Kerala, Environment Day celebrations without thinking of coastal protection remained hollow, he said. The State was only focusing on stop-gap arrangements with sand bags readied just ahead of monsoon which would never permanently resolve coastal erosion, he observed. The protesters, including Janakeeya Vedi chairperson Mariamma George Kurisinkal, were removed by the police for allegedly violating social distancing norms. On the coast of the fishing hamlet, geotextile bag work to erect a defence against invading waves is still ongoing. The protesters said the government had promised to construct a seawall using geotextile tubes along the shore back in 2017. The work could have been completed in a matter of a few months, but it was not done. Even something as regular as arranging sand-filled bags to abate sea incursion had just begun, they alleged.
06 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Large-scale planting of trees planned in district||Planting and distribution of saplings dominated World Environment Day celebrations in the district on Friday. This year, the planting of saplings that are distributed by the Social Forestry wing of the Forest Department will be undertaken by the workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The district-level programme was inaugurated by T.J. Vinod, MLA, at SRV Higher Secondary School. Large-scale planting of trees in around five acres would be undertaken in the district during the next two months, said C. Meenakshi, Conservator of Forests (Central Region). Under the City Police Commissionerate, the day was inaugurated by IG Vijay Sakhare by planting a sapling. The drive was taken up at all police stations too. At Southern Naval Command (SNC), more than 3,500 saplings of different varieties were planted. Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, SNC, Commodore Anil Joseph, Station Commander, Kochi Area, and Ms. Meenakshi led the campaign inside the Naval Base area. A clean-up drive was organised to remove plastic waste from inside Naval Base and surrounding areas. The participants removed non-biodegradable materials from Venduruthy channel. A coastal clean-up drive was undertaken at Fort Kochi also. District Collector S. Suhas planted a sapling at Queen’s Walkway on the day. He along with other officials also planted saplings on the collectorate campus. Mr. Vinod inaugurated the greening campaign by planting a sapling at the Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary. A model vegetable garden was set up at a holding of St. Francis Cathedral on the occasion.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||1.71 lakh grocery kits have no takers||Around 1.71 lakh grocery kits delivered to Public Distribution System (PDS) shops for free distribution among ration card-holders in the State during lockdown have no takers, as per an initial estimate by the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco). Supplyco, which put together the kit containing 17 items at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,000, has initiated steps to take back the leftover kits as the last date for their distribution through ration shops was May 26. The State government allocated around Rs. 350 crore for the distribution of kits to all ration card holders from the second week of April. Via Supplyco outlets “We are awaiting instructions from the government for distribution of undelivered kits through Supplyco outlets. For this, we should be provided the list of the ration card holders,” says a senior Supplyco official. Ration dealers feel that there would not have been leftover kits if these were distributed by checking ration cards without the mandatory biometric impressions on the electronic point of sale (e-POS) machines. “In many cases the biometric impressions could not be captured. Besides, many who were not at home could not collect the kits and since biometrics was mandatory they could not delegate someone else to collect them,” says Johnny Nelloor, State president, All Kerala Retail Ration Dealers Association. There are over 14,000 ration shops across the State and many reported leftover kits between 20 and 40. The return of kits has become a matter of contention between Supplyco and ration shop dealers. “Supplyco delivered the kits at ration shops without weighing. But now when we are returning the kits, they are insisting on weighing them,” says Mr. Nelloor.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi metro to plant 5,000 saplings||Giving impetus to its afforestation drive to compensate for the over 1,000 trees felled for the metro rail project, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has kicked off a campaign to plant 5,000 trees in the Greater Kochi region in the coming year. On Friday, World Environment Day, trees such as jamun (njaval), red sandalwood, sitaphal, guava, and gooseberry (amla) trees were planted at Vyttila metro station. C. Meenakshi, Conservator of Forests, planted a mahogany sapling. Alkesh Kumar Sharma, MD, KMRL, spoke of how Australia witnessed massive bushfires and different countries faced floods, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the locust threat. K. Anand, trustee of Adi Shankara Group of Institutions, planted a sapling at the metro station. The institution has agreed to provide land to KMRL to plant 2,000 tree saplings inside their campus. The rest of the 3,000 saplings will be planted on the banks of canals and places such as Chellanam on the coastline. On its part, the metro agency has requested all its employees to plant at least one tree on their own residential premises. In addition, KMRL has planted saplings alongside the metro corridor, especially on both sides of the Edapally-MG Road-Vyttila stretch. Many of the saplings wilted due to lack of upkeep, while some others were destroyed by unscrupulous persons. A. Ajith Kumar, executive committee member of EDRAAC which distributed 4,000 saplings to different associations on Friday, warned that more saplings would wilt unless the KMRL took care of them.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tinsel world set to see pay cuts, low-budget movies||The Malayalam film industry is bracing itself for pay cuts and a temporary freeze on big-budget movies following the financial crisis induced by the COVID-19 outbreak. A salary cut for actors and technicians, low-budget movies, and push for alternative revenue streams figure among the bailout package being formulated by the Kerala Film Producers Association (KFPA). At least a 50% cut “We are facing the worst crisis ever in recent times owing to the pandemic. The budget of movies will have to be cut by at least 50% in view of the unprecedented situation,” said KFPA president M. Renjith after a meeting here on Friday. “There is no clarity on the overseas and satellite rights considering the uncertainties prevailing across the world. We hope that actors and technicians would realise the gravity of the situation and cooperate with us,” he said. The KFPA will hold talks with the Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA), Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA), theatre owners, distributors, and the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce on how to chalk out a roadmap ahead. Actor Jagadeesh, treasurer of AMMA, had told The Hindu on Thursday that actors had always cooperated with producers in difficult times. “We also know that the revenues may take a hit in view of the unprecedented situation. Actors may have to bear a share of the possible losses incurred by the producers,” he said. B. Unnikrishnan, general secretary, Film Employees Federation of Kerala, had said that any response on the issue could be made only after studying the concrete suggestions being forwarded by the producers’ association.  There is no clarity on the overseas and satellite rights M. Renjith KFPA president
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. to hold meet on waterlogging issues||While severe waterlogging in the city last year followed by harsh criticism has put the Kochi Corporation on guard this time around, councillors, across party lines, agree that much remains to be done before the monsoon intensifies. A meeting of all agencies taking measures to resolve waterlogging will be held soon, Mayor Soumini Jain said. A 24-hour help desk will be set up to intervene when rainfall-related issues crop up. Poornima Narayan, councillor representing Gandhinagar, said unless the bund constructed on the Chilavannoor lake was demolished, the surrounding areas would continue to drown in rain water. Councillors said canals like the Market canal were yet to be cleaned, while others like the Rameswaram canal had been included in the AMRUT projects, but were still in a bad condition. The area where the Perandoor canal drains into the backwaters near the Vaduthala bridge has not yet been desilted, said Opposition leader K.J. Antony. The area where the Kalvathy canal drains into the sea is also heavily silted, he added. According to LDF councillor V.P. Chandran, in the past six years, around Rs. 120 crore has been spent on work to resolve waterlogging but without any definite plan in place. While work has been progressing well, unscientific construction is mostly responsible for waterlogging, Ms. Jain said.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Floods not due to water release: govt.||The perception that the floods of 2018 and 20I9 were due to lack of timely regulation of water level in dams was without any factual basis and contrary to the scientific study report of the Central Water Commission, a statement filed by the State government in the High Court said. The statement was filed in response to a suo motu writ petition initiated on the basis of a letter to the Chief Justice of High Court by HC judge Devan Ramachandran on the issue of regulation of dam waters in view of the reported rise in dam water level.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Furnish salary arrears details, KSRTC told||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to file a statement showing the details of the entire employees to whom salary arrears are to be paid. The Bench made it clear on Friday that the statement should include the name of the persons, the amount due and the date on which the amount is due.
06 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cannot avoid e-POS machine: govt.||The State government on Friday submitted before the Kerala High Court that it could not permit ration dealers to distribute the foodgrains received from the Centre under various schemes completely avoiding the electronic point of sale (e-POS) machine. In a statement, the government pointed out that if the ration dealers were given uncontrolled liberty to distribute the ration articles manually, there was every chance for misusing the ration articles and eligible cardholders not getting their ration articles. The statement was filed in response to a writ petition field by the All Kerala Retail Ration Dealers’ Association seeking to do away with the use of biometric authentication for card holders who were availing themselves of the card portability option. The State government could not order manual mode of transaction
06 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KSCDC to promote cashew farming||The Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) will induct 1,000 more labourers in 2020 and launch an intensive drive to expand and promote cashew farming. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma on Friday planted saplings at a KSCDC factory in Kottiyam, inaugurating an extensive project to cultivate 2 lakh cashew trees as part of the drive. She planted ginger, turmeric and gooseberry saplings that will be cultivated as intermediary crops in the cashew farm. The KSCDC will soon implement a comprehensive health insurance scheme, Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP), in its factories. In a bid to ensure food security the KSCDC has set aside 50 acres spread across its 30 factories for the Subhiksha Keralam project. Many factories of the Corporation already have organic farms.
06 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two more test positive in Kollam||Two more persons from the district, both of them women, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. A 31-year-old Ummannur resident, working as a staff nurse in Mumbai, had reached Kochi on May 28 by an Air Asia flight. She was shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, following symptoms on June 4 and tested positive the next day. The other patient, a 19-year-old Punalur resident, is a medical student at Tajikistan who reached the Kannur airport on May 27 and boarded a KSRTC special service from there to Thiruvananthapuram. Her sample was taken on June 1. Meanwhile, the funeral of the first COVID-19 victim from the district, was held at the Mulankadakam public crematorium, here on Friday. The 65-year-old Kavanad resident had died following respiratory complications on Sunday. The Health Department is yet to track the source of the infection of the victim. His wife is a fish vendor and the administration has closed Shaktikulangara and Neendakara harbours following his death.
06 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Saplings planted across Kozhikode||World Environment Day was observed in Kozhikode district with a variety of programmes on Friday amid lockdown restrictions. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran opened ‘Planthanal Koottam’, a project of the National Service Scheme in higher secondary schools. He planted a jackfruit sapling on the Government Guest House premises. NSS volunteers prepared jackfruit saplings at their homes during the lockdown period. They planted around 1.25 lakh saplings across the district as part of the project. Meanwhile, Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan launched the ‘Pachathuruthu project’ of Haritha Keralam Mission. The Prakrithi Samrakshana Vedi is planting around 100 saplings across the district as part of the observance while the ‘Ente Swantham Iruvazhinji’ collective launched a four-month project of converting the banks of river Iruvazhinji into a ‘fruit valley’ by planting fruit-bearing trees. Short film Students of St.Joseph’s Anglo Indian Girls’ Higher Secondary School made a short film, Nisarga, which speaks of several species like antlions and dragonflies that are rarely seen these days. The Indian Institute of Spices Research distributed saplings of spices at the Free Birds Open Shelter Home at Malapparamba and trained children on how to take care of them. Employees of Calicut University were given growbags to encourage vegetable cultivation. They also planted saplings on the campus. Employees of the District Suchitwa Mission and District Administration cleaned up the premises of the Civil Station. Local bodies also organised planting sessions in the district.
06 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Handwashing facility in autos to ensure safe rides||To ensure the safety of their passengers, autorickshaw drivers in Kozhikode city are planning to fit permanent handwashing and sanitation facilities in their vehicles. To begin with, Hussain Koya, an autorickshaw driver with over 30 years of experience, has come up with a low-cost model in his vehicle. “We are going through a peculiar situation where we can face the challenge only through our own personal efforts. In Kozhikode city, there are over 4,300 autorickshaws which can play a very big role in fighting the pandemic,” says Hussain Koya who resumed his service in the city two days ago. Koya spent just Rs. 220 to fix the handwashing facility in his vehicle. Auto drivers say vehicles that do not have city service permits too can join the initiative by spending a humble sum for safety purposes. If all are cooperating with the idea, it will become a custom and one of the cheapest options to prevent the infection, they add. ‘Public reluctant’ Though there are over 4,000 autorickshaws having the city service permit, only below 300 vehicles are now operating in the city. According to drivers, their income has gone down to unexpected levels as the public is reluctant to opt for the service. T.V. Noushad, a functionary of autorickshaw drivers’ union in Kozhikode city, says all operators are aware of safety concerns of passengers and that they have adopted appropriate safety measures. “We do not permit the entry of any passenger without a mask. Also, we have arranged hand sanitisers and water in vehicles for passengers,” he adds. Considering the high cost of branded hand sanitisers, autorickshaw drivers have also called upon charity organisations and government establishments to come up with viable alternatives. They say large quantities of sanitisers will be required with the resumption of service by the remaining vehicles. They also appeal to local administrators to come up with permanent hand-washing facilities near autorickshaw stands and bus bays. The issue may prevail for a long time and there should be facilities at all locations, they say.
06 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||One arrested in elephant death case||The death of an elephant in a stream in the Mannarkkad forest range in Palakkad district appears to evolve as a case of man-animal conflict. The Forest Department on Friday arrested one person in connection with the incident. Two others were questioned in this regard. Forest officers said Wilson, a plantation tapping worker, had admitted to placing an explosives-laden trap. He reportedly admitted that he stuffed the explosive in a coconut and set the bait for a wild boar. The elephant was believed to have chomped the coconut and sustained a wound in its mouth when the explosive went off. Search on for others Forest officers said Wilson had experience in hunting wild boars using explosive traps. They said they were searching for a few others in connection with the case. The elephant died in the Velliyar stream at Ambalappara, near the Thiruvizhamkunnu forest station, on May 27 after having sustained wounds in its mouth. Wildlife Crime Control Bureau regional deputy director T. Uma reached Mannarkkad from Chennai on Friday and questioned the accused as part of her parallel investigations for the Union government. The post-mortem examination revealed that the elephant was pregnant and that its jaw bone was broken. The wound was two weeks old. The elephant had starved for over a week after it sustained the injury. The attempts of the forest guards to drive the elephant back to the Silent Valley National Park, from which it strayed into the human habitat in the forest fringes, had failed as it stood firmly in the stream for over two days. The attempts to rescue the elephant with the help of two ‘kumki’ elephants failed. The elephant succumbed to its injuries at the stream itself. Scathing criticism When the incident came to light five days later, there was criticism from all around over the killing of the animal. A section of the media wrongly ascribed the incident to Malappuram district, where Muslims are in majority. BJP leaders, including animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi, blamed Malappuram and its people for the death of the elephant. Several north Indian celebrities, including cricketers and film stars, too joined the bandwagon.
06 June 2020||Palakkad/Malappuram,KERALA||Palakkad records 40 new cases||As many as 40 persons in Palakkad were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday, while neighbouring Malappuram saw 18 fresh cases. The number of patients under treatment rose to 181 in Palakkad. Among those who tested positive in Palakkad was a man from Tamil Nadu. While 35 patients had returned from other States and from abroad, five contracted the disease from primary contacts. Seven persons who tested positive had returned from the UAE, nine from Tamil Nadu, 10 from Maharashtra, three from Andhra Pradesh, and one each from Delhi, Qatar, Kuwait, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, and Lakshadweep. Three of the new cases were District Hospital workers. District Collector D. Balamurali said isolation and treatment facilities were set up at the District Hospital at Palakkad and the Kerala Medical College Hospital, Mangode, the two COVID-19 designated hospitals in Palakkad district. As many as 15 people, including District Medical Officer, District Hospital Superintendent, V.K. Sreekandan, MP, Shafi Parambil, MLA, and District panchayat president K. Santhakumari, were asked to go in quarantine after three health workers were tested positive for the virus. All of them had attended the inaugural function of a COVID-19 testing laboratory at Palakkad on May 26. Among the 18 new cases in Malappuram, seven had returned from abroad and six from other States. Five people had contracted the virus from primary contacts. Two of them are health workers and one a private lab technician. In Kozhikode Four new persons were added to the list of COVID-19 patients in Kozhikode district on Friday even as two others were cured of the infection. As many as 80 health professionals, including doctors and medical students at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode, have gone in self-quarantine after they were found to have interacted with a woman from Maniyoor who was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 recently. The first patient is a 42-year-old from Koduvally who returned from Mumbai by train on May 29 and had been at a COVID care centre. He was tested positive for the virus on June 1. The second patient, a 26-year-old native of Mavoor, and the third patient, a 42-year-old man from Atholi, had returned from Dubai on May 23. They too were tested positive for the virus on June 1. All the three were shifted to the first-line treatment centre at Lakshadweep Guest House. The fourth patient, an 82-year-old from Kottuli, had been under treatment for cancer at the medical college hospital, and was tested positive for the virus on June 2. The number of active COVID-19 cases here is now 48. The number of people under observation is 7,817, of whom 3,397 are expatriates. Meanwhile, sources at the medical college hospital said that the woman from Maniyoor had been admitted for delivery on May 24. She was tested positive for the virus on June 2. She had consulted doctors in the departments of surgery, paediatrics, neurology, and cardiology in the wake of complications during her delivery. However,the source of her infection is not known. The body fluid samples of the health workers have been collected for lab tests. In Wayanad Three more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Friday. Two persons from Anjukunnu in Panamaram grama panchayat, including a 48-year-old and a 20-year-old who returned from Mysuru on May 28, and a 63-year-old who returned from Dubai on May 20 tested positive, said District Medical Officer R. Renuka. They have been shifted to the district hospital at Mananthavady. The wife of the 63-year-old man died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode on May 24, said Dr. Renuka. As many as 3,835 persons are under observation.
06 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||11 more positive cases in Pathanamthitta||Eleven more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) quarantined in Pathanamthitta were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday, taking the number of COVID-19 patients in the district to 80. They included 25 persons who have been cured of the disease so far. According to an official bulletin here on Friday evening, 54 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. A 26-year-old youth who came from Abu Dhabi on May 26, a 63-year-old man who came from Dubai on May 26, a 30-year-old woman who came from Kuwait on May 27, a 33-year-old woman who came from Kuwait on May 27, a 38-year-old man who came from Kuwait on May 27, a 29-year-old youth who came from Kuwait on May 27, a 37-year-old woman who came from Kuwait on May 27, a 49-year-old man who came from Abu Dhabi on May 30, a 26-year-old woman who came from Maharashtra on June 1, and a 31-year-old man who came from Kuwait on May 26 are the 11 NoRKs who were tested positive on Friday. Meanwhile, two patients from Pathanamthitta were cured of the disease on Friday. There are 85 people under observation at hospitals in the district. A total of 85 quarantined persons, who included 54 COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment, remain under observation at various hospitals and at a First-line Treatment Centre in the district as on Friday. 4,277 quarantined A total of 4,277 persons were quarantined in different parts of the district as on Friday evening. They included 3,300 people who came from other States, 895 persons who came from abroad, and 82 contacts of infected persons, sources said.
06 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Commissioner moots Pampa sand removal||The Sabarimala Special Commissioner appointed by the Kerala High Court has apprised the court of the need to restore the Pampa river in the foothills of Sabarimala to their pre-deluge condition. In his report submitted to the court a year ago, Special Commissioner M. Manoj stated that each stakeholder should report to the court the steps taken for restoration of the Pampa along the Triveni-Njunangar Bridge stretch. The State government, Forest Department, Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), Irrigation Department, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA), Institute of Land and Disaster Management and Kerala Water Authority (KWA) are the major stakeholders. The report said long-term and short-term plans may be initiated to remove the sand accumulated on the riverbed and on the banks. The stakeholders may be directed to implement the recommendations of the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS) before removing the sand deposits in the Pampa. NCESS findings The NCESS expert team headed by scientist D. Padmalal had found huge accumulation of a heterogenous-type bed materials containing a wide spectrum of particles such as sand, gravel, cobbles and boulders, along with huge uprooted trees at Pampa-Triveni. Preliminary observations quantified the volume of bed materials accumulated at 40,000 cubic metre (sand, gravel, cobbles and boulders). More than 75% of this was construction grade sand and gravel, said Dr. Padmalal. The Irrigation Department had quantified the quantum of sand deposit at 75,000 cubic metres while a Revenue Department survey had put it at 1.29 lakh cubic metres. Thiruvalla Subcollector Vinay Goyal said 698.7 cubic metres (408 truckloads) of sand and silt had been removed on Thursday and Friday.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five cases in capital||Five more persons, including four male medical students who returned from Tajikistan, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. The fifth patient, a 24-year-old female nurse from Ottur, had arrived in Thiruvananthapuram by train from Haryana. Three of the four students on Friday’s COVID-19 positive list belong to Kallambalam while the fourth hails from Kanjiramkulam. All entered the State through the Kannur airport, the district administration said. As many as 876 people were placed under COVID-19 disease surveillance on Friday, even as 382 people completed the observation period without developing symptoms. As on Friday, 13,288 people are under surveillance in the district. Of this, 11,293 people are in home quarantine and 1,797 in corona care centres. Forty-nine people who displayed COVID-19 symptoms were hospitalised on Friday. With this, the number of people currently under observation in hospitals in the district has risen to 198. 257 samples negative The results of 257 samples sent for testing returned negative on Friday, the district administration added. Meanwhile, 159 people, including 53 women, entered the district through the inter-State border check-post at Inchivila. Of this, 133 people travelled from Tamil Nadu, 12 from Telangana, six each from Karnataka and Gujarat, and two persons from Andhra Pradesh. Thirty-one people on the list had arrived from various red zones, the district administration said. Booked More people were booked in the city region on Friday for violating lockdown norms, according to the City police. On Friday, cases were charged against 24 persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Petty cases were charged against 249 others for not wearing face masks. District Collector Navjot Khosa held discussions with District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay regarding COVID-19 containment in the city region.
06 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Places of worship to admit believers from June 9||Temples, churches and mosques will admit believers in a limited manner from June 9, indicating the impending return of some appearance of normalcy even as Kerala witnessed a worryingly steady rise in COVID-19 cases. At his news conference on Friday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said a videoconference of religious leaders he had chaired recently agreed that preserving life and the health of citizens took precedence over ritualistic acts of collective worship during the pandemic. Hence, the relaxations come with a set of rigorous restrictions aimed at minimising the risk of transmission. Mr. Vijayan warned the pandemic continued to cast a grim shadow over Kerala and the faithful should not take the easing of the restrictions for granted.  Only 100 believers The videoconference had decided not to allow pregnant women, persons above the age of 65 and children below 10 into houses of worship. The number of persons at a time in a place of worship should not be more than 100. The circumscribed space for 15 persons should be 100 square feet (9 square metres). Worshippers should wear masks and maintain a minimum physical distance of six feet (1.8 m) among one another. Houses of worship should allow only persons who write down their name, age, address and mobile phone number at the point of entry. There should be a separate exit for devotees. The visitor’s register should be maintained promptly. Worshippers should not use tank water for washing and instead rely on piped running water. They should wear masks, bring their prayer mats and keep footwear separate. Mr. Vijayan said rituals such as the first communion should be done without physical contact. Priests should avoid the practice of distributing food, ‘prasadam’ and ‘theertham’ and desist from sprinkling devotees with water. Priests should wear masks mandatorily. Devotees should desist from communal prayers and chanting and singing in groups. Sabarimala pilgrimage Sabarimala pilgrimage would resume in a restricted manner. The police would allow only those who had booked their darshan in advance through the virtual queue system. They would not permit any person above the age of 65 or below the age of 10 to make the pilgrimage. Only 50 persons would be allowed inside the temple at a time. The Travancore Devaswom Board will conduct the flag-hoisting ceremony and ‘arat’ rituals in Sabarimala in a scaled-down manner with just the necessary staff.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to begin extensive antibody testing||The State will conduct extensive antibody testing across the State for COVID-19 surveillance and to detect if community transmission of the disease is happening in Kerala. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Friday that the State had procured 14,000 antibody kits through the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), of which 10,000 kits had already been supplied to districts. Another 40,000 kits would be procured in three days, he added. PCR test Mr. Vijayan said that the State expected to conduct 15,000 tests in a week. Once a person was tested COVID-19 positive through antibody testing, he would be tested again using PCR (polymerase chain reaction ) for confirmatory diagnosis, he said. Senior health officials confirmed that the State had procured the rapid antibody testing kits for COVID-19 manufactured by HLL Lifecare, named Makesure. The kit, validated by the National Institute of Virology and approved by the ICMR, is a one-step SARS-CoV-2 simultaneous IgM/IgG antibody detection from the human serum, plasma and/or whole blood obtained from the patient with signs and symptoms of respiratory infection. The test kits would aid the rapid differential diagnosis of infection in the community. Silent transmission While antibody testing is not considered a primary diagnostic modality for COVID-19, during a pandemic, large-scale testing in the community will help in understanding if silent transmission of the virus is happening in the community and the proportion of the population which may already have been infected by the virus, rendering them immune. The test result can be obtained from the patient’s sample within 15-20 minutes. Mr. Vijayan said that as about 63% of the people returning to Kerala from abroad and other States seemed to be coming from areas where intense COVID-19 transmission was on, arrangements would be made to test these people as fast as possible.  State expects to conduct 15,000 tests a week
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1.09 crore saplings to be planted in phases||World Environment Day was observed across the State on Friday with various departments and agencies embarking on greening drives. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched the government’s mass afforestation drive to plant 1.09 crore saplings in a phased manner. The Forest Department also launched the distribution of 57.7 lakh saplings that were developed in its nurseries for the occasion.  Fruit plants Forest Minister K. Raju inaugurated the drive at a function on the premises of Doordarshan Kendra at Kudappanakunnu here. As many as 47 lakh saplings will be distributed for free through local self-government institutions. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan inaugurated the Milma Phalavriksham scheme being implemented by Milma’s Thiruvananthapuram Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union to encourage dairy farmers to cultivate fruit-bearing plants so as to boost their income. Veggie, fruit garden The Kerala Police unveiled a vegetable farm and fruit garden at its headquarters here. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran and State Police Chief Loknath Behera were present. The World Environment Day was also celebrated by other departments and agencies on their premises. Panchayat Director P.K. Jayashree inaugurated the observance at the Directorate of Panchayats by planting a sapling on the Public Office complex. Kerala State Film Development Corporation chairman Shaji N. Karun inaugurated the World Environment Day observance organised by the Kerala State Youth Welfare Board.
06 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Restaurants, malls to open||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said shopping malls, restaurants, wayside eateries, tea stalls, and hotels could admit customers from June 9 if they institutionalised the mandatory pandemic control measures prescribed by the Central and State governments. The government has limited seating at restaurants to 50% of the total capacity. The managements should clean, sanitise, disinfect, and ventilate their establishments before opening up for business. They should check the body temperature of customers before allowing them inside. Preferably, the management should switch off air-conditioning and make provision for the free circulation of air. Seating should be spaced at 1.8 m apart. Employees have to wear masks and gloves, provide hand sanitisers to the public, and disinfect the premises regularly. Traders should transact business in digital form. Customers should prefer electronic cash transfer over the use of currency notes to reduce the risk of transmission. Tea stalls and fruit juice vendors should sterilise glasses in hot water. Aged and children Persons above the age of 65, children below the age of 10, pregnant women and ill persons were barred from restaurants and malls and public places until further notice. Restaurants should promote home delivery and takeaways and limit on-premise dining. The management should register the name, address, and mobile number of diners. Hotels should insist that lodgers also provide their travel information at the reception. Room service should place food outside the room. Hotels and restaurants should not use cloth napkins. They must use disposable paper napkins instead. Cinema theatres, play areas, gaming centres, gymnasiums, stadiums, public parks, beaches, weekend tourist destinations, and swimming pools would continue to remain shuttered until further notice.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CMD seeks to be relieved, KSRTC in further crisis||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), already troubled by its fleet’s poor revenue collection, has plunged into a deeper crisis with its chairman and managing director (CMD) M.P. Dinesh approaching the government to ‘relieve’ him of his post citing ‘personal reasons’. Mr. Dinesh is the fifth CMD of the KSRTC to leave the office in four years during the present government’s tenure. IAS officer Antony Chacko, M.G. Rajamanickam, and IPS officers A. Hemachandran and Tomin J. Thachankary had to leave abruptly earlier. 15 months The move by Mr. Dinesh, a former IPS officer who retired in the rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police while serving as KSRTC CMD, has surprised the government and the KSRTC management as it has come within days of the government sanctioning him an extension of one year or till a replacement is made. He has been holding the post of CMD for 15 months Mr. Dinesh was granted extension overruling the objections of the Transport Department and a main constituent of the ruling front, sources said. The CMD was also not in good terms with the labour union leaders and was known as a stickler for rules. As it is not a resignation letter from Mr. Dinesh, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has forwarded it without any recommendation to the Chief Minister for further action.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SC orders status quo on Taurus project||With the Supreme Court on Thursday directing the maintenance of the status quo on the Taurus Downtown Trivandrum project, following a petition filed by city native Thomas Lawrence, works have come to a halt. The petition had highlighted that reclamation and destruction of wetlands were in violation of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008 and the Central Wetlands Conservation and Management Rules, 2017. According to Technopark chief executive officer Sasi Meethal, the work on the project had restarted only recently. “The work has been progressing well till the COVID-19 outbreak. The deadline is next year. We have not yet got in touch with the company,” he said.  Mr. Lawrence had initially approached the National Green Tribunal in 2018 seeking an order to stop the mass destruction of the Velli-Akkulam Wetland Complex. Green tribunal The National Green Tribunal in October 2018 directed the District Collector to take appropriate action. The NGT later closed the proceedings, which was challenged in the Supreme Court. The agricultural officer of Attipra in January 2018 submitted a report to the RDO saying that the reclamation of the wetland was harmful to the environment. A local-level monitoring committee too said the same in its report to the district administration. But the State government exempted some survey numbers in the area from the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act 2008 in 2018. The exemption was given for 34 cents allotted to Winterfell Realty Pvt Ltd, an Indian subsidiary of Taurus.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Remark draws flak||State Women’s Commission chairperson M.C. Josephine’s remarks that the CPI(M) was also functioning like a court and a police station have drawn flak from the Opposition which has demanded her resignation. During a media interaction here on Friday, Ms. Josephine elucidated the action the commission had taken on complaints against various CPI(M) leaders. The commission had been functioning in a dispassionate manner, Ms. Josephine, also a central committee member of the CPI(M), said. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the chairperson who said that the party was acting like a court and a police station did not deserve to hold a quasi-judicial position. Mr. Chennithala condemned the gang rape incident at Kadinamkulam and said that incidents of violence against women and children were on the rise in the State. BJP State president K. Surendran accused Ms. Josephine of challenging the rule of law.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New species of carnivorous plant found||A new species of Utricularia — carnivorous plants popularly called bladderworts — discovered by chance in the paddy fields of Kottayam has been named after a botanist and teacher who campaigned to save the biodiversity-rich Myristica swamps in rural Thiruvananthapuram. The slender aquatic plant, which sports a trap for snapping up tiny prey, has been christened Utricularia kamarudeenii, in honour of M. Kamarudeen Kunju, a former Reader at the Department of Botany, University of Kerala. He passed away in November, 2019, aged 48. The serendipitous discovery was made during a field exploration that was part of the PhD programme on amaranthus by S. Arya of University College, Thiruvananthapuram. The research team led by V.S. Anil Kumar, head, Department of Botany, Government College, Kasaragod, also included Vishnu Walsan K. of Regional Cancer Centre, and P. Biju of Government College, Kasaragod. The latest edition of Phytotaxa , an international journal on plant taxonomy, has published the finding. In paddy fields The floating Utricularia kamarudeenii was found in patches in about 20 paddy fields and connected waterlogged areas in Kottayam, Ms. Arya said. “One characteristic that sets apart Utricularia kamarudeenii from its cousins is its bilobed corolla. Its trap is also quite small,” she said. A highly respected teacher and environmentalist, Dr. Kunju had been in the forefront of a struggle against a waste-treatment plant proposed in Peringamala.
06 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IMA against opening of places of worship, malls||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has appealed to the State government not to allow the opening of places of religious worship and malls as congregation of people in large numbers is a sure way of amplifying COVID-19 transmission. In a letter to the government on Friday, the IMA pointed out that the world over COVID-19 transmission has been found to have been intensified whenever people congregated in large numbers without maintaining the caution of physical distancing. Taken lightly Lockdown restrictions have been eased to allow people to resume their daily life and livelihood activities. However, ever since the norms are relaxed, people have been found to be gathering in various places without even wearing masks, as though the threat of the pandemic has passed. At a time when local transmission of the virus is found to be increasing in the State, as evidenced by the increase in the number of cases wherein the disease has been contracted through ‘contact’ with unknown sources of infection, one should rightfully suspect that community transmission is already on in Kerala, the IMA said. Warning In such a situation, opening up malls and religious places of worship to people will surely result in these places becoming epicentres of disease transmission in the State, the IMA warned. A situation wherein hospitals are overflowing with the patients, as is happening in the rest of the country now, is not something Kerala’s health system can afford to have. The government should thus delay the opening of malls and places of worship, it said.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ex-TDB secretary found guilty||Former Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) secretary V.S. Jayakumar has been found to be guilty of the charges levelled against him by the board. Former Vigilance Tribunal Cherunniyoor P. Sasidharan Nair who probed eight charges said in his report submitted on Friday said that seven of the charges had been found to be true. Mr. Jayakumar had officiated as Sabarimala executive officer and Devaswom secretary.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Harithalayam inaugurated||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has stressed the potential of universities in encouraging youngsters to take up farming. He was speaking on Friday while formally launching the Harithalayam project spearheaded by the University of Kerala to increase the green cover on its Karyavattom campus and affiliated colleges and to inculcate practical knowledge of agriculture among students. Participating in the inaugural function through videoconferencing, Mr. Vijayan lauded the university for taking the lead in encouraging students to become active partners in the greening mission. Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel inaugurated a biodiversity centre.
06 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Scheme to ensure online facility for all||Own-Online, a project of the district panchayat to ensure facilities for online classes for all State school students, got off to a start here on Friday. District panchayat president V.K. Madhu inaugurated the project at the Mannamkonam settlement in Kuttichal grama panchayat. As many as 266 children in the tribal areas of 12 grama panchayats in the district were found to be lacking facilities to attend online classes. To ensure their right to education, facilities for online classes through parent-teacher associations, volunteers, individuals, organisations, and engineering students were being made, a statement here said. TV given A television and related equipment for the online classes were set up in the community study centre at Podiyam for the tribal children. Podiyam resident Murukesh Kumar donated the equipment. Such facilities will be set up in other locations, including tribal and coastal areas. Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd.’s subsidy will be used to purchase televisions. Money will be raised from sponsors too. Grama panchayat president Manikandan presided.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Palayam masjid not to open soon||Despite the proposed relaxation by the Central and State governments on restrictions at places of worship from June 8, the Palayam Juma Masjid will not be opening its doors to the public at least for some more days. The Palayam Jamaath Committee took the decision on Friday in view of the possibility of a large crowd, including the floating population in the city, gathering there during the Friday prayers. “For Friday prayers, we usually have around 2,000 believers. Considering our location, it might be difficult for us to identify each of the visitors or where they are coming from. So, for the time being, the committee has decided not to open the mosque. A decision on opening will be taken later, as and when the situation improves. If this model can be followed by the rest of the mosques in the city, it will be beneficial,” said Palayam Imam V.P. Suhaib Moulavi.
06 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Virtual token’ at KU counters||The Kerala University (KU) has introduced a ‘virtual token’ system at its cash counters at Palayam, Kariavattom and Alappuzha for fee payment. However, exam fee should be remitted online. Fifty people who register in advance can remit all other fee directly at the cash counters from 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. the next day. For details, visit www. keralauniversity.ac.in, http://pay. keralauniversity.ac.in.
06 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Guruvayur hosts weddings again||After a break of two-and-a-half months, wedding ceremonies resumed at the Sreekrishna temple, Guruvayur, on Friday. Nine weddings were held at the Kalyanamandapam at the East Nada of the temple between 6 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. Most had been postponed due to the COVID-19 lockdown. No wedding ceremonies were held at the temple after March 24. Only 10 people, including the bride and bridegroom, attended each wedding. The ceremonies were held under strict pandemic-control protocol. People underwent thermal scanning and used hand sanitisers before they were allowed into the ‘mandapam.’
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fuelling protest||
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caring for nature||
06 June 2020||CHATRAI (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Sugalis agree to give up ID liquor business||“We are eking out a living by brewing and selling Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor for the past few decades. Now, we want to live a dignified life,” says Bhukya Lakshmi of Potanapalli village, an ‘expert’ in manufacturing arrack, urging officials to provide alternative source of income. Banothu Ramulu, another resident of Chinna Thanda, said many people had ruined their lives, and a few, who were addicted to arrack, died. Many people were booked in arrack cases and were making rounds to the courts and police stations. He thanked ‘Parivarthana’ programme, aimed at bringing a change their lives, and appealed to the officials to provide jobs to the educated youth in the thandas (tribal hamlets). Nuzvid MLA Meka Venkata Pratap Appa Rao asked the Revenue, Police and Excise officials to lift the cases against the Sugali (Lambada) tribal people and help them to start new lives. He appealed to the villagers to keep up their promise and not to lit the ‘battis’ (liquor brewing stoves) again. ‘Fulfil Gandhi’s dreams’ Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao praised Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu and Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP Vakul Jindal for launching ‘Parivarthana’ programme in Potanapalli village in Chatrai mandal on Friday. “Parivarthana will fulfil the dreams of the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi to put an end to liquor and develop villages. Police are planning to extend the programme to West and East Godavari and Rajamahendravaram police units soon,” Mr. Mohan Rao said. Mr. Babu said ‘Parivarthana’ would help impose a ban on liquor in a phased way. As woman from Lambada tribe and SC community, involved in the illegal trade, came forward to give up the business, the programme would be a success, he said. Police adopt villages “The Krishna district police have adopted Chinna Thanda, Potanapalli and Pedda Thanda. Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu will be the nodal officer and help residents in getting loans, jobs and government schemes by maintaining liaison with the officers,” Mr. Babu announced. Mr. Jindal said hundreds of Lambada tribal families depended on ID liquor for the last four decades in the villages on Andhra Pradesh-Telangana borders. The locals agreed to stop brewing and selling arrack, after the police, Excise and SEB officials assured to provide alternative livelihood for them. “We raided the houses in the thandas and arrested many villagers for their involvement in arrack trade. But, now we will help them as they gave up the illegal trade,” said Prohibition and Excise Deputy Commissioner Muralidhar Rao. Chatrai MRO Janardhan Rao, MPDO Nageswara Rao, District Tribal Welfare Officer A.V.D. Narayana Rao and other officers assured to extend schemes, loans and provide land for SC and ST families in the villages.
06 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. doctors seek more services at area hospitals||The Chittoor district chapter of the Andhra Pradesh Government Doctors’ Association has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to enhance speciality services at all the Vaidya Vignan Parishad hospitals by providing sufficient number of Civil Assistant Surgeons (MBBS) and filling up of paramedical staff posts. A delegation of the APGDA, led by district president Paul Ravi Kumar and secretary P. Ravi Raju, on Friday met Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy here, and submitted a memorandum. The memorandum said that vacancy in civil assistant surgeon posts had led to increased burden on the existing staff and stress on medical administration with growing number of both outpatients and in-patients at the area hospitals. The forum urged the State government to reintroduce the Cluster System of Hospitals, which functioned with efficacy during 2004-2014 and was later scrapped. The cluster system of hospitals, grouping five to seven hospitals under one roof, was a proven example of effective medical services in rural areas. The forum said the Civil Assistant Surgeons working in area hospitals with Master’s degree should be considered as Assistant Professors prior to the regular recruitment. They said the retirement age of non-specialist physicians should be increased to 65 from 63, and in case of specialist doctors their retirement age be set at 63 instead of 65. They called for scraping the system of the government doctors seeking registration with the AP Medical Council every five years and their validity be continued till retirement.
06 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buggana refutes Oppn. charge||The government has targeted to complete construction of 30 lakh houses for the poor across the State in five years, but the opposition party leaders are making false allegations on land acquisition issue, Minister of Finance Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has said. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy stated that the government had gone with land acquisition for the housing programme in a transparent way as per the relevant Act. “The market value of the land is Rs. 7 lakh per acre, and as per the guidelines of the Act, we have to pay around Rs. 43 lakh. Since we need a large piece of land at a single identified place for building colonies, we have offered to pay Rs. 45 lakh per acre. But Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu is stating that we can get land for less than Rs. 10 lakh. We are ready to accept land for that price if he can provide,” said Mr. Rajendranath Reddy. Stating that the TDP leaders were making false allegations that the government was selling the houses and indulging in corruption, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said there was no scope for the government to sell the houses as only 29 lakh people had applied while the government was on a mission to provide 30 lakh houses. During the five-year TDP term, only 7.5 lakh houses, including those built with the Union Government grants, had been constructed and handed over to the beneficiaries. The TDP government had also left payment of Rs. 4,300 crore dues pending to the housing corporation and TIDCO, he said. “ Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to ensure that every eligible person is benefited from the initiative,” the Minister said. Dig at Yanamala Referring to the allegations of TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Rs. 80,000 crore loan, the Minister said it was impossible as the government was allowed to obtain loan only as per FRBM limits. “As per FRBM limits, a loan of Rs. 38,251.05 crore was obtained during 2018-19. In the current year, as revenue increased, the loan was also increased to Rs. 45,552 crore. Everything is being done as per norms,” he asserted.
06 June 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waste-to-energy plant to be ready by year-end||A new deadline, December, 2020, has been fixed for the commercial operation of the waste-to-energy(WTE) power project taken up by the JIFT Urban Infrastructure Limited at Kapuluppada under the limits of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, who recently inspected the plant, expressed displeasure over the slow progress of works and the delay in the project. It was learnt that after COVID-19 lockdown, unavailability of labourers stopped civil works at the plant. GVMC Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao admitted that initially there was a shortage of labourers. But later the works resumed, he added. He said that the GVMC Commissioner has set them a new deadline of December 2020. ‘23% works pending’ According to GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, almost 77% civil works at the plant were completed and 23% works are yet to be completed. He said that the equipment required has also been procured by the agency. “The GVMC has Construction & Demolition (C&D) waste plant operating. A waste-to-energy plant under operation will not only solve waste disposing woes for the Urban Local Body (ULB), but also achieve good ranking in the Swachh Bharat Mission,” he said. In February 2016, the GVMC had entered into an agreement with the JIFT Urban Infrastructure Limited for the project. In December 2018, the GVMC has given 17.08 acre land at Kapuluppada on lease for a period of 25 years. Chief Medical & Officer of Health (CMoH), K.S.L.G Sastry said that as per the agreement, the GVMC will supply 900 to 1,000 tonnes of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) gathered from the households to the facility on daily basis and also bear the transportation cost. The company would generate 15 MW of power from the solid waste. Discom will procure power from the plant. “The earlier scheduled commercial operation date was July 2020. With the lockdown and labour issues, it was pushed back. We are now hopeful that the plant will get operational by year-end,” he added.
06 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second notice served on Akhila Priya’s husband||The Kadapa police on Friday served a notice on Bhargav Ram, husband of former TDP Minister Bhuma Akhilapriya, for the second consecutive day on Friday, in connection with an attack on A.V. Subba Reddy, a TDP leader from Nandyal. Summons were first issued on Thursday for his interrogation, to which there was no response. Police then served a second notice on Friday. It may be recalled that the Chinna Chowk police had arrested four persons suspected of plotting to kill Mr. Subba Reddy, who had served as the chairman of the A.P. Seeds Corporation in the past. It was only two weeks ago that a middleman who was allegedly involved in the crime and was reportedly in close contact with Mr. Bhargav Ram, was also arrested. Police suspected him to have paid the hired killers on behalf of Mr. Bhargav Ram.
06 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police seize sand, illicit liquor in Kadapa||In the series of raids conducted since May under the aegis of its Special Enforcement Bureau, the Kadapa district police laid equal focus on sand dumps and illicit liquor, seizing large quantities and arrested the accused. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, at a media conference here on Friday, said 7,369 tonnes of sand dump and 82 vehicles had been seized and 115 persons were arrested in 93 cases. Jaggery wash destroyed Similarly, 1,324 IMFL bottles, 1,264 litres of country liquor was seized and 10,846 litres of jaggery wash was destroyed in the raids, Mr. Anburajan added.
06 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AR constable battling for life in E. Godavari||An Armed Reserve constable, A. Narasimha Varma, who allegedly attempted suicide by shooting himself with a service rifle on Thursday night, is battling for life in the Government General Hospital in Kakinada city in East Godavari district. Mr. Varma, 31, reportedly shot himself through the lower jaw while he was on the duty at the Sub-Treasury office in Kakinada. GGH Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao said the health condition of Mr. Varma was deteriorating and he was admiutted to the Intensive Critical Care Unit. Most of his left eye had been injured as the bullet came through it. However, he was responding to medical treatment, the doctor said. Meanwhile, East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that the police were yet to establish the reason that drove Varma him to shoot himself. Mr. Nayeem said an investigation was on. Mr. Varma belongs to Pallam village and resides in the Kakinada city. Those suffering from suicidal tendencies could call GGH-Kakinada 98499-03870 for counselling and guidance.
06 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 youth held for peddling ganja||The Razole circle police arrested 10 persons, including three minors, on charges of peddling ganja, near Dindi bridge under Malikipuram police limits in East Godavari district. The accused were produced before a local court on Friday. Case registered According to the Malikipuram police, 900 gm of ganja was seized from the youth of Konaseema region during the raid on Thursday night. All of them have reportedly discontinued their education and were allegedly addicted to consumption of ganja. The police have registered a case.
06 June 2020||N. RahulHYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||No new projects taken up on Godavari, says TS||The Telangana government on Friday informed the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) that it has not taken up any new irrigation projects on the Godavari river. All projects grounded on the river within the State were conceived in the combined Andhra Pradesh. The stand of Telangana was made clear at a meeting of GRMB held in the backdrop of Andhra Pradesh government expressing concern last month that Telangana was executing nine new projects without furnishing the DPRs to the board and taking the approval of the apex council headed by the Union Minister for Water Resources. Therefore, the board, headed by J. Chandrasekhar Iyer, set a deadline of June 10 for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments to submit detailed project reports (DPRs) of irrigation projects constructed by the two States on the river. Both States were also asked to furnish agenda items for the apex council meeting immediately. The Chief Ministers of the two States were members of the council. A.P. letter The AP government had written a letter to GRMB that construction of several barrages without detailed studies regarding negative impact on the availability of water for the lower riparian States was in violation of AP Reorganisation Act as per Godavari Water Disputes Tribunal Award. Besides citing nine new projects, the AP government also informed GRMB that it learnt about Telangana enhancing the utilisation under the Kaleswaram lift irrigation scheme from 225 tmcft to 450 tmcft and Sita Rama lift-irrigation scheme from 70 tmcft to 100 tmcft. The nine projects highlighted by AP are: Kaleswaram lift-irrigation scheme, Godavari lift-irrigation scheme phase - III, Sita Rama lift irrigation scheme, Tupakulagudem, Telangana drinking water supply project, barrages on lower Penganga river at Rajupet (Bhimkund), Chanakha - Korta and Pimparad - Parsoda and Ramappa lake to Pakhal lake diversion. The AP government had also taken up with GRMB the utilisation of water under existing, ongoing, future and new projects by both States on the Godavari. There was hardly any water for projects of the two States with 75% dependability. Sources said that Principal Secretary, Irrigation, of Telangana Rajat Kumar referred to a provision of the Godavari water disputes tribunal which allowed a State to divert its allocated water anywhere within its territory. Therefore, it was diverting water wherever there was a requirement to tap its quota. He recalled in this context that Sriramsagar and Nizamsagar projects were entitled to 240 tmcft but they never got 60 tmcft. So, areas served by the two projects were supplemented. Later, Mr. Rajat Kumar told media that the State was entitled to use 967.14 tmcft water as per the allocation by the tribunal and the same was approved by the government of N. Kiran Kumar Reddy in erstwhile State.  A release later said it was decided to constitute a committee for identification of suitable sites at all inter-State border points for installation of telemetry stations in the Godavari basin.
06 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 more test positive in Nellore, Prakasam districts||There was no respite from COVID-19 as 19 more persons -- 16 in Sri Potti Sriramulu Nellore District and three in Prakasam district -- tested positive for the dreaded virus in the last 24 hours. The dreaded pandemic, which was restricted mostly to cities initially, started spreading to the rural parts in both districts. Vinjamur village accounted for a maximum of four new cases, followed by Marripadu and Kota villages with three cases each and Venkatagiri, Dagadarthi, Naidupeta, Manubolu, Rapur and Nellore with one case each in SPSR Nellore district, according to a bulletin released by the Medical and Health Department. With this, the number of active cases in SPSR Nellore district rose to 86. Throwing to wind the precautions suggested by the health officials, people were seen moving without marks in Nellore city. Social distancing was followed more in breach than in observance. Police personnel imposed fine on those moving without masks and not observing physical distance at the busy VRC centre and other places. Active cases Two of the three new infected persons in Prakasam district, a 34-year-old man from Apparaopalle and 29-year-old man from Totavaripalle, contracted the disease after returning from Chennai, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. The third patient was a 40-year-old woman, wife of an infected man from Karedu village, near Ulavapadu. The number of active cases in the district went up to 44. Alarmed over the disease spreading to the rural parts, health officials implemented cluster containment strategy with full vigour in the affected mandals in both the districts. Sanitary workers sanitised the remote villages on Friday.
06 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIKSCC to lead campaign for fair compensation to farmers||Farmers under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) have decided to take up a sustained campaign to press for a fair price for the produce. Remunerative price for almost all crops had remained elusive. The coronavirus-induced lockdown had only aggravated the problem of peasants further, AIKSCC State co-convenor K.V.V. Prasad saidtold a media conference here on Friday. The Centre should announce a special financial package for farmers, including waiver of interest on crop loan and fresh credit to raise kharif crop, he said. Referring to a 2017 NABARD survey showing the high levels of inter-State income inequality among agricultural households, AIKSCC Prakasam district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao said Andhra Pradesh stood at the lowest level. “Will Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy take it as a challenge and ensure the State moves up on the ladder?” he asked. ‘Gloomy scenario’ Bengal gram growers, who were saddled with previous years’ stocks in cold storage units, were clueless about liquidating them. The bonus price of Rs. 1,500 per quintal announced by the State government had been given only to 8,000 of the 25,000 growers in the district. Virginia Tobacco Farmers Welfare Association general secretary Ch. Seshaiah said tobacco growers were at their wits’ end as the exporters shied away from the auction centres during the truncated auctions when lockdown was in force. It was high time the Centre came to the rescue of the growers who held with them over 80% of the produce as lockdown put paid to their hopes of getting a fair price. Vegetable growers were in an unenvious position as the market price for the perishable goods crashed due to reduced demand. Each farmer was forced to incur a loss of Rs. 1 to 1.50 lakh per acre, lamented Congress Party farmers wing district president V. Rajagopala Reddy. Social forestry farmers were not able to get even half of the price arrived at a meeting with paper mills at the behest of the State Agriculture Marketing department, said Social Forestry Growers Association president V. Hanuma Reddy.
06 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre solved many pressing issues, says former MP||The Centre, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been able to solve many pressing issues by taking bold decisions such as abrogating Article 370, banning triple talaq, and ensuring a swift adjudication of the Ram Janmabhoomi dispute, all within a year of coming to power, BJP former State president and ex-Visakhapatnam MP K. Haribabu claimed on Friday. Addressing the media, Mr. Haribabu said that Mr. Modi, who led the party to victory in the 2019 elections, was able to win the hearts of all sections of society. “Mr. Modi has enhanced the image of the country across the world and has also successfully controlled the spread of COVID-19 even as developed countries were unable to do so,” Mr. Haribabu said. BJP Srikakulam district president Attada Ravi Babji and leaders Paidi Venugopalam and Duppala Ravindrababu said they would highlight the Centre’s achievements to garner wider support of the people.
06 June 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre grants Rs. 412 crore to protect the Godavari||The National River Conservation Directorate (NRCD) under the Ministry of Jal Shakti has granted Rs. 416.29 crore to protect the River Godavari from untreated water at Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district. Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat told The Hindu on Friday that Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has approved the proposal worth Rs. 416.29 crore to keep the river clean without letting the untreated water into it in the city. “The ministry approved the proposal based on the recommendations by the Delhi Technological University (DTU),” he added. Last year, the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation (RMC) submitted a Detailed Project Report (DPR) titled ‘Augmentation/improving sewage system including construction of STPs and Intercept and Diversion (I&D) facilities to ensure no untreated water is released into Godavari river at Rajamahendravaram,’ to the NRCD. In its appraisal, the DTU observed that the proposed project components were essential in order to prevent pollution of the Godavari which is not only a holy river but also a drinking water source for many towns in East and West Godavari districts.  Ambitious plans Mr. Bharat said the first phase of the project includes construction of three sewage treatment plants (STPs), upgradation of the existing STP, construction of I&D structures and laying of outfall drains and pumping station. Priority to catchments Priority would be given to the catchments which discharge into the river near Rajamahendravaram. In Phase II, catchments which discharge into the Godavari downstream of Rajamahendravaram would be the priority. “The NRCD will fund the entire project cost. The project will play a pivotal role in achieving the target of developing the water grid at Dowleswaram Barrage,” Mr. Bharat said.
06 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to make efforts for a greener future||World Environment Day was observed in Tirupati in the form of planting a sapling at Armed Reserve Police grounds here on Friday. MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha and SP (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy used the occasion to give a call to the student community to plant trees regularly and maintain them for a greener and healthier future. Mr. Reddy said the school managements should also focus on encouraging students in such outdoor activities so as to ward off natural calamities. Mr. Gireesha said a greener environment would invite rains and enhance oxygen in the air. At Sri City, A.P. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Executive Director P. Pratap Reddy planted saplings and called upon the industry to take commitment to sustainable growth and environmental safety.
06 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Perform swab test for all devotees’||Former Union Minister Chinta Mohan has urged the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management to perform swab test for the incoming pilgrims to Tirupati. As the TTD decided to allow pilgrims from June 11, he wanted the officials to stop the devotees at Renigunta, Chandragiri and Karakambadi on the city outskirts and permit their entry to Tirumala only after performing the test. “Thermal screening is of no use. Only swab test can detect one’s COVID-19 status. The TTD and district machinery should ensure inflow of people into the city only after ensuring their health status,” Mr. Mohan said in a memorandum to the TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Executive Officer A.K. Singhal, copies of which were released to the media.
06 June 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sorcerer’ killing: seven arrested in W. Godavari||Police arrested seven persons on charges of killing a tribal man named Kunja Seetaramudu (50) on June 2, on suspicion that he was practicing sorcery, at Vutagumpu village. Two villagers had died of ill health a few days ago. Suspecting that Seetaramudu had killed the duo by engaging in sorcery, the accused - Sode Jogarao, Madakam Ramesh and five others - allegedly attacked the victim with axes and knives killing him on the spot. An investigation is on into the case, the Velerupadu police said.
06 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Secretariat employees undergoing screening test for coronavirus||All the Secretariat employees are undergoing COVID-19 test with one of them testing positive for the virus five days ago. The government has made arrangements for the same. While the employees working in Blocks 1, 2, and 3 had undergone the test, those working in Block 4 underwent the process on Friday. In all, there are five blocks in the Secretariat, and the drive is expected to be completed in a day or two. The exercise follows an appeal made by Secretariat Employees’ Association president K. Venkatrami Reddy to screen all the staff members as a precautionary measure. All the 2,500-odd employees (regular, contract and outsourcing) spread over the five blocks will be screened under the drive. After an employee of the Agriculture Department tested positive on June 1, Blocks 3 and 4 were kept out of bounds for the employees and sanitised. The employees working in the department were asked to work from home. The employee who had tested positive was among the other employees who returned to Amaravati from Hyderabad on May 27 by one of the specially arranged buses. The State government, in a GO dated May 18, had made 100% attendance mandatory in all the government offices that were not located in the containment areas. However, pregnant women and employees with high-risk health conditions were permitted to work from home.
06 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13, including student, held in murder case in Vijayawada||Police on Friday arrested 13 persons, including a student and some ‘blade batch’ members, who were allegedly involved in a clash that led to the murder of a former rowdy sheeter and iron trader, T. Sandeep, at Thotavari Street in the city a few days ago. The clash, in which the rival groups attacked each other with with knives, iron rods and boulders, created panic in the residential area. “The accused were identified with the help of video and CCTV footage and the other suspects will be rounded up soon,” Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala said at a press conference here. Mr. Tirumala Rao said area domination and supremacy were said to be the motive behind the murder. Lethal weapons, including two daggers, a snap cutter and six folding blades, were recovered from their possession. One Pradeep Reddy of Yenamalakuduru and Dhanekula Sridhar of Kanuru constructed an apartment in a piece of land at Yenamalakuduru in 2019. However, differences cropped between the two builders and they reportedly approached Sandeep and Koduri Manikanta alias Pandu, who were maintaining groups, for a settlement. “Most of the accused were addicted to ganja and liquor. The two groups, headed by Sandeep and Manikanta, had a verbal duel over phone. On May 31, they confronted each other at an open place at Thotavari Street. In the clash that followed, both group members, including Sandeep and Manikanta, suffered injuries,” Mr. Tirumala Rao said. Sandeep succumbed to injuries in a private hospital after a few hours, the Police Commissioner said. Sandeep was facing 13 cases. Pandu was involved in two cases, and his mother Padmavathi was facing two cases. Gap in counselling “There was a gap in giving counselling to rowdy and history sheeters in the city due to the lockdown,” the Police Commissioner said. Asked whether the gangs had any political party or leader’s support, Mr. Tirumala Rao said the call data of both groups was being examined.
06 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Aarogya Setu app must’||The government issued a GO on Friday making downloading of Aarogya Setu mobile app compulsory for all employees working in the Secretariat (Interim Government Complex) and visitors. It has mandated the Chief Security Officer to ensure that no one enters the IGC without having the app in their mobiles, and subject everyone to thermal scanning and make them use hand sanitisers at each block. The government has ordered the HoDs to allow people to work from home only when the app shows them to be at risk. The GO said that the Health Department extended the lockdown till June 30, and it came to the government’s notice that a few in the Secretariat contracted COVID-19.
06 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja seized in Vijayawada||The Police Commissioner’s Task Force team conducted a raid on a house at Satyanarayanapuram in the city and seized 100 kg of ganja. Police are trying to ascertain the origin of the contraband. The house owner was taken into custody, Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said on Friday.
06 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHG loans: banks agree to slash interest rate||The talks the government had with the bankers yielded a positive result. Many bankers have agreed to slash the interest rate on loans availed by SHGs. As many as 93 lakh SHGs will be benefited. Also, the interest burden on the government will come down by Rs. 150.14 crore, according to Rural Development Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy. The Minister on Friday said the SHGs were facing hardship in repayment of loan as the interest rate was high. The issue was brought to the notice of the Chief Minister, who discussed the matter with bankers. The SBI lowered the rate to 9.25% while the Union Bank is collecting 8.10% to 9.60%. APCOB also lowered the rate to 10%.
06 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Release White Paper on State finances’||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has asked the government to release a White Paper on the State’s finances. “The government is hiding facts for reasons best known to it,” Mr. Ramakrishndudu said in a statement on Friday. “Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy cannot hide the loans availed by the government. The government has to release information on the growth rate, the per capita income, loans, grants received last year, revenue deficit during last year, primary deficit, and other details,” he said.
06 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP failed to keep poll promises’||TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu has stated that the YSRCP failed to keep its promises made in the run-up to the elections. In a series of tweets on Friday, Mr. Naidu said, “The YSRC made many promised – from Special Category Status (SCS) to Amaravati. What it is doing now? The government is deceiving people by scrapping 10 schemes and implementing one in their place.” “The YSRCP has taken a ‘J-turn’ on issues such as supply of quality rice, Telangana’s Kaleswaram project, pension at the age of 45, CCS row, electricity charges, stabilisation fund of Rs. 3,000 crore for farmers, and employment for youth.” “Trust is important in politics. What has happened to the YSRCP’s rhetoric on credibility? Once people repose faith in them, the politicians would have to sustain it. At least now the YSRCP has to keep its promises,” he said.
06 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to regularise services of health workers||Members of the Legislative Council belonging to the Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) urged the State Government to regularise the services of the contract employees in the Medical and Health Department before appointing new staff. In a statement, PDF MLCs V. Balasubramanyam, K.S. Lakshman Rao, Y. Srinivasulu Reddy, R. Suryarao and I. Venkateswara Rao referred to the government announcement on appointment of doctors and staff in the Medical and Health Department. Of them, most of the appointments would be on a contractual basis. ‘Thousands are on a contract basis’ The MLCs said that thousands of workers in this department had been working for many years either on a contract basis or as outsourced staff. The authorities should first regularise their services before appointing a new set of contract and outsourced staff, they said.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High drama near LG plant as protesters make vain bid to form human chain||Mild tension prevailed near LG Polymers India on Friday as the CPI(M) leaders and functionaries, local residents and environmental activists tried to form a human chain from Simhachalam to Vepagunta to protest against the styrene monomer vapour leak in the chemical plant on May 7 that had led to the death of 12 persons and hospitalisation of many others. The protest was staged as part of the World Environment Day, and also to demand the arrest of the top brass of LG Polymers. More than 1,000 people assembled to participate in the protest and adhered to the social distancing norm mandated under the COVID-19 protocol. To break the human chain, the police, who were deployed in large number, had to arrest over 200 protesters, including CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narsinga Rao. While some leaders were arrested when they tried to reach the factory as early as 5 a.m., others were picked up near the protest site at R.R. Venkatapuram village. It was a silent protest, and we wanted to highlight the loss of human life and the damage caused to environment because of the negligence of the management, but the police arrested us, said Mr. Narsinga Rao. The police, instead of allowing the peaceful protest, resorted to massive arrest of the activists, he added. The May 7 incident had grabbed global attention, and protests were staged world-wide coinciding with the World Environment Day, he said, and added that rights activists had formed human chain and staged silent protests at Vadodara in Gujarat, Seoul in South Korea, Singapore, and Nepal. Action demanded The protesters were demanding that the police issue arrest warrant against the top management of LG Polymers, and either closure or shifting of the plant. All the inquiry reports, including that of the NGT, clearly pointed to negligence on the part of the company, and yet the police did not arrest any person, or book a strong case against the management, said K. Lokanadham, CPI(M) district secretary. As soon as the leakage was noticed, the company did not care to sound the siren, said Ganga Rao, CPI(M) city secretary. In Vadodara Speaking to The Hindu from Vadodara, Jagdish Patel of the Peoples Training And Research Centre said protests condemning the incident had been staged on the occasion of World Environment Day under the aegis of the Asian Network of Rights of Occupational and Environmental Accident Victims (ANROEV) in Seoul and other countries. A conference was also organised online, he added. The Human Rights Forum condemned the arrest of the activists. “The government is disregarding the fundamental rights of the citizens to protest peacefully and democratically on an important occasion. It shows that the government is trying to protect the LG Polymers management,” said V.S. Krishna of the HRF.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bio-pesticide can help fight locusts, says progressive farmer||Adding to the woes of the farming community, locusts pose a grave threat to crops in various parts of the country and the insects have now start invading the Telugu States too. In a bid to mitigate the problem, a progressive farmer in the district has come out with an alternative. According to the farmer, Kongara Ramesh, bio-pesticides can provide a lasting solution to the recurring problem of locusts. Their advantage is that they kill the pests while being harmless to humans, birds and other animals, he says. Ramesh from Guntur district made Tarluvada of Anandapuram mandal in Visakhaptnam district his home in 1990. He set up a farm – Navaneetha Evergreens – in the village and has since been experimenting on crops and pests. On knowing about his good work, scientists and experts in the field from different parts of the country have visited his farm, interacted with him and have done joint research. Studies During the late 1970s, when he was in Guntur, Mr. Ramesh observed that a fungus was killing a pest that was attacking cotton crop. After he shifted to Visakhapatnam, he took the help of researchers from Andhra University and GITAM Institute of Technology to study the effect of fungal entomopathogen on bollworm. “They were content with publishing research papers and obtaining Ph.D degrees but did not evince interest in developing a bio-pesticide to help farmers fight pest attacks,” Mr. Ramesh told The Hindu .  He set up a simple lab on his farm and found that some strains of the fungus beauveria, nomuraea and metarhizium can effectively target certain varieties of locusts but felt more research and scientific analysis was needed to arrive at the exact fungal strain for isolation. “The research on efficacy of fungal strains on cotton pests has proved that they work on insects, including locusts, that have chitin (a primary component ofexoskeleton),” he claims. “When locusts eat the leaves sprayed with the spores of fungus, it rapidly multiplies in the body of the locust, causing its death,” he says. “With the monsoon expected to arrive in a few days, this is the right time to use the bio-pesticide to kill the pest and the larvae to prevent their proliferation,” he says. The strains have been isolated and are said to be used in South Africa and Brazil. The Government of India can procure the strains from those countries, he adds.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag district records biggest single-day spike with 17 cases||The district recorded 17 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. This is the biggest single-day spike the district witnessed since March. Among the 17 new cases, 14 are said to be from Anakapalle, while two are from Kurmannapalem and one from Dibbapalem. Four more patients who were undergoing treatment were discharged from hospital on Friday after testing negative. With the new cases, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district will be 143. The total number of patients discharged is 84. One death was reported from Chengalraopeta area. According to sources, a father and son from Chintavariveedhi, Anakapalle, were shifted to NTR hospital after showing symptoms, where they tested positive. The family runs an electrical appliances shop where around 15 locals work as staff. The health department officials had shifted all the staff and conducted tests. It was learnt 14 persons tested positive. Officials started tracing primary and secondary contacts of all the new cases. Areas around Jagadamba Junction, including Suryabagh, Dabagardens and a few other areas, have been closed down. Police arranged barricades at all major points and asked the business establishments, shopkeepers to close down shutters. Unconfirmed reports say that two persons from a garment store at Daba Gardens are showing COVID-19 symptoms. However, the Health Department officials say that this is a precautionary measure since cases are not coming down in the region. “Not just the suspected cases, Jagadamba region has been witnessing unprecedented lockdown violations. In many areas, COVID-19 cases have drastically declined after strict enforcement. But in Maharanipeta circle, cases are being reported for the last one month. This may spread to neighbouring areas too, so as a precautionary measure shops are being closed,” said a Health Department official. ‘Unconfirmed cases’ According to sources, nearly 10 suspected COVID-19 cases were reported on Friday from Daba Gardens, Madhurwada and a few other areas from the district. However they are yet to be confirmed by the Health Department.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Despite lockdown hurdles, VSEZ puts up a good show||Braving the onslaught of COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) has put up a good show in exports during the current fiscal so far. The zone has achieved exports to the tune of Rs. 8,287 crore till May 19 as against Rs. 7,057 crore during the corresponding period last year by achieving a growth rate of 17.43%, probably the biggest achievement so far in any SEZs of the country. “We have achieved growth in merchandise to the tune of 12.77% besides growth of 20.6% in the services sector. So far Laurus Labs of AP Special Economic Zone, which comes under VSEZ-Duvvada, has exported 11.47 million tablets of HCQ to USA, South Africa, Singapore, Malawi, and Belgium,” said VSEZ Development Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy. Mr. Reddy told The Hindu that the VSEZ was confident of achieving exports exceeding Rs. 1 lakh crore this year if the pandemic was brought under control in the first quarter to achieve nearly 10-12 % growth over the previous year. In April and May (till 19th) their exports from pharma and IT were unaffected, which constituted 85% of contribution to exports. Highest in country The VSEZ consists of 510 operational units spread over 58 SEZs and has 192 EOUs in AP, Telangana, and Chhattisgarh. Last year, the VSEZ made an impressive growth of 32.79% in exports compared to 2018-19, which was the highest among all the seven zones of the country despite economy slowdown. Converting challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, several export-oriented units, majority into manufacturing non-essential items with huge manpower, have made a mark in making masks and personal protective equipment (PPEs) to meet the growing demand for the coronavirus warriors. Brandix India Apparels City with a workforce of 22,000 and Pals Plush Toys and Shinetex Apparels have resorted to alternative economic activity immediately after the lockdown.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Conditions favourable for advancement of monsoon’||Conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into some more parts of central Arabian Sea, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, southwest and east central Bay of Bengal, entire southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of west central Bay of Bengal during the next two days, according to the IMD. A low pressure area is likely to develop over eastern parts of west central Bay of Bengal around June 8. Thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur at isolated places over north and south coastal A.P. and Yanam on Saturday. Thunderstorm and lightning, accompanied with gusty winds (30-40 Km/hr) are likely to occur at isolated places over north and south coastal A.P. and Yanam on June 7. Heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over north coastal A.P. and Yanam on June 7, 8 and 9 and over south coastal A.P. on June 8. Thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur at isolated places over Rayalaseema on June 8 and 9.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death case: police suspect it could be a murder||The suspicious death case of 32-year old woman Divya in Akkayyapalem took a new turn on Friday, with the police now suspecting that it could be a case of murder. According to the IV Town police station officials, who are investigating the case, they have found injury marks on Divy’s body. It looks like unidentified persons have allegedly tortured her with lighted cigarette butts and heated spatula before killing her, said sources from IV Town police. The police teams reportedly picked up a few suspects for questioning. Divya (32), and her husband Ramana hailed from East Godavari district. While Divya’s husband Ramana works in Saudi Arabia, she was staying in a rented house at Akkayyapalem. On Thursday morning, Divya was found dead. According to the police, the body was being shifted to a cremation ground on Thursday by a few persons. Acting on a tip-off, the police took over the body and shifted it to KGH for post-mortem. A case was registered and investigation is on.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Environment Day celebrated in Vizag||Planting of saplings, painting and essay writing competitions for children, holding of awareness campaigns marked World Environment Day celebrations by various organisations in the city on Friday. Representatives of various people’s and women’s organisations, trade unions and rights organisations staged a demonstration at the Gandhi statue near the GVMC and raised slogans decrying the erosion of environmental norms by both the Central and the State governments. They called for criminal prosecution of the LG Polymers management and officials of regulatory bodies like the APPCB for the styrene vapour leak on May 7. V.S. Krishna of Human Rights Forum (HRF) alleged that the Union government was systematically watering down the environmental safeguards to facilitate unbridled construction of destructive projects in ecologically sensitive areas. J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy of CPI, P.V. Ramana and T. Srirammurthy of Civil Liberties Committee and Vimala of A.P. Mahila Samakhya were among those who spoke. Chairman of Visakhapatnam Port Trust K. Rama Mohan Rao participated as chief guest at the programme held in ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel (AM/NS), Vizag Complex. The Chairman along with Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) of VPT Pradeep Kumar planted saplings. The VPT Chairman appreciated the environmental initiatives taken up by AM/NS at its premises. Head-Vizag Asset Ravindranath and Head-HR D.S. Varma of AM/NS were present. The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (E Co R) organised an awareness campaign on the theme: ‘Preserve biodiversity to save human race’ to mark the occasion.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Environment centre proposed in Andhra University||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy proposed for setting up of Centre for Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change (CESCC), here on Friday. He said that the main objective of the centre is to discharge AU’s societal responsibility through active participation in holistic growth and development of the State. Mr. Prasada Reddy said that the centre would try to address the issues of government organisations / department and local industries for better environmental management. It would also take up projects for the development of innovative research and incubation of outcomes for the benefit of the environment and society. AU was always and will be in the forefront towards discharging its societal responsibilities. The centre would start its operations very soon, he said. Registrar V. Krishna Mohan and Professor Bala Prasad were among those present.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Journalist dies in accident||A journalist from a vernacular magazine died in a road accident on NH-16 near Anandapuram in Visakhapatnam on Friday. According to reports, Chandrasekhar was heading to to his home town Srikakulam from Madhurawada on his two-wheeler, where he came under the wheels of a lorry and died on the spot. The police have registered a case and investigation is on.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-power panel meet today||The High-Power Committee constituted by the State government to inquire into the incident of styrene monomers vapour leak in LG Polymer India on May 7 is expected to meet here on Saturday. The committee is headed by Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad. The HPC, besides holding a discussion on Saturday with the expert committee it constituted, will meet the stakeholders, local and affected populace, and environment and rights groups on Sunday. It is learnt that the HPC will also organise an online discussion with the experts recommended by the Centre such as Director-General of Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology S.K. Nayak, Additional Director of CPCB Bharat Kumar Sharma, Deputy Directorate General of Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes R.K. Elangovan, and Director of Indian Institute of Petroleum Anjan Ray. It is also learnt that the expert committee has already submitted its interim report two days ago.
06 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘impregnating his niece’||The PM Palem police arrested a 36-year-old man for allegedly raping and impregnating his 19-year-old niece, on Friday. According to reports, the girl is a native of Vijayawada and had come to her relative’s house at Marikavalasa last year. Her uncle, P Vasu had allegedly raped her in the absence of inmates. Recently, the girl became pregnant. Based on the complaint from the girl along with her parents, the police registered a case.
06 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Testing compulsory at checkposts’||Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari made surprise visits to check-posts on the AP-Odisha border as also inter district borders at Rajapulova, Kothavalasa, Pusapati Rega on Friday. Those coming to Visakhapatnam by trains and flights would have to provide data at the check-post, she said, adding that the migrant labourers would have to undergo medical tests as per the COVID protocol. “Escort vehicles will follow the buses till the government hospital so as to ensure that none of the returnees alight on the way to escape quarantine. We are keeping a tab on the movements of those who returned from other States,” she added. Anticipating an increase in the incidence of robberies with many losing jobs, the SP cautioned people to be careful with their belongings.
06 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU demands wages for bus drivers||CITU-Vizianagaram district general secretary T.V. Ramana on Friday urged the government to ensure wages for drivers of APSRTC-hired buses immediately. The party members organised a protest to highlight the grievances of the drivers. He said that the government had previously issued orders for the payment of wages but ignored its implementation. Union leaders Jaganmohana Rao and TV. Ramana were present in the protest.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seasonal fruit||
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shattering impact||
06 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BTPS first unit set for commercial operation||In a significant step towards the State’s quest for self-sufficiency in power generation, the first unit (270MW) of the ambitious 1080-MW (4X270MW) Bhadradri Thermal Power Station (BTPS) near the coal town of Manuguru has qualified for commercial operation on Friday morning. The unit has achieved the crucial Commercial Operation Date (COD) after its successful run on full load continuously for 72 hours from 6 a.m. on June 2 to 6 a.m. on June 5. A team of engineers and senior officials of the project proponent Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Limited (TSGenco), implementation agency BHEL and power distribution companies (DISCOMs) were witness to the feat. The BTPS encompassing four sub-critical generating units of each 270 MW capacity is fast coming up on a sprawling 1177 acres with the main complex spanning across 527 acres about 15 km away from Manuguru close to Godavari river and coal mines of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) . The foundation stone for the coal-based plant was laid by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in March, 2015. Once completed the BTPS will substantially ramp up the power generation capacity of the TSGenco, which has a total installed coal based generation capacity of 2882.50 MW and hydel based generation capacity of 2411.76 MW, sources in the power utility said. A festive atmosphere prevailed at the BTPS construction site with the first unit of the BTPS reaching the long awaited commercial operation stage on Friday morning. TSGenco Chairman and Managing Director D. Prabhakar Rao complimented BTPS Chief Engineer Balaraju, engineers of the TSGenco and BHEL through videoconference for achieving the milestone. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Balaraju reiterated that the entire workforce will strive with renewed enthusiasm to make the second unit of the BTPS commercially operational by next month-end and complete the remaining units expeditiously. Meanwhile, Telangana Vidyut Engineers Association (TVEA) general secretary N. Bhaskar hailed the beginning of commercial operation of the BTPS’s first unit.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New realty projects likely to take time||The real estate industry was looking for quick clearance through the much-vaunted TS-bPASS or single window online clearance of building permissions and self-certification process after work has come to a grinding halt for almost 50 days due to COVID-19 shutdown. However, it was not to be as the government has put off the launch date. Even otherwise, industry bigwigs admit that the chances of new grand launches happening in the next six months or even for a year is pretty slim. “Most of the labourers had gone back to their native places and it could take at least more than a month for them to return. Focus will be to first complete existing projects. Luckily, there is not much inventory,” say industry veterans, pleading anonymity. The market, when compared to other metros, has been doing well till last year with a steady rise of 9% in pricing and more new launches despite issues with online building permission systems, environmental clearances, TS-Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TS-RERA) and so on. Happenings in the last two months did put a break on the activities, yet builders are sanguine about demand in the city. “At least for the next quarter and more, there will not be any grand launches. We are expecting to see more mechanisation in plastering, shuttering and pre-cast material to a large extent though labour will continue to play a big role,” they explain. TS-RERA, which has about 1,920 properties registered, has already extended the last date for completion of existing projects for six months till September 14. Close to 1,500 projects are said to be in various stages of construction. A niche market for a ‘working networked room’ may have opened in the market in the light of ‘work from home/study’ concepts taking off, but it again depends on area and affordability even if having an extra room for the purpose sounds attractive. “We are working on some designs in that direction,” said a player. Prominent developers deny migrant labour were left to fend for themselves during lockdown, forcing them to take extreme measures of walking home. “We have failed as a society to take care of them, but it is not fair to club everyone in the exploiters bracket. Many developers took care, offered more wages and tried to counsel, but the overwhelming feeling for them was to rush home to be with their parents and children due to coronavirus fear,” they maintain.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RGIA quietly builds a mammoth reservoir||GMR Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Shamshabad, is noted for eco-friendly features but how many know that a large reservoir with a water capacity of 6,00,000 cubic metres has been built through rainwater harvesting to meet a good part of water requirement throughout the year! The airport has other rainwater harvesting structures to utilise the run-off generated from various zones from the ‘airside’ covering runways and taxiways, which is collected through a dedicated network of drains into a large holding tank of capacity 1,35,000 cubic metres. A recharge basin has also been developed on 40 acres in the airside with 10 artificial recharge wells to help rehabilitate ground water levels helping the airport have a rainwater net recharge estimated at 1.729 million cubic metres per annum, an official spokesman claimed on Thursday. On the eve of the ‘World Environment Day’, the RGIA officials maintained that the country’s sixth busiest airport had taken “environment to be at its core since its inception” as the country’s first Greenfield PPP airport in 2008 spread over 5,000 acres. “The management is taking efforts to maintain plant nursery, huge landscape and rainwater harvesting to ensure that natural eco-system is thriving. It had also received the ‘Green Airports Platinum Recognition 2020’ for its best water management in the Asia Pacific region for the Category: 15 to 35 million passengers per annum,” he said. Main access road has 12-km long four-tier landscape on both sides with lawn, ground cover, shrubs and trees, the three-metre median running too is dotted with shrubs, palm trees equipped with cloud-based fully automated irrigation system. Inside the terminal, there are over 15,000 plants of various species, types and heights displayed at various locations of the building. Apart from the unique vertical garden covering 150 square metres and the green terminal building, there is a 10 MW capacity captive solar power plant. It is also the only second airport in the country to have entire taxiway edge LED lights and soon to become 100% LED-lit. Water is efficiently used with latest systems and waste water treatments with two sewerage treatment plants of 925 KLD capacity. “Treated waste water is recycled for use in flushing, cooling tower make-up water and for watering the greenery while STP sludge is used as manure,” the spokesman added.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC to pass judgment on conduct of SSC exams today||Suspense over conducting rescheduled SSC exams is likely to end on Saturday with Telangana High Court awaiting government’s response to a proposal whether it would consider students who appear for supplementary exams in August/September, instead of now, as regular students. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL plea on Friday seeking further deferment of SSC exams, instructed the government to clarify its stand on the matter by Saturday. Observing that “nothing prevents the State from amending the law” on the matter, the bench posted the matter for Saturday for adjudication. In the backdrop of spurt in coronavirus cases for the past few days coinciding with the run-up to rescheduled SSC exams, some parents were worried that their wards would be vulnerable to the virus if they write exams now. The likelihood of students contracting the virus when they write the exams inside the centres and while travelling to and fro cannot be ruled out notwithstanding the government’s assurances on taking all safety precautions. The PIL petitioner’s lawyer K. Pawan Kumar, presenting arguments, said taking into consideration apprehensions of the parents, the government can treat students wishing to appear for SSC supplementary exams (to be held in August or September) as regular students. With COVID-19 rising exponentially, especially in GHMC limits, students and parents are naturally worried. In some cases, some students might not be able to appear for the rescheduled exams (to be held from June 8 to July 5) on health grounds or any other compelling reasons. Such students would carry the stigma of being “supplementary” students if they write the supplementary exams in August or September. In the present situation of everyone reeling under COVID-19 pandemic’s effects, that would not be desirable. “We should be highly flexible at this moment and we have to be fair towards our children during this pandemic,” the bench said. Directing Advocate General B.S. Prasad to secure instructions on the matter, the bench added that “moreover, it is our children and what prevents us from being more flexible”.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No new projects in Telangana on Godavari||The Telangana government on Friday informed the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) that it had not taken up any new irrigation projects on Godavari river. All projects grounded on the river within the State were conceived in combined Andhra Pradesh. The stand of Telangana was made clear at a meeting of GRMB held in the backdrop of Andhra Pradesh government expressing concern last month that Telangana was executing nine new projects without furnishing the DPRs to the board and taking the approval of the apex council headed by the Union Minister for Water Resources. Therefore, the board headed by J. Chandrasekhar Iyer set a deadline of June 10 for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments to submit detailed project reports (DPRs) of irrigation projects constructed by the two States on the river. Both States were also asked to furnish agenda items for the apex council meeting immediately. The Chief Ministers of the two States were members of the council. The AP government had written a letter to GRMB that construction of several barrages without detailed studies regarding negative impact on the availability of water for the lower riparian States was in violation of AP Reorganisation Act as per Godavari Water Disputes Tribunal Award. Besides citing nine new projects, the AP government also informed GRMB that it learnt about Telangana enhancing the utilisation under Kaleswaram lift irrigation scheme from 225 tmc ft to 450 tmc ft and Sita Rama lift-irrigation scheme from 70 tmc ft to 100 tmc ft. The nine projects highlighted by AP are: Kaleswaram lift-irrigation scheme, Godavari lift-irrigation scheme phase - III, Sita Rama lift irrigation scheme, Tupakulagudem, Telangana drinking water supply project, barrages on lower Penganga river at Rajupet (Bhimkund), Chanakha - Korta and Pimparad - Parsoda and Ramappa lake to Pakhal lake diversion. The AP government had also taken up with GRMB utilisation of water under existing, ongoing, future and new projects by both States on Godavari. There was hardly any water for projects of the two States with 75% dependability. Sources said that Principal Secretary, Irrigation, of Telangana Rajat Kumar referred to a provision of Godavari water disputes tribunal which allowed a State to divert its allocated water anywhere within its territory. Therefore, it was diverting water wherever there was requirement to tap its quota. He recalled in this context that Sriramsagar and Nizamsagar projects were entitled to 240 tmc ft but they never got 60 tmc ft. So, areas served by the two projects were supplemented. Later, Mr. Rajat Kumar told media persons that the State was entitled to use 967.14 tmc ft water as per the allocation by the tribunal and the same was approved by the government of N. Kiran Kumar Reddy in erstwhile State. The effort of Telangana was to tap its entitlement fully. He wondered how DPR was insisted by AP for Kaleswaram as the Centre had issued a letter confirming it as an old project. A release later said it was decided to constitute a committee for identification of suitable sites at all inter-State border points for installation of telemetry stations in Godavari basin.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Safety of health workers is our priority: Eatala||With cases of COVID-19 rising among doctors and medical staff, Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Friday said the government is taking all possible measures and that the safety of health workers is its priority. As many as 17 medicos at Modern Government Maternity Hospital in Petlaburj, six in Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences and three in Gandhi Hospital had tested positive for the virus. Addressing the media, Mr Rajender said the State is following guidelines for COVID-19 testing as laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research. He said there is ample stock of medicine and equipment which includes 10 lakh PPE kits and 11 lakh N95 masks. The State is protecting its healthcare workers, which includes doctors and nurses, who, he said, are aware of their duties. Providing perspective on how healthcare professionals are affected by COVID-19, he pointed out that in the US, healthcare workers make for 3.7% of total cases, and have accounted for 0.3% of the total mortality. In India, 5.2% of COVID-19 are of healthcare staff out of which 2.8% are asymptomatic, as he opined that around 10,000 healthcare workers may be affected. While the State sought 1,000 ventilators, it has received 150, which include 50 from DRDO. Condemning comments critical of the State’s handling of the pandemic, Mr Rajender urged those making these statements not to politicise the issue. He pointed out that asymptomatic patients who have tested positive can isolate themselves at home, provided they take all necessary measures. The Health Minister also stated that the plasma therapy has been successful.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana eyes expanding oil palm cultivation||Oil Palm cultivation may emerge as one of the key plantations to be encouraged in the State for meeting the twin objective of boosting farmers’ income and becoming self-reliant by reducing dependency on imports. At present India imports palm oil from Indonesia and Malaysia. While its total annual edible oil import costs Rs. 75,000 crore, palm oil alone accounts for Rs. 58,800 crore. Under the proposed regulated crop cultivation policy to raise such crops with good demand in the market and make agriculture and horticulture profitable to farmers, Telangana State is seriously considering to expand oil palm production from the present 48,000 acres to 6.9 lakh acres. The State already has government subsidies and policies in place. Official sources said that in principle approval has been accorded for oil palm cultivation in one lakh acres in the first phase. The current production of oil palm in Telangana is 32,000 tonnes as against its requirement of 4.21 lakh tonnes. If the cultivation is expanded up to 6.9 lakh acres, the potential production can go up to 1.12 million tonnes (10.12 lakh tonnes) and Telangana after meeting its requirement, can cater to country’s needs, they said. The State government has estimated that about Rs. 407 crore is required to provide State’s subsidy and to meet 100% cost of farmer’s share for the first four years as the crop has long gestation period of four years when Fresh Fruit Bunches (FFB) will be ready for harvesting at farmer’s field. It selected 25 districts across the State and of which four districts - Nalgonda, Suryapet, Khamma and Bhadradri are already cultivating oil palm. Sources said that a report was submitted to the government that oil palm gave the highest yield up to 2.02 tonnes of oil per acre compared to other oil seeds and it is eco-friendly crop, annually generating 7.28 tonnes of oxygen per acre as against 2.83 tonnes by an acre of forest and less vulnerable to pests and diseases unlike other oil crops.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrants stranded outside Secunderabad station||Scores of migrant workers can be seen outside the Secunderabad Railway Station for the past few days, unable to catch the trains they intend to board. Notwithstanding judgments by the Telangana High Court and Supreme Court of India seeking the respective State governments to take care of the food and shelter needs of the migrant workers till they board the trains, the hapless souls are still on roads desperately waiting for means to reach home. NGOs arranging help It is yet again voluntary initiatives which are seeing them through. Food is being provided, and buses and train journeys are being organised by NGOs and philanthropists to help them reach home. As on Friday, there were 70 persons outside the Secunderabad station, and some of them had been waiting for the past three days. “Someone had booked the tickets for us, and we gave him close to Rs. 10,000. When we tried to board the train on June 3, the TTE de-boarded us, saying the tickets were not confirmed,” shared Amar Safi, a worker from Danapur, Bihar, who was part of a contingent of 35 workers from Zaheerabad. They could not cancel the tickets either, as they were told it was not possible. “Three times we failed to fill the form correctly, and later the person at the counter said the tickets could not be cancelled any more as the train had already left. We lost all the money, and have no means even to eat too,” he said. They were not allowed to stay in the waiting halls of the railway station, nor were provided any shelter. Several others from West Bengal and Odisha in similar predicament have been dispatched by buses and trains through private voluntary initiatives. “They ran five Shramik Specials to Balangir and Nuapada in Odisha on June 3. About 8,000 to 9,000 brick kiln workers from Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Peddapalli, Vikarabad and Devarakonda left for their respective destinations by these trains. However, for the past two days, there have been no Shramik Specials,” informed advocate Vasudha Nagaraj, part of the COVID Advocacy Lockdown Collective aiding the workers. No help desk is set up at the railway stations to help the workers, she said. Passes to travel on the Shramik special trains is given only through police, who are not always responsive, says Abhishek Roy Choudhury, a volunteer. “Wherever contractors took the responsibility, the workers were sent by Shramik trains. Otherwise, nobody knows when the trains are scheduled,” he says. The High Court, in its judgment, issued a slew of instructions to the State government and Railways with regard to transportation of migrant workers. Among others, the court had asked the government to look after their food, water, shelter, medical and hygiene needs. In case of inability to increase the Shramik Special trains, Railways should attach four additional coaches to its special trains, exclusively for migrants, the court order said. However, neither of these instructions is being adhered to, said Ms. Nagaraj.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 1.4-crore snake rescue centre launched||Telangana Forest Department, in collaboration with the Friends of Snakes Society, launched a Snake Rescue Centre at Bowrampet here on the occasion of World Environment Day on Friday. Inaugurating the rescue centre constructed with Rs. 1.4 crore expenditure, Minister A.Indrakaran Reddy said any imbalance in biodiversity will manifest in various problems for the world. Extinction of snakes, for example, will result in proliferation of vermin species such as rats. The centre is modelled after the snake park in Chennai, the Minister said. Snakes captured across the State will be brought here, and awareness programmes will be taken up to sensitise people about various species of reptiles, he added. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Shoba, PCCF (Wildlife) Munindra and Medchal Collector Venkateshwarlu attended the event. Mr. Indrakaran Reddy, later, launched the website (www.nehruzoopark.in) and mobile app of the Nehru Zoological Park. Visitors may book their tickets to zoo through the website and app, once the Central Zoo Authority approves the same. On World Environment Day, EPTRI in collaboration with State Pollution Control Board and Lee Shreyus Foundation concluded a series of five webinars on the theme ‘Time for Nature’ conducted between May 29 and June 5. Over 5,000 people participated in the campaign, apart from the Minister himself, Member Secretary of TSPCB Neetu Prasad, Secretary, Telangana State Biodiversity Board Kalicharan S. Khartade and R. Shoba, a statement informed.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Her husband died of COVID, govt. says to woman’s HC plea||Responding to a habeas corpus petition filed by a woman from Vanasthalipuram seeking to know whereabouts of her husband admitted in Gandhi Hospital for COVID-19 treatment, the government on Friday told Telangana High Court that he had died. Died day after admission Presenting a detailed report in the petition, Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the court that the woman’s husband was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on April 30 after he tested positive for coronavirus. He died the following day while undergoing treatment, stated the report placed before a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy.  The woman, a housewife, was in Koti Hospital during that time and was being treated for COVID-19 after nine of her other family members, including herself, contracted the virus. With all family members admitted in the hospital for treatment, the news of her husband’s demise could not be conveyed to them, the AG told the court. However, a neighbour was informed about the death. The matter was conveyed to other relatives of the woman’s family, the government said in the report. The report stated that, in the absence of family members who were undergoing treatment in hospitals, GHMC authorities conducted the cremation. Photo evidence The process of shifting the body from the hospital to graveyard and cremation was not video-recorded but photographs were taken, the report said. The AG told the court that, along with the report, all documents pertaining to the matter including the death certificate of the person were furnished before the court. The bench asked the AG to pass on the report and papers to the petitioner’s counsel. The matter was posted to Tuesday for next hearing.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two panels for maintenance of Christian burial grounds||Social Welfare and Minorities Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar has directed the officials concerned to constitute two committees — one at local level and the other at State level — to monitor the construction, maintenance and other aspects of the Christian burial grounds. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao allocated 40.1 acres in different places in the three districts abutting the State capital for construction and development of these memorial grounds for the Christian community. The Minister reviewed the progress of the works on these memorials with senior officials on Friday. He wanted a site-specific committee comprising Tahsildar, Sarpanch, VRO and two representatives of the Christian community at the village level while councillor/corporator, revenue inspector and representatives of the community for the committee in urban areas. These committees should hold meetings once a month and submit a report on the expenditure-related issued on 25th of every month. They should ensure that the details of the families of the deceased are duly registered while steps should be taken to see that no charge is collected from people below poverty line. The Minister said Telangana is the only State which allotted land exclusively for burial grounds for Christian community and efforts should be made to evolve an effective policy for development and maintenance of these avenues.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State set to reopen temples on June 8||All the temples under the Endowments Department will be reopened to restore the entry of devotees into the places of worship as per the instructions of Central and State governments from June 8 and necessary arrangements are being made, said Forest and Endowments Minister Indrakaran Reddy. The Minister held a review meeting with the officials of Endowments Department at Aranya Bhavan here on Friday. He discussed the standard operating protocol (SOP) with the officials for the reopening of temples. Mr.Indrakaran Reddy instructed the officials to sanitise the temple premises with sodium hypochlorite solution, make arrangements for queue lines following physical distancing norms and keep sanitisers handy at the entrance of the temples. He advised those above 65 years of age, children below 10 years and persons with symptoms of COVID-19 not to visit the temples. Though temples would be reopened as per the Central government guidelines, there would be no entry into the temples in the containment zones, Similarly people from containment zones also should not come to temples in other areas, he said. Thermal scans would be set up to note the body temperature of people entering temples and every one should wear masks. Devotees would be allowed into the temples with all due precautions, he added. However practices like taking bath in ‘pushkarini’, distribution of ‘prasadam’, accommodation facilities would be suspended. Endowments Commissioner Anil Kumar and other officials attended the meeting.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Martyrs’ Memorial, police centre registered with IGBC||In a significant development, two iconic projects — Telangana Martyrs’ Memorial and the Integrated Command Control Centre of the city police — have been registered with the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) of the Confederation of Indian Industry coinciding with the World Environment Day on Friday. Sustainability norms The registration with the IGBC, the council registered by the World Green Building Council, follows the norms followed for sustainability with minimum impact on environment and ensuring energy savings of at least 30% and saving in water consumption by around 20% to 30% as compared with the conventional buildings. The command and control centre is a prestigious project taken up by the State government with cooperation between different departments, said Roads and Buildings Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy. Key features of these buildings include day lighting, usage of LED lights, rainwater harvesting pits and storage tanks, drip and sprinkler irrigation systems, sewage waste water treatment and reuse within building premises. Barrier-free In addition, they had been designed in such a way that they would be easily accessible to the differently-abled and senior citizens incorporating latest building automation technologies like lightning controls, CO2 monitoring and other features. The Minister said Telangana emerged as the best performing State in promoting inclusive and sustainable growth and the R&B department took steps to ensure that these two structures complied with the norms of the IGBC. Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy said the command and control centre was first-of-its-kind project envisaged as technology fusion centre that would be utilised not only by the police but also other departments associated with development. The building would be ready for use soon. R&B engineer-in-chief I. Ganapati Reddy said these projects were designed and constructed incorporating the concepts of enhanced building performance and healthy space for building occupants. Building occupants would be in constant interaction with nature.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Brisk work on restoration of MJ market||The landmark Moazzam Jahi Market created as part of city decongestion project to fight plagues and epidemics in the 20th century has got a new lease of life during the 60-day lockdown period. “This is the final part of the work. We will finish it in two months,” says Shrinivas Sulge of Laxmi Hericon which is executing the work on the monument. Work is going on at a frenetic pace on the complex. If some workers are giving a finishing touch to the tiling near the high-mast where the tricolour flutters through day and night, it is at the rear of the building that most of the work is happening now. “It is taking time as we are going to create much better facilities, better hygiene, access control and water supply,” says Mr. Sulge as workers cart building rubble from ceiling, flooring as well as other structures built by shop tenants (the monthly rent averages Rs. 900). The building is virtually being reconstructed from inside as both the ceiling and flooring suffered most of the damage due to neglect. Water has been the main challenge for the conservation project as the ceiling built with jack arch technology with iron beams had become weak due to rusting. Most of the shops had water leakage problem with some tenants rebuilding. “Now there is no water stagnation. Earlier even sewage from the surrounding areas would flow here; not any more. But this seems to be a never-ending project,” complains Sohail, who runs a fruit shop on the western side of the building. Conservation work began on April 17, 2018. “We were evicted two weeks ago. All our tools were kept out as they started work,” says Rakesh who had a meat shop inside the complex. The meat shop is his inheritance from his great grandfather Mohan Lal. “If the shop stays shut for three months, what are we going to do? Our customers will not come back if the habit is broken,” says Rakesh who rues the impact of the lockdown. At night, lit up during festivals and other celebratory occasions, the building looks like an oriental marketplace with the magical touch of the chimes of the clock. But magic gets marred by the orange and blue plastic sheets used by shop owners to keep the sun and rain out of their shops. A few months ago, a flock of pigeons that used to be fed in the courtyard was caught and shifted to a different location. But another flock has made a reappearance as the shop owners feed them and supply water.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Government to focus on green zones in rural areas, says CS||After taking steps for improving lung space through green belts in urban areas, the State government has focused its attention on improving green zones in the rural areas. The government has accordingly decided to encourage setting up and maintenance of parks in the villages besides ensuring that there is no slackening in works relating to sanitation at the grass root level. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the government was releasing Rs. 308 crore to gram panchayats every month in spite of the financial constraints it faced due to the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19). The Chief Secretary conducted surprise inspections to review the progress of works launched during two phases of Palle Pragati, aimed at putting in place the required basic infrastructure in villages. Accompanied by senior bureaucrats Sandeep Kumar Sultania and M. Raghunandan Rao, he visited few villages in Kamareddy, Sangareddy and Vikarabad districts on Friday. Mr. Somesh Kumar inspected the ongoing works relating to sanitation in villages, setting up of dump yards, burial grounds/graveyards (Vaikunta Dhaamalu) and nurseries. The surprise visit follows the instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to constantly monitor the progress of works taken up during Palle Pragati. He inspected the construction of Rythu Vedika and steps taken to provide drinking water to all households of Tirumanpalli and Gargul villages in Kamareddy district and expressed satisfaction over the progress of the works. He enquired about the measures that had been taken for taking up sowing up crops after the onset of the monsoon.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More incentives under land pooling scheme||In order to get more traction for the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority’s land pooling scheme, the State government on Friday issued orders with fresh guidelines for the Land Pooling, Area Development Plan, Development Scheme and other Land Assemblage Projects under Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) . As per the new guidelines, HMDA’s share of the total land pooled will be 40% under the scheme, while land owners will get 60%. Earlier, the land was being equally shared between HMDA and land owners after development. Further, Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority would have to earmark area for housing for economically weaker sections (EWS), and lower and middle income groups from its share of land. EWS housing The urban development agency would have to allot 5% cent for the EWS housing, and 10% each for LIG and MIG housing, as per Section 24 of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority Act, 2008, the guidelines say. The agency would have the liberty to amalgamate or group such allocated areas into one area within the scheme. HMDA would bear the nala charges, registration and stamp duty of the sale deeds for allocated sites, and land use conversion charges too on behalf of plot owners. Total project cost of land pooling should include development works such as roads, side drains, water supply lines, sewerage, electricity, landscaping and avenue plantation, besides other greenery, lake front development, if any, and others. HMDA should execute the title deeds for plots in favour of the land owners within three months of the date of approval of draft development scheme, and within six months should complete physical demarcation of roads, open spaces, utilities, and plots. Basic formation of roads with gravel should be finished in the first stage, while development of the remaining infrastructure should be completed in three years in a phased manner, the guidelines prescribe. A press statement from HMDA said land pooling projects were in various stages of progress on 500 acres within Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority limits.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC revises monsoon action plan||The GHMC has announced a revised monsoon action plan with an expenditure of Rs. 41.38 crore, instead of the same announced earlier with Rs. 25 crore. The corporation has taken up 345 works for de-silting nalas, and has so far got 3.75 lakh cubic metres of silt removed from 702 kilometres of nala length, a press note said on Friday. The de-silting works would be completed within a week. A total of 89 static teams, 118 mini-mobile emergency teams, and 79 mobile emergency teams were being deployed to de-water the problematic stretches. A total of 202 pump sets were being pressed into service for diverting the stagnant rainwater to drains and nalas. Injection bore wells were being deployed at 44 locations so that flood water may be diverted. In 2019, a total of 439 nala modernisation works had been taken up with an expenditure of Rs. 102 crore to prevent flooding, and 1,968 road repair works with Rs. 596 crore were completed. Since April this year, road repairs had been carried out on 48 kilometres of road with Rs. 22 crore expenditure, the note said.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘File report on weavers’||Telangana High Court on Friday directed the government to file a detailed report on the steps it had taken to help the weavers of the State as coronavirus pandemic shattered their lives, crippling them financially. A bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan, hearing a PIL plea filed by lawyer Rapolu Bhaskar, asked Advocate General B.S. Prasad to inform it if the government was contemplating any financial assistance to weavers. The plea was posted to Wednesday for next hearing. In another PIL petition seeking inquiry into the custodial death of a Dalit in Manthani police station of Ramagundam Commissionerate, Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar presented to the court that he could not conduct the inquiry having been occupied with ongoing pandemic related work. The Hyderabad Commissioner sought time to complete the inquiry and present the report as directed by bench earlier. The matter was posted to June 18 for next hearing.
06 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||All tanks in region have gone dry, says MLA||Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy vowed to continue his fight for Manjeera and Singur dams despite the government using police force to suppress his voice. At a press conference here, he said the TRS leaders were silent despite Sangareddy and several parts of Hyderabad city being denied water because of the ‘illegal’ withdrawl of water from Singur dam. He said 16 TMC ft water was released without any government order and despite protests there is no response from the TRS MLAs and ministers. Holding Finance Minister T. Harish Rao responsible, he said he would question the Minister whenever he attends a meeting in the district headquarters. “Even if I am attacked physically by the TRS leaders while confronting the Minister,” he said. Mr. Reddy said if the TRS leaders want to run the show with the support of police he would respond with the support of people and party cadre. He said all the lakes and tanks in and around Sangareddy have gone bone dry with the illegal withdrawal of water and this was a great disservice to the people from TRS.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IKEA store to reopen on June 8, but for fewer hours||IKEA will reopen its Hyderabad store on June 8, more than two-and-a-half months after it was shut as a safety measure amid the COVID-19 outbreak. The reopening will be with strict safety compliance in place to ensure safe shopping. The store will be open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m, a statement from IKEA on Friday said.  Besides deciding to open for fewer hours, as compared to the past, the store has also decided not to open the restaurant and the children’s play area for now keeping safety requirements and social distancing in mind. Listing out the various “strict and strong” measures to be put in place to ensure safety of visitors, including restricting entry of customers at one time to a smaller number to maintain social distancing, IKEA India urged customers to check for stock availability of their desired products on www.ikea.in. Hyderabad Store Manager Aurelie Raimon said, “We strongly encourage customers to use our new click and collect service which is totally contactless and safe.”
06 June 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Webinar by BIE on courses||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, in association with Hindi Mahavidyalaya, are organising a webinar on career opportunities that are available in commerce, arts, Life Sciences and vocational streams. The webinar will be conducted from 3 p.m. on July 11. Experts from various fields will share their views with the participants, said Board of Intermediate Education Secretary Omer Jaleel in a statement here.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RGIA bags award for efficient water management||Hyderabad International Airport received the highest Platinum Recognition in the Airports Council International (ACI) Asia-Pacific Green Airports Recognition 2020 in the 15-35 Million Passengers Per Annum (MPPA) category for its efficient water management practices. The recognition was the outcome of the submissions shared this year focused on water management documenting approaches to waste water treatment, water harvesting, water recycling and water reduction.
06 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth killed after drunken brawl||A 27-year-old youth was bludgeoned to death in Golconda police station limits, allegedly, by his friend, following a drunken brawl on Thursday night. The victim, who was identified as Rahul Chand Agarwal from Vijay Nagar Colony, consumed liquor with his friend Azar, a car mechanic at Banjara Darwaza. ‘Previous enmity’ Previous enmity was suspected to have led to the murder, inspector K Chandra Shekar Reddy said. He said Rahul was attacked with a boulder. He suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. The offence came to light on Friday morning when passers-by noticed the body lying in a pool of blood and alerted the police. A case was registered and Azar was taken into custody.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A few union leaders being favoured, charges BJP||BJP MLC and Greater Hyderabad city president N. Ramachander Rao has accused the government of suppressing voices of its employees by doling out benefits to close relatives of select union leaders. In a press statement on Friday, Mr. Rao charged that the Education Department has issued a GO-89 on May 28 extending service of Ch Venkateshwarlu, senior lecturer in chemistry working in the Institute of Leather Technology (ILT) for two more years after he had retired on May 31. The lecturer happened to be the husband of Mrs. Mamta, president of Telangana Gazetted Officers Association (TGO). The service of another employee working in the Excise Department Venkatesham was extended for two years and he happened to be close relative of Rajender, general secretary of TNGO. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is fulfilling wishes of “some employees union leaders from back door to suppress their long pending demands like implementation of Pay Revision Commission (PRC) and Interim Relief (IR) and increase of retirement age to 60 years,” the BJP leader alleged.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tree plantation||About 2,500 saplings of neem, coconut, mango, banyan and others were planted on the premises of the sub-office of the Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone here at Gachibowli, Kokapet, Madhapur, Turkapally, Uppal, Nanakramguda, Raidurg and other places on the occasion of World Environment Day on Friday. Zonal Development Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy and other officers, including deputy development commissioner K. Srinivasu, participated in the programme, a press release said.
06 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||seven held, over 9.5 tons of||With the arrest of seven persons, the Cyberabad police busted a spurious seed racket and seized 2.5 tonnes of spurious cotton seed (BG-III, HT), around seven tonnes of maize seed, a lorry and two four-wheelers. The seized contraband is worth Rs. 52 lakh.
06 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Trump effigies burnt||Activists of the CPI (ML-New Democracy) burnt the effigy of U.S. President Donald Trump here on Friday in protest against the death of an unarmed African-American, George Floyd, at the hands of a white police officer in Minneapolis, U.S.A., more than a week ago. The demonstrators led by the party State assistant secretary P Ranga Rao staged a sit-in protest inside the precincts of Ramnarsaiah Vignana Kendram condemning the alleged growing menace of “racist violence” in the U.S. Holding placards with their mouths covered with masks, they took part in the demonstration expressing their solidarity with the “anti-racism” protests sweeping across the U.S. Condemning the Minneapolis incident, Mr Rao alleged that the police brutality against the unarmed coloured person is a scar on civilised society. People around the world should support the ongoing "anti-racism" protests in the U.S. to wipe out the scourge of racism, he said.  Dharna Nizamabad Special Correspondent adds: CPI (ML)-New Democracy activists here on Friday staged a dharna and burnt the effigy of President Donald Trump. Party district secretary V. Krishna said that undeclared discrimination and violence on Afro-Americans increased in the US after Trump entered the White House in 2016. It is a great development that white people along with the Afro-Americans have protested in front of the White House. “This is a slap on the face of all despotic leaders in the world. Our New Democracy is saluting the agitating Americans against the racism,” he said. Among those who were present on the occasion were party leaders -- V. Prabhakar, K. Gangadhar, Akula Papaiah, Rajeswar, Das and leaders of the affiliating organizations Ravinder, Sudhakar, Sandhyarani, Saya Goud and Ravi.
06 June 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Return of virus recovered persons triggers protest||Ganesh Nagar villagers in Chegunta mandal refused to allow two villagers who recovered from coronavirus. Police had to intervene to allow them go home. According to sources, two persons of the village tested positive and they were sent to Gandhi Hospital. On being treated, they recovered, and on Friday, they returned home. The recovered patients rejected to stay in a hostel as suggested by the police stating they have completely recovered. With the intervention of the police, they were sent home with a promise not to come out of home for 15 days.
06 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Vemulawada gets ready for devotees||With the Central government giving clearance for opening places of worship, Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Vemulawada is being readied for opening from June 8. The temple was closed from April first week following the implementation of lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19, as places of worship witness heavy crowds. However, the temple authorities ensured that regular religious rituals were held during the period. The puja rituals were also webcast online for the benefit of pilgrims, which got a good response. The Devasthanam authorities will allow limited number of devotees and have made it mandatory for all pilgrims to wear face masks and sanitise their hands before entering the temple. In order to maintain social distancing norms, the authorities have marked boxes to ensure at least one-and-a-half metre distance between each devotee in the queue lines. Physical distancing has to be followed in all the queue lines for general darshan, special darshan, VIP darshan, regular Kode Mokku and special Kode Mokku etc. Presently, it has been decided to allow only ‘laghu’ darshan at the temple to avoid crowding.
06 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Hopes of 500 land oustees soar||The judgment delivered by the division bench of High Court comprising Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice K. Lakshman on June 3 to redetermine compensation for land oustees has raised hopes among farmers who have challenged buying of lands by the government under GO 123 and Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Telangana Amendment) Act 2016 (Act 21 of 2017). The judgment was delivered on the writ petitions filed by small farmers of Allipur village in Chinnakodur mandal of Siddipet district and also from Ananthagiri village of Ellanthakunta mandal of Rajanna-Sircilla district. According to sources, about 500 farmers and farm labourers have challenged buying of lands under G.O. 123 and under the Telangana Amendment Act. Jedala Rajavva and 69 others from Vemulaghat village in writ petition 25511 of 2018 have challenged the authorities for not considering their objections. Yekkala Balavva and 69 others from Toguta village in a writ petition 20193 of 2018 urged the High Court to declare the acts of authorities forcibly taking possession of lands in the village under LA Act – 2017 (Telangana Amendment) without paying rehabilitation entitlements as per Act and rules in force. Including these two, about eight writ petitions were filed by the petitioners from Bhramana Banjerpally, Toguta, Rampur and Vemulaghat. “We have filed petitions in the High Court seeking implementation of LA Act- 2013 in paying compensation and Rehabilitation and Resettlement. We will request the judiciary to provide us land for land, instead of monetary compensation as it is difficult to ascertain the market rate of the land,” S. Ashok, a land oustee of Etigaddakishtapur told The Hindu .
06 June 2020||Bhopal,||BJP leader joins Cong. in M.P.||The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Friday embraced estranged BJP leader and former Minister Balendu Shukla back within its fold, hoping his return would bolster its prospects in the upcoming Assembly by-elections in the Gwalior-Chambal region. Three-time MLA Mr. Shukla had parted ways with the Congress in 2009 after differences with Jyotiraditya Scindia, who has now switched over to the BJP. The move is reported to have nudged Mr. Shukla, who was a close aide and childhood friend of Mr. Jyotiraditya’s father Madhavrao, a staunch Congressman, to return to the Congress. He joined the party in the presence of State unit president and former Chief Minister Kamal Nath at his residence. Ahead of the by-elections to 24 seats, supposed to be held by September, the Congress believes the leader, who is a prominent Brahmin face in the Gwalior-Chambal region, will lend it crucial heft in the elections to 16 seats of the region. Although Mr. Jyotiraditya’s exit from the party, along with 22 MLAs pledging allegiance to him, pulled the rug from under Mr. Nath’s government, it left in its wake a leadership vacuum for the Congress especially in the region. “Congress leaders who switch over to the BJP return as they feel disillusioned there. The BJP just uses leaders and throws them away,” said Shobha Oza, senior Congress leader. “They are neglected there and eventually come back.” Pointing out that the Congress kept its doors open for anyone wishing to join it, Ms. Oza said, “We don’t horse trade. If someone can stick to our ideology, we accept them.” Mr. Shukla’s switchover comes days after former Lok Sabha MP from Ujjain on Congress ticket Premchand Borasi “Guddu” and his son, who lost in the previous Assembly election, returned to the Congress on May 31 after his brief tenure in the BJP that he joined ahead of the 2018 Assembly election. Critique of Scindia Another critique of Mr. Jyotiraditya, he was expelled by the BJP for making remarks against the BJP leader. Now, Mr. Borasi, a Dalit leader, is being seen as a contender to former Congressman Tulsiram Silawat, a Cabinet Minister now, on the Sanwer seat. Both the returnees had differences with Mr. Jyotiraditya in the past, explained Ms. Oza. “They felt let down by the BJP.”
06 June 2020||Bhopal,||No damage to procured wheat: Shivraj||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday asserted that no procured wheat was damaged in the untimely rain following Cyclone Nisarga, despite reports of stocks lying in the open being battered and swept away in some districts. This year, Madhya Pradesh claims to have procured its highest-ever 125.6 lakh tonnes of wheat, only behind Punjab in the quantity procured. Blaming his predecessor Kamal Nath for not making enough arrangements for procurement, Mr. Chouhan said, “Wheat is being weighed in some areas. You have seen queues of farmers at centres. We tried to cover the wheat. But some has become drenched. It will dry now. The wheat is safe.”
06 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Centre’s agriculture ordinance undermines federal structure’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has rejected the recently announced agriculture sector reforms by the Centre, terming it an attempt to undermine the federal structure of the nation. Opposing the Centre’s move and calling it an attempt to suppress the rights of the States as enshrined under the Constitution, the Chief Minister said, “Punjab would fight any steps on the part of the Government of India to weaken the federal structure of the country through such direct and detrimental interference in the well-established agriculture produce marketing system of the State.” Pointing out that the federal structure of India envisages well-defined roles and responsibilities for the Centre and the States, Capt. Amarinder said that under the Constitutional framework, agriculture is a State subject, and the Union government has no powers to make any legislation to deal with the dynamics of agricultural production, marketing and processing. “These are State matters, which individual States are best placed to handle and manage,” he said, describing the “Farming Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020” as a highly ill-conceived move on the part of the Central government.  Khaira flays move The Punjabi Ekta Party president and former Leader the of Opposition, Sukhpal Singh Khaira, said the three ordinances passed by the Modi government were anti-farmer. He said the implementation of ordinances will ultimately lead to abolition of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and pave way for farmers’ exploitation at the hands of big corporate houses. “By doing away with Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act that provided to procure the produce of farmers, the Modi government has given a free hand to private corporate houses to exploit the farmers,” he said.
06 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Individuals pitch in for Northeast returnees||A government school teacher in Arunachal Pradesh has set up a temporary ‘screening centre’ on the border with Assam for returnees to his State. This followed a month after Manipur Assembly Speaker Yumnam Khemchand established a “different” quarantine centre for returnees in his constituency Singjamei without government support. John Panyang, who teaches at Ruksin in East Siang district, used transparent polythene and bamboo for the screening centre he set up at the entry point of Ngorlung-Ralung village near the inter-State boundary. District Health officials said he was allowed to operate the screening centre as he had basic training in methods used by government doctors. “I purchased thermal scanner machines, masks, hand gloves and alcoholic sanitisers to render the service, which I felt was my duty toward our own people who risked health hazards to reach home,” Mr .Panyang said. He has screened more than 300 people since setting up the screening centre on Monday. Three of them had fever but later tested negative for COVID-19.  Laudable initiative East Siang district Deputy Commissioner Kinny Singh appreciated Mr. Panyang’s voluntary service to the villagers. “The initiative is laudable for a teacher who could have been at home since schools are shut due to the pandemic-related restrictions,” she said from district headquarters Pasighat. In Manipur, returnees who spent their mandatory quarantine period at the Singjamei facility set up by Mr. Khemchand said they could not have come to a better place. One of them, declining to be quoted, said the centre allowed the inmates to play badminton and practice yoga besides organising small weekly concerts by local musicians.
06 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Court reserves order on fate of 7 MLAs||The Manipur High Court on Friday reserved the order on the plea for disqualification of seven Congress MLAs who had “defected” to the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2017 to strengthen the coalition government headed by Nongthombam Biren Singh. Reserving the order, the single Bench of Justice Kh. Nobin Singh said the order will be pronounced on June 8. The Congress had gone to court after Yumnam Khemchand, Speaker of the 60-member State Assembly, did not take a call on their disqualification in May. Following a court order, the Speaker had in March disqualified Forest Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar for a similar reason.
06 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||HC frames 3 issues on plea against Maurya||The Allahabad High Court has framed three issues on the petition challenging the legality of the election of BJP MP from Badaun Lok Sabha seat Sanghamitra Maurya in 2019. Dharmendra Yadav, the losing candidate of the Samajwadi Party, had filed an election petition praying that Ms. Maurya’s election be declared null and void. A Bench of Justice Ramesh Sinha has framed the question whether the returning officer of Badaun improperly accepted Ms. Maurya's nomination paper, which materially affects the result of the election.  ‘Illegal counting’ The second point to be discussed, the court said in an order dated June 3, was whether the returning officer illegally counted excess votes than the number of votes polled, under which situation the poll result is liable to be declared illegal. The court will also decide whether Ms. Maurya’s election as MP is void and liable to be set aside. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Ms. Maurya secured 5.11 lakh votes as she defeated the sitting MP Mr. Yadav who managed 4.92 lakh votes. The result shocked many observers as Baduan is considered an SP bastion and the party was contesting in an alliance with the BSP in 2019. In 2014, when the SP was contesting on its own, Mr. Yadav, a cousin of SP president Akhilesh Yadav, had won the seat comfortably by over 1.66 lakh votes. Ms. Maurya is the daughter of Swami Prasad Maurya, who was a close-aide of Mayawati before he shifted loyalty to the BJP before the 2017 Assembly polls and is today a Labour Minister in the Yogi Adityanath Cabinet. The court has fixed the matter for June 17. Mr. Yadav had filed the election petition under Sections 80, 80-A and 81 of the Representatives of Peoples Act, 1951.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhiites take cautious steps towards a return to routine life||Several residents, who have started venturing out after various lockdown curbs were recently lifted, said on Friday that even though fear and apprehension about COVID-19 remains, a perpetual state of lockdown cannot be the “new normal”. Local markets and tea stalls are seeing the gradual return of their regular customers. Evening gatherings are now taking place in bigger circles to adhere to social distancing norms. Development researcher Sayan Kundu said, “I have started stepping out of my house, and have been occasionally meeting smalls groups of friends for lunch or dinner. Even though I am apprehensive of the daily spike in cases, I realise that an endless lockdown cannot be the new normal. We need to strike a balance. I ensure my safety by following all hygiene and safety guidelines.” With COVID-19 cases continuing to see sharp spikes on a daily basis, the people venturing out said they made sure to take all precautions before stepping out. Krishna Kumar Rai, 24, who recently took a cab to work, said that the vehicle was adequately sanitised and the driver was aware of social distancing norms. “Later, I took an auto which was also well sanitised and had a plastic curtain divider between the driver and the passengers. Even though the fear of the virus still prevails, people are now slowly venturing out and in my experience, most of them are taking proper precautionary measures,” Mr. Rai said. Sunil Jain, who works in the private sector, said: “With offices, markets and other facilities gradually reopening, how much longer can people remain indoors? While it is true that cases are rising on a daily basis, our lives cannot be in lockdown mode forever. One has to ultimately step out and get used to this situation.” Delhi University student Mounica Sreesai said, “The continuing rise in cases is scary. I try to be as careful while stepping out. With the government opening up almost everything, its almost as if life has returned to normal. Large crowds are now seen at various places, except now everyone wears a mask or has a cloth tied around his/her face. I am not sure when or how this is going to end or how we will learn to live with it, but the government not doing random testing and not taking enough measures to implement precautionary measures is snowballing the fear people have of the outside world.”   With offices, markets and other facilities gradually reopening, how much longer can people remain indoors?... our lives cannot be in lock- down mode forever Sunil Jain Resident of Delhi
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||City sees 1,330 new virus cases; plenty of beds, assures Minister||The Capital recorded 1,330 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 26,334, according to the Delhi government health bulletin released on Friday. Twenty-five deaths have also been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 708. The bulletin added that 417 people have recovered, taking the total number of recoveries to 10,315. There are currently 15311 active cases in Delhi. According to official, a total of 2,41,693 tests have been conducted in the Capital so far, out of which 5,187 tests were conducted on June 5. This shows that there is a dip in the number of new tests conducted as on June 2, 3 and 4, 6,070, 6,538 and 6,361 new tests had been done, respectively.  After a meeting to review public heath measures for COVID-19, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that there are some misleading reports that there is a shortage of beds for patients in Delhi as a few private hospitals are refusing admissions. “The truth is, there is absolutely no shortage of beds in Delhi at the moment. In the last three days, more than 1,000 patients have been admitted to various hospitals. If beds were not available, this would have not been possible,” he said. Mr. Jain added that there are close to 5,000 vacant beds at present. He attributed the reports on shortage of beds to hospitals not updating the data on the ‘Delhi Corona’ app on time or misrepresenting actual data when patients call. “Patients were not getting data on hospitals before, which the app is trying to fix. We are making hospital bed data live and real-time soon,” the Minister added.  In the last three days, more than 1,000 patients have been admitted to various hospitals... there is absolutely no shortage of beds in the city Satyendar Jain Health Minister
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC refuses to hear plea against Centre’s order fixing airfares||The Delhi High Court has refused to entertain a petition challenging the Centre order fixing minimum and maximum airfares of various sectors for three months till August 24. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the maximum limit for airfare is given by the government, the minimum is also prescribed so as to “strike a balance between the passengers as well as the airlines agency” during the COVID-19 pandemic. The May 21 order indicates that the reason for fixing a minimum fare is to restrict travel only to the performance of essential journeys. This falls within the scope of the power of the Centre, the court said. “Moreover, fixing of the fare is a complex phenomenon and a decision to be taken by the government. It is a policy decision and this court is not inclined to interfere in this policy decision and that too by the way of a public interest litigation,” the Bench said. The petition filed by Veer Vikrant Chauhan had challenged the minimum fares which was fixed by Ministry of Civil Aviation through its May 21 order. The plea highlighted class of Sector-D of the order in which the minimum fare chargeable is Rs. 3,500. The plea pointed out that the fare from Delhi to Kolkata for the flight scheduled for August 4, 2020, cost of which varies from Rs. 2,924 to Rs. 3,153 and is cheaper than the minimum fare fixed by the Centre. The petitioner argued the difference in fare prices will lead to fixation of prices by the cartel of the airlines. The court, however, said the Centre order is in operation only for a period of three months. “This is a stop-gap arrangement by the Government, for which the present public interest litigation is not tenable at law,” it said.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘CM forcing patients to get costly treatment’||The Delhi Congress on Friday alleged that instead of improving the facilities in the government hospitals, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was forcing COVID-19 patients to get expensive treatments in private hospitals. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said it was the responsibility of the Kejriwal government to give free treatment to all COVID-19 patients in the Capital, whether government or private. “A COVID-19 positive patient is forced to deposit between Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 lakh to get admission in a private hospital while suspected cases are compelled to shell out Rs. 4500 to Rs. 5000,” Mr. Kumar said. He appealed to Kejriwal to rein-in the private hospitals and not make profit out of people’s misery. The party also alleged that while on the ground, people were dying due to lack of treatment but according to Delhi Corona App, beds were available in hospitals, which shows the duplicity of the government. Mr. Kumar added that the sharp spike in the number of cases and deaths have called the bluff of Delhi Mr. Kejriwal, who has been lying to people regarding the government’s preparedness and availability of facilities in hospitals in tackling the pandemic.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 7.5 lakh suggestions received on border sealing issue, says Kejriwal||Over 7,50,000 suggestions regarding whether or not to open the Capital’s borders have been received through WhatsApp, e-mail and calls, the government said on Friday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will discuss these suggestions with experts on Saturday following which he will take a “concrete decision” on the opening of Delhi’s borders. “Till 5 p.m. today [Friday], the Delhi government has received around 7,00,000 WhatsApp messages, 5,000 emails, and 53,000 calls. More than 7.5 lakh people have sent their suggestions on the appeal of the Chief Minister,” the Delhi government said in a statement. Mr. Kejriwal had sought suggestions from people on whether the Delhi borders should remain sealed and whether city hospitals should be reserved for locals.  We have received around 7,00,000 WhatsApp messages, 5,000 emails, and 53,000 calls Delhi government
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to give medicinal and herbal plants, says Gopal Rai||The Delhi government will run a special campaign to promote medicinal and herbal plants over the coming year in view of the COVID-19 threat, said Environment Minister Gopal Rai on the occasion of World Environment Day here on Friday. These plants will also be given free of cost at the Forest Department’s nurseries in the city. Mr. Rai added that the government will study the pollution level before, after and during the lockdown. “Today is World Environment Day and India is facing the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic. There has been a significant improvement in terms of pollution of Delhi during the lockdown. I have directed the department to study the pollution levels before, after and in the time of lockdwon. Based on the study we will take further actions,” Mr. Rai said. “The medicinal and herbal plants include curry leaves, gooseberry, neem, bahera, jamun, guava, arjun, sahjan, wood apple and lemon,” he also said.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. trying to show less cases by restricting testing: BJP||The Delhi government was attempting to show reduced numbers related to COVID-19 patients in the Capital by “stopping” eight private labs from conducting tests citing non-compliance, the BJP Opposition alleged on Friday. Delhi BJP president Adesh Kumar Gupta, who formally took charge here on Friday, alleged that instead of improving the system the Arvind Kejriwal government was “only doing politics”. “To hide its failures, Mr. Kejriwal is pointing fingers...The government should rise above politics and work for the betterment of the people of Delhi,” Mr. Gupta alleged. The ‘Delhi Corona’ app, launched to show the availability of beds at city hospitals, he alleged, was “still not giving the right information.” Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said there was no shortage of beds in Delhi at the moment. “In the last 3 days, more than 1,000 patients have been admitted to various hospitals in Delhi...,” he said.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||NDMC sets up employees’ welfare cell||With a total of 57 New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) employees having tested positive for COVID-19 so far, and two staffers succumbing to the disease, the NDMC has set up a staff welfare cell to facilitate treatment and provide assistance to the infected. All Heads of Departments will provide details of infected employees to the cell, which will assist them in testing, consultancy and hospitalisation — based on the requirement of the employee.  Looking after families “The cell will also ensure that the families of the infected employees have access to essential goods, services, and medicines,” the NDMC stated. The cell will also be responsible for arranging psychological counselling, moral support and experience-sharing with infected employees and their family members through Director (Medical Services), Charak Palika Hospital.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Metro copy||Around 20 employees of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said. Even as metro operations remain suspended, the DMRC has been undertaking regular maintenance work of the nearly 400-km network across Delhi-NCR. “It includes staff from the offices, operations and maintenance staff whether on duty or not,” said an official.
06 June 2020||Mumbai,||Bodies of 2 Mira Road hotel staffers found in water tank||The bodies of two employees with a hotel in Mira Road were found in the hotel’s water tank late on Thursday night. The police, based on the injuries on the bodies, have registered a case of murder, while an employee of the same hotel, who is missing, is a suspect. The deceased have been identified as Naresh Pandit (58) and Harsh Shetty (42). The police said Pandit was a cleaner at Shabari Hotel, which is fairly popular in the area, while Shetty worked as a manager. The duo were staying in the hotel along with another staff member, while the rest of the staffers had gone to their home towns following the lockdown. “The matter came to light after the hotel owner received a call late on Thursday night. The person at the other end only said that there was a body in the water tank of the hotel before hanging up. The owner found both the bodies in the tank in a severely decomposed state, after which he informed us,” an officer at Mira Road police station said. The bodies were taken to a hospital, where a preliminary examination confirmed injuries to their heads, and stab wounds. Based on the medical reports, the police have registered a case of murder against unknown persons under the Indian Penal Code. The officer said they had information about a third staffer who also used to stay at the hotel, but had gone missing since the bodies were discovered. “Repeated attempts by the owner to contact him failed and we are trying to apprehend him. He had mentioned to the owner earlier that he was going to leave for his home town on June 1, and it is possible that he left as per his plans. However, the level of decomposition of the bodies places the time of death around the same date. Hence, we need to make inquiries with him to confirm or eliminate him as a suspect,” the officer said. Based on circumstantial evidence, the police believe that at least one of the deceased was killed in his sleep and that there could be more than one perpetrator involved. The police are scanning footage of CCTV cameras near the hotel.
06 June 2020||Mumbai,||It’s now Department of Environment & Climate Change||On World Environment Day on Friday, the State Environment Department rechristened itself as the Department of Environment & Climate Change. Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray said along with the change in name, the ministry’s goals have evolved to the urgent requirement of climate change mitigation. In consonance with ‘Time for Nature’, the United Nations Environment Programme theme for World Environment Day, 2020, the Department of Environment & Climate Change has drawn up plans to work with relevant departments, committing Rs. 100 crore to the effort. The department will explore the five elements of nature: earth, wind, water, fire and ether. Explaining the department’s renewed goals in line with each element, Mr. Thackeray said, in case of earth, the department will focus on afforestation, conservation of forests, solid waste management, prevention of land degradation, etc. With wind, interpreted as air, the department will focus on assisting the Department of Industry and Transport, and other relevant departments to reduce air pollution and improve the State’s air quality index. The plan for water includes some of the ongoing work to rejuvenate rivers, besides a focus on marine biodiversity, safeguarding and cleaning water bodies and coastal fronts like beaches. Interpreting fire as a form of energy, the department will work in sync with other departments to promote the efficient use of energy, reduce its wastage, and produce renewable energy through innovative means. The department has interpreted ether as space and light, extending it to a “change in human nature”. “This element will include awareness campaigns and educational programmes,” said the minister. Without aligning with all the elements of nature, we cannot live in sync with it; neither can biodiversity survive or thrive, he said. The department also clarified the intent of partnering with other Union and State governments, departments within Maharashtra, NGOs, environmentalists and every citizen of the State.
06 June 2020||Mumbai,||No demand for special trains to take migrants home: govt. to HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that there is no demand from migrant workers to take special trains to go back to their home towns. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and justice A. A. Sayed was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL) filed by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions and others. The PILs raised concerns about the migrant workers who have submitted applications for leaving the State by Shramik Special trains and buses during the lockdown, but have been left in the dark about the status of their applications. The PILs further said that till such time they can board trains and buses to leave for their native places, they have been made to live in cramped and unhygienic shelters, without being provided food and other essential commodities. In the last hearing, the HC had directed the State to file a report listing the whole procedure that a migrant worker is required to follow in order to be eligible for leaving for their home town. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni filed an affidavit on Friday, stating that up to June 1, as many as 822 trains had departed carrying over 11.87 lakh migrant labourers to their home States. He said currently, there is no demand from migrant workers to board Shramik Special trains to go back home. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh also said whenever there will be a demand from migrants to travel back, the Railways will arrange trains. The court adjourned the matter till July 9.
06 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||CM declares Rs. 100 crore relief for Raigad district||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced an immediate relief of Rs. 100 crore for Raigad district that has been ravaged by cyclone Nisarga. Mr. Thackeray, who visited the district by boat from Bhaucha Dhakka to Alibaug, also said the actual relief package would be announced after an assessment of the damage. He was accompanied by ministers Aaditya Thackeray and Aslam Shaikh, additional chief secretary A.K. Singh, and other senior officials. The CM said additional manpower would be sent to Raigad for restoration work. He also said while clearing the trees, there is a possibility of having some animal beneath, and hence, one should be careful. Energy Minister Nitin Raut, who had visited the district on Thursday, had said that during restoration work, priority would be given to hospitals, water supply, and communication channels. “There is a need for erecting electricity poles, setting up transformers, and fixing transmission lines for which necessary manpower will be provided from Bhandup zone, Nerul and other neighbouring divisions. Restoration of the distribution system is the biggest challenge,” he said. Mr. Raut further said considering the COVID-19 pandemic, everyone needs to work cautiously and complete the task expeditiously. “In this, local public representatives and citizens should chip in.” With a wind speed of up to 120 km per hour, the cyclone made a landfall at Murud on June 3, causing widespread damage in Alibaug, Shrivardhan, Uran and nearby places in the district. On Friday, the national and State highways were cleared, while electricity was restored in Alibaug. Electricity of 11,000 consumers from Alibaug and 17,000 from Pen were restored on Friday, while for other areas, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited officers are working on war footing, its chief PRO Anil Kamble said. BSNL resumed its network on Thursday. Murud and Shrivardhan are still in the dark, Padmashri Bainade, resident deputy collector, Raigad, said. “As the internal roads are being cleared, we are getting to know of more deaths caused by the cyclone. Besides the two deaths reported on Wednesday, two more have been recorded from Mangaon. A 41-year-old woman was crushed in a wall collapse, while a 25-year-old man died after an electricity pole fell on him,” Ms. Bainade said. The Konkani Doctors Association (KDA) has deployed teams in each tehsil of the district to provide emergency service. Nida Khatib from Kuwait, who had not been able to speak to her aged parents in Murud since Wednesday, was worried. She then messaged Dr. Wasim Peshimam from Murud, who is associated with KDA, on Thursday night. On Friday morning, Dr. Peshimam reached her parents’ house and made a video call to Ms. Khatib. “I was overwhelmed to see my parents. I would never forget what KDA did for me,” Ms. Khatib said.
06 June 2020||Pune,||‘Decision on medical exams taken after consultations’||The decision to hold undergraduate and postgraduate examinations of the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) was taken only after detailed discussions with apex medical bodies, State Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh said on Friday. He said a detailed programme would be issued soon and assured that adequate arrangements would be made in every district to ensure that students do not have to travel far to appear for these exams. Mr. Deshmukh, who was in Pune to review the COVID-19 situation, said he met with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is the Chancellor of all universities in the State, after the Nashik-based MUHS submitted a detailed report on the feasibility of holding the exams after July 15. Incidentally, the State government’s Technical and Higher Education Ministry had earlier decided not to conduct the exams. Mr. Deshmukh, however, clarified that there was no hitch in the functioning of the government despite the contradictory stance on the conduct of the exams by the two ministries. “The curricula of both ministries — Technical and Higher Education, and Medical Education — are different as are their central councils and universities. They are following their own guidelines, while we are adhering to ours,” Mr. Deshmukh said. In an earlier letter to the Governor, Mr. Deshmukh had said that MUHS has unanimously decided to conduct all its summer examinations as per three alternative plans, depending on the situation, from July 15. The theory examinations would be held between July 15 and August 15 in a staggered manner if the situation was conducive. In case exams cannot be held as per the first plan, they would be conducted between August 16 and September 15. If the exams cannot be held as per above plans, the MUSH will take guidance from the Central Medical Council on how to conduct the examinations, including through the online medium. Meanwhile, Mr. Deshmukh, who met with senior district administration authorities, said there was a decline in the number of active positive cases in Mumbai, Pune and other cities. He said while the situation in Pune was under control, Mumbai, despite rising cases, was faring better than most other cities in the world. “Around 80 labs are operating in the State for testing samples at present. More labs are being added. We are trying to standardise protocols and SOPs (standard operating procedures) across hospitals in the State,” he said, adding that he was of the opinion that some form of rating should be given to each hospital so that patients are aware if their infrastructure was up to the mark or not.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump hits out at Republican Senator over Mattis comments||As protests across the U.S. continued in the aftermath of last week’s the police killing of George Floyd, an unarmed black man, visible rifts have emerged between U.S. President Donald Trump and some his current and former Republican colleagues over the President’s handling of the protests. On Thursday, the President lashed out at Republican Senator from Alaska Lisa Murkowski, who had voiced her support for Trump critic and former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. “Few people know where they’ll be in two years from now, but I do, in the great state of Alaska... campaigning against Senator Lisa Murkowski,” Mr. Trump tweeted, with reference to Ms. Murkowsi’s 2022 re-election campaign to the Senate. “Get any candidate ready, good or bad, I don’t care, I’m endorsing. If you have a pulse, I’m with you!” Mr. Trump said, reacting to Ms. Murkowski’s comments from Thursday. “When I saw General Mattis’s comments yesterday, I felt like perhaps we’re getting to the point where we can be more honest with the concerns that we might hold internally and have the courage of our own convictions to speak up,” Ms. Murkowsi had said. Writing in The Atlantic , the former Defense Secretary had said Mr. Trump was trying to divide the country which had not, for years, had “ mature leadership.” “I thought General Mattis’s words were true and honest and necessary and overdue,” Ms. Murkowski told journalists. “I am still struggling with it, I have struggled with it for a long time,” Ms. Murkowsi said when asked by reporters if she would be supporting Mr. Trump in the November general election. The Senator has been known to break ranks with the GOP in her voting decisions, but decided to vote to acquit Mr. Trump earlier this year, after he was impeached by the House of Representatives. ‘I fired Mattis’ Mr. Trump also continued to insist on Thursday that he had fired Mr. Mattis (he had made this claim on Wednesday as well). “The problem with asking for someone to give you a letter of resignation, which you do as a courtesy to help them save face, is that it is then harder to say you fired them. I did fire James Mattis. He was no good for Obama, who fired him also, and was no good for me!” Mr. Trump wrote. Former White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, however, denied this was the situation. “The President did not fire him. He did not ask for his resignation,” Mr. Kelly said to the Washington Post in an interview. Mr. Trump tweeted on Thursday that he had not told Mr. Kelly of Mr. Mattis’s firing, as Mr. Kelly was not in his inner circle. “John Kelly didn’t know I was going to fire James Mattis, nor did he have any knowledge of my asking for a letter of resignation. Why would I tell him, he was not in my inner-circle, was totally exhausted by the job, and in the end just slinked away into obscurity. They all want to come back for a piece of the limelight!”
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘The Taliban movement has changed’||Russia is nudging India to engage with the Taliban in view of the “upcoming launch of intra-Afghan talks”. In an interview, Zamir Kabulov, Russia’s special presidential envoy for Afghanistan, and head of the second Asia department in the Russian Foreign Ministry, said the “Taliban movement had changed” over the years, and the recent feelers that it had sent to open communication channels with India were a likely reflection of the Taliban’s “strategic vision” rather than a “tactical manoeuvre”. Edited excerpts:  Afghanistan appears to have reached another turning point, with the impending withdrawal of U.S. forces along with the likelihood of an intra-Afghan reconciliation dialogue. In your view, are there any grounds for optimism about Afghanistan's future? There are grounds for optimism about the future for sure. We commend the signing of an agreement between the U.S. and the Taliban movement that took place in Doha on February 29, 2020, and are convinced that it paves the way for finding a lasting settlement of the situation in Afghanistan. We see that both sides — the U.S. and the Taliban — are interested in fulfilling this agreement and launching intra-Afghan peace talks as soon as possible. Much will depend, however, on Kabul, namely, on how quickly the authorities of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan will be able to complete the prisoner exchange with the Taliban by releasing 5,000 Taliban detainees for 1,000 soldiers and establish a negotiating team that the Taliban will be willing to engage in a dialogue with. What are the main obstacles, domestic and external, in making make the intra-Afghan dialogue successful? “The main prerequisite for a successful intra-Afghan dialogue is the willingness of the warring parties to negotiate with a view to bringing lasting peace to Afghanistan. However..., there are two major obstacles at the moment impeding the launch of the intra-Afghan talks: completion of the prisoner exchange and establishment of a negotiating team by Kabul. It is possible that once the negotiating process is launched, new difficulties will emerge. The dialogue between the warring parties will not be easy, but with a firm mutual commitment to reaching an agreement, the success will be achieved sooner or later. Has the Taliban changed? Is it different from the Taliban of the mid-1990s? If so, what are the grounds for that change? The Taliban movement has changed. There are multiple reasons for that. First and foremost, the Taliban has had enough time to learn from its mistakes. As we can see, it has abandoned some radical and jihadist principles. For instance, the Taliban now underlines that it is interested in maintaining constructive and good neighbourhood relations with all regional countries. The recent statement by the Taliban spokesman about non-interference in the internal affairs of other States issued with respect to the fake publications about the Taliban supporting Pakistan’s position on Kashmir is a good example. At one point, Russia was criticised for engaging with the Taliban. Why did you start talking to the Taliban? We have maintained and keep maintaining contacts with the Taliban to fulfil two tasks: ensure safety of Russian citizens in Afghanistan and encourage the Taliban to engage in a dialogue with the Afghan authorities and other political forces with a view to achieving lasting peace in the country. Our dialogue partner is the Taliban’s Political Office in Doha that is, as far as we know, mandated by the Taliban leadership to carry out external relations. The U.S., your country, Iran and China, at some point, started talking to the Taliban. Do you think India missed a trick by not engaging with the Taliban? I believe that New Delhi’s policy of avoiding any engagement with the Taliban has had its day, especially in view of the upcoming launch of intra-Afghan talks and eventual transformation of the Taliban movement into an influential legal political force in Afghanistan. The Taliban is sending feelers that they want to open a channel of communication with India, and even signalled that they are willing to accept Kashmir as India's internal affair. Is this a strategic decision or a tactical manoeuvre? I believe that all these facts fall within the policy of good neighbourhood relations proclaimed by the Taliban. I doubt that it is a tactical manoeuver; rather, it is a strategic vision. In this regard, I would like to note that the Taliban leader, Hibatullah Akhundzada, clearly indicated in his message on the occasion of the Muslim holiday of Eid-ul-Fitr the Taliban’s willingness to strengthen constructive relations with all regional countries.”
06 June 2020||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazil’s toll surges to 3rd-highest in the world||Brazil’s death toll from the new coronavirus surpassed Italy’s to become the third-highest in the world Thursday. The bleak figures from Brazil underlined the grim toll the virus is taking in Latin America, the latest epicentre in the COVID-19 pandemic, even as Europe seeks to reemerge from lockdown. Since emerging in China late last year, the virus has infected at least 6.6 million people, killed more than 3,90,000 and wreaked havoc on the global economy by forcing millions to stay inside their homes. Brazil reported a new 24-hour record death toll, bringing the total number killed to more than 34,000. That is behind only the United States, with more than 1,08,000 deaths, and Britain, with nearly 40,000. President Jair Bolsonaro has fiercely criticised coronavirus stay-at-home measures, even as the number of infections and deaths continues to soar, arguing that they are needlessly hurting the economy. Brazil is the hardest-hit country in Latin America, though the tolls are also rising sharply in Mexico, Peru, Ecuador and Chile. Mexico reported a record number of new infections for the second straight day, with 4,442. Europe meanwhile continued its tentative return from lockdown, hoping to restart its stalled economies without sparking a second wave of infections. Governments are especially keen to save what they can of the summer tourism season and, after easing national lockdowns, were reopening borders this week. Italy welcomed back travellers from elsewhere in Europe Wednesday, while Austria scrapped entry checks at its borders Thursday — except for the one with Italy.
06 June 2020||Washington,||U.S. seeks ‘full accounting’ of Tiananmen massacre||The White House said on Thursday that China’s “slaughter” of protesters in Tiananmen Square in 1989 has not been forgotten, urging Beijing to give its first accurate accounting of the bloodshed. “The Chinese Communist Party’s slaughter of unarmed Chinese civilians was a tragedy that will not be forgotten,” President Donald Trump’s Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said in a statement. “The United States calls on China to honour the memory of those who lost their lives and to provide a full accounting of those who were killed, detained, or remain missing in connection with the events surrounding the Tiananmen Square massacre on June 4, 1989.” Beijing’s city government claimed weeks after the crackdown that around 200 people had died, the vast majority soldiers, with only 36 university students killed. China’s Central government has never released a full official toll, but estimates have put the figure between several hundred to over 1,000. Open discussion of the brutal suppression is forbidden in mainland China. In Hong Kong, where Beijing is tightening its central rule, a mass vigil to mark the anniversary was banned, though tens of thousands of people defied the decision. Every year, the U.S. issues a statement demanding China be held accountable. On Wednesday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with survivors, including Wang Dan, perhaps the most prominent of the student leaders from the protest. China on Friday accused the U.S. of hypocrisy. “The U.S. has always bragged about so-called democracy and human rights, but the facts repeatedly show that the U.S. record in this area is full of stains,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said at a regular briefing. He said Washington should “put its own house in order” and defended China’s political system.
06 June 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka to probe police assault on autistic teen||Sri Lanka on Friday launched an investigation into a police assault against an autistic teenager after CCTV footage shared on social media triggered protests calling it a racially-motivated attack. The 14-year-old boy from the Muslim community had been stopped at a checkpoint at the southern town of Aluthgama where police allegedly beat him up for violating a curfew last week.  Social media users criticised police after a Muslim politician, Ali Zahir Moulana, said the boy with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) was assaulted and racially abused. He shared CCTV footage of the incident and said the boy was unable to communicate effectively. Five policemen and two passers-by joined in beating up Thariq Ahamed, who was later tied to a post near the checkpoint until his father turned up, Mr. Moulana said. Police admitted they used force to “control the suspect as he tried to escape” but denied assaulting him. Police said on Friday that they initially suspected Ahamed to be a drug addict and were unaware of his condition.
06 June 2020||London,||Vaccine programme gets $8.8 billion funding||Governments around the world on Thursday pledged $8.8 billion for global vaccines alliance Gavi to help immunisation programmes disrupted by coronavirus, prompting calls for global cooperation to ensure a potential COVID-19 vaccine is available to all. The meeting beat a target to raise $7.4 billion to provide vaccines at a much reduced cost to 300 million children worldwide. More than 50 countries took part as well as individuals such as billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates, whose foundation pledged $1.6 billion. Gavi also launched a new initiative to purchase potential COVID-19 vaccines, scale-up production and support delivery to developing nations, which raised $567 million in seed money. “Together, we rise to fulfil the greatest shared endeavour of our lifetimes — the triumph of humanity over disease,” said British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who hosted the online summit.  Scientists are racing to develop and test a coronavirus vaccine and United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres said it must be available to everyone.
06 June 2020||Moscow,||Putin seeks clean-up after Arctic spill||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday said he expected metals giant Norilsk Nickel to fully restore the environment after an unprecedented Arctic fuel spill, as responders said they had managed to stop the slick from spreading further. A national-level state of emergency was announced after 21,000 tonnes of diesel fuel spilled from a reservoir that collapsed last Friday outside Norilsk, polluting huge stretches of river in remote tundra. The metals giant, which owns the reservoir through a subsidiary, tried to contain the damage on its own for two days before specialists were called in from companies and agencies across Russia. Speaking with officials at the site by video call, Mr. Putin told Norilsk Nickel chief Vladimir Potanin he expected the company to pay for a comprehensive clean-up.
06 June 2020||Kabul,||U.S. launches strikes against Taliban again||The U.S. launched its first air strikes against the Taliban since a rare ceasefire between the insurgents and Afghan forces ended more than a week ago, the U.S. military said on Friday. The two assaults took place on Thursday and Friday in separate provinces in Afghanistan, U.S. forces spokesman Sonny Leggett said on Twitter. “These were the 1st U.S. airstrikes against (the Taliban) since the start of the Eid ceasefire,” he wrote. “We reiterate: All sides must reduce violence to allow the peace process to take hold,” he added. Ten members of the Afghan forces were killed on Friday in a separate attack targeting a Humvee vehicle, the Interior Ministry said, blaming the assault on the Taliban.
06 June 2020||Washington,||Trump team pulls ad video||President Donald Trump’s re-election campaign has pulled a video featuring the SpaceX launch and astronauts which appeared to violate NASA’s media regulations, reports said. The “Make Space Great Again” YouTube ad posted on YouTube showed footage from the Apollo programme, as well as video of the landmark SpaceX Demo-2 mission and NASA astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley, the SpaceNews.com website said. NASA generally allows use of its images and video but prohibits the use of its insignia and photographs of its astronauts in advertisements.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||In Vizag, transgressions and toxic fumes||A little past 3 a.m. on May 7, Naveen (name changed) woke up smelling something different in the air. Feeling unsettled and a little afraid, he promptly woke up the elders in his family. “My uncle woke up in a daze,” Naveen recalled. “He was very disoriented and began stumbling around. We were at the door shouting for him to come out of the house with us. We ran for our lives, hoping he would follow us. But that was the last we saw of him.” Naveen’s uncle, C. Gangaraju, only in his mid-thirties, was among the 12 people who died after inhaling the poisonous styrene monomer vapour that leaked from the LG Polymers plant in their village that night. His body was later found floating in a well in the backyard of their house. Gangaraju’s family said he may have lost his eyesight in the gas leak and stumbled into the well while trying to escape to safety. Annepu Chandramouli, 19, a medical student and son of a police constable, had gone to bed late that night after studying. Minutes later, he was jolted out of sleep by the vapour. “His eyes were watering and he was unable to breathe. He was disoriented and ran towards the balcony. He toppled over the railing and fell to his death from our apartment on the second floor,” his relative said. Chaos, confusion and fear reigned that night in R.R. Venkatapuram village, located in Pendurthi Mandal in Visakhapatanam district of Andhra Pradesh. Within hours of the leak, which began at 2.50 a.m., 12 people had died and over 580 were hospitalised. Over 2,000 people were evacuated between 5 a.m. and 9 a.m. from the villages surrounding the chemical plant within a radius of 1.5-3 km. These villages include R.R. Venkatapuram, SC/BC Colony, Nandamuri Nagar, Kamparapalem and Padmanabhanagar, which together have more than 20,000 households. The death toll could have been much higher if an alert resident hadn’t woken up to see a thick cloud of gas enveloping houses in the area. He quickly woke up the residents of the village and told them to run for their lives. Soon, word about a gas leak spread like wildfire, and hundreds of residents poured out of their homes, carrying their children in their arms, and into the darkness. But as people began running, they started inhaling more and more of the toxic fumes. Styrene monomer is a colourless and inflammable gas. Inhaling it for a short period of time causes irritation in the eye, respiratory problems, nausea, unsteady gait, loss of consciousness and gastrointestinal effects. Many who ran out collapsed on the ground. A few young men hopped on their motorcycles in desperation to drive away, but they were too disoriented to ride for more than a few hundred metres, recalled Pydapa Naidu, station house officer of the Gopalapatnam police station. Naidu was among the first to reach the scene on a rescue mission. A long night The police control room, around 10-12 km from the plant in the city, received the first distress call at around 3.26 a.m. It immediately alerted the Gopalapatnam police station, under whose jurisdiction the area falls. A police team of eight men, including Naidu, Sub-Inspector Satyanarayana and Inspector Bhagwan, reached R.R. Venkatapuram at 3.45 a.m. The Deputy Commissioner of Police of Zone-II, Uday Bhaskar, was alerted by the Commissioner of Police, Rajiv Kumar Meena, at 4 a.m. Bhaskar reached the spot by 4.30 a.m. and found the Gopalapatnam team in the area. The Commissioner reached the spot 15 minutes later, and both the officers led the team of 15 men on the rescue operation. Their initial two attempts to enter the core area from the national highway side failed as the wind blew the toxic fumes in their direction. “We realised that it would be futile to enter through the main entrance, so we took a detour and entered the core area from behind the chemical plant,” Meena said. Protocols that were in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 were suspended by the police team. The police entered the area with just wet towels wrapped around their faces. That is when they realised the gravity of the situation. “We saw people lying unconscious on the road. We had a tough time picking them up from the road and getting them into our vehicles. The lanes were narrow and our vehicles could not enter them,” Bhaskar said. “We shifted them to hospitals ourselves as ambulances had not arrived yet.” It was only at around 6 a.m. that ambulances and Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) buses reached the area. Around 10 police vehicles, 20 ambulances and 10 APSRTC buses were used to ferry the victims to government hospitals. Many policemen, including Naidu and Satyanarayana, said they suffered bouts of vomiting during the rescue operation. The entire 15-member team was hospitalised later and a few of them are yet to recover fully, said police officials. At 6.45 a.m., a National Disaster Response Force 10th Battalion team arrived at the spot. By 7 a.m. they swung into action, wearing gas masks and carrying oxygen cylinders on their backs. “In many houses, the residents were trapped inside or were lying unconscious,” said Commandant Zahid Khan, who led the team. “We had to forcibly enter several houses. We rescued about 300 people trapped inside.” History of the plant The LG Polymers plant, owned by the South Korean firm LG Chem, has changed hands several times since its inception. It was first established by the Mumbai-based Shriram Group in 1961, under the name Hindustan Polymers, to convert alcohol from molasses in order to produce styrene. Styrene is mostly used in the production of polystyrene, which is used to make the parts of appliances, electronics and automotives; and also in food packaging. The Andhra Pradesh government then sold 216 acres of endowment land belonging to Simhachalam Devasthanam in the sparsely populated R.R. Venkatapuram village to the Shriram Group. In 1971-72, the management expanded its operations and began manufacturing polystyrene. In 1978, the plant was taken over by McDowell and Company Limited of the United Breweries (UB) Group, owned by Vittal Mallya and Vijay Mallya. The UB Group began to manufacture expanded polystyrene. In the early 1980s, the manufacture of styrene was stopped when the UB Group found it less expensive to just import styrene from countries such as Saudi Arabia and Singapore. LG Chem purchased the plant in 1997. It dismantled the old styrene plant and began storing imported styrene in a few tanks, one of which malfunctioned on the fateful night of May 7. The tank had a capacity of 2,400 mt. On the night of the incident, it contained about 1,800 tonnes of styrene monomer, company officials said. But LG Polymers, which is facing flak for what appears to be sheer negligence and lack of oversight by the company, refused to take questions despite repeated attempts during that period. It shipped about 13,000 tonnes of styrene from the plant to South Korea immediately after the incident. Findings of the NGT committee Following the incident, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) took up the case suo motu and constituted a five-member joint monitoring committee to conduct a probe. The committee, comprising a former High Court judge, a principal of a college, a professor of chemical engineering, and two scientists, investigated the incident and found several glaring lapses at the plant. The NGT imposed a fine of Rs. 50 crore on the plant under the liability clause. The committee said that the vapour leak occurred due to self-polymerisation of styrene monomer. P.P. Jagannadha Rao, professor of chemical engineering and member of the NGT’s joint monitoring committee, said styrene needs to be circulated constantly to keep its temperature under control. However, with operations at the plant coming to a grinding halt due to the nationwide lockdown, the stock of 1,800 tonnes of styrene monomer remained stagnant. This could have led to a Diels-Alder reaction resulting in self-polymerisation, he said. “As there was no apparatus to record the change in temperature in the upper part of the tank, the styrene reached its onset temperature, which is 66°C, over a period of time. Once it reached the onset temperature, it took 15-20 minutes to reach boiling point, which is 145°C. According to our findings, this is how the vapour formed and leaked out of the gooseneck and dip hatch of the storage tank.” In its report, the committee also pointed out that the company did not have enough tertiary butyl catechol (TBC), which is used as an inhibitor to avoid self-polymerisation and which lowers the temperature inside the plant. The ideal temperature for storing styrene is 15-18°C and at no point can it be allowed to exceed 25°C. “Since there was no stock of TBC, it is possible that the styrene monomer reacted inside the storage tank, triggering a polymerisation reaction which resulted in the formation of vapour, due to a rise in temperature inside the tank,” Rao said. The experts also pointed out that there was no system to monitor dissolved oxygen in the vapour space. As a result, the level of oxygen might have fallen below 6%, they said. “If the oxygen level falls below 6%, that is a clear indication of self-polymerisation. There was no mechanism in place to detect this and prevent it from happening. The plant was in lockdown for over 45 days. The reaction would have started at least a week or 10 days ago,” Rao said. The tank from which the vapour leaked was an old one. Its upper and middle parts did not have a temperature monitoring apparatus. It only had a sensor in the lower part. The experts said refrigeration for styrene storage should run round the clock, but according to the NGT report, the refrigeration system had not been operated 24 hours prior to the incident. The NGT report also stated that the person in-charge of the plant and the maintenance personnel of the storage tank were negligent. LG Polymers had also been operating without the requisite environment clearances. In an affidavit dated May 10, 2019, in response to a query from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, the company admitted that it had been operating the plant from 1997 to 2019 without obtaining the necessary environment clearances. The affidavit read: “The unit did not have environment clearance substantiating the produced quantity issued by the competent authority for continuing operations and was operating based on consent given by the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB).” Former Secretary to the Union government and social activist E.A.S. Sarma, who filed a plea before the NGT regarding the damage caused to public health and the environment due to the leak, sought to know how the APPCB had granted consent for establishment and consent for operation in the beginning of 2019 for the unit’s expansion and how the company had continued to function without obtaining environmental clearance from the Union Environment Ministry. Concerns over health, livelihood While the short-term effects of inhaling styrene monomer are clear, there is no detailed study on the long-term effects. Endocrinologist G.R. Sridhar said most chemicals are carcinogenic. Styrene is dangerous; studies have shown it produces lung cancer in rodents, he said. “However, experimental and clinical evidence show that humans are not at increased risk of developing lung cancer (if they inhale styrene). Biochemical, genetic and clinical studies over 20 years do not show chronic exposure to styrene to be associated with the risk of developing lung cancer,” Sridhar said. However, he added that this incident could be a case study for the future. The health condition of the affected should be monitored over the next two generations, he said. In the last three weeks, Y. Kanakaraju, 45, and P. Venkayamma, 72, have died from exposure to the gas. They were reportedly affected by the May 7 gas leak, admitted to hospital and discharged, only to be readmitted with some illness. However, the Superintendent of King George Hospital, G. Arjuna, said the cause of their deaths can be ascertained only after a post-mortem. Drawing parallels between the LG Polymers incident and the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, social activist and founder of Sambhavna Trust Satinath Sarangi said that the NGT report neither mentioned styrene oxide (produced when styrene mixes with oxygen in the air), which is extremely toxic, nor the impacts of exposure to styrene on foetuses and genetic formation. “Most importantly, the NGT report entrusts LG Polymers to carry out a risk assessment disaster management study. The company has been asked to conduct a health monitoring programme for at least five years. This is somewhat like sending the fox to guard the hen house,” said Sarangi. The social activist is also critical of the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to pay ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore to the next of kin of the deceased as well as compensation to survivors. “Like in Bhopal, public money is being used by the government to provide compensation to the victims’ families and to the survivors. Why should the public pay for a crime committed by a corporate company? According to the report of the NGT committee, around 800 tonnes of styrene may have escaped into the atmosphere on May 7. If 90% of this got deposited within a 1.5 km range of the plant, the per capita dosage of the deposit is of an exceedingly high level. This aspect must be examined thoroughly. A comprehensive health impact study, both short term and long term, should be undertaken on people living up to at least 5 km from the plant,” he said. Apart from concerns over health, there are also concerns in the affected area over livelihood. Agriculture is the main source of income for around 400 families in the affected area. Nearly 20% of the crop grown in about 800 acres is sold in the city. A variety of crops such as paddy, sugarcane, brinjal, tomatoes, different varieties of leafy vegetables, gherkins, ladies finger, plantains and millets are grown in this area. Since styrene vapour is a heavy gas and it settles down fast, officers from the Agriculture Department have instructed farmers to destroy the standing crop and told them not to undertake sowing till further clearance is given. “We have lost a large quantity of crop and we are unsure whether we can sow crop by the time monsoon comes. Our livelihood has taken a huge hit. We have also lost our livestock,” said Rapparthi Appanna, a farmer from R.R. Venkatapuram. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation Commissioner G. Srijana said the residents have also been instructed not to use groundwater or the water from the neighbouring Meghadrigedda reservoir till the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute deems it safe for consumption. Lack of proper urban planning In 1961, when Hindustan Polymers was set up, the plant was located outside the city. Only the sparsely populated village of R.R. Venkatapuram was in its vicinity. Today, R.R. Venkatapuram is no longer a village. It has more than 100 pucca houses, including apartments. Over the years, several colonies have sprung up around it. It is estimated that over 40,000 people live within a 3-km radius of the plant. Apart from LG Polymers, industries such as HPCL (established as Caltex Oil in 1957) and Coromandel Fertilizers (established in 1961) were located on the outskirts of the city. But now the city has grown rapidly and colonies have come up around these industries. Environmentalists and social activists said there is no urban planning. “Normally, when cities are planned, industries are located on one side and the city expands towards the other. But in the case of Visakhapatnam, industrial growth is scattered in all directions. So, we find industries, including hazardous ones, amidst the habitations today,” said N. Kalidas of the Institute for Solid Waste Research and Ecological Balance. Visakhapatnam is shaped like a bowl, with the Bay of Bengal on one side and mountains surrounding it on all three sides. Urban planners feel that industries should have been planned outside the hills; instead, most of them are located within the ‘bowl’. “Industries should always be located on the leeward side and not on the windward side. But here, there are industries on both sides,” they said. After hearing the NGT report, a Bench headed by the chairperson of the NGT, Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, held on June 1 that LG Polymers India has absolute liability for the loss of life and the impact on health and environment caused by the leakage of styrene monomer vapour. The NGT directed the constitution of a committee comprising representatives from the Union Environment Ministry, the Central Pollution Control Board and the State government to prepare a restoration plan within two months. Taking cognisance of the fact that the company did not get proper environment clearances from the Union Environment Ministry but was functioning with permission only from the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board, the NGT has directed the Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary to take action against the persons responsible for allowing the factory to operate without the requisite environmental clearance. With rights groups demanding the closure of LG Polymers, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked a high-powered committee, set up indepdently of the NGT to probe the incident, to submit a report with its recommendations. He has said that the plant will either be closed down or shifted elsewhere depending on the committee’s suggestions. He has also asked the committee to conduct a study of the hazardous industries in the State and recommend suggestions for a new industrial policy. Meanwhile, fear continues to grip R.R. Venkatapuram. “I have cleaned my house with sodium hypochlorite, but my clothes and all the things in my house still smell of the vapour,” said P. Devudu, a resident. “It looks as if the May 7th incident will continue to haunt us for a long, long time.”
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Beyond the legal counsel’s predicament||Rather unfairly, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta has been hauled over the coals for his recent performance — or, ‘outburst’ as legal correspondents chose to call it — when the Supreme Court had, on May 26, decided to take suo motu note of the migrants’ pitiable plight in the wake of the nation-wide lockdown. Tushar Mehta is a combative lawyer; he is not a jurist who needs to summon gravitas or scholarship; he is not a Fali Nariman nor is he a Soli Sorabjee. Nonetheless, he has earned the reputation of a skilful adversary who does not flinch back from a scrap in the court room. He does his professional best for his client. A political appointee And, his client is none other than the Modi regime. It is necessary to remind ourselves that a Solicitor General is a political appointee; which means that whereas Article 76 of the Constitution of India places the Attorney-General for India decidedly on an elevated perch, the Solicitor General gets to play a nickel-and-dime role. He becomes very much a part of the ruling establishment’s inner clique, and cannot escape being sucked into the regime’s daily fights and fancies. He cannot have a role or personality outside the preferences and predispositions of the government of the day. Solicitor General Mehta’s critics are perhaps not being fair to him when they accuse him of being disagreeably aggressive or needlessly arrogant; after all, he is only reflecting his client’s temperament, his impulses and inclinations to the best of his ability. He is simply an instrument, a sharp and sometimes blunt instrument. Many have indignantly found Tushar Mehta’s invocation of ‘vulture’ metaphor as particularly unacceptable and offensive slur on the entire journalistic fraternity. It did perhaps border on blasphemy because it was uttered in the nation’s highest judicial forum. Mr. Mehta has subsequently tried to clarify [in an interview with The Times of India of June 1, 2020] that his ‘vulture’ imprecation was not directed at journalists; he is entitled to a benefit of the doubt. And though it can be no consolation, it is sobering to recall that equally invidious insults and innuendoes have been hurled at the media by the ruling establishment. Mr. Mehta’s aspersion pales in comparison to Gen. (retd) V.K. Singh’s ‘presstitute’ disparagement. Yet, again, it is not the personal inclination of a law officer or a cabinet minister that should detain us for too long; rather, it is the collective sentiment of the regime he represents that needs to be scrutinised by every democratic soul. Let there be no mistake. A cultivated mindset is at work. It seeks legitimacy for itself from the paraphernalia of an elective democracy but uses the democratic mandate to chisel away at the core of democratic arrangement. It is simply loathe to give answers or explanations of any kind to anyone. Blunted institutions It is hardly a secret that these last six years, the Modi regime has quietly but diligently and systematically made dysfunctional — without dismantling — all the established institutions designed to prevent abuse of authority. Offices such as the Central Vigilance Commission, the Lokpal, the Central Information Commission, the National Human Rights Commission, India, the Election Commission of India, etc. have been rendered less than paper tigers. With considerable finesse and with admirable street-smartness, the regime has seen to it that no Vinod Rai would be allowed to strike out on his/her own. The Modi crowd believes, sincerely and righteously, in the correctness of its chosen path; it mesmerises itself with the notions of integrity and commitment of its personnel and leaders and their infinite wisdom. It resents democratic opposition. Not surprisingly, such a regime sees no need to lend an ear to the ‘vultures’ in the media or the non-governmental organisations. The migrant issue In its determined preference to strike continuously a pose of decisiveness and bold leadership, the incumbent regime not only failed to anticipate the consequences of its sudden, abrupt and panicky lockdown decision; it also refused to see the millions of half-starved citizens trekking back to the safety and security of their villages. It was perhaps with a clear conscience that the Solicitor General could tell the top court that the government had the migrant issue well under its competent hands. Here is a law officer who had secured from the apex court a kind of carte blanche for his client to carry on with its confused nostrums. Perhaps the Court had felt that given the enormity of the COVID-19 challenge, the government was entitled to make its mistakes and blunders as also to its insensitivity and cynicism. Thanks to persuasive arguments from the Solicitor General, the Hon’ble judges probably felt that it was not their business to take note of immense hardship inflicted on millions of our own citizens. Mr. Mehta had secured for his client a free hand to carry on with its hit and trial experimentations. A tragedy could easily be foretold. A regime which has chosen to deprive itself of genuine sources of information finds itself left high and dry when human misery on an unprecedented scale grips vast swathes of our citizens. Because the regime has developed a considered contempt for the free and independent media, it simply refused to see the images of millions and millions of hapless citizens migrating back to their villages. Confronted with an unexpected crisis of unknown dimensions, the regime righteously resented anyone who pointed out the limits of its sloganised approach to governance. When the Court acted Then, much to the regime’s consternation, suddenly the Supreme Court had allowed itself to be goaded to seek answers from the government for its bureaucratic insensitivity, for its political arrogance, for its policy confusion and its administrative clumsiness. It was this volte-face that probably produced the Solicitor General’s famous outburst. It is possible to suggest that Mr. Mehta’s anger was directed not so much against the vultures among the journalists as it was an expression of impatience with the highest court. Unspoken resentment was that the Supreme Court was seeking an explanation from the government after lending its ear to those who have no knowledge of the ‘ground situation’. But the government would not share information about the ‘ground’ with anyone. The other day, three professional associations of epidemiologists, public health practitioners and social medicine experts have called out the clumsy and confused decision-making practised by the Leader-driven power structure. Millions have paid a heavy price for the regime’s arrogance and incompetence. Yet, the government would not countenance any discussion of its mistakes and missteps. Over the years the regime has used a heavy-handed approach to put its critics in their place. It has brought to bear overwhelming resources, power, prestige and skills to fix its critics, however small or scattered. Neither a Sudha Bhardwaj nor a Gautam Navlakha nor the Pinjra Tod activists in northeast Delhi will be allowed to mobilise dissent and disagreement against the regime. It is this groupthink of intolerance and impatience that was on display in the Supreme Court on May 26. Unlike in the vastly popular Hindi TV-serial, ‘Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah’, Solicitor General Mehta can be very much said to be using a custom-made pair of spectacles, prescribed by the regime’s in-house optometrists. Harish Khare is a senior journalist based in Delhi
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A right time to shift pharma gears||Could the rules and practices organising health care around the world have been better suited to this COVID-19 outbreak? Consider the Health Impact Fund as a plausible institutional reform of the current regime for developing and marketing new pharmaceuticals. Medicines are among humanity’s greatest achievements. The global market for pharmaceuticals is currently worth Rs. 110 lakh crore annually, 1.7% of the gross world product. Roughly, 55% of this global pharmaceutical spending, Rs. 60 lakh crore, is for brand-name products, which are typically under patent. Commercial pharmaceutical research and development (R&D) efforts are encouraged and rewarded through the earnings that innovators derive from sales of their branded products. These earnings largely depend on the 20-year product patents they are entitled to obtain in World Trade Organization member states. Such patents give them a temporary monopoly, enabling them to sell their new products without competition at a price far above manufacture and distribution costs, while still maintaining a substantial sales volume. In the United States, thousand-fold (100000%) markups over production costs are not atypical. In India, the profit-maximising monopoly price of a new medicine is much lower, but similarly unaffordable for most citizens. To be sure, before such huge markups can yield any profits, commercial pharmaceutical innovators must first cover their large R&D costs, currently Rs. 14 lakh crore a year, including the cost of clinical trials needed to demonstrate safety and efficacy, the cost of capital tied up during the long development process, and the cost of any research efforts that fail somewhere along the way. R&D and concerns While we should evidently continue funding pharmaceutical R&D, it is worth asking whether our current way of doing so is optimal. There are three main concerns. First, innovators motivated by the prospect of large markups tend to neglect diseases suffered mainly by poor people, who cannot afford expensive medicines. The 20 World Health Organization-listed neglected tropical diseases together afflict over one billion people but attract only 0.35% of the pharmaceutical industry’s R&D. Merely 0.12% of this R&D spending is devoted to tuberculosis and malaria, which kill 1.7 lakh people each year. Second, thanks to a large number of affluent or well-insured patients, the profit-maximising price of a new medicine tends to be quite high. Consequently, most people cannot afford advanced medicines that are still under patent. This is especially vexing because manufacturing costs are generally quite low. Third, rewards for developing and then providing pharmaceutical products are poorly correlated with therapeutic value. Firms earn billions by developing duplicative drugs that add little to our pharmaceutical toolbox — and billions more by cleverly marketing their drugs for patients who will not benefit. To address these problems, we propose a complement to the present regime: the Health Impact Fund as an alternative track on which pharmaceutical innovators may choose to be rewarded. Any new medicine registered with the Fund would have to be sold at or below the cost of manufacture and distribution, but would earn ten annual reward payments based on the health gains achieved with it. On funding The Fund could start with as little as Rs. 20,000 crore per annum and might then attract some 10-12 medicines, with one entering and one exiting in a typical year. Registered products would then earn some Rs. 17,000-Rs. 20,000 crore, on average, during their first 10 years. Of course, some would earn more than others by having greater therapeutic value or by benefiting more people. Long-term funding for the Fund might come from willing governments — contributing in proportion to their gross national incomes — or from an international tax, perhaps on greenhouse gas emissions or speculative financial transactions. Non-contributing affluent countries would forgo the benefits: the pricing constraint on registered products would not apply to them. This gives innovators more reason to register (they can still sell their product at high prices in some affluent countries) and affluent countries reason to join. The Fund would get pharmaceutical firms interested in certain R&D projects that are unprofitable under the current regime — especially ones expected to produce large health gains among mostly poor people. Such projects would predominantly address communicable diseases. With the Fund in place, there would be much deeper and broader knowledge about such diseases, a richer arsenal of effective interventions and greater capacities for developing additional, more targeted responses quickly. The Fund would make an important difference also by rewarding for health outcomes rather than sales. For achieving health gains with their product, innovators need new strategies. They need to deliberate holistically about how their drug can work in the context of, or in synergy with, other factors relevant to treatment outcomes; think about therapies and diagnostics together, in order to identify and reach the patients who can benefit most; monitor results in real time to recognise and address possible impediments to uptake or therapeutic success; ensure that high-value patients have affordable access to the drug and are properly instructed and motivated to make optimal use of it with the drug still in prime condition. A reward mechanism oriented towards health gains rather than high-markup sales would lead to a sustainable research-and-marketing system. Issue of state risk Participation of commercial pharmaceutical firms is crucial for tackling global pandemics. They are best suited to develop and scale up provision of new vaccines and medications fast. At present such firms do, however, face discouraging business risks from governments which may as some have done use compulsory licences to divest them of their monopoly rewards. Health Impact Fund registration would remove this risk as states would have no reason to interfere with innovators whose profit lies in giving real and rapid at-cost access to their new product to all who may need it. Nowhere is this focus on results, which the Health Impact Fund would encourage in innovators, more important than in the domain of communicable diseases. Collaborating with national health systems, international agencies and NGOs, such a firm would seek to build a strong public-health strategy around its product. Its highest goal would be complete eradication. If it succeeds in year seven, it can enjoy the world’s gratitude and collect three additional handsome reward payments for investment in its other research projects. Applying this point to a new disease such as COVID-19 is complicated by the fact that we lack here a well-established baseline representing the harm the disease would have done in the absence of the new medicine to be assessed. Still, despite the roughness of such a modelled baseline, the Fund would give innovators the right incentives. It would guide them to ask not: how can we develop an effective product and then achieve high sales at high markups? But rather: how can we develop an effective product and then deploy it so as to help reduce the overall disease burden as effectively as possible? The pandemic should make us stop and think: which of these two questions should be guiding our pharmaceutical innovators? Felicitas Holzer is a researcher in the Bioethics Center and Bioethics Network of the World Health Organization at the social science faculty of FLACSO in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Thomas Pogge is Leitner Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs and founding Director of the Global Justice Program at Yale
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Winning formula||Just as the various global sporting leagues slowly revive, Formula One will do so too following the announcement of an eight-race revised calendar starting with a double-header in Austria during July. Earlier, the season-opening Australian Grand Prix in March was cancelled at the eleventh hour after the whole contingent gathered at Melbourne when a member of the McLaren Formula One team tested positive for COVID-19. Since then, the sport has witnessed its first 10 rounds of the 22-race calendar either being cancelled or postponed. Recently the German football league, Bundesliga, restarted its season, while the Premier League is scheduled to commence later this month. However, unlike football or other domestic leagues that are localised and can be played in a controlled environment, F1 faces unique challenges due to its global footprint that hops across five continents through the year. It also requires a huge amount of personnel and cargo movements to run an event. With travel curbs across the world, the sport has restricted the initial eight races to its spiritual home of Europe, with Austria and Britain hosting multiple events. F1 has now adopted a set of operating procedures to get the show back on track, with every participant to be tested before and during the race weekend. Apart from there being no spectators, only 80 members per team will be allowed at the race track while the broadcast crew will be a mere 60. The reworked F1 will have 1,200 essential staff, previously close to 5,000. More importantly, with even a small-sized team employing nearly 300 to 400, from engineers to mechanics, the sport needs a start to keep the teams afloat not just this year but beyond as well. The F1 Group has already pledged to pay 100% of prize money to the teams, and for that it needs the show to go on. A minimum of eight races is needed to constitute a world championship and it is understood 15-18 races are required in a year to maximise the TV rights revenues especially at a time when the race-hosting fees, a major component of the F1 group’s revenue, is unlikely to be paid by the various countries. With jobs at stake, Formula One has made the right call to make its best attempt at starting the season. At the same time, the sport needs to be nimble to make quick decisions in case of unexpected scenarios, and the lessons learnt from Australia should hold the organisers in good stead. If F1 can demonstrate a good restart, it will inspire the rest of the sporting industry to get back on its feet.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Shine a light||Two weeks ago, a study in The Lancet , perhaps the most influential medical journal in the world, found no benefit from the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a well-known antimalarial, to treat sick COVID-19 patients. Today, that study stands retracted. As it had relied on a huge dataset of about 96,000 patients sourced from 671 hospitals in six continents, the World Health Organization, citing a ‘do no harm’ principle, suspended drug trials pending a safety review. This led to some countries in Europe withdrawing the drug from their own trials. Another study involving some of the same authors and relying on the same data published in The New England Journal of Medicine , which sought to answer questions on the associations between cardiovascular disease, COVID-19 and drugs that target the enzymes that play a role in facilitating the virus in attacking a host, has also been retracted. The Lancet study triggered a backlash from scientists who found problems with the methodology and, more importantly, the dataset. It emerged that mortality attributed to the disease in Australia did not match with the country’s own estimates; there was no way to tally patient records and the hospitals they were sourced from; and there were problems with the statistics deployed and the conclusions about the potential risk from the drug. The bigger concern was that the data was supplied by Surgisphere Corporation, which had a handful of employees with limited scientific expertise, and claimed to have aggregated its numbers by compiling electronic health records in less than two months. Experienced clinical trial specialists said this was a labour-intensive process. Moreover, when aspersions about the data started to swirl, the company, citing client confidentiality, said it was unable to share its data sources for independent assessment. In their retractions, the journals have blamed Surgisphere for being opaque with its primary data. So far, neither journal has introspected on the peer-review process that led to these studies being published in the first place. In hindsight it seems obvious that a disinterested analysis would have raised eyebrows regarding data sourcing, but the post-COVID world is a panic-driven one that has left no institution or appraisal process untouched. The average peer-review takes weeks and the clinical trial process months, but now the expectation is that science delivers its results like magic. For years now, questions have been raised on the effectiveness of the traditional, time-consuming peer-review process and this has launched a welcome culture of papers being uploaded as preprints for review. In the present instance of the HCQ imbroglio, it is the independent effort by external scientists that brought the blight to light. The key lesson is that it is a mistake to assume the scientific process as one divorced from the influence of power, privilege, finance and politics. The means and methods to a scientific result matter more than results — only achieved through global scrutiny. Openness, more than blame game, is what the post-COVID world needs now.
06 June 2020||Mumbai,||SBI profit surges on one-time income||Lower provisions for bad loans and sale of stake in one of the subsidiaries enabled State Bank of India (SBI) — the country’s largest lender — to report a 327% year-on- year increase in net profit to Rs. 3,581 crore for the January-March quarter.  While net interest income growth was flat at Rs. 22,767 crore, non-interest income rose by almost 27% year-on- year to Rs. 16,077 crore with profit on sale of investment surging to Rs. 3,237 crore compared with the Rs. 534 crore reported during the same period of the previous year. This is because SBI sold a part of its stake in SBI Cards during the initial public offering.  Loan loss provisions also came down 31.4% to Rs. 11,894 crore in the fourth quarter.  Slippages to bad loans saw an increase of 8% year-on- year to Rs. 8,150 crore during the fourth quarter, though it was almost half of the previous quarter.  “Consistently, quarter-after-quarter we have been able to improve our asset quality and provision coverage ratio (PCR),” SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar said in the post earnings interaction with the media. “The PCR is at an all- time high. On the corporate book, the bank holds PCR of almost 78%,” he said. SBI’s PCR was at 83.62%, including advances under collection accounts (AUCA).  The gross NPAs declined 14% year-on-year (YoY) to about Rs. 1.49 lakh crore while net NPAs declined 21.3% to Rs. 51,871 crore. As on March 31, the gross NPA ratio was at 6.15% while net NPA ratio was at 2.23%.  “We have not taken regulatory dispensation on provision of standstill accounts. We have provided as if fresh slippage of Rs. 6,250 crore has happened,” Mr. Kumar said.  The SBI said the loan moratorium was availed of by about 21.8% of the customers, which came to about 23% of term loans. The bank said there would be lower stress on the retail book due to COVID-19-related disruptions as they have a higher proportion of government and quasi-government sector customers.  However, there could be pressure on core other income which is driven by recoveries and fee income. Recoveries are expected to be impacted, it said. The bank has sanctioned Rs. 17,116 crore loans related to COVID-19; however, disbursements are expected to pick up once the lockdown ends. The bank saw deposit growth of 11.34% year-on- year in FY20 while advances grew by 5.64%.  Home loans rise “Home loans, which constitute 22% of the bank’s domestic advances, have grown by 13.86% YoY,” SBI said. Loan growth is expected to be at about 7-8% in the current financial year.  Mr. Kumar said the bank had created a capability to serve the entire Indian subcontinent. “Today, we serve 49 crore customers which is more than the population of Latin America and continental Europe or the U.S. “Believe me, we have the capability of serving the entire Indian subcontinent. That is the digital capability that the bank has created,” he said. “On a single day, on March 31, over 25 crore transactions were handled.”
06 June 2020||Mumbai,||Move fast to ease liquidity: RBI’s Das||With economic growth expected to be in the negative territory for the current financial year, Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das emphasised on the need for going full throttle to revive consumption and investment. “... given the enormity of a collapse in demand, the need is to move ahead full throttle to ease financing conditions further so as to revive consumption and revitalise investment,” Mr. Das. said in the meeting of the monetary policy committee (MPC) last month, the minutes showed. After cutting interest rates by 75 basis points (bps) in March, the central bank further brought down the repo rate by 40 bps to 4% in May in a bid to revive demand amid a slowing economy. The RBI had said growth is likely to be in negative territory in the current financial year. “Since the outbreak of COVID-19, the MPC has voted for front-loading its actions. In view of the deteriorating outlook, it is critical to reinforce these actions in sync with the space provided by the underlying conditions,” Mr. Das said, adding banks also need to be adequately capitalised since they are the key players in financing consumption and investment. Mr. Das said the key challenge for monetary policy at this stage is to resuscitate domestic demand to avoid any harmful effect on income and employment in the short run and potential growth over the medium term, and for strengthening domestic demand, it is important to revive consumer and business confidence. Michael Debabrata Patra, the Deputy Governor in-charge of monetary policy, pointed out that though private consumption is ‘tenuously holding on to positive territory,’ spending patterns have altered drastically away from the discretionary and to the essential. “In fact, my view is that the damage is so deep and extensive that India’s potential output has been pushed down, and it will take years to repair… In the deliberations of the MPC, my view is that the threats to growth have to be addressed frontally and aggressively, or risk a more dire outlook,” Mr. Patra said. He said the MPC has decided to remain accommodative as long as it is necessary to revive growth and mitigate the fallout of COVID-19 and monetary policy can inspire confidence among households and businesses to break the vortex of public preference for deposits over spending and banks’ aversion to lend and invest. “Ahead of turning to mend broken areas of activity, it is important to nurture the green shoots that have become visible – as in agriculture and allied activities – so that they take root and grow,” Mr. Patra added.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||CPCL takes a Rs. 1,456-crore hit as crude prices crash||Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (CPCL) said it would have to take a significant inventory write-down of Rs. 1,456 crore due to COVID-19-related events. In a regulatory filing, the company said that international prices of crude and products crashed on account of COVID-9 and the consequent lockdown from March 25 in India impacted its business. Consequently, lower demand for crude oil and petroleum products impacted the prices and refining margins of the company. Due to this, the finished goods, intermediates and raw material inventory had been valued at net realisable value/replacement costs. This resulted in a significant inventory write down of Rs. 1,456 crore, the company said. CPCL, which is currently operating at 60% capacity, expects the demand for products to improve over the next few weeks as more and more sectors open up. The lower demand and resultant inventory build-up has led to an increase in short-term borrowings, which is expected to get normalised based on turnaround in demand situation and stabilisation of international prices of crude and products, CPCL said. After assessing the potential impact of COVID-19 based on the current circumstances, CPCL does not expect any significant impact on the continuity of operations of the business on a long-term basis, on useful life of the assets and on financial position, though there may be lower revenue and refinery throughput in the near term.  CPCL expects the demand for products to improve as more and more sectors open up
06 June 2020||MUMBAI,||L&T net drops, revenue inches up||Engineering and construction major Larsen and Toubro (L&T) reported a 6% drop in its fourth quarter net profit to Rs.3,197crore (including profit from discontinued operations) even as the company bagged more orders during the quarter amid COVID-19 pandemic The fall in profit was reported on a marginal 2% increase in revenue to Rs. 44,245 crore during the quarter due to challenges faced in a period characterised by economic volatility and a work-from-home/lockdown environment in the last fortnight of the financial year. The company received orders worth Rs. 57,785 crore, registering a growth of 5% over the year-earlier period, with significant orders received in the infrastructure segment. The consolidated order book of the group stood at Rs. 3,03,857 crore as at March 31,2020, registering a growth of 4% over March,2019.The company has deferred its order inflow guidance and is banking on State and Central government orders for this fiscal. L&T’s MD and CEO S.N. Subrahmanyan said, “I don’t see a private sector investment revival in the near term. We expect some major orders from the State governments. Many of them are going through financial shortage and it may not be as it was last year.” On guidance, he said, “We had a budget, which is not valid now and we need to rework the budget. So, we will defer the guidance till we get some more clarity.”
06 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Silver Lake to invest Rs. 4,550 crore more in Jio Platforms||Silver Lake, along with co-investors, has agreed to invest an additional Rs. 4,546.80 crore in Jio Platforms, beyond the original investment of Rs. 5,655.75 crore by Silver Lake last month. This brings the aggregate investment by Silver Lake and its co-investors to Rs. 10,202.55 crore. Silver Lake’s investment values Jio Platforms at an equity value of Rs. 4.91 lakh crore and an enterprise value of Rs. 5.16 lakh crore, and will translate into a 2.08% equity stake in Jio Platforms on a fully diluted basis. With this investment, Jio Platforms has raised Rs 92,202.15 crore from leading technology investors in less than six weeks. Earlier, Abu Dhabi-based sovereign investor Mubadala agreed to invest Rs. 9,093.60 crore in Jio Platforms for 1.85% stake, conferring Jio Platforms with an enterprise value of Rs. 5.16 lakh crore. With this investment, Jio Platforms, a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries (RIL), has raised a total of Rs. 87,655.35 crore from leading global technology and growth investors including Facebook, Silver Lake, Vista Equity Partners, General Atlantic and KKR in less than six weeks. Jio Platforms, a technology platform focussed on providing digital services across India, has more than 388 million subscribers. Mukesh Ambani, CMD, Reliance Industries, said, “Through my long-standing ties with Abu Dhabi, I have personally seen the impact of Mubadala’s work in diversifying and globally connecting the UAE’s knowledge-based economy. We look forward to benefitting from Mubadala’s experience.” Jio Platforms has made significant investments in technologies spanning broadband, smart devices, cloud and edge computing, big data, artificial intelligence, Internet of Things and blockchain. Khaldoon Al Mubarak, managing director and group CEO, Mubadala Investment Company, said: “ With Jio’s network of investors and partners, we believe that the platform company will further the development of the digital economy.” Mubadala investments are aimed at advancing Abu Dhabi’s diversified, globally integrated economy across sectors that are driving growth and addressing critical challenges. Established in 2017, Mubadala’s ventures business manages several funds in the U.S., Europe and West Asia. Its portfolio spans advanced manufacturing, semiconductors, metals and mining and pharmaceutical and medical technology, among others.
06 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Sun initiates phase II trial of COVID-19 drug||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. has commenced the phase II clinical trial on AQCH, a phytopharmaceutical (plant-derived) drug for the treatment of COVID-19. The company had received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for conducting the phase II clinical trial in April this year. The trial will be conducted across 12 centres in India in 210 patients, the company said in a statement. For patients, the duration of treatment will be 10 days and the results of the trial are expected by October 2020. “Human safety study of AQCH has already been completed and the drug has been found safe at the recommended dose for phase II study,” Sun Pharma said. Dilip Shanghvi, MD, Sun Pharma, said, “This is the first phytopharmaceutical drug approved for clinical trials by the DCGI as a potential treatment for COVID-19. AQCH has shown anti-SARS-CoV-2 effects in in-vitro studies conducted in collaboration with ICGEB, Italy,” he said.
06 June 2020||Mumbai,||RBI creates Rs. 500 cr. fund to boost payment infra||The RBI has created a Payments Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) to encourage acquirers to deploy Points of Sale (PoS) infrastructure — both physical and digital modes — in tier-3 to tier-6 centres and north eastern states. RBI will make an initial contribution of Rs. 250 crore to the PIDF, covering half of the fund, while the remaining contribution will be from card-issuing banks and card networks operating in the country. “Over the years, the payments ecosystem in the country has evolved with a wide range of options such as bank accounts, mobile phones, cards, etc. To provide further fillip to digitisation of payment systems, it is necessary to give impetus to acceptance infrastructure across the country, more so in under-served areas,” the RBI said. The PIDF will be governed through an Advisory Council and managed and administered by RBI. The PIDF will also receive recurring contributions to cover operational expenses from card-issuing banks and card networks. RBI will also contribute to yearly shortfalls, if necessary. “Given the high cost of merchant acquisition and merchant terminalisation, most of the POS terminals in the country are concentrated in tier 1 and 2 cities and towns and other regions have been left out,” Deepak Chandnani, MD, Worldline South Asia and Middle East.
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Coffee Day names EY to evaluate potential suitors||Coffee Day Enterprises has appointed consulting firm EY to do preliminary due diligence on proposals for investment in its subsidiary Coffee Day Global Ltd. Coffee Day Enterprises, in a regulatory filing on Friday said, “The Board of the Coffee Day Global Limited, material subsidiary of the company in its meeting held on June 5, 2020, appointed EY to provide interim business support services and to perform preliminary due diligence procedures to evaluate the potential proposals for investment, if any, by interested investors in Coffee Day Global Limited.” Businesses of Coffee Day Global include cafe retail outlets in India and overseas and a large roasting facility in Chikmagaluru. These businesses were valued in the range of Rs. 6,000-Rs. 6,500 crore, just about a year ago, but the value has now halved to Rs. 3,000 crore to Rs. 3,500 crore, a source said. The plantation part is owned by the founder V.G. Siddhartha’s family, but if a buyer shows interest in an integrated deal, the family may be willing to sell the plantations as well, as per sources. “Talks with potential investors slowed down due to the pandemic, but they are back on track now,” said a company official.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Don’t initiate new schemes, Ministries told||The Finance Ministry has asked all ministries and departments not to initiate any new scheme in the current financial year and said that there is a need to use resources prudently in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. However, funds for schemes under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package and any other special package or announcement would be allocated, according to an office memorandum by the Department of Expenditure. Also, schemes that are already approved for the currrent financial year will remain suspended till March 31 next year or further orders. This would also include schemes for which in-principle approval has been given by the department.
06 June 2020||New delhi,||Govt. suspends insolvency proceedings||The government on Friday promulgated an ordinance to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) whereby fresh insolvency proceedings will not be initiated for at least six months starting from March 25 amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Default on repayments from March 25, the day when the nationwide lockdown began to curb COVID-19 infections, would not be considered for initiating the proceedings for at least six months. The move may provide relief for corporates as the lockdown had significantly impacted economic activities.
06 June 2020||COIMBATORE,||ECGC to settle claims in 4 months||The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India (ECGC) plans to clear all pending claims of apparel exporters in four months. M. Senthilnathan, Chairman and Managing Director of ECGC, said during a webinar that the Corporation plans to clear all pending claims in four months. Exporters should share their documents and correspondences with international buyers so that the ECGC can process the claims quickly. Insolvency rates are high in the developed economies and these are going to go up further because of the pandemic’s impact on GDP growth. .
06 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw wins EY World Entrepreneur of the Year 2020 Award||Biocon Ltd. announced that its executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw has been named the EY World Entrepreneur of the Year 2020 (WEOY) at a virtual award ceremony held late on Thursday. She has been honoured with the title from among a distinguished list of 46 EOY country award winners from 41 countries and territories, the Bengaluru-headquartered biopharmaceuticals company said in a statement.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||GST Council to meet on June 12||The GST Council is scheduled to meet on June 12 and likely to discuss the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on tax revenues, sources said. The 40th meeting of the GST Council, headed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state counterparts, will be held via video-conferencing. The meeting would discuss the impact of the pandemic on revenues of the Centre and states and ways to bridge the revenue gap. The Council will also discuss ways to garner funds to compensate states for the revenue loss due to GST implementation.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||IL&FS Transportation incurs Rs 17,000 cr standalone loss in FY20||IL&FS Transportation Networks, a group company of the troubled IL&FS Group, on Friday reported a standalone loss of Rs. 17,000.32 crore for fiscal year 2019-20, amid COVID-19 disruptions. The company had clocked a standalone profit of Rs. 251.76 crore during the fiscal 2018-19, it said in a regulatory filing. However, the company did not provide figures for the fourth quarter of the fiscal 2019-20 and the consolidated figures for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2020.
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,||District volleyballers begin training||Volleyball players have begun training in several districts of Tamil Nadu, and the State association (TNSVA) is keen to get the government’s permission for players to practise at the Sivanthi Thidal inside the Nehru Stadium campus and the Nehru Indoor Stadium here. “Our district boys’ teams in Tiruvarur, Coimbatore, Sivagangai, Erode, Tuticorin, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai have begun training from the first of June after getting permission from the respective District Collectors. “The players have been following all the safety measures. We will mail the Chief Minister and the Sports Minister regarding practice in Chennai. We assure there will be no violations,” TNSVA president Gautham Sigamani told The Hindu on Friday. Time to start With the players having been idle for nearly three months because of the COVID-19 outbreak, Sigamani said it was important for them to get back on court. “If not, it will be difficult for them and they will take more time to get back to peak shape,” he said. Sigamani said the feedback from the players who have started practising has been very positive. “Other districts have also asked us whether they too can start. But it depends on the District Collector. We hope to get permission for the remaining districts, too,” he said. The TNSVA calendar for the new season, according to Sigamani, has gone for a toss because of the pandemic. “We conducted the State selection trials in Tiruvarur in January. “We couldn’t do much after the lockdown in March,” he said. Sigamani said the TNSVA is in the process of collecting funds to donate to the players and coaches who need them the most. “We are looking at an amount of Rs. 10 lakh. By next week or so, we should do it,” he said.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Players have to be very cautious: Axelsen||Viktor Axelsen won this year’s All England title in March, just before the pandemic-driven lockdowns stalled on-court action. Obviously, he had neither the time nor the opportunity to celebrate the triumph the way he wanted. Really special “It doesn’t take anything away from my victory. It’s really special to have the All England triumph on my CV,” comes the response from the former World champion and World No. 1. Unlike Indian players, this lanky Dane is back on court to prepare for the events announced for the year. On his return to the court after the forced lay-off, Axelsen told news channel WION, “I’m really delighted to be back on the court. We are fortunate in Denmark that the situation improved considerably, so we returned to practice. “We’re not back to full throttle yet and only a limited number of players are back. It’s definitely better than nothing.” Profitable year The 2017 World champion and the top-ranked player that year, is currently ranked fourth. Back from an injury, the Rio Olympics bronze medallist did well this year, winning two titles from three finals. Talking about the packed BWF Calendar and how he planned to play, Axelsen said, “It’s is an extremely ambitious plan, 22 tournaments have been planned in such a short span of time. Players will have to be very cautious since the risk of injury will be high. “I hope players put a lot of thought before planning their schedule, because playing too many back-to-back tournaments is really tough on the body. I don’t know what the right thing to do is, but I have to be very careful.” Axelsen did not see it possible for the players to undergo two weeks of quarantine upon arrival for tournaments. Restrictions “Hopefully, by September, some of the international travel restrictions will be relaxed. If that isn’t the case then it’s going to be very difficult for players to travel for events all over the world. “We have to wait and see what happens, I’m just keeping my fingers crossed,” he said.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAd,||Coaches have a tough task on hand: Narinderpal||In 2005, he was pitchforked into the hot seat of the star-studded Hyderabad Sultans coach in the inaugural edition of the Premier Hockey League. And, to his credit, Narinderpal Singh lived up to the expectations to guide the Dilip Turkey-led team to the title. And, the 64-year-old Narinderpal believes hockey coaches, or any coach for that matter, will now face several challenges given the COVID guidelines in place. First priority “Coaches should focus first on motor abilities, individual training, mental toughness and, most importantly, ensuring camaraderie,” he told The Hindu on Friday. “When you are not sure from where it (virus) is going to hit you, that is where the real challenge lies. The vulnerability factor will be a major handicap,” said the coach who guided India to victory in the inaugural 2000 Asian under-14 (boys) championship in Singapore. During the first two months, on resumption of training, the coach and psychologist should work in tandem to toughen up the players physically and mentally, he said. Keeping morale high The former assistant coach of Indian teams to Azlan Shah and Rabobank international tournaments said coaches would also be hampered by the uncertainty regarding tournament schedules. Keeping morale high and players match-fit would be a huge challenge, he said. “It is also a pity that having qualified for the Tokyo Olympics, the hockey teams have had to deal with such a long break because of the lockdown, clearly breaking the momentum,” Narinderpal concluded.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Success stories of three Olympic champs||When three Olympic champions, Fehaid Aldeehani, Vincent Hancock and Peter Wilson, engaged in conversation, navigated by Commonwealth Games champion Moraad Ali Khan, it was a spell-binding experience. It was not just a talk about success stories. It gave an insight into how they pursued their golden dream and offered a glimpse of the non-sporting aspects of their lives. Happy Times It was the concept of ‘Happy Times’, initiated by Amit Bhalla, vice-president, Manav Rachna Educational Institutions, that brought the champions together on the video platform, from Kuwait, Britain and the US, connecting them to a worldwide audience. “I feel the odd man out here. We have two truly incredible champions. I have looked up to them. These guys have been to multiple Games and won multiple medals,” said Wilson, in awe of the other two. Hancock is just 31 years of age and has already won gold at both the Beijing and London Olympics in skeet. He has won four World Championship gold and 12 World Cup gold medals. In contrast, the 53-year-old Aldeehani won his first Olympic medal in 2000 in double trap and came back to claim the gold in the Rio Games in 2016. He had won the trap bronze in London. Not easy “Winning an Olympic medal is not easy. I have been shooting for 30 years and gained experience — both positive and negative. I have believed in myself,” said Aldeehani. “My mindset has changed over the years. It was an incredible year in 2005. I was winning everything. That set the stage for the Beijing Games,” said Hancock. “Having had such success early, I believed that I could accomplish anything if I put my mind to it.” Nervous  Before the Olympic final at home in London, Wilson, who had a three-point lead, was nervous. “I was petrified. My coach, Shaik Ahmed Almaktoum, said that it was ok to be nervous. I am not allowed to divulge some points. He broke the final into specific targets. He was an amazing guy,” recalled Wilson.
06 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Following new guidelines a challenge’||Sri Lankan great Kumar Sangakkara says it will be interesting to see how players cope with the new ICC guidelines when cricket resumes after the COVID-19 hiatus. With government restrictions easing, the ICC has come out with guidelines for safe resumption. Keeping social distancing norms on and off the field and ‘safe’ ball management are among the dos and don’ts listed. The Cricket Committee also recommended a ban on use of saliva to shine the ball. “For fast bowlers or spinners, shining the ball, is an instinctive thing, they have done it over so many years since they were kids,” Sangakkara, the President of Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), said on Star Sports show ‘Cricket Connected’ “Cricket is a social game, most of the time you spend in the dressing room — you talk, you chat. This will be a very clinical thing, you come ready to play, no warm-ups, you do everything right and you go home. So, it will be interesting to see how the players deal with that,” he said. Cricketers from several top teams, including England, Australia, West Indies and Sri Lanka have already begun outdoor training under strict safety protocols as the sport is taking early steps towards resumption. The England and Wales Cricket Board has announced its schedule for a proposed three-Test series at home against the West Indies starting July 8, which is likely to be the first series to happen after the coronavirus break.
06 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Earth will make moves against Space||“Four days left,” tweeted Sergey Karjakin on Friday. It is no ordinary match the former World rapid and blitz chess champion is looking forward to. In the game on June 9, Karjakin, who had challenged Magnus Carlsen unsuccessfully for the 2016 World championship (classical), is representing Earth which will take on Space. That day will mark the 50th anniversary of the first-ever chess game between Earth and Space. Space is being represented by the two Russian cosmonauts, Anatoly Ivanishin and Ivan Vagner. They will make their moves from the International Space Station (ISS), which is some 408 km away from the surface of the Earth. Karjakin will be seated at the Memorial Museum of Cosmonautics, Moscow, during the game which will be streamed live by the Russian Chess Federation. In the first match between Earth and Space, in 1970, Andrian Nikolayev and Vitaly Sevastyanov matched wits against Viktor Gorbakto and Nikolai Kamanin. The game was drawn. In 2008-09, NASA and the US Chess Federation had organised a match between Earth and Space. Nobody would have imagined then that another match like that would take place at a time when the entire (sporting) world is locked down by a virus.
06 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||A different experience for Tarakeswara Rao||For former Andhra Cricket Association panel umpire J. Tarakeswara Rao, it is a different experience. He has been asked by the Willow Cricket Academy — part of the American Cricket Enterprise (ACE) and a strategic partner of USA Cricket — to develop a training programme and content for junior and youth players. “This is quite challenging and I am really enjoying it,” says Tarak, who first officiated as an on-field umpire in the VDCA matches in 2000. Tarak moved to the United States in 2012 and has been associated with the Triangle Cricket League in Morrisville (North Carolina, affiliated to USA Cricket), slowly making his mark in the cricketing circles there. “I am grateful to Morrisville for letting me on their umpiring panel, and now I am a registered umpire with USA Cricket,” he said. “After being selected by the ACA to appear for exams to qualify as a BCCI umpire in 2008, I had to put a pause to my umpiring career despite getting through the written exam before moving over to the US.” “I also developed an interest in becoming a scorer and improved my skills, thanks to VDCA’s support, and passed the BCCI panel statisticians and scorers’ test in 2004,” he said. “In 2005, I completed the BCCI’s computerised online scoring programme and officiated in three ODIs, the first one being the India-West Indies match in Vijayawada in 2002, and also many inter-State matches.” “I love cricket and can’t be away from it. I hope to do full justice to any assignment given by USA Cricket”.
06 June 2020||KOLKATA,||CAB calls off 2019-20 season||The Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) on Friday decided to call off the 2019-20 season due to COVID-19. After a meeting of the tournament committee, CAB president Avishek Dalmiya announced “after a prolonged and detailed deliberation, all the tournaments for the season 2019-20 have been called off as the health and safety of our players is paramount to the association. It was also decided that it would be a fresh season when we start next. There will be no continuity from this season.” There is no clarity on how promotion and demotion would be done.
06 June 2020||BENGALURU,||Bengaluru United keen to bid for I-League slot||Second division club FC Bengaluru United would be keen to bid for a direct I-League slot for the 2020-21 season, club owner Gaurav Manchanda confirmed to The Hindu . The AIFF, on Friday, invited bids for new clubs from cities that do not have I-League clubs. "Yes, we would be keen if possible from Bengaluru," Manchanda said.
06 June 2020||LONDON,||Kohli only cricketer and sixth overall||Virat Kohli emerged as the only cricketer in the top-10 list of highest-earning athletes through sponsored Instagram posts during the lockdown. Kohli, who ranked sixth, earned a total of £379,294 through his posts. Cristiano Ronaldo (£1.8 million) topped the list.PTI
06 June 2020||CHENNAI,||How archaeologists continued digging from home during the current lockdown||The coronavirus pandemic has stopped archaeologists from going to dig at sites, but not a U.K.-based team from continuing its research. Equipped with airborne survey data, a team of volunteers, locked down in their homes, sat and analysed thousands of images derived from Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) data. In this method, commonly used by geologists and surveyors to make high-resolution maps, laser light is used to survey a site and its reflection is measured with a sensor. The study team was led by Dr. Chris Smart from the University of Exeter. According to a release from the university, the team has found parts of two Roman roads, around 30 prehistoric or Roman large embanked settlement enclosures, locate about 20 prehistoric burial mounds, remains of hundreds of medieval farms, and a few quarries. “The images are usually taken during aerial surveys and the maps are very detailed. One can remove the vegetation and buildings from the map and take a closer look at the land surfaces,” Dr. Smart told The Hindu . “The images are derived from two sources of data — a research project called Tellus South West Project and also the U.K. Environment Agency. The data is open access and the images that are computed from the data are copyright of the University of Exeter.” ‘Lockdown Landscapes’ The team is currently studying the Tamar Valley, a rich archaeological landscape with many sites belonging to the Iron Age and Roman era. “Our project is excavating a large Roman fort at a place called Calstock,” added Dr. Smart. The team has planned to extend the study to other areas like Bodmin Moor and Dartmoor, Plymouth and Barnstaple — about 4,000 sq. km. in all. “I knew there would be enthusiasm within our volunteer group to continue working during lockdown — one even suggested temporarily re-branding our project ‘Lockdown Landscapes’,” Dr. Smart added in the release. Immense potential Prof. Ritvik Balvally from the Department of Archaeology and Ancient History at the Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, added that the technology had immense potential for India. “Though LiDAR has been used for agriculture and geology-related applications, our country has still not used it in archaeology to the best of my knowledge. The problem is that the data needs to be bought and processed by experts. Also, they might be expensive.” He added that he would like to use LiDAR to explore the Saurashtra temple city named Ghumli, which was the capital of the Saindhava empire. He explained that the site was located in Barda hills and there were many temples atop it that could be explored. “LiDAR will also help in understanding domestic architecture, and defensive architecture like moats and fortifications in the area. We can even look at the hydrology and water management systems in greater detail, all of which is probably under dense vegetation. Remote sensing techniques such as LiDAR would be time saving and most useful in this regard,” he added.
06 June 2020||Boston/ New Delhi,||Lancet and NEJM retract controversial studies on COVID-19||Authors of two controversial studies published in The Lancet journal and the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM)  have retracted their research on COVID-19 as they could not vouch for the veracity of the data, sourced from a private company, for their analysis. The scientists, including Mandeep Mehra from Harvard Medical School, who was one of the common co-authors in the two studies, retracted the research papers stating that the members of the teams were not granted access to the underlying data for their research. Both the studies relied on data from a private company based in Illinois, U.S. called Surgisphere Corporation, with its CEO Sapan Desai and Mehra being common authors in the two research papers.  The Lancet study published on May 22, claimed to have assessed data from more than 96,000 hospitalised COVID-19 patients from six continents and reported substantially increased deaths and incidences of heartbeat rhythm changes associated with the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and closely related drug chloroquine. The NEJM report on May 1, suggested that any underlying heart disease in patients hospitalised for COVID-19 treatment is associated with an increased risk of death. However, in two open letters written to the editors of both the journals on May 31, more than a hundred scientists from across the world flagged major discrepancies in the quality of the data used in two studies. The letters noted that the HCQ research was based on a database from Surgisphere, which according the scientists, hosts COVID-19 patient data from hospitals around the world. The letters flagged several points of concern about the validity of this data, and the kind of analysis done in the study with it.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Spiritual gurus||Thirumoolar, in his Thirumantiram , talks of sages who worshipped Lord Siva, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. He mentions four sages — Sanaka, Sanatana, Sanandana and Sanatkumara. He mentions four others, too, who also became spiritual gurus. These four are Sivayoga muni, Vyagrapada, Patanajali, and Thirumoolar himself. Thirumoolar was originally Sundaranatha. When a cowherd called Moolan died, Sundaranatha exited his body and entered Moolan’s body and became Thirumoolar, the saint. Thirumoolar acknowledges that all this happened because Lord Siva wanted Vedanta and the knowledge of the Agamas to reach everyone. Thirumoolar had seven disciples, and he gives their names — Malankan, Indiran, Soman, Brahman, Rudran, Kalangi and Kanjamalayan. Thirumoolar’s teachings were carried down from generation to generation. This is seen from one of Thayumanavar’s statements. Thayumanavar’s guru was Mauna guru, and Thayumanavar says that Mauna guru followed the tradition of Thirumoolar. Thayumanavar lived in the 18th century. So clearly, Thirumoolar’s teachings had an impact that continued to extend for centuries, and the impact still continues. Thirumoolar says that Sanaka, Sanatana, Sanandana and Sanatkumara learnt about the greatness of Lord Siva, and they wanted to communicate it to everyone because they wanted everyone to have the joyful experience they had had. It is not enough if we have jnana. Imparting knowledge to others is important. Thirumoolar says Lord Siva has no desires. He is not subject to temptations. His good qualities are limitless, and cannot be described. He does not show His greatness to everyone. He reveals it only to a few. Thirumoolar again repeats the names of the sages who had this blessing.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 08:52 IST,||Sudoku - June 6, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Momo mia||In the good old days, just a couple of months ago, when walking in the neighbourhood was a pleasurable activity, I used to marvel at the enterprise of some of our people. They would stand at a busy corner of my residential colony, next to a small stand that carried an aluminium steamer. Inside it were hot momos — filled with minced chicken or vegetables. Those days when social distancing happened only if you had conjunctivitis, people would stand next to the young vendor, and have their fill of momos. Nnow that walking occupies a spot somewhere between human trafficking and smuggling, I don’t go out — and I am certain the momo sellers don’t stand where they used to, either. It’s human nature to yearn for something that you don’t see any more. I had been wistfully thinking of momos — when I heard about Momo King. It’s a momo outlet with five branches and a base kitchen in Okhla (selling mostly momos, but there are other times on the menu, too) and it delivers across south Delhi and Gurugram (9999377811). A representative tells me that a strict hygiene regimen is followed by all staffers, including delivery men. I looked at the menu and realised the momos, with fillings of chicken, vegetables, cheese and minced soya, were steamed, pan-fried, cooked in a tandoor, coated with masala or presented in gravy. Momo King deals with Himalayan momos — so it offers dimsums from Darjeeling, Nepal, Ladakh and so on. The sandheko momos are spicy and tangy pan-fried dumplings; the jhol momo comes in a thick curry and the kothey are Nepali momos pan-fried and dipped in butter. You can ask for a plate of five or eight. We went for the five-momo plates, and asked for Steamed Chicken Masala (Rs. 119), Darjeeling Chicken Kothey (Rs. 129), Cheese Jhol Momo (Rs. 169), Darjeeling Chicken Tandoori Momo (Rs. 169), and Spicy Choila or Steamed Veg Momo (Rs. 129). Along with that, we ordered a plate of Hakka Chicken Noodles (Rs. 169). I particularly liked the Jhol Momo; the gravy had softened the dumpling, while giving it a zing. The Choila Veg Momo had a spicy coating, which we all enjoyed. The stuffing in each of the momos was lightly flavoured, which was nice. I now hear that the menu is expanding from June 10. It will then offer Malaysian Laksa momos, with a spicy coconut curry broth, and meal boxes (momos, curries, rice or noodles and hot sauces). It will also include wheat momos, Ladakhi mutton momos, beetroot momos, spicy cottage cheese momo, chicken and water chestnut, soya-and-nut free momos with spinach, corn and mushrooms and even Tibetan pork momos. The rates are reasonable. I paid Rs. 690, and had quite a nice meal of momos and noodles. The noodles, however, were a little too dry.   Very recently, someone asked me what I thought a true pan-Indian street food item is. I said it was the momo. You find it everywhere in India, and every neighbourhood has its own small momo corner. Momos are wholesome and fill the stomach. And if you want, you can experiment with the casing, and the filling. The writer is a seasoned food critic
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||None so blind...||“A riot is the language of the unheard.” These words by Martin Luther King, Jr  echo over and over again as protests rage across the US in the wake of the murder of George Floyd, killed by a policeman for using a fake $20 bill. Two oceans away, in India, King’s words resonate. More so because average Indians get shocked by blatant racism in American policing, but wear a Gandhariesque blindfold when it comes to casteism and communalism in police departments closer home. King’s words resonate also because Indians are being forced to re-examine words like ‘riot’, ‘protest’, and ‘activism’, not because we did not know their meanings before but because these words are being painted over by obfuscation. Controlling language is key to controlling thought; thus, for instance, when Britain replaced the name ‘Official Secrets Act’ with ‘Official Information Act’ in 1976, it could, without changing a single clause, pretend to transparency. Governments use such linguistic masks because, to misquote Orwell, they want heretical thoughts to become literally unspeakable. But beyond changing words, what if we change the meanings themselves? What if the meanings of words like “activist” or “protest” are so twisted that their original import is entirely lost? That’s what we’re seeing today. Referring to the US riots, New Delhi politician Kapil Mishra tweeted: “When wrong people hijack your roads, burn your city and attack cops, right people should not remain mute.” (Italics is mine.) Decoded, this means that it’s okay for the ‘right’ people — rendered ‘right’ by colour, caste, religion or state power — to run around with guns or lathis , but when citizens protest, it becomes an ‘anti-national’ act. Mishra’s inspiration comes from the highest places. President Trump, who many scholars credit with having ushered in an era of laissez-faire racism, cheered when armed Americans stormed out to protest the lockdown, but responded to the outpouring of rage against the Floyd murder by announcing: “You’ve got to arrest people… put them in jail for 10 years and you’ll never see this stuff again.” The language that classifies some protests as ‘illegitimate’ while sanctioning others echoes the same structural injustices that trigger the protests in the first place. This muddying is commonplace, but most of us are happily unaware of it because we’re unwilling to look behind populist narratives. Not so long ago, in Uttar Pradesh, a row of Dalit homes was burnt down by an upper-caste mob. The enraged Dalits, in a rare show of strength, went on a rampage. How did it end? Several Dalits were arrested on charges of rioting but the torched homes were never mentioned again. Within days, the protest had become the crime while the reason for the protest had been erased. Like Floyd, the millions rendered jobless by the lockdown who’ve been trudging India’s streets, cashless and hapless, have often been thrashed, arrested and criminalised. But officialese and TV-speak lightly recasts these victims of government neglect as wretched ingrates. When Indians came out in millions to oppose the blatantly communal Citizenship Amendment Act, what sleight of linguistic magic made it possible for so many people to believe that the gathering in public places was the crime while ignoring the anguish that drove people to the streets? If it’s really possible that so many of us can be so blissfully blind to the myriad ways in which the scales are weighed against certain minorities, castes or genders, then indeed, as writer James Baldwin said, “It is the innocence which constitutes the crime”. From beneath this mantle of criminal innocence, the burning of a bus becomes more monstrous than the killing of a man. From a 2BHK balcony, the view of “law and order” is excellent — it keeps you safe while squashing the disenfranchised, the disappointed, the disconnected and the disappeared. Yet, that 2BHK was made possible because not so long ago, many Indians went on long, hard, sometimes peaceful, sometimes violent protests against colonial rule. They werelathi-charged, jailed or hanged by a regime that treated them not as ‘protestors’ but as ‘law-breakers’. Today, as conversations around injustice and the systems that sustain injustice are reignited by Floyd’s murder, one hopes they will provide a lens for the comfortable classes here that refracts for them a sharper image of their own cracked society. And steers their censorious glance away from the protestors and on to the system they are protesting. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Maid, maida, monkey, Meryl||It’s not often that there are so many exciting things happening at once. For a fearless columnist like myself, whose only concern is bringing the best story to his adoring readers, this poses a problem. Which one do I choose to report in this incisive essay? This fortnight, I decided I wouldn’t. So here I am, writing about all of them. For starters, a troop of Meerut-dwelling monkeys, exhibiting both rear ends and urban-naxal tendencies, attacked a medical official and snatched away blood samples of patients who had tested positive for Covid-19. And when the medical officers tried using the hoary trick from The Cap Seller and the Monkeys , the simians apparently laughed and laughed, shaking their shoulders just like India’s most beloved god-man when he’s overcome by his own tremendous wittiness. Then came the Pakistani locusts, in swarms, wearing tiny ‘I Heart Miandad’ tees. These rapacious beasts, capable of eating their own body weight in food, not unlike some of us at buffets, wreaked havoc on crops in Rajasthan, Gujarat, etc. Experts say the wily little marauders are merely snoozing after the mad binging, are constantly in touch with their across-the-border handlers, and watching Bollywood workout videos to get back in shape for another excursion. Samsung, meanwhile, announced a fridge that can make curd. A most ingenious concept, one must admit. My question: does this revolutionary fridge make the milk by itself, too? If so, is there a teeny cow inside? And a cute little milkman like the ones we see in our UKG picture books? And most importantly, is a TV that makes whisky in the offing then? If so, could they do it quickly? If there is excitement, can Baba Ramdev be far behind? Patanjali announced its launch of clinical trials on humans to find a cure for Covid-19. “We are not talking about an immunity booster. We are talking about a cure,” said Acharya Balkrishna. So we can safely assume it’s not garlic, gaumutra , turmeric and ashwagandha in toothpaste form. Something tells me the cure will be produced using the famed bulloctricity technology that the Baba pioneered a couple of years ago, and there will be much kapalbhati . Corona, your days are numbered. Finally, Hema ji . I save all things Hema ji for the climax. Other than Bharatanatyam and taking up the cause of the monkeys of Mathura (not to be confused with those of Meerut), what is the Dream Girl best known for? Kent, of course. Kent recently announced a ‘maid-free’ atta - and bread-maker with the headline ‘Are you allowing your maid to knead the dough by hand? She may be infected.’ And it had Hema ji and Esha Deol standing right next to the product looking utterly pure and infection-free. Before Samsung and Kent got together and put out a joint ad that showed the nutritional value of having bread with curd, all home-made with no maid-hands involved, Twitter played spoilsport and Kent had to issue an apology. Hema ji reacted immediately. “Views expressed by the recent Kent ad,” she said, “do not resonate with my values and are inappropriate. I respect and stand by all sections of society.” Perhaps what Hema ji meant was, “I don’t trust only Kent.” Or, “I don’t only trust Kent.” Or, “I don’t trust Kent only.” Meanwhile, Esha Deol, whether in connection with this or not I can’t say, declared, “My mom can pull off Meryl Streep’s role from The Devil Wears Prada for sure.” Meryl Streep refused to comment. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The hidden cost||Charity is a moral prerogative with an economic aftermath. It is not a quote, but an observation. And we need to understand how it works, given the undeniable ground realities of our times. With the apparel and textile industries being among the hardest hit by the Covid-19 fallout (cyclone Amphan did its bit, too), it comes as no surprise that individuals in the fashion community feel that this is the time to mobilise and garner support. The feeling is admirable. In this context, a simple idea is to ask fashion designers to ‘contribute’ garments for a charity sale. It has been done before, and in the weeks and months to come, more such sales will be announced. Honest and sincere voices will call in favours and ask you to spend for good causes. Successful sales will decidedly help. But here’s where the dissonance begins. We are too ready to accept that those who are ‘buying’ said garments are ‘spending their hard-earned money’, while designers are simply ‘contributing’ clothes. By thinking this way, we annihilate the economic reality of production and manufacture, and give undue importance to the holder of the purse. In simpler words, we need to question why we feel it is OK to ask designers — who spend considerable time, resources, and money to make their garments — to give them away for free. Especially when they sorely need to be making actual sales. For those ‘spending money’, it is a retail exchange made prettier by the patina of philanthropy. It assuages buyers’ guilt in these terrible times. In exchange, designers and their entire ecosystem of artisans and workers get nothing. How is this fair? Unless designers recover their costs at least, it isn’t. Fashion is a notoriously misunderstood industry. A handful of its biggest players continue to define its glamorous and rich public perception. But a huge number of its smaller members have always struggled, even while selling far more in terms of numbers. They employ a handful of workers in small units in cramped locations, even as their Instagram feeds tell a different story. Few talk about their problems openly; it besmirches the dream that is fashion. But at a time like this, their reality becomes central to how we engage with this beautiful, creative industry that is also a considerable source of employment. About now, I expect to hear voices saying, “Nobody’s putting a gun to a designer’s head to contribute clothes for free.” Absolutely right. But there are more ways than one to cock a pistol. What happens when someone in a position of influence asks designers to contribute to a charity sale? Think. A designer capable of doing so does it. But for those who can’t contribute without causing themselves financial harm, the choice is not so simple. The fear (even if imagined) of peer censure and social media backlash, of an awkward situation, is very real. The fashion industry runs on connections. Word-of-mouth is powerful. Especially if those words come out of a powerful mouth. Or pen. Not to mention trolls on social media. If such ideas are to be executed, I submit that it be done with a sensitive touch. Put out an open call on social media and let designers who can afford it come forward. That way, we avoid pressuring or intimidating those who cannot. Remember, since the lockdown began, many designers decided to support their artisans and workers in a variety of ways (I wrote about it in this newspaper in an article titled Fashion’s first responders ). Many have continued doing so for over two months with little or no sales, stores being closed, their international and domestic orders cancelled, no relief on rents, GST, or loan payments, and no clarity from the government. If this is the commitment our designers have proven already, why should they feel any fear of judgment, personal or public? It is the easiest ideas that require careful, often painful, scrutiny. As a body, the fashion industry cannot be made to fill in where a democratically elected government has proven ineffectual. A retail proposition — for that is what fashion is — cannot keep pouring out its cups even as its own lips dry up.  Varun Rana is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at The House of Angadi. All views expressed are the author’s own.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Take it outdoors||Pradeep Sachdeva is most remembered for his work as the architect of Delhi’s iconic open-plan crafts bazaar and food hub, Dilli Haat. But there is considerably more that he created — to free urban retail hubs from overwhelming structural confines — that will likely be relevant in the post-lockdown world. Whether it is the quirky 20-acre Garden of Five Senses built on a rocky terrain with a bevy of upscale restaurants and nooks for cultural engagement, or the ongoing landscaping of streets and open spaces at Jama Masjid, his democratic and aesthetic designs fit right into the needs of social distancing in the time of the coronavirus pandemic. This is because Sachdeva, who was 63 when he passed away on May 31, focussed on a mass, pedestrian experience for projects in the public realm. They offer a breather in the smog of crowded urban living. Pune-based architect Christopher Charles Benninger, his first “boss”, says Sachdeva played a unique role in the history of post-independent India as one of the first architects who rediscovered roots through craftspeople, and natural and indigenous materials. “He did this first at Dilli Haat with crafts expert Jaya Jaitly. And a city cluttered with colonial alien ideas, western socialist PWD architecture, and faux modern junk, for the first time saw the Indian ethos formally enter the public realm,” he says. Dilli Haat is a genuine integration of innovative urban design with a people-centric, cultural experience. Clearly, a traditional bazaar reimagined as an upmarket shopping centre seems an appropriate prescription for the times. To read the extended version of this article, visit thehindu.com
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Escaping through film||As lockdown is eased in many parts of the world, while others continue to suffer the pain of enforced confinement, a sense of catharsis can be achieved by sitting at home. Those fortunate enough to have VR headsets can escape into elaborate worlds, but there are plenty of options for those in possession of everyday screens. Lenny Abrahamson’s Room (2015) is difficult to watch as we gradually realise that a young woman (an Oscar-winning turn by Brie Larson) and her child (Jacob Tremblay) are captive in a tiny, self-contained space. When they finally manage to escape, the sense of freedom that the audience feel along with them is palpable. The lonely lives of Larson and her child brought to mind Chantal Akerman’s Jeanne Dielman, 23 Quai du Commerce 1080 Bruxelles (1975), where we see the quotidian routine of Delphine Seyrig (playing the titular role) and Jan Decorte, playing her son, Sylvain. Emerging from lockdown might feel like jailbreak, but no, I am not going to mention that film, so there. Instead, I will mention perhaps the suzerain of all confinement films, another Kubrick masterpiece, The Shining (1980). But if masochism during lockdown is your thing, look no further than Duncan Jones’ Moon (2009), where Sam Rockwell is alone in space with only his computer GERTY (voiced by the now infamous Kevin Spacey) for company. Space is, of course, a popular place to be alone, as each viewing of Kubrick’s immortal 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) proves. For those looking for a more grounded release, Sandra Bullock is left alone in space in Gravity (2013). When she finally gets back to Earth, it is a stand-up and cheer moment. Similarly, in James Gray’s Ad Astra (2019), when Brad Pitt makes it back to Earth in one piece, the audience is imbued with a huge sense of relief. Here’s looking forward to life after lockdown, with whatever shreds of normalcy we can gather while keeping the virus at bay. Naman Ramachandran is a journalist and author of Rajinikanth: The Definitive Biography, and tweets @namanrs. An extended version of the Steadycam column is on weekend.thehindu.com.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Pride Month: June began with the #21DaysAllyChallenge, with participants introspecting on and sharing what they’ve learnt through taking up 21 daily micro-challenges on Instagram. To show your support, sign up on thepridecircle.com. Over on YouTube, the Smithsonian Museum is headlining Project Pride, a virtual concert and celebration of LGBTQ heritage and history.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for good news||Fresh off his first solo Netflix stand-up special,The Most Interesting Person in the Room, Kenny Sebastian has launched a new mini-show on Instagram. InHappy News Now, he will share uplifting stories from around the world (@kennethseb). Founders of the satirical card game, Cards Against Humanity, runThe Good News Podcast. Their aim is to remind listeners that there is more to the world than just bad 'breaking' news. The ad-free podcast runs at four minutes per episode. On all major audio streaming platforms and on thegoodnewspodcast.fm
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Greens and iced treats||Chennai residents can now order hydroponic greens from Sustenance through a convenient web portal. To celebrate, they're giving 10% off across the store to all customers, with the code FIRST10 on sustenance.co.in. If you'd rather indulge your sweet tooth, Minus 30 — the refreshment partner at Evoluzione — is delivering a range of handmade gelatos. Pick from a variety of flavours including Belgian chocolate, pistachio and honey, and espresso, as well as vegan and sugar-free versions. From Rs. 750 for 500 ml.9566268881
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for the house party||Shake or stir up some easy-to-make gin cocktails and soak up some tricks of the bartending trade, to impress at your next home party. Organised by Tulleeho, four free workshops will be held over the course of four Saturdays, starting June 13. From 6-7 pm. To get your webinar link, register online at tulleeho.com  7011702081 Udemy offers a paid course guided by Paul Martin, who has taught over 30,000 bartenders. Learn to create perfect examples of 16 of the world's great classic and contemporary cocktails. At Rs. 1,920 on udemy.com
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Black Lives Matter: Our social media timelines have been filled with black squares and #BlackLivesMatter all week. In support of the ongoing protests that have been met with police violence, people across the world have been posting. But the performative wokeness of those who condone and stay quiet about casteism and other issues in our own country has irked many — and the conversation continues.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop it||Sign up for an interactive workshop on origami with Aditi Anuj, organised by Skillxn, a skill-sharing platform based in Bengaluru. The NID Ahmedabad graduate’s work was seen inSacred Gamesseason two. She will guide you via Zoom to craft your own masterpieces. No age limit. At Rs. 500 per head. Today from 10.30 am to 12.30 pm. But if you prefer traditional art, there is a Madhubani masterclass with Sushila Prakash, June 8 to 10. It will cover the basic patterns and equip participants to come up with their own designs. At Rs. 1,500 per head8897444151
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Music for all||YouTube is celebrating US graduation season withDear Class of 2020, a livestream event led by Barack and Michelle Obama. Other keynote speakers are Lady Gaga, the K-pop phenomenon BTS, and Beyoncé. At 12.30 am IST on Sunday. The National Centre for the Performing Arts will stream theOpera Galaby Symphony Orchestra of India today. On Sunday, Priyadarsini Govind's Hasati is on the cards. At 6 pm on YouTube. If EDM and late nights are more to your taste, tune in to David Guetta at 4.30 am IST, livestreaming from New York on all his social media channels.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Kids central||Introduce your child to the tales of Anansi the African spider in a session organised by Travel Thru Tales on Sunday at 11 am. The 40-minute story performance will be followed by an interaction. For ages 2.5 to six. Tickets at Rs. 299. Beat the blues with The Best Anti-Boredom Workshop Ever. The Little Bright Sparks team will lead fun activities each day, for ages seven to 12. From June 8 to 12, from 4-5 pm. At Rs. 1,000, on insider.in. Kidkari, The Films and Theatre Society’s seven-day online workshop for children, will be held from June 13. At Rs. 2,000 on in.bookmyshow.com
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||This Sunday, dermatologist Dr Kiran Kaur Sethi of Isyaderm Aesthetics in New Delhi, joins our columnist Vasudha Rai on Instagram Live. They will demystify skincare ingredients and share doctor-approved remedies for dandruff and adult acne, among others. At 5 pm on @thehinduweekend. Earlier this week, we had Milind Soman speaking about the women in his life, a #DirectorsOnDirectors session with Rajiv Menon, and dancer Swarnamalya Ganesh in conversation with Akhila Krishnamurthy. Available on @the_hindu and @thehinduweekend IGTV.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Elevate your daily soak||Nothing can substitute a restorative bath, especially during the pandemic with its endless sanitiser and soap routine. InRitual Bath, wellness expert Deborah Hanekamp’s book that launched just before the lockdown, she teachers readers to use herbs and flowers to transform the bathroom into a healing space. Taking a bath is one way of bringing tranquility and self-care to your home, she tellsWomen's Wear Daily. “Put some intention into it. Light candles, put on music that heals your soul… make it smell divine,’’ she continues. But even if you are not one for crystal and herb cleansing rituals (like Hanekamp’s celebrity clientele), here’s how you can run a bath at home that feels like a spa treatment. Looking for mindfully-made products, free of chemicals, is key. Let’s start with cold-pressed oils. Juicy Chemistry in Coimbatore has rose and grapefruit variants, whereas Earthy Sapo in Hyderabad has a baby massage oil withkanyasara,gulabandmanjistha. Next comes soap. “Handmade ones are better, since they don’t leave your hands excessively dry like ordinary soaps,” says Surya D of Bengaluru-based homegrown brand, Gloriously Handmade, known for products featuring rose clay and coffee. Then there are scrubs, body butters, deodorants, facial oils and masks. Gurgaon-based Harini Sivakumar of Soapworks India (re-branded as Earth Rhythm in 2018) has them all, free of synthetic fragrance. Look for simple ingredients you don’t have to travel the world for. Kokum and watermelon seeds or river bed clay are found in age-old self-care essentials like tooth powders and hair masks from Jalandhar-based Raw Beauty, operating out of a modest home. “Our raw materials are sourced directly from farmers in and around Punjab,” says the wellness brand’s founder, Sunayana Walia. This new crop of homegrown wellness brands promise to deliver the ‘organic’ factor and are mindful of the demands of an aware customer. They use transparency about the ingredients used, simple language and modest packaging in paper and glass containers to counter claims of imported ingredients and fancy packaging from more established brands. “I rely on a check-your-label test: the layman needs to understand what the ingredients listed on the label are. If you don’t understand half of what it says, the product is not for you,” says Sivakumar of Soapworks India. So here are a few indie brands to help you go natural, transform your bath experience, and save small businesses this season:    The bigger demon here is having to deal with the economics of managing a venture that uses all natural ingredients — which often cost more than synthetically-derived ones. According to Sivakumar of Soapworks India, a natural emulsifier is 50 times the cost of a synthetic one. “The reason fatty alcohol is used is because it is cheap. You can get approximately 1 kg for Rs. 20. But its equivalent of a natural oil will cost around Rs. 200,” she says, adding that once customers realise that natural alternatives are as effective as mainstream products (if not more), it is easier to convince them to switch.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Take it outdoors||Pradeep Sachdeva is most remembered for his work as the architect of Delhi’s iconic open-plan crafts bazaar and food hub, Dilli Haat. But there is considerably more that he created — to free urban retail hubs from overwhelming structural confines — that will likely be relevant in the post-lockdown world. Whether it’s the quirky 20-acre Garden of Five Senses built on a rocky terrain with a bevy of upscale restaurants and nooks for cultural engagement, or the ongoing landscaping of streets and open spaces at Jama Masjid, his democratic and aesthetic designs fit right into the needs of social distancing in the time of the coronavirus pandemic. This is because Sachdeva, who was 63 when he passed away on May 31, focussed on a mass, pedestrian experience for projects in the public realm. They offer a breather in the smog of crowded urban living. Pune-based architect Christopher Charles Benninger, his first “boss”, says Sachdeva played a unique role in the history of post-independent India as one of the first architects who rediscovered roots through craftspeople and natural and indigenous materials. “He did this first at Dilli Haat with crafts expert Jaya Jaitly, and a city cluttered with colonial alien ideas, western socialist PWD architecture, and faux modern junk, for the first time saw the Indian ethos formally enter the public realm,” he says. Dilli Haat is a genuine integration of innovative urban design with a people-centric, cultural experience, he explains, observing how it recaptured an urban site with a sewerage drain running through it. A traditional bazaar reimagined as an upmarket shopping centre seems an appropriate prescription for the times. Conservation architect and Aga Khan Trust CEO, Ratish Nanda, who revived Sunder Nursery and its monuments in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area a few years ago, says Sachdeva’s design at Dilli Haat, which emerged from the concept of the ‘haat’, really defined it for them: “…simple, economical yet beautiful and making every visitor happy and at ease, here his architecture touched the soul, as all great architecture should.” The public spaces he created are a good model for north Indian cities, believes architect Moulshri Joshi of the firm Space Matters. Indeed, since Dilli Haat in 1994, other open retail spaces such as Dilli Haat Pitampura and Jaipur Haat, Emporia Plaza, Delhi, all by Sachdeva, and the Jodhpur Stepwell Retail Project and Dastkar at Kisan Haat in Delhi, by other designers, are an alternative to the mall experience. As we prepare to trickle out of homes, it is well-ventilated open retail plazas that are likely to feel safer. “Dilli Haat is a greater, more responsive architecture than malls. It's porous with life in the shaded areas. Post pandemic, people will be more reluctant to visit closed spaces with air-conditioning,” says Joshi, whose favourite building of Sachdeva, however, “is the one he never built and the one I never saw. It is the 300 year-old house that Pradeep moved from Kerala to Gurgaon. I remember watching a film about it and it was mind blowing… For me it captured the essence of who Sachdeva was as an architect”. One of his last, ongoing public projects, the redevelopment of the streets in Shahjahanabad, Old Delhi, is set to revitalise a crowded, chaotic area, including the vista at Chandni Chowk. “With a larger focus on pedestrians, it is designed to be a vehicle-free zone. Whenever one goes to Old Delhi, the only thing one desires is to be able to walk comfortably. It is one of the biggest wholesale hubs, after all,” says Delhi-based architect Anupam Bansal. V Sunil, the former ad man associated with the Jodhpur Stepwell plaza, says we need more such ecosystems today. “Something for both tourists and locals, with a mix of hotels, retail, cultural spaces in the outdoors...where you can walk around and enjoy yourself,” he adds.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The hidden cost||Charity is a moral prerogative with an economic aftermath. It is not a quote, but an observation. And we need to understand how it works, given the undeniable ground realities of our times. With the apparel and textile industries being among the hardest hit by the Covid-19 fallout (cyclone Amphan did its bit, too), it comes as no surprise that individuals in the fashion community feel that this is the time to mobilise and garner support. The feeling is admirable. In this context, a simple idea is to ask fashion designers to ‘contribute’ garments for a charity sale. It has been done before, and in the weeks and months to come, more such sales will be announced. Honest and sincere voices will call in favours and ask you to spend for good causes. Successful sales will decidedly help. But here’s where the dissonance begins. We are too ready to accept that those who are ‘buying’ said garments are ‘spending their hard-earned money’, while designers are simply ‘contributing’ clothes. By thinking this way, we annihilate the economic reality of production and manufacture, and give undue importance to the holder of the purse. In simpler words, we need to question why we feel it is OK to ask designers — who spend considerable time, resources, and money to make their garments — to give them away for free. Especially when they sorely need to be making actual sales. For those ‘spending money’, it is a retail exchange made prettier by the patina of philanthropy. It assuages buyers’ guilt in these terrible times. In exchange, designers and their entire ecosystem of artisans and workers get nothing. How is this fair? Unless designers recover their costs at least, it isn’t. Fashion is a notoriously misunderstood industry. A handful of its biggest players continue to define its glamorous and rich public perception. But a huge number of its smaller members have always struggled, even while selling far more in terms of numbers. They employ a handful of workers in small units in cramped locations, even as their Instagram feeds tell a different story. Few talk about their problems openly; it besmirches the dream that is fashion. But at a time like this, their reality becomes central to how we engage with this beautiful, creative industry that is also a considerable source of employment. About now, I expect to hear voices saying, “Nobody’s putting a gun to a designer’s head to contribute clothes for free.” Absolutely right. But there are more ways than one to cock a pistol. What happens when someone in a position of influence asks designers to contribute to a charity sale? Think. A designer capable of doing so does it. But for those who can’t contribute without causing themselves financial harm, the choice is not so simple. The fear (even if imagined) of peer censure and social media backlash, of an awkward situation, is very real. The fashion industry runs on connections. Word-of-mouth is powerful. Especially if those words come out of a powerful mouth. Or pen. Not to mention trolls on social media. If such ideas are to be executed, I submit that it be done with a sensitive touch. Put out an open call on social media and let designers who can afford it come forward. That way, we avoid pressuring or intimidating those who cannot. Remember, since the lockdown began, many designers decided to support their artisans and workers in a variety of ways (I wrote about it in this newspaper in an article titled Fashion’s first responders ). Many have continued doing so for over two months with little or no sales, stores being closed, their international and domestic orders cancelled, no relief on rents, GST, or loan payments, and no clarity from the government. If this is the commitment our designers have proven already, why should they feel any fear of judgment, personal or public? It is the easiest ideas that require careful, often painful, scrutiny. As a body, the fashion industry cannot be made to fill in where a democratically elected government has proven ineffectual. A retail proposition — for that is what fashion is — cannot keep pouring out its cups even as its own lips dry up. Varun Rana is a fashion commentator and Communications Director at The House of Angadi. All views expressed are the author’s own
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Escaping through film||As lockdown is eased in many parts of the world, while others continue to suffer the pain of enforced confinement, a sense of catharsis can be achieved by sitting at home. Those fortunate enough to have VR headsets can escape into elaborate worlds, but there are plenty of options for those in possession of everyday screens. Lenny Abrahamson’s Room (2015) is difficult to watch as we gradually realise that a young woman (an Oscar-winning turn by Brie Larson) and her child (Jacob Tremblay) are captive in a tiny, self-contained space. When they finally manage to escape, the sense of freedom that the audience feel along with them is palpable. The lonely lives of Larson and her child brought to mind Chantal Akerman’s Jeanne Dielman, 23 Quai du Commerce 1080 Bruxelles (1975), where we see the quotidian routine of Delphine Seyrig (playing the titular role) and Jan Decorte, playing her son, Sylvain. Emerging from lockdown might feel like jailbreak, but no, I am not going to mention that film, so there. Instead, I will mention perhaps the suzerain of all confinement films, another Kubrick masterpiece, The Shining (1980). But if masochism during lockdown is your thing, look no further than Duncan Jones’ Moon (2009), where Sam Rockwell is alone in space with only his computer GERTY (voiced by the now infamous Kevin Spacey) for company. Space is, of course, a popular place to be alone, as each viewing of Kubrick’s immortal 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) proves. For those looking for a more grounded release, Sandra Bullock is left alone in space in Gravity (2013). When she finally gets back to Earth, it is a stand-up and cheer moment. Similarly, in James Gray’s Ad Astra (2019), when Brad Pitt makes it back to Earth in one piece, the audience is imbued with a huge sense of relief. Here’s looking forward to life after lockdown, with whatever shreds of normalcy we can gather while keeping the virus at bay. Naman Ramachandran is a journalist and author of Rajinikanth: The Definitive Biography, and tweets @namanrs. An extended version of the Steadycam column is on weekend.thehindu.com.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A well-etched portrait of Mumbai’s middle class||What is it about women actors from Maharashtra? This is not about indulging in regional politics or any kind of a parochial play. Their undeniable virtuosity has been evident in film after film. And, in Choked: Paisa Bolta Hai too, it’s the trinity of Saiyami Kher, Amruta Subhash and Rajshri Deshpande (in a smaller role though) that walks away with the plaudits with their effortlessness. Which is not to discount Roshan Mathew who is just as nuanced in accompaniment. It’s the well-etched characters and finely tuned performances that are the highlights of Anurag Kashyap’s new Netflix film, a dark slice of Mumbai’s Marathi, lower middle class life that is just as observant of city’s essential “melting pot” culture. So, in a fit of frustration, the couple — bank cashier Sarita (Saiyami Kher) and an out-of-job, carrom-playing, wastrel Sushant Pillai (Roshan Mathew) will easily break into their respective mother tongues. There’s more to the detailing — the kitty party games, the song-and-dance of the mehndi ceremony or the chipped walls and grungy balconies of the homes. Sarita and Sushant’s marriage story could be that of any struggling couple in Mumbai. Their backstory is deliberately kept as a hazy backdrop. What we see are the results — shattered dreams, thwarted ambitions, unrealised material needs, future responsibilities, Sushant’s unsteady job, growing debt, the woman who rightly wears the pants in the house, a love that is steadily slipping away and life becoming a burden, constantly weighing them down. Will a secret source of unlimited cash keep them going? So far, so smart. Kashyap sets the tone with a marked cheekiness, whether it’s the bank cashier getting back at a customer when he teases her about counting notes, or Sarita being the recipient of barbs from the sabziwala and plumber. Kashyap is characteristically insolent when it comes to Modi, magical mushroom, or the Himalayan sojourn. There some standout vignettes. Sarita’s chats with her neighbour played by Amruta Subhash, that are as much about unburdening and seeking comfort and sympathy as about squaring up to the nosiness. Most so the heated arguments and confrontations of the couple — whether it’s over a sleeping child on the bed or by the wash basin in the morning while she is on her way to work. Kher and Mathew are in sync right down to him being mostly at the receiving end and her telling him in the morning rush: “ Baad mein ladte hain (Let’s fight later)”. Kher comes across as a real surprise in the way she becomes a Marathi mulgi — it’s in the kind of saris she wears, the way she holds them slightly up and how she clutches on to her purse in the local. The body language is on point, as are the fleeting expressions of vulnerability, resentment, and weariness with all Sarita’s wants. The lead-up to demonetisation is set up well. But it’s once demonetisation is announced that things get chaotic on screen, as they did, ironically, in real life too. Micro-chip in currency notes, Jio, PayTm, achche din — Choked hits at all the obvious targets, which is most welcome, but it does so in an obvious way as though showily scoring sly points. Demonetisation feels more deliberately shoved in, in Choked , rather than the target of a thoughtful, well-embedded and sharp critique. Sarita stands firm as the voice of reason. The stash of cash, the resultant compromises of the uniformly flawed characters and the non-judgmental tone work. But things get too scattered as we hurtle towards the end. And then, they get resolved just as easily and a tad clumsily. In taking on demonetisation the film becomes as disconnected and ineffective towards the end as demonetisation itself has been. Although Choked has been being pitched as a satire on demonetisation, the film stands well on its own, outside of it, as the portrait of a city, its people, the essential greed and avarice and the flaws at the centre of the human condition. The entire film resides perfectly in two shots — a drain pipe that flows over like an oil well and Sarita counting notes. The two images sum it all up most eloquently. Choked is streaming on Netflix
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Police file chargesheets in riot cases in which 2 brothers died||Delhi Police on Friday filed chargesheets in two separate cases in which two brothers were killed in the riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February this year. Both the chargesheets — for various offences, including murder, criminal conspiracy and rioting — were filed before Metropolitan Magistrate Richa Parihar. Among the accused are Pankaj Sharma, Lokesh, Sumit, and Ankit. A senior police officer said the men allegedly stopped motorists at random during the violence, and after identifying the religion of the victims, killed them. The first case is in connection with the killing of Aqil Ahmed; and 10 people have been arrested. The chargesheet was filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 147 and 148 (rioting), 395 (dacoity), 210 (destruction of evidence) — attracting maximum punishment of death penalty. The second case was registered in connection with the killing of Musharaff; and nine people have been arrested. Both the victims were brothers, said the Delhi Police Crime Branch. Forty-year-old Aqil was returning to his home in New Mustafabad on February 26 around 9.30 p.m. when he was waylaid and murdered by a mob at Jal Board Puliya in Bhagirathi Vihar, the police said in its final report. His body was thrown in the Johripur drain. He was a car painter and mechanic, and is survived by his wife and four children. During investigation in the second case, the police found that on February 25 at about 8.00 p.m., rioters disconnected the electricity in Bhagirathi Vihar. Dragged out into the street In the darkness, the mob attacked Musharraf’s house in C-Block. They dragged him out on to the street and bludgeoned him to death, and then threw his body into the open drain. He used to work as an auto driver and a labourer. He is survived by his wife and three children. Neither of the crime spots were covered by CCTV cameras. Based upon source information, the police said that a group of “Hindu” men had joined hands on February 25 and 26, post the riots on February 24 in which “Muslim” mobs had committed violence on the “Hindu community”. The group was identified and some of the members were picked up. During questioning, it was revealed that they had created a WhatsApp group, which had 125 members. Subsequently, eyewitnesses were identified and examined. Bases on oral evidence and the chat in the WhatsApp group, the identity of the perpetrators was fixed, the report said. According to the police, the rioting started from Kardampuri, Maujpur, Chand Bagh, and thereafter at Shiv Vihar Tiraha near DRP School and Rajdhani Public School on February 26. The next day at about 9.40 a.m., three bodies were recovered from the drain in Johripur. On the same day at about 4.00 p.m. another body of a “Muslim person” was recovered near the drain. Subsequently, four FIRs were registered at Gokalpuri police station.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police slaps UAPA on second Pinjra Tod activist||The police have filed an FIR against Devangana Kalita, who is associated with the ‘Pinjra Tod’ group, under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a case related to communal violence in north-east Delhi in February, a police officer said on Friday.   The officer alleged that Mr. Kalita was allegedly part of a conspiracy to incite the riots and indulged in unlawful activities. She has also been charged under various sections related to sedition, attempt to murder, murder, criminal conspiracy, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth etc, said the police.    Ms. Kalita is currently under judicial custody in another case related to the Delhi riots. This is the fourth case in which she has been arrested in a span of a few weeks — two of the other cases are connected to the riots; and one is related to violence during anti-CAA protests in Daryaganj in December last year.    She was arrested on May 23 in a case related to rioting in north-east Delhi.    While the court had granted her bail the next day in the case, she was immediately arrested by the Crime Branch in connection with a murder case related to the riots. On May 30, she was arrested in a case related to violence in Daryaganj.    The court had granted bail to her in the case.    Another member of Pinjra Tod group and JNU student Natasha Narwal has also been booked under the UAPA in a riot case.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR lodged against Vinod Dua for ‘creating public nuisance’||A First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against journalist Vinod Dua on charges of “creating public nuisance”. The matter is being probed by the Crime Branch. The FIR was registered on Thursday based on a complaint submitted by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson. Reacting to the FIR, Mr. Dua said on Facebook, “Dear friends, BJP has filed an FIR against me with the Crime Branch of Delhi Police. Do I matter so much?” The complainant alleged that Mr. Dua was trying to destroy the peaceful atmosphere of the country by spreading false news for his ulterior motive through his YouTube show. Referring to a show posted on March 11 named “Jyotiraditya Scindia joins BJP”, the spokesperson alleged that Mr. Dua used valid content but with “false contextual information”. The complainant alleged that Mr. Dua had stated that the “Prime Minister is toothless and has no potential to deal with the issues of the country”. The complainant also alleged that Mr. Dua “misreported” on the Delhi riots and “stated that the Centre had done nothing to stop the violence and put his word in the mouth of [BJP leader] Kapil Mishra”. Based on the complaint, the police have registered a case under Section 290 (punishment for public nuisance in cases not otherwise provided for), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and 505 (2) (statements to cause fear or alarm to public) of the IPC. The complaint was submitted at Laxmi Nagar police station and transferred to the Crime Branch. A senior officer in the Crime Branch confirmed the development.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railway employees questioned on meeting expelled Pak. officials||Delhi Police Special Cell on Thursday questioned two railway employees, who had met two Pakistan High Commission (PHC) officials caught for spying and expelled from India, said a senior police officer on Friday. The officer said that the two railway employees were questioned after it was found that they met PHC officials outside Baroda House, Northern Railway headquarters. The railway employees were released after interrogation. The two officials, Abid Hussain and Muhammad Tahir, were caught by Delhi Police while they were trying to obtain sensitive documents relating to India’s security installations from an Indian national in exchange for money, said a police officer. Instant suspicion During questioning, the railway employees divulged that they got suspicious when the PHC officials tried to question them regarding the movement of Indian Army via railway. “They got suspicious when they asked them on the category of railway wagon used by the Indian Army, how they travel and when their travelling is scheduled. They stopped interacting with them and informed their seniors about it,” said the officer. The PHC officials used to meet the railway employees under fake name and ID and on the pretext of getting a job in railway.  They [railway employees] got suspicious when they [PHC officials] asked them on the category of railway wagon used by the Indian Army A police officer
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man killed in Shahdara after brawl||A man was murdered in Shahdara’s Gandhi Nagar following a quarrel on Thursday evening, the police said on Friday. They have registered a case and begun a probe. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said that the police control room received a call around 7 p.m. regarding a quarrel. When a police team reached the spot, a man who appeared to be around 35-year-old was found injured. His identity is yet to be confirmed, the police said. The police said that the man was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. Preliminary investigation revealed that the victim had taken the ground floor of a building on rent on Thursday where a stitching factory was to be run. “The man had come with a labourer and the CCTV footage shows that they were entering the building in a friendly manner. However, an argument took place between them which turned violent,” the officer said. The police later found the man lying unconscious with a sharp injury on his neck. The police said that they are yet to confirm the identity of the deceased. A murder case has been registered and an investigation has been started, they said.
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||DU teachers petition against online exams||About 100 teachers of the Physics department of Delhi University on Friday signed a petition calling for a review of the open book examination policy for final-year students, proposed by the university. Concerns raised by the teachers echo those raised by several other groups in recent weeks since DU announced its decision to go ahead with at-home, open book examinations. The teachers pointed out there was a lack of institutional help to students. “Merely sharing links with students does not count as teaching,” the petition reads. Depending on infrastructure available with students, the teaching which has taken place, has been very uneven, they said. And while some amount of theory work may be dealt with, practical education had been totally compromised. Stressing that the exercise would be highly discriminatory, the teachers decried the lack of consultation undertaken by the university. They also criticised the university’s existing online processes, saying they were far from perfect and could well run into glitches. Apart from this, they pointed out that the open book exam system would be “prone to cheating”. The alternatives proposed by the teachers include taking into account scores from previous semesters as an average for the present semester and extending the span period for all existing batches of students by at least two years. One of the teachers also asked as to what the logic of not allowing the same for students in the terminal year was.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Absconding youth held in 2019 murder case||After being on the run for six months, a 23-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing a person in Dwarka’s Bindapur, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said that the accused has been identified as Ajay Kumar, who hails from Tikamgarh district in Madhya Pradesh and had allegedly killed one Salman on December 30 last. The police said that on the day of the incident, around 7.30 p.m., the victim was stabbed to death in public view in Bindapur. He was rushed to a hospital. He later told the police that two persons had stabbed him. Salman later succumbed to the injuries during treatment, they said. Mr. Alphonse said that on Thursday, the police were informed that that Ajay, who was involved in the murder, was seen in Matiyala area. A trap was laid near Shanti Garden, Matiyala, and the accused was arrested. During interrogation, the police said, he revealed that in November 2019, he was lodged in jail for two weeks. “After his release, he hatched a plan and killed Salman along with four accomplices to establish his clout in the area,” the DCP said. The police said that his accomplices had already been arrested. Ajay had fled to to Madhya Pradesh after the incident. A countrymade pistol and a live cartridge were seized from him.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man found dead at AIIMS||A 22-year-old man allegedly ended his life at AIIMS on Friday. No note left behind by the deceased has been recovered, the police said. A senior police officer said that the man was a resident of Bihar’s Gopalganj and was admitted to the hospital on May 25 to get blood clotting treated. The police received a call at 6.16 a.m. regarding the body which was found at the emergency ward. The reason behind his decision has not yet been ascertained. The police said that the body would be handed over to the family after a post-mortem.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, (Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.).
06 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sibal accuses police of filing false cases||Former Law Minister Kapil Sibal on Friday slammed Delhi Police for filing “false cases” against students while protecting the perpetrators of violence. The Congress leader said those who shouted slogans like “ goli maro (shoot the traitors)” and indulged in violence in Jawaharlal Nehru University are being protected while students are being threatened with Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “What is happening is that young people who are in university and have some fire in their hearts for the good of the country and dare to oppose the policies of the Centre are being called in police stations. They are told that you either support us or we will slap UAPA against you, or you indicate this person’s names or that person’s name,” Mr. Sibal said, while accusing the police force of being partisan. “The perpetrators of the violence are being protected. We know that some policemen were breaking cameras so that the real perpetrators could be protected,” he added.
06 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Do not sully JNU’s image by flouting norms’||JNU on Friday appealed faculty members not to “sully the image” of the university by carrying out protests by violating COVID-19 guidelines. Teachers and some students of the university participated in a protest against the arrest of anti-CAA activists during the lockdown. The protesters were asked to adhere to social distancing norms while they protest in their locality. Registrar Pramod Kumar, in an appeal, said that “violating COVID-19 guidelines sets a wrong example.”
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Pride Month: June began with the #21DaysAllyChallenge, with participants introspecting on and sharing what they’ve learnt through taking up 21 daily micro-challenges on Instagram. To show your support, sign up on thepridecircle.com. Over on YouTube, the Smithsonian Museum is headlining Project Pride, a virtual concert and celebration of LGBTQ heritage and history.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for good news||Fresh off his first solo Netflix stand-up special,The Most Interesting Person in the Room, Kenny Sebastian has launched a new mini-show on Instagram. InHappy News Now, he will share uplifting stories from around the world (@kennethseb). Founders of the satirical card game, Cards Against Humanity, runThe Good News Podcast. Their aim is to remind listeners that there is more to the world than just bad 'breaking' news. The ad-free podcast runs at four minutes per episode. On all major audio streaming platforms and on thegoodnewspodcast.fm
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Greens and iced treats||Chennai residents can now order hydroponic greens from Sustenance through a convenient web portal. To celebrate, they're giving 10% off across the store to all customers, with the code FIRST10 on sustenance.co.in. If you'd rather indulge your sweet tooth, Minus 30 — the refreshment partner at Evoluzione — is delivering a range of handmade gelatos. Pick from a variety of flavours including Belgian chocolate, pistachio and honey, and espresso, as well as vegan and sugar-free versions. From Rs. 750 for 500 ml.9566268881
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for the house party||Shake or stir up some easy-to-make gin cocktails and soak up some tricks of the bartending trade, to impress at your next home party. Organised by Tulleeho, four free workshops will be held over the course of four Saturdays, starting June 13. From 6-7 pm. To get your webinar link, register online at tulleeho.com  7011702081 Udemy offers a paid course guided by Paul Martin, who has taught over 30,000 bartenders. Learn to create perfect examples of 16 of the world's great classic and contemporary cocktails. At Rs. 1,920 on udemy.com
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Black Lives Matter: Our social media timelines have been filled with black squares and #BlackLivesMatter all week. In support of the ongoing protests that have been met with police violence, people across the world have been posting. But the performative wokeness of those who condone and stay quiet about casteism and other issues in our own country has irked many — and the conversation continues.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop it||Sign up for an interactive workshop on origami with Aditi Anuj, organised by Skillxn, a skill-sharing platform based in Bengaluru. The NID Ahmedabad graduate’s work was seen inSacred Gamesseason two. She will guide you via Zoom to craft your own masterpieces. No age limit. At Rs. 500 per head. Today from 10.30 am to 12.30 pm. But if you prefer traditional art, there is a Madhubani masterclass with Sushila Prakash, June 8 to 10. It will cover the basic patterns and equip participants to come up with their own designs. At Rs. 1,500 per head8897444151
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Music for all||YouTube is celebrating US graduation season withDear Class of 2020, a livestream event led by Barack and Michelle Obama. Other keynote speakers are Lady Gaga, the K-pop phenomenon BTS, and Beyoncé. At 12.30 am IST on Sunday. The National Centre for the Performing Arts will stream theOpera Galaby Symphony Orchestra of India today. On Sunday, Priyadarsini Govind's Hasati is on the cards. At 6 pm on YouTube. If EDM and late nights are more to your taste, tune in to David Guetta at 4.30 am IST, livestreaming from New York on all his social media channels.
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Kids central||Introduce your child to the tales of Anansi the African spider in a session organised by Travel Thru Tales on Sunday at 11 am. The 40-minute story performance will be followed by an interaction. For ages 2.5 to six. Tickets at Rs. 299. Beat the blues with The Best Anti-Boredom Workshop Ever. The Little Bright Sparks team will lead fun activities each day, for ages seven to 12. From June 8 to 12, from 4-5 pm. At Rs. 1,000, on insider.in. Kidkari, The Films and Theatre Society’s seven-day online workshop for children, will be held from June 13. At Rs. 2,000 on in.bookmyshow.com
06 June 2020||June 06 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||This Sunday, dermatologist Dr Kiran Kaur Sethi of Isyaderm Aesthetics in New Delhi, joins our columnist Vasudha Rai on Instagram Live. They will demystify skincare ingredients and share doctor-approved remedies for dandruff and adult acne, among others. At 5 pm on @thehinduweekend. Earlier this week, we had Milind Soman speaking about the women in his life, a #DirectorsOnDirectors session with Rajiv Menon, and dancer Swarnamalya Ganesh in conversation with Akhila Krishnamurthy. Available on @the_hindu and @thehinduweekend IGTV.
