06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cases doubled in 4.1 days due to Tablighi Jamaat event: govt.||India’s death toll from COVID-19 rose to 83 on Sunday, with 11 fatalities since Saturday. The number of confirmed infections across the country stood at 3,577 cases, with 505 new cases; 274 persons have recovered, the Union Health Ministry said. “We are chasing the virus rather than the other way around and India’s strategy continues to be preventive. We rather be over prepared,” Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said at Sunday’s press briefing. The Ministry maintained that last month’s Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi has pushed up the doubling rate of cases in India to 4.1 days from the estimated 7.4 days. Reports from State Health Departments put the death toll across the country at 127, with 3,603 active cases. The maximum number of cases continued to be reported from Maharashtra at 748, with 13 fatalities in the past 24 hours. Tamil Nadu followed with 559 active cases, reporting two fatalities since Saturday. Stating that there is no evidence to suggest airborne transmission of the novel coronavirus, head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases with the Indian Council of Medical Research Raman Gangakhedkar said rapid antibody-based blood test for COVID-19 would be deployed by Wednesday for high prevalence areas and hotspots across India. Asked about concerns raised by doctors of AIIMS, Delhi, and other cities on the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE), Mr. Agarwal said the situation should ease in a few days.
06 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Four Tablighi returnees among eight new cases||Eight more persons, including four who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat meeting at Nizamuddin in Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the State to 314. Of the eight new cases, five are in Kozhikode and one case each from Pathanamthitta, Kannur and Kasaragod districts. Four of the five cases in Kozhikode are linked to the Nizamuddin incident, while the other is a person who had returned from Dubai. The case in Pathanamthitta is a person who had returned from Delhi. The cases in Kannur and Kasaragod are contacts of imported cases. Till date, 10 persons from the State who had returned from Nizamuddin have tested positive for virus infection. Of the 314 cases reported so far, 256 are currently under treatment in various hospitals. So far, 56 persons have been discharged after treatment. Two persons had succumbed to the disease. The number of persons under surveillance network is 1,58,617, of whom, 776 are in isolation in hospitals and the rest are under home quarantine. The State has tested 10, 221 persons with symptoms for COVID-19. The results of 9,300 samples were negative. Out of the six people cured on Sunday, four are from Kannur district and one each from Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur districts. 2,221 cases registered Meanwhile, the police have registered 2,221 cases in the State against people for lockdown violations. “A total of 2,221 cases have been registered and 2,250 persons have been arrested. The department has seized 1,567 vehicles,” a release said. A 26-member team from the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital, comprising doctors and nurses, left for Kasaragod, the COVID-19 hotspot in the State, to tackle shortage of medical staff.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Toll mounts to three in State; positive cases go up to 252||The State has reported two more deaths, taking the tally to three, and 60 new positive COVID-19 cases during the past 24 hours ending on Sunday. The tally has gone up to 252 positive cases, according to the 6 pm bulletin released by the State Control Room. On the other hand, six patients were discharged after complete recovery. One of the patients in Krishna district died undergoing treatment at COVID-19 hospital on Friday after his samples were taken for tests, Collector A. Md. Imtiaz confirmed. The deceased in his late 40s was a native of Machilipatnam and he was the only patient from the port town to contract the virus, according to officials. The person had no record of foreign travel nor was a Delhi returnee.In Anantapur, a 58-year-old man, a close contact of Mecca returnee, also died on Friday. Earlier, the first COVID-19 death was reported from Vijayawada in Krishna district. More than 90% of the total cases are of either Delhi returnees who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting or their contacts. Eleven of the patients are foreign returnees and six are the contacts of foreign returnees. Six persons with no travel history to the hotspots tested positive. Kurnool district, which has a huge number of Delhi returnees, alone has more than 20% of the State’s COVID-19 cases with a total of 53 patients testing positive. Nearly 50 of them were reported during the past 24 hours.On the contrary, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts have not reported a single case so far. Kurnool is followed by Nellore (34), Guntur (30), Krishna (28), Kadapa (23), Prakasam (23), Chittoor (17), Visakhapatnam (15), West Godavari (15), East Godavari (11) and Anantapur (3) in the number of cases until now. The test results of hundreds of samples are awaited. Minister for Kurnool Deputy Chief Minister and Minister of Health, Family Welfare and Medical Education Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas will visit Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Monday to review the situation with the officials. The Minister’s visit became essential in the wake of one death and six positive cases in Anantapur district and 53 positive cases in Kurnool district with close to 50 persons hailing only from Kurnool city. He will arrive at Kurnool from Hyderabad at 10 a.m., visit the GGH and hold a review meeting with officials in Sunayana Auditorium, and later at 3 p.m. in Anantapur.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM lights lamp as nation joins hands against virus||People across the country switched off lights in their houses and lit lamps at their doors and balconies in solidarity with the rest of the country in combating COVID-19 at the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Modi had, in a video message last week, asked Indians to light a lamp or flash a torch from their mobile phone at 9 p.m. on Sunday for nine minutes. The Prime Minister lit a lamp at his official residence at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg and tweeted a Sanskrit verse, seeking health and prosperity for all and the defeat of all enemies. Mr. Modi wore a white south Indian mundu (dhoti) and an Assamese gamocha ( towel) and lit a traditional oil lamp from south India. This was to convey, sources said, solidarity with all corners of the country. President Ram Nath Kovind and First Lady Savita Kovind also lit lamps as did Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. Several political party leaders, including YSRCP chief and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Eddapadi Palaniswami, joined in. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan lit a lamp along with AIIMS doctors and staff, whom he called “Corona warriors”, on the Delhi campus. ‘Victory of good’ “Let the brightness of the lights ignite our energies and ensure the ‘victory of good over evil. My prayers go out for all those million homes across the planet who are suffering because of coronavirus,” he said. As the clock struck 9, lights went out in most houses and people gathered in balconies and at doors, flashing lights, while many lit candles and lamps. The sound of fireworks, conches, beating of vessels, whistles and police sirens broke the silence of the lockdown. At some places, Hindu devotional songs, mantras and the national anthem were also played. The event passed off without any disruption to the national electricity grid after the government and utilities put in place elaborate plans to deal with the sudden drop and then a quick spurt in demand. India has been on a 21-day lockdown from March 25 to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic that has claimed over 83 lives in the country and 65,000 globally, while more than 12,00,000 declared cases have been registered in 190 countries since the epidemic first emerged in China in December 2019. (With PTI imputs)
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,||7 more test positive in State||As many as three persons, of the seven who tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday in the State, did not have any symptoms of the disease. The Department of Health and Family Welfare bulletin stated that of the three patients, two had a travel history to Dubai and one went to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said: “These people who do not have symptoms probably have good immunity. We tested them because of their travel history. We are glad that these people were tested and are under isolation. This will avoid the infection from spreading,” he said. Meanwhile, out of the seven positive cases, five — which includes three women — had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event. Four persons are in isolation at the district hospital in Belagavi and another patient is quarantined at a hospital in Ballari. In addition, a couple — both senior citizens who returned from Dubai on March 22 — tested positive. They are being quarantined at the Akash Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Institute in Bengaluru.  The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Karnataka now stands at 151. This includes four deaths. As many as 12 patients have been discharged. According to statistics issued by the department, 37% of the positive cases are from Bengaluru, which has the most patients with 57. This is followed by Mysuru with 28. A large number of them were in contact with a pharmaceutical company employee in Nanjangud who had tested positive. Dakshina Kannada is third with 12 positive cases. A total of 1,469 primary contacts and 5,165 secondary contacts of positive patients are under observation. The department has decided to follow the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advisory and start rapid antibody-based blood test as a strategy for areas reporting clusters, and in large migration or gathering centres.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||62 new COVID-19 cases in State||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana shot up to 333 as 62 new cases were detected on Sunday. Of the total cases detected till April 5, 289 are active cases, 33 were cured or discharged and 11 people suffering from coronavirus have died. Zero deaths were reported on Sunday. Across the State, the highest number of 145 active cases were reported in Hyderabad, followed by 23 in Warangal Urban, and 19 in Nizamabad. Of the 33 people who were either cured or discharged, 10 are from Hyderabad, 11 from Karimnagar. Director of Public Health and Family Welfare G. Srinivasa Rao maintained that there is no evidence of community transmission in the State. Officials have appealed people who have returned from Markaz, New Delhi, and their contacts are being tracked, tested and treated for COVID-19. Those who were in contact with any one who travelled to Markaz were requested to go to the nearest government health facility if they develop any symptoms.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi lab to offer ‘drive-through test’||To work around the challenges of home-based testing in the country, Dr. Dangs Lab (DDL) plans to offer ‘drive-through test’ for COVID-19. South Korea leads the world in the number of tests per million to check for coronavirus infection and it has been able to do it, partly, by allowing those who feel sick to drive up to a test centre where nurses wearing protective gear collect a nose or throat sample from the car itself. Results are mailed or messaged in a day. This method of mass testing has allowed reduced contact between patients and healthcare workers, thereby lessening the chances of transmission. “Inspired” by the South Korean approach, Arjun Dang, CEO, DDL, said the test would conform with the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research that mandates only those who have a doctor’s prescription to be offered a test. “What we have seen so far is that many are uncomfortable with the home collection process. They are worried that lab personnel — despite being fully protected — may infect family members,” Dr. Arjun told The Hindu.  Testing apprehensions Navin Dang, president, DDL, said that some people are worried that lab personnel visiting home in full protective gear would scare the neighbours. “There are also instances when spouses of some of our own lab personnel have been told by their partners to live separately for a month. It’s to address such concerns that we are offering this facility,” he said. The drive-through test, which the lab will begin to offer at its Punjabi Bagh centre in west Delhi from Monday, would require those wanting a test to pre-register, pay online and provide details of their car. There would be a 30-metre gap between cars. “A stretch in the parking lot will be used for this purpose. The cars will be parked in designated spots, windows rolled down, samples collected and they will drive off. Each test should take about 20 minutes,” Dr. Arjun said. Testing for COVID-19 costs Rs. 4,500 and the drive-through test cost will be “similar”, he added, but didn’t specify the exact price. People are already signing up online for the test, but the days ahead are likely to see an uptick in such visits, he said.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu reports 86 new cases, two more patients die||Two persons who tested positive for COVID-19 infection died, taking the death toll in the State to five, health officials said on Sunday. Meanwhile, 86 new cases were reported, bringing the total number of cases to 571. A bulletin from the Health Department said a 71-year-old man from Ramanathapuram, who was admitted to Stanley Government Hospital on Thursday around 9.45 a.m., died two hours later. The results of his blood samples returned positive for COVID-19 infection. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told mediapersons that the patient had been under home quarantine and was brought to hospital only after his condition worsened significantly. He died within 90 minutes of reaching the hospital, she said. On Sunday morning, a 60-year-old man, admitted to the same hospital on April 1, tested positive for the infection and died around 1.45 a.m. “Till yesterday, he was doing fine, but within hours ventilator support was required and it was given. Death occurred within two hours,” Dr. Rajesh added. All but one of the 86 cases were either people who travelled to Delhi or their contacts did. One person had a travel history to Dubai, the Health Secretary said. Among the 85 persons who tested positive, four had contact with those who went to Delhi and tested positive. This includes three women from Kanniyakumari, Namakkal and Thoothukudi districts and a man from Thoothukudi. Chennai with 95 positive cases tops the list of districts with the most positive cases. Among them are seven men. Cases have been reported from Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Kanyakumari, Madurai, Namakkal, The Nilgiris, Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi, Ranipet, Tirunelveli, Vellore, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Dindigul. The official said as of Sunday 90,824 passengers were under home quarantine and 127 passengers in the government quarantine facility. A total of 10,814 passengers completed the mandatory 28-day follow-up and so far 4,612 samples were tested. The results of 339 samples were awaited. Eight patients have been discharged so far.  Seven in private hospitals  The official said as many as seven patients, all of them with symptoms, were undergoing treatment in private hospitals. They were, however, not in ICU or on ventilator support. She said as many as 1,246 persons who had attended the conference in Delhi had been traced and isolated and their samples had been sent for testing for the infection. “The entire focus of the government is to aggressively contain the infection. So far, we have already conducted an active surveillance of 9,22,860 households and a population of 38,88,896 has been covered,” she said. The Health Department is picking up samples of all persons reporting with severe acute respiratory infection to check for community transmission. “So far we have tested 650 such cases of whom we have not found any unlinked positive history. We have got four positive cases and all these four have travel history or contact history,” she said. The government also aimed at increasing the number of testing centres in the State. A number of machines had already been ordered and they would be installed very soon, she said. Dr. Rajesh said it would be possible to assess the exact stage of the disease only after collating information following door-to-door surveillance. Laboratory technicians had been trained in doing the tests once the machines arrived and ‘high level committees’ were in place to estimate how the disease will pan out and the rate of its spread. “We have made projections and based on them, we are predicting the worst case scenario. We have been making systematically short-term and long-term plans. We need to be focussed on containment. We have to give active and passive surveillance. Full-fledged containment activity and judicious testing” are of prime importance, she said.
06 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Taking COVID-19 news to remote corners of Odisha||At a time when people are keen on understanding the evolving COVID-19 pandemic, as many as 17 community radio networks are proving to be a refreshing tool for the customised dissemination of information to rural audiences in Odisha. “Our experience shows that for more than 60% of the rural population, DTH (direct to home) and Internet-based media are still out of reach. Moreover, neither television nor any other sources of information would provide them with news related to the small geographical area they live within,” said N. A. Shah Ansari, founder of Radio Namaskar and president of Odisha’s Community Radio Association. Urging labourers The past one week has been very hectic for community radio operators. Apart from passing on the government’s instructions, they kept prodding their target audiences, especially migrant labourers who had returned from outside the State, to inform their respective gram panchayats of their arrival. “We deliberately did not utter the word quarantine as it causes panic. We just urged migrant labourers to go to panchayat offices and inform them of their arrival. Our approach clicked. According to the feedback we have received, most of them went and disclosed their travel history,” said Mr. Ansari. Villagers turn up the volume on radios for groups of listeners with emphasis on social distancing. Verified information “In the lockdown situation, the timings and location of weekly markets, adhering to rules on safe distance, and the status of local ATMs are critical messages that community radio can disseminate effectively. When misinformation is flooded on social media, people get confused, but we broadcast verified information,” said Pradeepta Dutta, chairman of Radio Kisan which operates from Balipatna in Khordha district. The most common question asked by listeners was if the coronavirus could be transmitted by domestic animals or stray dogs. Sibani Suar of Phulbani’s Radio Muskan added: “We work in close coordination with the district administration. Awareness messages and warnings on health hazards are sourced from very authentic sources.” Community radio stations are operating in remote pockets of Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Nayagarh, Kandhamal, Khordha, Nuapada, Balasore and Koraput districts.
06 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. lockdown to end in phases: Adityanath||The lockdown imposed to stem the spread of COVID-19 will come to an end in Uttar Pradesh on April 15 but in phases, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said. “15 April se lockdown samapt hone wala hai (The lockdown will come to an end on April 15),” Mr. Adityanath said while interacting with MLAs in the State through videoconferencing on Saturday. He, however, stressed the need to end the lockdown in phases. “On April 15, once we end the lockdown, if crowds gather at once, all the efforts will go down the drain. We have to ensure that the crowding doesn’t take place. Your help and cooperation is needed in this regard,” he said. The Chief Minister sought the MLAs’ suggestions in deciding which establishments should be opened first. Mr. Adityanath told the legislators that there is a need to fully defeat the virus by November-December. He also connected with all MPs and Ministers in the State through videoconferencing and appealed to them to ensure that the common man standing on the last rung gets benefits of the State government’s schemes.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Spend CMRF fund for anti-coronavirus steps||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked officials to spend the money received from donors towards Chief Minister’s Relief Fund also to combat coronavirus for purchase of masks, personal protective equipment and drugs for health stafftreating patients. He expressed the State government’s strong resolve to continue the anti-coronavirus measures more vigorously. The government will extend all assistance to medical and health staff engaged in treatment of virus patients, he said at a high-level meeting to discuss the status of the dreaded disease in the State. He said the government will not spare a single suspected case of coronavirus till they underwent the required tests.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rapid antibody testing for hotspots first: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the rapid antibody-based blood test for COVID-19 will be deployed by this Wednesday in clusters and hotspots showing high incidence of confirmed cases. Raman R. Gangakhedkar, head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division of the ICMR, explained that overall testing for COVID-19 using real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a laboratory technique combining reverse transcription of RNA into DNA, is increasing and that India would be approaching full capacity soon. “At the same time, we are expecting delivery of rapid test kits (blood-based) for use in response to COVID-19 situation. By Wednesday, this should be up and running,” he added. The Health Ministry added that all States/UTs had been issued guidelines for implementing these tests and reports may be entered into the ICMR portal, similar to results of real-time RT PCR tests for COVID-19.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Many women from T.N. attended Tablighi meet||Intelligence agencies have issued an alert about a group of women Islamic preachers, including many from Tamil Nadu, belonging to the women’s wing of the Tablighi Jamaat — the Mastooraat Jamaat — who had attended last month’s congregation in Delhi. The women travelled to several States and also within Tamil Nadu 15 days ago, the agencies said. Stayed with families The instruction to identify the delegates comes even as efforts are on to locate and quarantine members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who attended the Delhi conference. The women’s group, which included some foreign nationals, did not visit any mosque but stayed as guests in Muslim households to preach Islamic values, the police said. The delegates stayed for many days and mingled with families, though there has been no specific input of any member reporting sick with symptoms of COVID-19 so far. According to the police, members of the Mastooraat Jamaat are mandated to travel and preach. They usually stay with their hosts and travel in the company of an elderly person in the family. A number of members took part in the Nizamuddin conference, the police said. A few delegates from Ethiopia and South Africa travelled with Indian women to different places in the country, they added.
06 April 2020||bengaluru,||Volunteers to be trained||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has started enlisting volunteers who will be trained and placed in healthcare institutions in the coming days if the situation demands. The department met on Sunday and the team mapped a detailed set of activities to ensure the continuum of care for patients — from reception at the healthcare facilities, to different stages of testing and referral to tertiary facilities. The department is in the process of identifying various roles that can be entrusted to the volunteers with minimum training or intense specialised trainings. This will bring about clarity in their roles without any overlap in a real-world hospital scenario. “The protocols, once finalised, will be forwarded to the districts, allowing the heads of the institutions the flexibility to allot human resources according to their requirements and case load,” Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, adding that the department was preparing for any eventuality. Elaborating further, he said, “We have visualised hospital conditions under different stages of a pandemic and have broken down essential activities, including non-clinical activities, such as crowd management, food management, mobility and data entry into different buckets. This allows us to assign specific roles to medical and non-medical staff for better efficiency. The government is also planning to enlist volunteers to support facility functions in the event of a large number of cases, and develop training modules to enable them to carry out these functions. The protocols also make provisions for tying up with community management teams to handle follow-ups.”
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Sample survey||
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Ready to stop academic loss’||The government will take a decision on reopening of schools and colleges on April 14 after reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the country, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said. He added that the safety of students and teachers is of utmost importance and his Minis-try is prepared to ensure that there is no academic loss if the lockdown is extended.page 8
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Free testing and treatment||The Centre has decided to provide free testing and treatment of COVID-19 under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme. The move will benefit more than 50 crore beneficiaries across India.page 8
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Puzzling cases in Karnataka||As 22 of the 151 positive cases in Karnataka, don’t have any foreign travel or contact history, State health officials are at a loss to understand how they could have contracted the infection. While the cases raise questions as to whether it is the beginning of community transmiss- ion, officials have been denying it. The patients have spread the infection to eight others.page 3
06 April 2020||Staff Reporter,||CM: complete testing of Delhi meet returnees||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to complete the testing of all those who attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi and their primary and secondary contacts at the earliest to get a clear picture of the extent of spread of COVID-19. He also ordered that guidelines pertaining to quarantine and isolation should be strictly followed. Household survey Addressing a high-level review meeting on the COVID scourge on Sunday, he said testing should be expanded on the basis of the data compiled during the household survey so that the scope for new infections could be reduced.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||More COVID-19 positive cases in western region||The western districts of Coimbatore, Salem, Namakkal and the Nilgiris had more number of persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. As many as 29 more persons tested positive in Coimbatore.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,||‘35 people in city break quarantine norms daily’||Home quarantine rules are being flouted by 35 people on an average every day in Bengaluru, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has found over the past week. Apart from shifting violators to institutional quarantine centres, the department is also booking police cases against them.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Crash course for students before SSLC exam||Class 10 students will be given a crash course for a week before the SSLC examination, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said on Sunday.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Reverse migration exposes chinks in PDS||The panic return of migrant labourers working in Bengaluru to their homes in north Karnataka soon after the COVID-19 lockdown was announced has exposed some of the issues in the Public Distribution System (PDS).
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Some schools monitor lamp lighting by students||Parents cried foul on Sunday as several schools monitored whether their students lit diyas at 9 p.m., as urged by the Prime Minister, pressured by a letter from the Ministry of Human Resource Development asking for an action-taken report. The Ministry later clarified that no coercion was intended.
06 April 2020||Srinagar,||Five militants, 3 soldiers dead in Kupwara strike||Five militants have been killed in an ongoing operation along the Line of Control in north Kashmir’s Kupwara. Three soldiers were killed during the operation, said an Army spokesman.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records 58 new cases, one death||The total number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital crossed 500 after 58 new cases were reported on Sunday, the Delhi govern-ment said. One person died taking the toll to seven. Of the new cases, 19 are connected to the Nizamuddin centre. In all, 503 cases have been reported in Delhi so far.
06 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru,||Two cases booked for violating lockdown||Lingadahalli Police in Tarikere taluk booked a case against Puttaswamy Gowda, an estate owner, and Hema Naika, driver, for carrying 13 workers and their six children in a private vehicle, violating the lockdown order. Aldur Police in Chikkamagaluru taluk booked a case against three persons, Prakash Naik, Rakshit and Prakash Naik, for carrying 10 people in a private vehicle.
06 April 2020||MANGALURU,||Cured patient to be discharged today||In a first for a COVID-19 positive case reported from Dakshina Kannada district getting cured, a 22-year-old Bhatkal resident, who tested positive for coronavirus on March 19, will be discharged here on Monday after he was found to be negative for the disease.
06 April 2020||TIRUCHI,||Seven youth walk from Nanded to reach home||Seven youth belonging to Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts have walked all the way from Maharashtra to reach home after the lockdown was announced. Employed in a company manufacturing agricultural products, the youth started their journey on March 29.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Muslim leaders urge members to cooperate||The Tamil Nadu Jamaath-Ul-Ulema, the IUML, the TMMK, the SDPI and Tablighi Jamaat leaders have urged members of the Muslim community to co-operate with officials and not hold gatherings in mosque during the lockdown. The leaders appealed to those hospitalised not to use social media to air their grievances and instead flag them via the government helpline. The leaders also appealed to the government to end the communal hatred that was being spread on social media.
06 April 2020||Chennai,||In the time of the pandemic, classes go online and on air||The long lockdown for the COVID-19 pandemic has closed schools, colleges and other educational institutions and ushered in the citywide classroom: tens of thousands of students in cities and towns are glued to computers and smartphone screens as teachers take to online apps for lectures, tutorials and assessments. e-learning poses a challenge to both teachers and students over technology and access, but it is keeping everyone busy with worksheets, video lectures and assignments. Some institutions are uploading lectures to YouTube, while the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan is deploying its Swayam Prabha portal, which has lectures on DTH and online, to help students. Andhra Pradesh is trying to tap Doordarshan to remove access barriers. Some institutions have adopted the Zoom app, others Google Classroom. Yet, the instructors are unable to say how effective they are, and not every student is tuning in. Here is how the system has rolled out. Chennai At DAV Public School, Principal Minoo Aggarwal is keen that student interest in online classes offered as live teaching can be sustained only with a mix of activities, worksheets and interactive sessions. “It is unfair to expect the same level of concentration and involvement as in the classroom. Teachers should have a structured plan which does not suffocate or burden them,” she said. Not all students might have laptops or tablet computers. “Since the whole family is at home, the only laptop or computer in the house might be used by the parents who are working from home as well.” While smartphones are the next best option, teachers are apprehensive about students using them earnestly because of distracting apps. Teachers too might have technical constraints, said K.R. Maalathi, an education consultant. In a higher secondary school, teachers had requested for laptops to plan their curriculum. “These teachers are equipped to take classes but the same might not be the case for other institutions. Going forward, all institutions will have to chalk out an infrastructure plan,” she said. In the face of such constraints, several schools have engaged coaching academies that have subject experts and a structured online curriculum for students taking board exams in the next academic year. Mumbai Parents in Mumbai are relieved that children are academically engaged online. “My daughter Tia is in 10th class, at Podar International School, and it is important that online classes are started. About the quality of education, it is too early to say,” said Ajay Raorane a marketing executive. Most teachers find it difficult to cope with online teaching. Lack of familiarity with technology forces them to seek help from their children to set up apps and deal with technical glitches. Sudha Sharan, Headmistress, Gopal Sharma Memorial Sclool, Powai, said the Maharashtra State Board schedule is from June, but 10 days of revision and examination have already been lost. “To compensate, we are trying to use e-learning. The problems is that we do not have much technical help due to the lockdown. State Board schools are using trial and error methods to send worksheets and videos. But unlike the classroom we do not have 100% attendance,” she said. Parents are finding it difficult to adjust to the online system of the children. Due to the lockdown, domestic help is not available adding to household work. Some parents say schools are going online only to justify charging the fees in April. Without text books for the new session, schools are sending study materials as terse WhatsApp messages. Language teacher Meena Raut (name changed) was exasperated as “many parents could be heard talking in the background while the class is on. This is very distracting.” She said an entire domestic quarrel could be heard from a child’s home. “Some parents don’t use the mute button.” Managements have put off the last date for fee payment to May 31 and children of all classes have been promoted. Podar International School uses Google Hangouts. New Delhi Teachers in the national capital have been pushed out of their comfort zones. “Teachers all over are struggling to make online learning work. It is important to just embrace this new reality and work within its limitations and use the opportunities,” said Naomi George, who teaches social studies and English to elementary and high school students at the Metro Delhi International School. Teachers at the school alternate between prepared video and PowerPoint lessons and hosting live teaching via Google Classroom. Most teachers and students are digitally literate and savvy, but full-time distance education is still a new experience. “How children feel or what they are going through during this lockdown needs to be worked through, and teachers need to be considerate,” Ms. George said. For educational institutions that are not so used to the digital world, the new reality can be more difficult. “We were caught off guard and did not foresee such a long lockdown, so we could not prepare our students for this,” said Anita Keskar, Deputy Director of the Women’s Training Institute, which provides vocational education to girls. “Most of our subjects are very practical and hands on — beauty culture, fashion design and tailoring, office management, travel and tourism, web design — so it’s difficult to teach from a distance. How do you show a student how to cut and tailor a piece of cloth unless they are in front of you,” she asks. Only theory classes are being taught via Zoom for now. The apex body of Kendriya Vidyalas, KVS, said the schedule of live and recorded lessons of the National Institute of Open Schooling for secondary and senior secondary levels, effective April 7, had been shared with schools for coordination between students, teachers and parents. Select teachers would clarify doubts via Skype and live web chat. NIOS also offers free DTH television channels, a YouTube channel and massive open online courses.  Hyderabad Vivek Akki of Hyderabad Public School at Begumpet concentrates just like he does in his classroom when his favourite teacher appears on-screen. “The transformation is exciting as I can see all my classmates,” he says. HPS, Begumpet, a prominent school, has gone online. Vivek’s mother Parvati Akki said the Zoom app is used to livecast classes. “As parents this is a new experience for us,” she says. HPS, Ramanthapur Principal, Narsimha Reddy said the focus is on 10th and 12th classes. “We haven’t started online classes but are keeping students busy with assignments through video links from educational providers.” At the Narayana group of schools, Sparshita Guda from Tarnaka, who is in 10th class said four daily classes are held via Zoom. At some schools using Google Classroom, there is no live teaching, but students and teachers interact through video lessons. Sanjit Kaila, a 10th class student of DRS International School, Kompally said, “I get video lessons and assignments. ” Veda, a 7th class student of Abhaya Waldroff School, Kompally said Google Classroom is also used to assess students’ performance. Students can also leave their comments for clarifications by teachers.  Vijayawada The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) thinks online classes for all students would not be possible. The focus is therefore on 10th class. “We are trying to rope in Doordarshan to impart classes to our SSC students,” said B. Pratap Reddy, Director, APSCERT. In the private sector, KCP Siddhartha Adarsh Public School and St. John’s Public School send students videos of classroom lessons through WhatsApp. “We tried the online mode but gave up after realising that not all children have access to laptops,” said V. Sasikala, convenor of a group school in Vijayawada.  Thiruvananthapuram In Kerala’s capital, Bindu Santhosh, who teaches Maths to class 12 students at Christ Nagar Higher Secondary School, Kowdiar, said the lockdown came in the way of training for teachers on using the Zoom app. Ms. Santhosh and class 12 Chemistry teacher Rekha P. reached out to students using Google Classroom. The limitation is that students would have to type, write and scan doubts and then send them as a PDF file through the app. Gayathri Rani M., the high school section head at Trivandrum International School, Edackode, and a history teacher, said Google Classroom was being used for grades 6 to 9 using the school connection. She also uses Edpuzzle to create interactive videos and embed questions.  Bengaluru Lecturers in Bengaluru find attendance rates for online classes higher. “Attendance for online classes is even 90%, while for regular classes it is about 80%,” said K.R.Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore University. Some lecturers said they were struggling with technology as students played music or ran audio clips of cookery classes during lectures.   (With inputs from   Priscilla Jebaraj,   S. Poorvaja,   R. Krishnamoorthy,   R. Ravikanth Reddy,   P. Sujatha Varma,   Tanu Kulkarni, Roshni R.K., Lalatendu Mishra, Gauri Vij)
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Railways mulls post-lockdown protocols||From making passengers wear masks to using the Arogya Setu app to check their health status before allowing them to travel and encouraging physical distancing on board are a few proposals that the Railways is mulling over as it prepares to gear for the end of the 21-day lockdown on April 14. While no decision has yet been taken on when the passenger services will be resumed, officials said it is likely to be done in a phased manner. A decision, officials said, is likely to be taken in the coming week on how to restore services. The Railways, officials said, had discussed the option of resuming services only on specific approval of each train from the Railway Board. Suggestions for phase-wise resumption of services have to be provided by the zone to the board. “These are sensitive times and we are not looking in terms of revenue generation for now. The focus is on passenger safety and to ensure that the disease does not spread. Trains will run in due course, once the government gives us the green signal. However, as of now, we have not taken any decision yet,” said a senior officer. In the zones, officials are also identifying trains and routes which can be resumed with the approval of the board. The focus, say officials, is to see if routes catering to migrant workers can be resumed initially and also those that are not travelling through or had halts at COVID-19 hotspots. Officials added the Railways also have to factor in how the lockdown is eventually opened. If it is selective, then trains will only run in areas where the lockdown has been lifted, officials said. Railways is also unlikely to rescind a March 19 order suspending all concessions for passengers except those offered to patients, students and people with disabilities. Masks, keeping distance The Railways is mulling options like thermal screening to screen passengers boarding trains. “We are thinking of requesting passengers to wear masks as per the Health Ministry advisory. We are also thinking of using the Arogya app to check wellness of patients and allow only healthy passengers, an official said. The Railways has also asked zones to ensure the security of coaches parked in depots.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi calls up ex-Presidents and PMs, Opposition leaders||In a bid to forge bipartisan support over India’s fight against the COVID-19 pandemic that has seen the country enter its 11th day of lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached out to former Presidents, Prime Ministers and leaders of Opposition parties. According to government sources, Mr. Modi dialled former Presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil as well as former Prime Ministers H.D. Deve Gowda and Manmohan Singh on Sunday. “He also called up Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Odisha Chief Minister and Biju Janata Dal leader Naveen Patnaik, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Telangana Rashtra Samithi chief and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao, Samajwadi Party leaders Mulayam Singh and Akhilesh Yadav, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Prakash Singh Badal and DMK chief M.K. Stalin,” said government sources. In his call with Mr. Stalin, Mr. Modi also enquired about the health of his mother Dayalu Ammal. “The calls all pertained to the challenge that the COVID-19 pandemic presents before us as a country and the need to be united to combat it,” a source said. Mr. Modi has called for a video conference on April 8 with floor leaders of political parties whose combined strength in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha number up to five MPs. The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress had, however, declared that it would not be attending the meeting. Sunday’s calls are being seen as an attempt to make up for any feelings of neglect the Opposition parties may have to such an outreach.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police, forensic teams visit Nizamuddin||A team each of the Delhi police Crime Branch and the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) went inside the Tablighi Jamaat centre at Nizamuddin on Sunday. A joint team in full protective gear remained inside the centre for around six hours during which they mapped the entire building. They videographed the entire premises, including two basements of the centre, where the attendees used to stay during their visit to the building. The building was disinfected for two days and got clearance from the Health Department before the joint team entered in it. Full survey “We have obtained a few documents from an office inside the building and surveyed the entire building. If required, we will revisit the building. We have asked the building manager to provide the CCTVs [footage] of March. We also talked to the Maulanas who are part of the management committee of the centre, and all documents were seized in their presence,” said the police officer. After and before the 10 members of the team entered and left the building, they were thoroughly checked by a team of the Health Department at the main gate of the centre. The officer said the Crime Branch was working in various dimensions in the case and they were following procedures and legal opinion before initiating any step because it was a sensitive case. According to Deepa Verma, Director of FSL, Rohini, members from the Cyber Forensics Unit biology, chemistry, physics and photo divisions visited the spot and collected exhibits. The forensic team was in Hazmat suit and is likely to be sent for home quarantine, sources said. The officer said the building had five floors and two basements and several shoe racks were found inside the building. Dump data analysis Meanwhile, the police said they were identifying visitors to the centre with the help of dump data analysis. They are identifying who all visited and stayed in the centre for more than eight hours in the past one month. A Defence service man who was sent to quarantine was identified with the help of dump data analysis. “We are identifying people after scrutinising more than one lakh cellphones. We are sending report to the States concerned after identifying the people who were the part of the religious gathering at the centre and later went back to their native places,” said the officer.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Study abroad dreams shattered or delayed||With an acceptance letter from Australia’s Deakin University, 21-year-old Triptha Luthra was on cloud nine a month back but is now glued to TV following news updates from across the globe about the coronavirus pandemic as uncertainty surrounds her study abroad dream. For Anoushka Ray, who had plans to go to New York for the session beginning in September, the development is demotivating but not a factor to change her entire life plan. However, Tara Osan, who had acceptance letters from multiple colleges in Canada and Italy, believes it is time to look for a Plan B and apply for colleges in India. The three are among several students whose study abroad plans have either been shattered or delayed due to lockdown restrictions imposed in various countries across the globe leading to suspension of classes and visa processes. No clarity on jobs Equally hard-pressed are those students who are already enrolled in courses abroad and are in final year with no clarity on jobs and their visa deadlines racing against lockdown timelines besides education loans adding financial strain. “I had plans to study Masters in Architecture at Deakin University in Australia. I was supposed to go there soon and was waiting for my exams for undergraduate degree to be over. But now it feels like time has frozen,” Ms. Luthra said. “I had not applied for further studies in any college in India and the option of taking up a job or internship also looks a distant dream here with the economic slowdown on the doorstep once the lockdown is lifted,” she added. Ms. Tara Osan, a Shri Ram School student, who wanted to study Advertising either in Italy or in Canada, believes that for students who opted for the IB curriculum, studying abroad had been a plan in mind since long. “Two months back, I was elated to be counting the number of options I had but now it is a very demotivating phase. Our Class 12 exams are also suspended and will be evaluated on basis of internal assessments. So it is a feeling that lot needs to be done to get future plans in order but everything is on hold. “Studying abroad does not look like a possible thing this year so I will now look for a plan B and start applying for colleges here,” she said. However, for Ms. Anoushka Ray, who wanted to study Liberal Arts in New York, the plan is only deferred but not cancelled. “Planning to study abroad is a long process, I have invested way too much both financially as well as mentally in the process so altering an entire life plan because of the situation at the moment, does not seem to be wise decision. I will go for next session but I will go. I am reaching out to my university in New York to see if my admission can be considered for next fall,” she said. “There are many students who have already got admission but are now reconsidering because the classes have moved online and there is no clarity by when situation will improve,” Anupam Singha, who runs a Study Abroad consultancy firm in Delhi, said.  Interviews and announcements for several fellowship opportunities are also on hold in view of the uncertainty.
06 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Migrants in Arunachal caught unaware||It took nine hours for Dipu Sonowal and 24 other construction workers to trek 23 km from a remote rural road project site to a checkpoint between Boleng, the headquarters of Siang district in Arunachal Pradesh and Pangin town, on Saturday afternoon. They would have walked another 80 km to their villages around Jonai in Assam’s Dhemaji district had a police team not caught them. The police took them uphill to a relief camp in Boleng where they found 66 other migrant workers, some of whom walked from their project sites 56 km away. “We got to know about the lockdown belatedly because of network issues at Ibuk village where we were engaged in a PMGSY (Prime Minister’s Gram Sadak Yojana) project. But we thought we could finish off a culvert and retaining walls until the contractor ran out of material and we ran out of food,” said Mr. Sonowal, from Sonowal Kathoni village in Assam. Prabin Boro, from Bahirjilai village in Assam, had to spend a night in the jungle with six others from their PMGSY project further uphill. “People here are generally helpful, but villages along the way were not letting strangers enter because of fear of getting some disease,” he said. Siang Deputy Commissioner Rajeev Takuk said most of the projects, including the 3 mW Subbung hydro-electric project, are at an average altitude of 500 m, although the district has places at 2,000 m. He agreed that walking 30-50 km across steep hills was similar to making 150 km on foot in the plains. “Unless people use jungle tracks, they have to take the only road from the district to Assam. They were thus brought to the relief camp where they are being provided food items despite the hardships we are facing,” Mr. Takuk told The Hindu , adding the migrant workers would be sent back home at an appropriate time. District Disaster Management Officer Karik Mize said they expected more migrant labourers to come from other project sites. “Boleng only has a rural bank with low cash and most of the labourers do not have accounts. We have had to tweak the procedures to provide cash to those who did not opt for food items,” he said. Rajesh Mibang, a local labour union leader, said they were coordinating with contractors for ensuring the migrant workers, including 118 staying outside the relief camp, have adequate food.
06 April 2020||Bhopal,||Man who threw feast for 1,500 tests positive||Fourteen days after he returned from Dubai, a 40-year-old man from Morena tested positive for COVID-19 along with his wife on Thursday. And a day later, 10 of his relatives who had taken part in a feast thrown by him tested positive too. More than 1,500 persons who had attended the feast ceremony in the honour of his mother, who had died on March 8, had been confined in quarantine and the locality where the venue was located had been sealed too, said District Chief Medical and Health Officer R.C Bandil. Of the 23 persons whose samples had been taken, 10 relatives, including seven children, had tested positive, he added. The district administration had declared the house of the man, a restaurant waiter who had returned from Dubai on March 17, as the “epicentre” and the area within its 3 km radius as the “containment area”. The children were aged between two and 14, whereas a 60-year-old woman had contracted the illness too, said Sapna M. Lovanshi, Additional Director, State Directorate of Health Services. The curfew was imposed in the area, all persons being screened at its exit points and traffic was prohibited too, said district officials. “His own two children have tested positive. We are collecting samples of all their primary contacts now and those residing within the containment area who have symptoms, including cough and cold,” said Dr. Bandil. When the man landed in New Delhi, he was screened for illnesses but showed no symptoms until March-end, according to A.K. Gupta of the Morena District Hospital. “His wife told us she had caught a cough and cold even before her husband’s return,” he said. Still, even when the couple turned up at the hospital on March 29, the man did not declare his travel history. “However, he returned to the hospital on March 31 complaining of mild cough and cold that’s when he declared he had returned from Dubai, and we took their samples,” said Dr. Gupta. “The 10 members who had tested positive a day later didn’t have any symptoms,” said Pallavi Jain Govil, Principal Secretary, State Public Health and Family Welfare Department. The participants at the ceremony had dispersed and their primary contacts were being traced, said an official.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tests, treatment free under Ayushman Bharat||The Central government has decided to provide free testing and treatment of COVID-19 under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme. This, it notes, will help more than 50 crore Ayushman beneficiaries to get free testing and treatment in designated private hospitals across India. Confirming this, Indu Bhushan, CEO of Ayushman Bharat, said this would allow beneficiaries to get timely and standard treatment. The announcement comes after India registered an increase of 302 cases in the 12 hours to Sunday morning. The total number of positive cases has risen to 3,374 in India (including 3,030 active cases, 267 cured/discharged/migrated people and 77 deaths), according to the Health Ministry. Giving details, Dr. Bhushan said: “The empanelled hospitals can use their own authorised testing facilities or tie up with an authorised testing facility for the scheme. These tests would be carried out as per the protocol set by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and by private labs approved/registered by the ICMR. Similarly, treatment of COVID-19 by private hospitals will be covered under AB-PMJAY.” The objective of the decision was to increase the supply of testing and treatment facilities and increase access by roping in the private sector through AB-PMJAY scheme as per the ICMR guidelines, he said. Private sector Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that “in this unprecedented crisis we have to very actively involve the private sector as a key partner and stakeholder in the fight against COVID-19. Making testing and treatment available under Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY will significantly expand our capacities by including private sector hospitals and labs and mitigate the adverse impact of this catastrophic illness on the poor.” He added that States were in the process of enlisting private sector hospitals that could be converted into COVID-19 only hospitals. Information on symptoms, testing and treatment for the disease can be accessed from the website of the Health Ministry and by calling the national COVID-19 helpline 1075.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI/CHENNAI,||18 Malaysian nationals stopped from flying back||Eight Malaysian nationals have been sent to quarantine after they were stopped from boarding a special flight to Malaysia at the Delhi airport, an Immigration official said on Sunday. It was found that they figured in a list of foreign nationals who attended the religious congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin. Their credentials are being verified with the Malaysian Embassy. The official said the eight wanted to board a special flight to Malaysia when they were stopped by Immigration personnel. A Delhi police official confirmed that the eight Malaysian nationals had been handed over to them by the Immigration Department. Later, they were sent for medical examination. “All Malaysian nationals have been shifted to a quarantine centre after their samples were taken by the Health department”, a senior police officer said. With Crime Branch In another development, Immigration authorities at the Chennai International Airport on Sunday detained 10 Malaysian nationals who had arrived in the country on a tourist visa and attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi. They were handed over to the Central Crime Branch (CCB) and later placed under quarantine in Poonamallee. Police sources said the foreign nationals were involved in the Jamaat’s activities in Tenkasi district from March 14 to 26 after returning from Delhi. They were intercepted by the immigration officers when they tried to fly out of the country on a special flight that had been arranged for stranded Malaysians. According to the police, the 10 Malaysian nationals had stayed at Nizamuddin in Delhi till March 11, after attending the conference. They arrived in Chennai on March 12 by train and went to Tenkasi the following day. “Between March 14 and 26, they visited different mosques in Tenkasi, Courtallam and Vallam in connection with the Jamaat’s activities, along with two locals — Moulana Hamid and Moulana Moideen,” a police officer said. On Sunday, they reached the Chennai airport along with 127 other Malaysian nationals from different parts of the State. They were supposed to fly back on a Malindo Air flight, arranged by the Malaysian government.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Anganwadi workers get online sessions on COVID-19 steps||The Women and Child Development Ministry is regularly holding online interactive sessions with anganwadi workers to ensure the safety of pregnant women and lactating mothers after the 21-day lockdown ends, sources said. The Ministry has reached out to more than two lakh anganwadi workers through these interactive sessions, the sources said. “The Women and Child Development Ministry has initiated a series of interactive awareness sessions with them using digital platforms to ensure front line anganwadi workers have first-hand information regarding measures to safeguard themselves from COVID-19 [even after the lockdown ends],” a source said. The government is also in touch with health experts on the matter, they said. “Special focus is also being given to ensure that the nutritional requirements of pregnant women and lactating mothers are met even after April 15,” another source added. On Sunday, digital interactive sessions, including an introduction on the virus, the preventive measures to be taken and the psychosocial impact of COVID-19 on women and children, were conducted by the Ministry, sources said. “Several measures and suggestions were discussed for maintaining the physical and mental well-being of women and children amid the pandemic,” an official said. In a bid to help domestic violence victims, the National Commission for Women (NCW) has decided to form a task force of over 15 NGOs to help women in need, sources in the Commission said. The move comes a few days after the NCW said that it has received 69 complaints of domestic violence since the imposition of the countrywide lockdown. Since March 24, 257 complaints related to offences against women were received, of which 69 were of domestic violence, NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.K. to evacuate 20,000 citizens starting this week||The United Kingdom will operate seven charter flights during this week to evacuate stranded British nationals from Goa, Mumbai and Delhi, its High Commission said on Sunday. Around 20,000 citizens will leave in a weeks-long operation that the U.K. envoy to India described as ‘huge’. Around 35,000 U.K. citizens are stranded after India suspended commercial international air travel on March 22 to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The High Commission, in a press release, said 20,000 of them had expressed willingness to leave. “We know how worrying the past few weeks have been for British nationals in India. I hope this announcement will bring relief, especially to those in greatest need. Due to the large numbers of travellers involved, the scale of this operation is huge. The U.K. government continues to work hard with our Indian counterparts in New Delhi and London to arrange a safe journey back for as many people as possible,” said Jan Thompson, acting High Commissioner. The first flight will take off from Goa on April 8 and then on April 10 and 12. The flights from Mumbai and Delhi will leave on Apirl 9 and 11. The first few flights are expected to carry the elderly and the most vulnerable. The U.K. evacuated 113 of the most vulnerable citizens from Goa on an Irish aircraft on April 4. The effort will be focused on those citizens who are residents in the U.K. and their family members, the High Commission said.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Empowered group joins forces with private sector, UN & NGOs||The government on Sunday said it had set up an empowered group, chaired by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, to undertake discussions with the private sector and international organisations on actions planned and challenges faced in dealing with COVID-19. The empowered group, constituted on March 29, has already had several rounds of meetings with U.N. agencies, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the civil society organisations and development partners, and industry associations, such as the CII, FICCI, Assocham and Nasscom, on “their contribution to the response, their plans for the coming weeks and the issues they are facing, and their expectations from the government”. Since March 30, the panel has conducted six meetings. Mr. Kant has also reached out to over 92,000 NGOs/civil society organisations, appealing to them to assist the government in identifying hotspots, deputing volunteers and care givers to deliver services to the elderly, persons with disabilities, children, transgender persons and other vulnerable groups and create awareness about prevention and combating stigma. He has also requested them to provide shelter to homeless, daily wage workers and urban poor families and set up community kitchens for migrants. “The committee has opened up cross-sectoral dialogue within the private sector and start-ups to engender collaboration among them to produce health equipment and PPEs,” the release said.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IAF places Sergeant who visited Nizamuddin under quarantine||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has placed a Sergeant under quarantine as a precaution after the Delhi police found that he had visited the Nizamuddin area during the time of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation last month. “He came in contact with two other personnel and they all are asymptomatic. But as per procedure all three have been quarantined,” IAF spokesperson Wg. Cdr. Indranil Nandi said. Investigation is on to determine if the Sargent had actually attended the congregation. The families of the personnel have also been quarantined. Phone records The Sergeant was identified by the Delhi police after they traced people present in the Nizamuddin area using phone records as part of efforts to identify those present during the congregation. Once the information was known, the contact list of the Sergeant was ascertained and it was identified that he contacted two more personnel, Wg. Cdr. Nandi added. Currently, the IAF is working on skeletal staff with a majority working from home due to COVID-19, so the contact list is very limited. Meanwhile, in Lucknow, a total lockdown was enforced in Sadar Bazar in the Cantonment area after 12 outsiders who attended the congregation in Delhi were identified by Military Intelligence (MI) to be staying there. “Actionable information regarding presence of a group of strangers who returned from Nizamuddin after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was provided to the police by the MI unit of Lucknow,” a defence source said. Acting on the input, the police and the district administration detained 12 people in the Pathhar Mosque of Sadar Bazar, which is about 600 m from the Command headquarters of Army’s Central Command, the source stated. All 12 have tested positive to COVID-19, following which a lockdown in the area was enforced. The police are now trying to identify those who gave them shelter without informing the authorities.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Reopening of schools, colleges to be decided after lockdown||The government will take a decision on reopening of schools and colleges on April 14 after reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the country, Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said on Sunday. In an interview, Mr. Pokhriyal said the safety of students and teachers was of utmost importance. He said the Ministry was prepared to ensure there was no academic loss to students if schools and colleges needed to remain shut beyond April 14. “The classes are already being conducted online using various government platforms like Swayam. We are prepared to ensure there is no academic loss to students if the need arises to keep schools, colleges closed after April 14,” he said. “It is difficult to take a decision at the moment. We will review the situation on April 14 and depending upon the circumstances, a decision will be taken on whether schools and colleges can be reopened now or have to be closed for more time,” Mr. Pokhriyal said when asked about his Ministry’s post-lockdown plan. 34 crore students “There are 34 crore students in the country, more than America’s population. They are our biggest treasure. Safety of students and teachers is of utmost importance to the government,” he added. “I am regularly reviewing the plan of action being followed by schools and colleges during the lockdown. A plan is also ready for conducting pending exams.”
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parrikar’s biography details tense eve of surgical strikes||A new book on former Defence Minister and Goa Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar reveals just what went on, on the eve of the surgical strikes against Pakistan (announced on September 29, 2016) after the Uri attack that killed 18 Indian soldiers and left more than 30 injured. The biography of Parrikar, An Extraordinary Life (Penguin Random House) by Sadguru Patil and Mayabhushan Nagvenkar, describes in great detail the events of the evening the surgical strikes were supposed to take place. Quoting Milind Karmarkar, a Sangh swayamsewak, considered close to the then Defence Minister, the authors say Parrikar was “desperate to speak to someone” that evening, in order to calm his nerves. “Manohar told me that he was desperately in need of a friend he could speak to that night. He wanted to ease the tension, which was developing as his team closely monitored the progress of the strike,” the book quotes Mr. Karmarkar. Journalist calls He also goes on to reveal that during the course of the evening, Parrikar received at least three calls from a journalist friend, and says: “Had the mediaperson called even one more time he would have invited him over.” Once he was informed about the successful completion of the mission and the return of the Indian commandoes, Parrikar “desperately” tried reaching his son Utpal, who was on a business visit to Japan. ‘Pakistan knocked off’ “He could not get through despite several calls, but when he did, his first two words to his son were: Pakistanak udaylo (Pakistan has been knocked off),” says the book. This is just one incident in a well-researched look at the storied career of Mr. Parrikar who rose from the ranks of being an RSS volunteer to being the Defence Minister of India. The COVID-19 pandemic has pushed back the book’s release, scheduled for the end of March.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Some schools monitor lamp lighting by students||Parents cried foul on Sunday, as several schools monitored whether their students lit diyas at 9 p.m. as urged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, pressured by a letter from the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) asking for an action taken report. The Ministry later clarified that no coercion was intended and that the participation in the event was voluntary. “I got a call from the parent representative at our school, asking me to comply with the government’s directions. I was livid, and told her it was more important that the government distribute personal protective equipment (PPE) to hospital workers than monitoring children lighting diyas,” said one angry parent, with children in Class 5 and 7 at a south Delhi school, who did not wish to be named. “The representative said there was a lot of pressure on the school.” The school sent a message to parents asking them to report back by 9 p.m. on the child’s participation in the lighting of diyas, and by 10 p.m. on the downloading of the Ministry of AYUSH’s Aarogya Setu app, adding that the Department of Education “requires an update on compliance”. It included a letter from MHRD Joint Secretary Maneesh Garg, giving directions for how the app could be downloaded, as well as some “general measures to enhance the body’s defence system prepared by the Ministry of AYUSH” and details for the 9 p.m. candle lighting.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Congress seeks wider testing||Lighting a diya alone cannot succeed in containing the spread of the COVID-19, the Congress said on Sunday asking the Narendra Modi government to alter the testing protocol to make its scope wider and increase the number of tests. It also pressed the government to come up with a larger economic package for businesses and individuals. “The PM made a request to people of India to light a diya at 9 p.m. for nine minutes today. There is no harm in it. But just as lockdown alone cannot succeed in containing the virus, it has to be backed by mass testing and a robust economic package, a diya alone won’t help people of India,” spokesperson Sushmita Dev said. “Sitting at home alone under a lockdown won’t help till there are enough tests done. Out of 135 crore people we have only tested a little over 75,000 persons. South Korea, which has managed to halt the virus, tests 10,000 persons every day,” Ms. Dev said. The Congress also rejected the government’s latest announcement making the COVID-19 testing free, under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana saying the policy has a limited reach. Pointing to the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for health workers, she said: “There are about 3.3 lakh PPE kits while the actual requirement is more than 62 lakh.”  Out of 135 crore people we have only tested a little over 75,000 persons Sushmita Dev Congress spokesperson
06 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||How Ahmedabad is fighting the pandemic||Ahmedabad, which has reported over 50 COVID-19 cases and five deaths, has been identified as one of the hotspots of the pandemic. It is fighting the virus through innovative means: use of technology, home quarantine and delivery of essential services at the doorstep in certain clusters. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has taken several initiatives even before the lockdown started on March 24. On March 5, it announced a plan that mandated home quarantine for all those who returned from abroad. “From March 6 to 22, 6,000 people came to Ahmedabad from abroad. All were compulsorily quarantined for 14 days. When we realised that it was important to quarantine their families too, we ensured that they were quarantined and all essential services were delivered by the civic body,” AMC Commissioner Vijay Nehra said. He said the home quarantine of international passengers had a major effect; only a couple of cases were reported from among them. As the cases started coming in, the AMC, in a first in the country, declared the names and addresses of infected persons citing public interest. “The names of the persons found positive may be declared in public interest so that others who could have come in contact with them can voluntarily inform the authorities and isolate themselves,” the civic body said. During the lockdown, the civic body started delivering vegetables and fruits in different localities and asked Reliance Fresh, DMart and Big Bazaar to deliver provisions and food items at the doorstep. When the exodus of migrant workers started, the AMC asked all builders and developers to make sure that the workers from their sites did not flee. The AMC has created 500 teams of health workers and others for a door-to-door survey. Those with even mild symptoms will be taken to hospitals for testing. The civic body wants mass testing of people from certain areas from where cases have been reported in order to weed out the potential asymptomatic patients. “In consultation with the Health Department, the next step is to go for mass testing to ascertain the extent of pandemic in the city,” he said.
06 April 2020||Bhopal,||Stay positive, urge COVID-19 survivors||Thirteen days have flown past for Gunjan Saxena, Bhopal’s first COVID-19 patient and also the first to recover from it in Madhya Pradesh. Along with her father in the isolation ward of AIIMS, Bhopal, Ms. Saxena barely had the time to ponder over the cough, cold and breathlessness that felt like the symptoms of any other viral infection, as more than 50 friends called and kept in touch every day. A typical day for Ms. Saxena, who is doing a Master’s in international business law in London, began when she was woken up at 8.30 a.m. to her get vitals checked. Then she read the Rigveda and spent an hour or so in prayer. Then came the calls to friends. Some reading followed till friends in the U.K called her up in the afternoon. Later, she chatted with her mother and brother. Then came course lectures through videoconferencing till she went to bed at round midnight. After testing positive on March 22, she was sure of being cured. “Given my age, I was sure of being cured. But I was anxious about my parents being worried for me,” says Ms. Saxena, 26. However, shifting to a different location and the isolation was more daunting for Ms. Saxena, who had barely spent more than 14 hours in a room before, than the infection itself. “The disease is not as fatal as the hysteria surrounding it,” she says. But when her father, 62, tested positive on March 25, she was crestfallen. “That was the lowest hour for me in the ward. I was ridden with guilt. For 24 hours I shut myself from everyone, from my friends. I had nothing to say to them,” she says. “I was cool about my testing positive, but not Papa.” A veteran journalist for 25 years, K.K. Saxena had attended the March 20 press conference where then Congress Chief Minister Kamal Nath announced his resignation. Mr. Saxena’s routine visits to the Raj Bhavan and Vidhan Sabha over the next few weeks, before his COVID-19 status was confirmed, resulted in journalists, officials and Congress MLAs going into home quarantine. The father and the daughter, the only occupants in the ward having four beds set in corners, lent each other support. It was at 8.30 p.m. on April 3 when the doctors finally declared the two coronavirus-free. Ms. Saxena credits her recovery to positive attitude, peace of mind, enough sleep and “giving the body a chance to recover.” For her father, it was confidence, and his habit of reading for an hour before going to bed, a ritual the virus failed to disrupt.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||30 more days to pay life insurance premium||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has allowed an additional 30-day grace period for policyholders to pay premium on life insurance policies whose renewal due date falls in April. It had earlier provided a similar grace period for those policies whose premium was due for payment in March. An additional grace period is over and above the 30-day grace period, from the due date, that usually is available to pay the premium without any interest charges and thus ensuring continuity of the policy without any break. The grace period varies depending on the frequency of premium payment — it is less, usually 15 days, if the mode of payment is monthly and invariably 30 days for quarterly, half-yearly or yearly modes. A circular issued by IRDAI Member (Life) K. Ganesh said the additional grace period for life insurance policies, whose premiums is due in March and April, would be 30 days. The communication, however, did not specify whether it will be applicable to all life insurance policies, irrespective of their frequency of payment. Settlement options The decision follows representations from life insurers and the Life Insurance Council, in which they had cited “various operational constraints and difficulties being faced by policyholders due to the lockdown,” in view of the pandemic. In another instruction to life insurers, IRDAI said they may offer settlement options for maturity payout of unit-linked policies. Settlement option is a facility extended to ULIP holders to receive the maturity proceeds in instalments. Regulatory returns “Where unit-linked policies mature and fund value is to be paid in lump sum, life insurers may offer settlement options. This one-time option is regardless of whether such option exists or not in the specific product,” the circular said. In doing so, life insurers have to “exercise all due care and diligence to explain clearly the possible downside risk of continued fluctuation of fund value based on daily NAV and clear consent has to be obtained from the policyholder. This is allowed for unit-linked policies maturing up to May 31,” the circular said. IRDAI has given more time for insurers to file regulatory returns — 15 days for monthly returns; and 30 days for quarterly, half-yearly and yearly returns as well for Cybersecurity Audit. The additional time for filing regulatory returns is as on March 31, another circular said.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPFO to accept Aadhaar date of birth as proof||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) will accept the date of birth recorded in Aadhaar as a valid proof for those applying for changing the date, as long as the difference is less than three years, on EPFO records, a statement from the Union Labour and Employment Ministry said on Sunday. “In a move to extend the availability and reach of online services in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, EPFO has issued revised instructions to its field offices to facilitate PF members to rectify their date of birth in EPFO records, thus ensuring that their UAN [universal account number] is KYC compliant,” the note read. The Ministry said PF subscribers who want to rectify their DOB in the EPFO records could do so online. “This will enable EPFO to validate the date of birth of members online with UIDAI instantaneously, thus authenticating and reducing the processing time of change requests,” the Ministry said. Following Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement on March 26 that EPF members could now withdraw non-refundable advance amounts, the Ministry had notified the amended scheme on March 27. On Sunday, the Ministry reiterated that EPFO had “instructed field offices to expedite disposal of online requests for availing non refundable advance.”
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Cases doubling due to Tablighi Jamaat event’||“... [the] allotment done by us is based on cases reported in States. We have advocated for rational use of PPEs. We are also making an effort to see how procurement can be further enhanced. We have discussed this with all health secretaries and other officials,” he said. He explained that initially a component of the PPE was being imported so there was some shortage but now domestic manufacturers have started producing and procuring them from whichever country has them. Mr. Agarwal quoted Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan as saying that till a drug or vaccine is found, social distancing and lockdown are the only available and effective vaccines against SARS-CoV-2. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Delhi have opposed a circular calling for mandatory donations from salaries to the PM CARES fund. They also expressed concern about lack of PPEs, difficulties in travel faced by health care workers, and lack of sanitation and urged that funds collected be used locally instead of transferring it to the PM CARES. The Health Ministry issued a clarification on Sunday night stating that a fake notification was doing the rounds asserting that five days salary of employees under Health Ministry would be remitted to the PM CARES fund.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Rapid antibody testing for hotspots first: ICMR||Explaining about who to test and the scale of testing the Health Ministry has said that testing has to be focused and judiciously done, even when scaled-up. It added that contact-tracing is vital for this and is now greatly enabled by the AarogyaSetu App. “RT-PCR test detects the virus and the antibody tests, which use blood, detect the body’s response to the virus. A positive results tells that the body was exposed to the virus. The antibody tests, even when used for screening, must be used with care, as with all tests, and interpreted by a professional. As of now, when so used, they can inform how groups of people have been exposed,” noted the Ministry. Experts point out that individual-level interpretation also needs to be done by a professional, who can take a comprehensive assessment. When combined with nucleic acid tests, the antibody tests can give a complete status. HIV experience Meanwhile a study on pooled sampling, said that pooled COVID-19 tests could help scale up testing and identify and contain disease hotspots. The study was conducted by Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy among other. “Testing samples from multiple patients with a single PCR test (pooled sampling) has been used previously in the early stages of the HIV epidemic. We found that the use of the strategy could reduce the time, cost, and resources required whilst identifying infected peopleand estimating the infection rate. Allowing us to identify community clusters for targeted public health interventions,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, study author and CDDEP Director.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Many women from T.N. attended Tablighi meet||“There is a possibility of a number of such women being carriers of COVID-19. Since they stay in the homes of hosts, we have asked police in all cities and districts in Tamil Nadu to identify them and take appropriate precautionary measures as per the safety protocol,” a senior police officer said. Special teams were in touch with the coordinators of the Tablighi Jamaat to locate the members of Mastooraat Jamaat if they were still staying as part of their preaching schedule. Meanwhile, the police sources also said that most of the 125 foreigners belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat were identified and quarantined in their places of stay in Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Kancheepuram districts. “The charge against them is that they violated the visa conditions. They came on a tourist visa and indulged in preaching religion. There is also violation of prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 of the CrPC,” the officer said.
06 April 2020||Srinagar,||Look into issue of parole for PSA cases: J&K HC||The J&K High Court has asked the High Powered Committee (HPC), convened to de-congest jails by releasing prisoners on parole in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, to examine the allegations that no detainee booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA) was being considered for any parole. Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal passed these orders on Saturday while hearing a Public Interest Litigation on the COVID-19 outbreak and the response given by the J&K administration. “Let the rules be urgently implemented and steps for grant of special parole to prisoners as is envisaged therein be taken on priority,” observed the division Bench. The Bench directed advocate Salih Pirzada to place his submissions by e-mail before the HPC, comprising Justice Rajesh Bindal, chairman and executive chairperson of the JKSLSA; Shaleen Kabra, Secretary, Home; B.K. Singh, DGP (Prisons) and M.K. Sharma, Member Secretary of the JKSLSA. The direction came after advocate Pirzada informed the court that the HPC has overlooked the aspect of detenus who have been detained under the PSA. “The order of the Supreme Court makes a reference only to prisoners without specifying the provision of law under which they may have been imprisoned.” In his letter, Mr. Pirzada said, “There were indications that there was vulnerability [of catching the virus] in jails in the context of health, hygiene and sanitation. There is a sizeable number of detainees detained under the PSA and are equally exposed to the hazards of the viral disease in J&K and outside jails.”
06 April 2020||Srinagar,||Five militants, 3 soldiers dead in Kupwara strike||Five militants have been killed in an ongoing operation along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara. Three soldiers were killed during the operation, according to an Army spokesman. “In another ongoing anti-infiltration operation in Keran sector of North Kashmir, alert troops braving inclement weather and hostile terrain have so far eliminated five terrorists attempting to infiltrate across the LoC taking advantage of the bad weather,” said a Srinagar-based Army spokesman. “Operation is still in progress,” said the spokesman. Sources said the militants sneaked into this side of the LoC five days ago through the Jumgand area in Kupwara district. They were later spotted in the Teen Bahak area, which is surrounded by a mountain range. “The militants managed to run around because of snow and rain in the area,” said an official.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India bans export of hydroxychloroquine||India has changed its official policy and prohibited export of hydroxychloroquine, a drug that has uses in the treatment of COVID-19, hours before U.S. President Donald Trump urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release the quantity of the drug that the U.S. had ordered. The Directorate-General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had prohibited the export of the drug on March 25. But it left the option of export open to fulfil “export obligation” and on “humanitarian grounds”. On April 4, the DGFT issued a new notification, ending the exception mentioned in the previous order. As a result, India will not export hydroxychloroquine even “against full advance payment”. “The export of hydroxychloroquine and formulations made from hydroxychloroquine, therefore, shall remain prohibited, without any exception,” said the notification issued by the DGFT on Saturday. The Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to questions on the sudden change in the policy. Following Saturday’s phone conversation, the Ministry said Mr. Modi conveyed India’s “deep condolences” to Mr. Trump for the loss of lives in the U.S.
06 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||No proof of community transmission, says Odisha||The Odisha government on Sunday lifted the 48-hour complete shutdown from three cities after asserting that no community transmission of COVID-19 had occurred. The three cities where shutdown was to end at 8 p.m. on Sunday were Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak. “We became puzzled following detection of COVID-19 positive cases from the Surya Nagar and Bomikhal areas of Bhubaneswar. Now, we have found that these infections had roots outside States. The apprehension about community transmission has now disappeared to a large extent,” said Asit Tripathy, State Chief Secretary, here. There was no evidence based on which it could be concluded that community transmission had already taken place, he said. “District administrations have been asked to enforce containment strategy at the hotspots where patients have no travel history and are asymptomatic, during the lockdown period,” he said.
06 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19 work stress gets to officer||An officer of the Papum Pare District Disaster Management Department in Arunachal Pradesh was found dead at her residence in Itanagar on Friday night. The COVID-19 pandemic-related work stress is believed to have been the cause of the death of 38-year-old Tsering Youngzam. The police said a case of unnatural death was lodged after her body was recovered from the bathroom of her residence. The Superintendent of Police of Capital Complex said Ms. Youngzam had asked her driver to come late on Saturday as she had been too exhausted because of COVID-19 duties.
06 April 2020||Dharamshala,||Farmers can buy fertilizers during curfew relaxation||The Kangra district administration on Sunday informed that shops selling seeds, fertilizers and pesticides will remain open during curfew relaxation hours. Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said farmers would now be allowed to reap the harvest in the district. The shops selling seeds, fertilizers and pesticides would remain open in the district from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. along with other shops notified earlier.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Coronavirus chatbot sees 2 crore users||The government’s dedicated WhatsApp chatbot MyGov Corona Helpdesk, aimed at providing timely updates and helping citizens clear their questions on COVID-19, has been used by more than 2 crore users. Artificial Intelligence chatbot company Haptik Infotech Pvt. Ltd., which is 87% owned by Reliance Jio, developed the MyGov Corona Helpdesk. According to Haptik, more than 55 million messages have been sent by over 20 million users since the chatbot was launched by the government on March 20. “Misinformation & rumours are the primary outlets of panic. The @reliancejio & @haptik powered official @mygovindia coronavirus chatbot has helped eliminate these outlets for millions. Whatsapp +919013151515 for your queries,” Haptik tweeted. In two weeks since its launch, the helpdesk chatbot has been used by more than 2 crore people in India. “The MyGov Corona Helpdesk has already processed over 28 million conversations on WhatsApp from users across the country, while more than 20 million users have taken their queries to the chatbot within the 13 days since its launch,” Haptik CEO Aakrit Vaish told PTI.
06 April 2020||Shimla,||Himachal CM asks Tablighis to get tested||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday asked all members of the Tablighi Jamaat who had attended the group’s congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, a COVID-19 hotspot, to come forward for testing by 5 p.m., failing which action would be taken against them. Three of the seven persons who tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Saturday were members of the Islamic organisation, he said. Earlier in the day, the State’s Director General of Police had issued a similar warning to the district heads of the Jamaat.
06 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Ganjam to penalise those without masks||The Ganjam district administration in Odisha has said it will impose a penalty on those who are not covering their faces with masks while coming out when the lockdown is relaxed from 7 a.m. to noon. Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said violators in urban areas would be fined Rs. 1,000 and those in rural areas Rs. 500. Those roaming the streets without any reason would be taken into custody and put under 14-day quarantine.
06 April 2020||Agartala,||Probe against ex-Tripura Cong. chief||The Tripura police have launched a probe into forgery and criminal conspiracy charges against former State Congress president Gopal Chandra Roy after an FIR was lodged in a city police station on Sunday. A lawyer, Arabinda Deb, submitted a complaint in the New Capital Complex (NCC) police station alleging that Mr. Roy, former MLA, has been spreading canards against Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb through statements written in his letterhead that contains the emblem of ‘Ashok Stambh’. The complainant claimed that the opposition leader was not authorised to use the national emblem and by doing so he committed an offence of forgery. The advocate also claimed that the allegations against the Chief Minister were tantamount to criminal conspiracy.
06 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||9 from Delhi event test positive in U.P.||Nine more cases of COVID-19 have come to light in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. All of them attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin area of Delhi. Ghaziabad district now has 23 cases. After four people from the Masuri area tested positive on Friday, on Saturday four persons from Pasonda, three from Muradnagar and two from Loni were found to be infected with the virus, Chief Medical Officer N.K. Gupta said. He said the number of cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat could go up as results of 80 more samples were awaited.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Lead kindly light||
06 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Lockdown to end in U.P. in phases: CM||The lockdown against COVID-19 will come to an end in Uttar Pradesh on April 15 but will be done so in phases, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said. “The lockdown will come to an end on April 15,” Mr. Adityanath said while interacting with MLAs in the State during a videoconference on Saturday. He, however, stressed the need to end the lockdown in phases. “If crowds gather all at once, then all the efforts taken will go down the drain,” he said.
06 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab reports one more COVID-19 death, total reaches 6||Punjab on Sunday reported one more COVID-19 related death, taking the toll to six, according to an official statement. A 69-year-old woman, who was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, died in Ludhiana while three fresh cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally of confirmed cases to 68.
06 April 2020||Pune,||More deaths, fresh cases from Pune as Maharashtra’s tally of positive cases surges to 690||Three deaths were reported from Pune district and one from Aurangabad as Maharashtra saw a further spike of 55 fresh cases with positive cases soaring to 747 and the toll at 45 on Sunday. Pune district witnessed a sharp surge with 21 new cases, taking total to 103. At least four new cases are from Pimpri-Chinchwad.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||CRPF DG, 14 senior officers test negative||Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Director General A.P Maheshwari and 14 senior officers, who had gone into self-quarantine, have tested negative for COVID-19. They had gone into self-quarantine after it was found that they had come into indirect contact with the Chief Medical Officer of the CRPF, who had tested positive for virus symptoms on April 2.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shops to face closure for not enforcing physical distancing||Struggling to enforce physical distancing in markets and shops in the city, the Greater Chennai Corporation has decided to shut for three months shops that violate the rule. Hundreds of people thronged the George Town area on Sunday. At the temporary market in Broadway Bus Stand, there were crowds around retail vendors since early morning. A little later, the Corporation swung into action and enforced physical distancing between consumers. Corporation officials closed the temporary market in T. Nagar put up on a playground after huge crowds assembled, violating physical distancing norms. According to estimates, each of the 15 zones of Chennai Corporation reported two to five violations of physical distancing norms, with people crowding the markets and shops. Many temporary markets in crowded areas had been closed, said a civic official. Former councillor P.V.Tamil Selvan said crowding in markets was because of shortage of essential commodities. “The price has increased by 10% to 15%. The traders are unable to get supply from other States because of delay in transportation. The government should make arrangements for transportation of essential commodities from other parts of the the country. Otherwise the situation is likely to worsen,” he said.  Meat sellers face flak  On Sunday, the corporation sealed 52 meat shops that sold meat without veterinary officials’ certification. Six meat shops in Tiruttani were sealed. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash asked officials to seal the shops for three months for not enforcing physical distancing norms. “Starting Sunday, all regional deputy commissioners and zonal officials will keep a close watch on meat shops. “If meat is sold without the butchering done at our slaughterhouses, the shops shall be closed and sealed immediately. If shops don’t maintain physical distancing norms, they would be closed,” said Mr. Prakash. The Commissioner instructed the civic officials to be “ruthless” if violations are seen. “Waste no time in sealing. Such sealed shops shall not be opened for three months. This is equally applicable for grocery stores and supermarkets,” said Mr. Prakash. Many traders reportedly violated regulations relating to public health in the city. The civic body has taken steps to penalise traders who increased public health risk for residents. Corporation officials said they would close grocery stores if crowding was reported. 35 arrested Meanwhile, the Tiruvallur police arrested 35 persons who defied the district administration orders to close meat shops and fish markets on Sunday. Following 11 COVID-19 positive cases in Tiruvallur district, the district administration created seven containment zones. All shops, except pharmacies, in these zones were ordered closed and meat shops would remain closed till April 14. “This was mainly to contain the spread of the COVID-19,” said Tiruvallur District Collector Mageshwari Ravikumar. However, on Sunday, around 35 shops were open and based on information, the police rushed to the spot and had them closed. “We have arrested 35 persons. Similar action will be taken if others open the shops,” said a senior police officer.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Muslim leaders urge community to cooperate with govt.||Leaders of the Tamil Nadu Jamaath-Ul-Ulema, the Indian Union Muslim League, the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, the Social Democratic Party of India and Tablighi Jamaat have urged members of the Muslim community to co-operate with officials and not hold gatherings in mosques during the COVID-19 lockdown period. The leaders also appealed to the government to put an end to the communal hatred that they said was being spread by the media and on social media. K.A. Kader Mohideen, M.H. Jawahirullah, Umar Farook, Nellai Ameen and A. Jamaluddin (of Tablighi Jamaat) attended a meeting chaired by T.N. Jamaat-Ul-Ulema president Moulana P.A. Kajamoideen Bakavi. “We appeal to those who have tested positive for COVID-19 and those under quarantine to cooperate with officials,” a joint statement issued by the leaders said. They urged those who had been hospitalised not to use social media to air their grievances, and instead flag any issues they may have by calling the government’s helpline. They urged members of the community not to share everything they had come across on social media. “The District Collectors and social activists are involved in ensuring that those who have tested positive and their families are being isolated without any issue. They should continue their work in the same manner. However, we also request the government to make basic facilities available for those who have been admitted to hospitals after showing COVID-19 symptoms,” the leaders said.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 101 cr. sanctioned to govt. departments||The Tamil Nadu government has allocated Rs. 101.66 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to various departments to help them meet various COVID-19 lockdown-related expenses. The funds form part of the Rs. 500 crore sanctioned by the Chief Minister. While Rs. 75.27 crore had been sanctioned for providing food to over 91,000 police personnel for 33 days (between March 24 and April 30, excluding Sundays) at the rate of Rs. 250 per personnel per day, Rs. 22.75 crore had been sanctioned to the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine towards establishing temporary quarantine facilities for COVID-19 patients. A G.O. issued by Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra said Rs. 1.88 crore had been allocated towards disinfection activities at Slum Board tenements and Rs. 1.42 crore to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation towards preparedness/preventive measures, including the procurement of sanitary materials. The T.N. Disaster Risk Reduction Agency was sanctioned Rs. 50 lakh.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Spike in domestic violence plaints in State amid lockdown||In the last 15 days, the number of calls received by women helpline desks across the State has gone up. Dozens of women have called complaining that they were being harassed, abused or beaten up at home. In one instance, a city-based doctor accused her celebrity husband of assaulting her, following which police intervened and shifted her to safety. The COVID-19 lockdown seems to have a few more challenges in store, some yet to come. Police say hackers are working round-the-clock to break into systems to steal data for ransom. With employees of government organisations, IT firms and other major establishments working from home, hackers would focus on targeting residential WiFi connections that would not have adequate security features, police sources said. “We are receiving a number of calls from women that they are being verbally abused or beaten up at home by their spouses. Domestic violence is a punishable offence and we are taking appropriate action through the local police. It is a fact that complaints have gone up in the last 15 days,” Additional Director-General of Police (Crime against Women and Children) M. Ravi said. He said remote residential areas were prone to crimes during the lockdown period. There was a case last week where a shopkeeper tried to molest a girl who went to purchase essential commodities. After her parents lodged a complaint, the Neelankarai police registered a case against the suspect. Local police across the State were sensitised not to toss petitions or delay action on complaints lodged during the prevalence of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code. “Crimes committed during the lockdown period is even more serious since coming out of house is itself prohibited unless there is a valid reason. Complaints of domestic violence received by the NGOs or at the control room in the police headquarters were being forwarded to the respective city/district police for action. Many cases require only counselling since the affected women seek only intervention and show no interest in pursuit of legal action,” he said. Mr. Ravi said online pornography sites were vulnerable to frauds like phishing. “Net users should avoid opening a link that comes in the guise of COVID-19 home remedies, updates, and so on. At times such links are issued in the name of WHO and other credible institutions,” he said.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM light candles||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to the public for lighting lamps at 9 p.m. Sunday evoked good response in Chennai.  On Venkatnarayana Road in T. Nagar, there were fireworks for more than 30 minutes and people even floated sky lanterns. Chanting of “go corona” was heard in many places. The police took part in some places. In Adambakkam police station, lights were turned off and the men in uniform held candlelight. Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Health and Family Welfare Minister C. Vijaya Baskar, DMDK founder Vijayakant, and actor Rajinikanth were prominent among those who responded to Mr. Modi’s call. Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani told presspersons that the demand for power dipped by 2,500 MW.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers, Corpn. reach out to those under quarantine||From loneliness to procuring essentials, 80 volunteers of the Loyola College and the Network of Professional Social Workers have dealt with it all in the last few days while working with Greater Chennai Corporation. Volunteers said that many under home quarantine told them that they felt isolated and worried. “On Saturday, a volunteer called a 65-year-old woman, who was under home quarantine after a visit to the U.S. She said that she was feeling lonely on her birthday,” said Gladston Xavier, Associate Professor, Social Work Department, Loyola College, who co-ordinates the centre.  Dr. Pradeep Selvaraj, COVID-19 Quarantine Monitoring Officer with the Corporation, said as on April 4, they were following up with over 12,500 people in the city who were under quarantine.
06 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Majority of meat, fish stalls flout personal distancing norms||Customers thronged in front of meat and fish stalls in Coimbatore city on Sunday and majority of them violated restrictions imposed by Coimbatore Corporation on their functioning during the lockdown period. Meat stalls were open in narrow alleys in the city, most of them functioning on Sundays and festival days, though the civic body had banned their business to avoid thronging of people in close proximity. Though markings were made in front of the stalls for customers to maintain one metre distance in queue, physical distancing was not followed in most of the places. The civic body had directed meat stalls to post a person for crowd management. Yet, very few stalls had the arrangement. With the wholesale and retail fish markets at Ukkadam remaining shut on Sunday, private fish stalls witnessed heavy rush. However, according to sellers, the arrival of fish was limited on Sunday. People also bought fish caught by fishermen from local waterbodies in places such as Perur tank, Aliyar dam, waterstorage area of Bhavani dam at Sirumugai. In Coimbatore rural, meat and fish stalls at Perur, Periyanaickenpalayam, Mettupalayam, Sulur, Pollachi, Annur, Anamalai and Valparai functioned as normal where the police managed the crowd, according to sources. Coimbatore Corporation on Sunday asked two persons to stop sales and shut down their meat stalls. The Corporation sources said that the owners of the two stalls had not taken efforts to regulate the customers waiting to buy meat, which the civic body had said they should do. The Corporation had on Saturday warned meat stall owners to ensure personal distancing between customers while they awaited their turn to buy meat. The Corporation had also asked the stall owners to not dangle meat and keep ready parcels for quick completion of sales. The sources said besides the direction to close two stalls, there was, by and large, compliance with the Corporation’s directions. In fact, in a few places, the stall owners had wound up business by around 10.30 a.m.
06 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Open heart despite lockdown feeds Coimbatore’s strays||Lack of both resources and family support have not stopped Sumathi from Ramanathapuram in Coimbatore City from ensuring that close to 40 stray dogs get a healthy meal of rice and chicken liver everyday. Ms. Sumathi’s largesse comes despite her straitened circumstances — she works as a domestic help, earning around Rs. 10,000 per month. Yet she has been spending Rs. 3000 of that on feeding around 20 stray dogs in the city. That number has doubled following the lockdown due to the COVID-19 outbreak, as people have run short of supplies or fear stepping out. To supplement her income, Ms. Sumathi works part time at eateries washing vessels. “I can’t afford to buy from shops and I use PDS rice or rice given by neighbours,” says Ms. Sumathi. “What matters most is the heart and willingness to take care of other lives and just not money.” After the complete lockdown came into force on March 24, she has to start as early as 5 a.m. to ensure that she feeds about 40 to 45 dogs each day, with just a hand-me-down mask for protection. One of them, Sebi, a handsome fawn-cloured animal, is her escort through her daily routine. “Poor fellows, they love meat,” Ms. Sumathi says of her canine friends. “So I pick up chicken liver from a chicken stall I know, make a gravy and mix it with the rice... I feed dogs in a radius of three to five km. I have fellows waiting for my food right from Ramanathapuram to Gandhipuram.” Ms. Sumathi points out that the dogs do not fight or steal from another’s portion, happy to eat what is placed in front of them on a little square of paper that she uses to place the food on. Despite calls from her family in Thanjavur asking her to return after the COVID-19 outbreak, Ms. Sumathi is firm that her responsibility is towards the strays of Coimbatore. “If I decide to stay in comfort, my poor fellows will go without food,” she says. On the possibility of a coronavirus infection, Ms. Sumathi says, “Let me take care of these fellows and God will take care of me.”
06 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||For want of buyers, sections of farmers dump produce||Raju, a farmer from Belagonadapalli near Hosur, recently dumped three tonnes of capsicum that he had harvested from his field. Since the lockdown came into force, he has been unable to sell the produce. The vegetable, which has a significant market in Bengaluru, was dumped for want of takers and due to the hurdles in transportation. “Other vegetables still have takers every day. But capsicum is largely procured by restaurants and exporters,” said Mr. Raju, who grows capsicum on two acres. The 70-day crop, cultivated annually, generally sees good production during summer, with farmers spending close to Rs. 3 lakh per acre. Capsicum is grown on 50 acres in Denkanikottai and Hosur blocks of Krishnagiri. Red and yellow capsicums fetch anywhere between Rs. 100 and Rs. 150 per kg, while green capsicums fetch Rs. 70 per kg. “Traders are unwilling to take the risk of purchasing the vegetables from the farm gate, and the export market in Hosur was shut even before the lockdown,” Mr. Raju said. To leave the vegetable on the field would destroy the entire field. It has to be harvested to save the crop. Mr. Raju and other capsicum growers here have been harvesting the crop only to dump them later. P.M. Sivasamy, who grows cabbage on his two-acre farm at Devarayapuram in Coimbatore, is struggling to sell the produce. He spends Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 40,000 an acre and harvests nearly 10 tonnes of cabbage after 90 days. “I am able to sell only 100 kg to 150 kg a day. I used to sell to the daily markets in Coimbatore city. Now, traders come to the farms and ask for the produce at Rs. 6 to Rs. 10 a kg. Before the lockdown, I sold it at Rs. 15 to Rs. 20 a kg,” he said. D.N. Aruchamy, a tomato farmer, said, “Today, the trader who buys from me every day did not come. I do not know what to do with the tomatoes.” Tomato crop cannot be left without harvesting for more than two or three days. Tomato growers are selling 15 kg for just Rs. 130, as against Rs. 300 earlier. In the Nilgiris, prices of carrots and garlic are expected to crash in the coming weeks. Recently, a truckload of carrots were dumped in a pit. Farmers and traders of vegetables say that due to the lockdown, sales of the produce to other districts has been affected. “As a consequence, the production of vegetables has far outstripped demand, meaning vegetable prices have fallen steeply,” said R. Hariharan, a carrot trader from Ketti Paladai. Supply hit “Supply of vegetables to the local markets too has declined and farmers have stopped harvesting their crops over the last few weeks,” he added. Pavish Shankarnathan, a prominent farmer and vegetable trader from Udhagamandalam, said, “People have cut down on harvesting crops, and some vegetables such as garlic are being stored in large quantities in warehouses till the lockdown eases. When it does finally end, all of these vegetables are going to come to the market, which will translate into a steep drop in prices.” Principal Secretary of the Agriculture Department Gagandeep Singh Bedi said a video of a load of carrots being dumped in Nilgiris was filmed on the second day of the lockdown. Now, with the government removing restrictions on the movement of agricultural and horticultural crops, there will be no hitch for any farmer in selling his or her produce, he said. (With inputs from P.V. Srividya in Krishnagiri, Soundarya Preetha in Coimbatore, Rohan Premkumar in The Nilgiris and T. Ramakrishnan in Chennai)
06 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||59 industries given permission to operate||The district administration has so far given permission to 59 industries, involved in essential services or commodity production, to operate. According to official sources, these are in sectors such as food, packing of the food products, medical equipment, or other exempted industries. The passes are given after considering on a case-to-case basis. The industries that receive permission cannot have more than 20 employees at a time at the unit. It needs to be in the essential or exempted category, the officials said. Meanwhile, the MSME Department of the State Government has asked manufacturers and suppliers of essential items to register online on its portal. They need to share details of the stock in hand and production capacity per week. The products covered are COVID-19 test kits, ventilator, PPEs, masks, cots, mattresses, pillows, and multipara monitors.
06 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Fraud in relief distribution alleged||The AIADMK men had taken over the distribution of corona relief assistance of Rs. 1,000 and were distributing the cash from either the local party offices or houses of zonal secretaries, DMK Coimbatore east unit in-charge and Singanallur MLA N. Karthik has alleged. In a release, he said that he had received complaints from public that the ruling party men had taken over the distribution, which was not right because it was tax-payers’ money that the government gave to rice card holders. The ruling party men and not government officials distributing cash would only lead to corruption, Mr. Karthik alleged and asked what was the reason for the AIADMK workers, who had so far not participated in providing relief or creating awareness, coming forward now for distribution.
06 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police distribute vegetable, grocery kits||The city police distributed kits comprising vegetables and grocery items to migrant labourers and workers from other districts who got stranded here. Singanallur police distributed kits to 17 families, who had come from Dharmapuri district on Sunday. Sponsors S. Selvakumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters), said that each police station was tasked to identify people who need provisions in its limit and kits were sourced from sponsors. The police were maintaining physical distance while distributing the kits to the needy. Similarly, a separate team of the police takes care of distribution of food to the needy in the city limits.
06 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Accommodation for migrant workers||About 100 workers from different States, who are employed with the vendors of Kumaraguru Institutions, have been provided accommodation and food on the Kumaraguru campus. Kumaraguru Action for Relief and Empowerment (KARE), an extended arm of Kumaraguru Institutions, took the initiative to accommodate all the migrant workers. The travel history of the workers is known and a health check up is done every day. They will stay on the campus throughout the lockdown period, according to a release.
06 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bus owners donate rice, cash||Heavy Duty Vehicles Owners’ Association, Omni Bus Owners’ Association and Private Bus Owners’ Association jointly donated 3.75 tonnes of rice and a cheque of Rs. 1 lakh to the district administration for COVID-19 relief measures on Sunday. Upon receiving, District Collector K. Rajamani said that the rice will be distributed block-wise to prepare food for migrant workers and homeless persons in Coimbatore district.
06 April 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Police accused of damaging two-wheelers in Dharmapuri||A video of police high-handedness showed Dharmapuri Town Police Inspector Ratnakumar and his team damaging two-wheelers, raising eyebrows following instructions from the State police heads not to involve in such act in the name of enforcing the lockdown. Instead, FIRs were sought to be registered and vehicles impounded for the relevant violations. Even as some were seemingly out without any purpose, a few other two-wheeler riders were seen with shopping bags. Even as the two-wheelers were allowed during the mornings at the time permitted for shopping for essential commodities, the police administration had warned of action against those found to be coming out in the pretext of buying commodities. The authorities had also insisted that the public buy and stock up instead of stepping out everyday to shop. The past week saw violations of the lockdown with public crowding out in the meat and vegetable markets as in the normal times. This forced the authorities to close down vegetable stalls and meat outlets. The Municipality arranged for delivery of vegetable packets of Rs. 150 through vehicles allocated for each ward. The mobile vegetable stalls were allowed to deliver goods in the streets of the wards, disallowing public from stepping out. From Saturday, mobile vegetable stalls were set in motion to prevent the public from breaking the lock down by stepping out.  The Hindu awaited response from the Superintendent of Police P. Rajan on the police action damaging vehicles for violations.
06 April 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco seized; 5 held||A special team led by Thuckalay DSP Ramachandran intercepted a vegetable truck at the Kaliyakkavilai police check post and seized banned tobacco products worth Rs. 1 crore on Sunday. The police had information that a gang had been sending the banned tobacco products in vegetable lorries going to Kerala. The police found the tobacco hidden between vegetable bags. The arrested persons were identified as Shafi, Asaf, Ashraf, Rejith and Razah. It is said that with liquor shops closed, people were buying banned tobacco at a hefty premium from the vendors.
06 April 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Alumni association creates corpus fund for poor students to continue studies||Students from economically backward families pursuing studies in Valluvar College of Science and Management, Karur, are able to heave a sigh of relief as the alumni association has come forward to create a corpus fund for payment of tuition fee. The idea was floated when a group of alunmi of the college met in Karur recently to decide on a plan of action to make a contribution to alma matter at the time of the annual meet. One of them specified the need for a corpus fund exclusively for helping the poor students, who struggle to pay tuition fee and it was readily accepted by all. They then discussed their decision with K. Senguttuvan, Chairman of the college. Within a short span of time, the alumni raisedRs. 5.23 lakh for the Alumni Scholarship Education Fund. Several of them, who work in distant countries, contributed voluntarily for the good cause. It was not only a happy reunion for the alumni but also a moment of pride for them when they met at their college recently as they set a precedent in helping the economically poor students. They distributed tuition fee to a group of students from the corpus fund. “The gesture of alumni students is highly commendable. We come across many poor students, who even find it difficult to pay tuition fee. The fund will be a great help to them.” said Mr. Senguttuvan. Boopathi Raja, president of the alumni association, said that a set of criteria had been formulated to use the fund. Deserving students would definitely be helped. Many students were yet to be enrolled in the association. The alumni members were generous in making contributions to the fund. If alumni associations of other colleges followed suit it would be a great service to the society. “No students should drop out of college or schools for failing to pay tuition fee. Each college should set up a similar fund. I feel happy to be a contributor,”. said Arun, who runs a restaurant in Karur.
06 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Mango growers of Krishnagiri look ahead at a bleak season||Mango farmers of Krishnagiri are watching helplessly as the window for the pickle mangoes is fast closing. Baby mangoes dangle from the branches in the vast mango plantations. Hundreds of fallen mangoes under the shade of the trees, wait to be picked from the ground. But, with COVID-19 lockdown, no farming activity could be taken up without labour. The lockdown has plummeted the prospects of mango growers, who were already battling a diseased season and a production fall. “The markets are closed, the mango mandis are closed, and traders are unable to purchase. The fruits are hanging low, but can’t be picked and transported to the markets. The mangoes of this month are sought after by the pickle industry. Soon enough, the fruits will ripen, unfit for pickle,” says Soundar, a mango farmer. The season had started fine, with healthy flowering in the trees by December-end and January, depending on the rainfed and the irrigated nature of the fields. But, soon the trees were hit by disease after the flowering stage. Continuous fog caused widespread disease. The district has 40,000 ha under mango crop. But now, crop in less than half the area has failed, says Mr. Soundar. “But the Department of Horticulture has been largely absent in intervention,” alleges Mr. Soundar. “This year, farmers sprayed four rounds of pesticides, when usually two rounds would suffice. Such was the extent of disease and the desperation of the farmers to save the crop.” Ideally then, fall in the production should have fetched better price with the demand hike and fall in supply. But that was lost now, with the pandemic. For the mango growers, it is not an easy ride even during normal times. “First, traders fix the prices. Next, the powerful pulp industry lobby fixes the prices.” This year, with the production fall, there was a chance at decent prices. But, the pandemic defeated that possibility for the farmers here. According to Mr. Soundar, last year this time, raw mangoes, that have a huge market for pickles went for Rs. 90 per kg. As late as this February, raw mangoes went for Rs. 60 to Rs. 70 per kg. A fortnight ago, it went for Rs. 50 per kg. This week, despite the short supply, mangoes are priced at Rs. 18 to Rs. 20 per kg. A rainfed field yields six tonnes per acre, and a irrigated field yields four tonnes per acre. Farmers cost of cultivation per acre is about Rs. 15,000. The Horticulture Department should now step in to help farmers with the transport of the fruits, says Mr. Soundar. “Farmers should be given a compensation of Rs. 25,000 per acre, factoring in the losses heaped on us.” But the pickle mangoes should have to be picked by April 15, just when the lockdown might end or have a phased continuity. The pickle mangoes of this season have a huge demand in Karnataka, Kerala, Chennai and other parts of the State.
06 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Garment workers struggle to make both ends meet||Closure of garment units at Madurai Integrated Textile Park near Vadipatti and other units scattered across the district, due to the nationwide lockdown in place to ensure personal distancing to prevent spread of COVID-19, has affected the livelihood of hundreds of women. R. Panjavarnam, a single mother from Elumalai who runs a family of five, including her parents and two children, is the sole breadwinner. She has been working in a garment unit for the past 10 years. “As our ration rice will last only for a week more, we are careful about the portions. The adults hold back so that the children can eat more,” she says. The monetary assistance of Rs. 1,000 given by the government will see them through for two weeks if spent frugally, she says. But if the shutdown is extended, she foresees more trouble. Until 10 days ago, K. Rama, another breadwinner of a family of four, worked as a contract tailor in a small garments unit in Vadipatti and earned Rs. 200 a day. “We are running short of foodgrains and providing two square meals a day is challenging. With the liquor shops closed, my alcoholic husband has become violent. I am having sleepless nights watching my two daughters starve and am mentally distressed,” she says. K. Neelavathi, a single mother who takes care of her two sons, says, “I had pledged my jewels and borrowed money at high interest to pay for tuition fee of my sons. Now, with no income after the garment unit closed, I do not know how I’m going to repay the loan,” she says. P. Abirami, a tailor in a garment unit in Vadipatti, says she is afraid she cannot afford to send her son to a matriculation school this year. These people who used to earn Rs. 6,000 a month are left with nothing now. ‘They need not fear’ According to S. Selva Gomathi, Managing Trustee of Justice Shivaraj V. Patil Foundation, the companies are duty-bound to pay their employees since the 21-day lockdown is not a voluntary absence from work. “But their fear is unfounded. As per a circular issued by the Ministry of Labour and Employment on March 20, all employers, public and private establishments have been advised not to terminate the services of their employees, particularly casual or contractual workers or reduce their wages,” she says. If any worker was on leave, the worker should be deemed to be on duty without any consequential deduction in wages during this period. If the place of work was made non-operational due to COVID-19, still the employees will be deemed to be on duty, as per the circular, she says. The Disaster Management Act, 2005 will prevail over the labour laws. However, the State government should monitor and ensure that it is followed. There must be total compliance, Ms. Selva Gomathi says.
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Disaster Response Force deployed||An 80-member Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force has been deployed in Madurai city for emergency requirements arising out of COVID-19 pandemic. Similar teams have been posted in cities such as Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, and Salem. “Presently we are creating awareness of the danger of COVID-19 among people. We are distributing pamphlets to vehicle users and advise them against venturing out unnecessarily,” a Sub-Inspector of Police said. He said that though many people come out for buying essential goods like groceries, medicines and vegetables, some youths were found roaming aimlessly on roads. Such people were being explained about the importance of personal distancing. They have been trained in rescue during natural calamities such as flood, earthquake and cyclone. They had been deployed in Uthagamandalam and Kodaikanal during cyclone last year. Besides, they were also deployed for crowd control in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi during Tamirabarani Pushkaram. “Many of us have undergone training in rescue operations in the aftermath of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear warfare,” he added.
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Life in Melur continues as usual, say residents||In Melur and surrounding villages, despite six people testing positive for COVID-19, movement of public continues as usual, say residents. B. Stalin, a resident, said that only streets near the bus stand, vegetable market and the Government hospital have been cordoned off. This was apart from areas like Mohamadiyapuram, S. Kallampatti, Kottai Kinaru Street and Santhapettai which have been sealed as part of the district administration's containment plan . According to him, the implementation of Section 144 is not effective. “Children can be seen playing. Grocery shops are open through the day and some tea shops are also functioning, unlike Madurai city,” he says. ‘No social distancing’ S. Maran of Nehruji Street says social distancing was not being followed in grocery shops here. “Although people can be seen standing in queue at stores in the morning, as the day progresses, it becomes chaotic. The closure of Melur market is a big relief but people throng small shops. Many do not understand the importance of staying indoors and they are treating lockdown as a holiday,” he says. According to M. Jinnah of Mohamadiyapuram, a quarantined area, movement of people has been restricted. “However, lack of proper planning is causing inconvenience to the residents”, he says. “Many struggle to buy groceries. Since there not many voluntary organisations, the residents are dependent on the municipality which brings vegetables in vans,” he says. A total of 2,714 households where 10,448 people reside are now part of the containment zone. Collector T. G. Vinay says awareness is being created in areas around Melur. “Just like the Corporation area, Melur too has been bifurcated into sections. Supervision will be stricter henceforth,” he added.
06 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘300 attended funeral of COVID-19 positive man’||The body of a 71-year-old businessman, who died in Stanley Medical College in Chennai on April 2 and subsequently confirmed to have tested COVID-19 positive, has been shifted to his native Kilakarai in Ramanathapuram district and buried. What is of concern, however, is police inquiry showing that at least 300 people, including his relatives and a local AIADMK MLA, participated in the burial rituals. The businessman returned from Dubai on March 16 and stayed at Mannadi in Chennai. As he experienced breathing difficulty, he was admitted to Stanley Medical College at 9 a.m. on April 2, where died within two hours. His body was shifted in an ambulance the same day. On April 3, he was buried at Old Jumma Mosque. The next day, a report confirmed that he had tested positive to COVID-19. Sources claimed that his body was shifted at least thrice from one ambulance to another during the journey from Chennai to Kilakarai, which were all government-operated free hearse services. While the first ambulance was arranged by Stanley Medical College officials, the other two were arranged by local authorities. An officer privy to the investigation said the body was first shifted at Ulundurpet, then at Pudukottai and finally at Kilakarai. “In the shifting process, the packing of the body had been disturbed badly,” he said. Before the burial was conducted, the body was opened and given a wash, among other routine procedures. The son of the deceased was said to have travelled in the ambulance van. As per health ministry guidelines, the entire place of worship, house and the street where the body was carried was disinfected on Sunday morning. Also, disinfection was done in the entire town with total shutdown. All contacts were under quarantine, officials added.  The body was shifted thrice at Ulundurpet, at Pudukottai next and finally Kilakarai Officer
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP distributes vegetables to Sri Lankan refugees||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan on Sunday distributed vegetables to residents of a Sri Lankan refugee camp in Uchapatti, who lost their daily wages due to the lockdown. A total of 451 families living in the camp faced major loss of income and faced financial trouble as most of them were daily wage workers. Mr. Venkatesan said the Tahsildar in charge of the camp told him that the residents of the camp would be paid compensation and rations from PDS shop. The Tahsildar also said that he would ensure proper distribution, he added. The MP, along with the president of Madurai Central Market Vegetables and Perishable Goods Merchants’ Association Manuvel Jayaraj, distributed vegetables worth Rs. 1.5 lakh. Volunteers pitch in Volunteers from Vaa Nanba group ensured door-to-door distribution of vegetables to all the families in the refugee camp.
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Positive cases touch 19 in Madurai district, six in Kanniyakumari||With two more patients testing positive for COVID-19, the total number of cases rose to 19 on Sunday. The two male patients, aged 34 and 55 years from Mahaboobpalayam and Samayanallur, attended a religious conference in Delhi in March. Upon their return, the district administration called on them to be tested, said Collector T.G. Vinay. The 34-year-old was asymptomatic, while the other man experienced breathing trouble and was admitted in ICU at Government Rajaji Hospital. He was now stable. A total of 14,000 people from Mahaboobpalayam and 3,437 from Samayanallur would be asked to undergo home quarantine. Their movements would be restricted as part of the containment plan. They would be monitored regularly, he added. With an 83-year-old woman testing positive for COVID-19, the number of rose to six in Kanniyakumari district. According to health officials, a little over 70 persons were kept in observation in isolation wards at Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital. So far, five persons comprisng four who attended a religious conference in Delhi and a staff at Chennai airport tested positive. Doctors said all patients were being treated as per protocol and remained stable. As a precautionary measure, the houses of all positive patients in Nagercoil, Dennison Road, Velladichavilai, Manikattipottal, Thengaipattinam in the district had been cordoned off. All 165 persons, who had been in contact with positive patients, were also quarantined. Nearly, 8,000 homes in the district were in containment zone.
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai jasmine makes its way to perfume firms||With a total of 10 tonnes of jasmine flowers from Madurai being transported to perfumeries in Nilakottai and Coimbatore, farmers are finally relieved about receiving at least 10% of their income. President, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce N. Jegadeesan, who is also involved in jasmine export said that flowers were unfortunately not classified as an essential commodity by the State government, leaving several jasmine farmers in despair. President of Madurai Meenakshi Sundareswarar Malar Makkal Nala Sangam, ‘Pookadai’ S. Ramachandran said that over 20 tonnes of flowers went waste daily between March 25 and March 28. “Several farmers complained to officials from the Horticulture department, seeking some sort of relief. Collective effort and the persistence efforts made by Collector T. G. Vinay helped us,” Mr. Ramachandran said. The Collector said that the Madurai district administration coordinated with Dindigul, to open three perfume factories there. “We procured inter-district permit for vehicles to pick up flowers from areas like Usilampatti, Chellampatti and Sedapatti to head to Nilakottai. Farmers in Tirumangalam and Tirupparankundram sent their flowers in a shipment to Coimbatore,” Mr. Ramachandran said. Now, at least 10 tonnes of flowers make their way to these factories everyday. Similar steps must be takenfor roses and ‘samanthi’.
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lights go off, aerial crackers light the sky||Switching off lights, many residents of Madurai stood outside their houses and on their terraces with lamps, candles and torches for nine minutes from 9 p.m. on Sunday night, in response to the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a way to demonstrate their collective will to fight COVID-19 pandemic. People of all ages participated in the exercise. At many places across the city, the residents also responded to the Prime Minister’s call with bursting of crackers that went on beyond 9.30 p.m. Aerial crackers that started at 9 p.m. also lit up the otherwise cloudy sky. “Being quarantined inside homes for the last few days has created anxiety and panic among residents about the COVID-19 pandemic. But when we saw other residents coming out of their homes with candles and lights, we felt positive. Now, we are confident that we can together cooperate and successfully outlive the outbreak,” said M. Rajan of Teppakulam. At Tirumalai Colony in Sammattipuram, the residents arranged lamps on the road which read ‘Go back Corona.’ Many of the houses in K.K. Nagar had switched off the lights, said N. Venkatesh, a college student. However, street lights continued to glow in the city.
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ensuring dignity for the dead in the time of a virus||The outbreak of COVID-19 has not deterred 85-year-old G. Mariammal from tending to the dead without fear. Whenever people approach her to perform the last rites, the undertaker reaches the cremation ground in a tricycle carrying dung cakes, hay and firewood. She prepares the pyre with the help of her grandson and stays there till the end of all procedures to give a receipts to the family members. Dip in numbers “They say that the elderly, aged above 60, must stay indoors in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. But I need to perform my duty and make sure that a dead person gets the dignified last rites,” she says. Like Ms. Mariammal, many workers of cremation grounds are performing their duties in these testing times. A. Venkateswaran, registrar at the cremation ground at Thathaneri, says that since the lockdown there has been a dip in the number of people opting for the traditional method of burning the mortal remains on a pyre of wooden logs. Less cases “Earlier, we used to cremate around 10 bodies every day. But, since the lockdown, we have around four cases. Because it is difficult for people to travel to the cremation ground amidst the curfew, many people head to the adjacent gasifier crematorium,” he says. The workers who cannot avoid physical contact with the bodies while performing the last rites have not been provided hand gloves. While face masks are provided to many workers, some of them use kerchiefs to cover their face. The number of people accompanying the dead person has come down to around 15, says A. Nagarajan, a worker at the cremation ground.   Sober participants “With the closure of liquor shops because of the lockdown, those accompanying the dead person are sober. This has provided us some respite as this has prevented any possible quarrel at the cremation ground,” he says. A. Gnanashekar , another worker at the cremation ground at Thathaneri, says that since the outbreak of the pandemic workers are anxious about the safety of their family members. “But, we consider it an honour to perform the last rites of the dead. Being in the profession has made us realise that death, in fact, marks a new beginning,” he says.  They say that the elderly must stay indoors in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. But I need to perform my duty
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection tunnel set up||Visitors to the makeshift vegetable market set up at Madura College ground here on Sunday had to pass through a disinfection tunnel as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Minister for Cooperation Sellur K.Raju inspected the tunnel on Sunday. It was sponsored by a non-governmental organisation. An official said the walk through the tunnel would take only a few seconds and that it was a supplement to other precautionary measures like hand-washing. The Minister said that makeshift markets were allocated at 35 spots across the city to prevent crowding of customers and at the same time ensure that all essential vegetables were available. The Corporation was also attending to civic complaints filed through the helpline. He warned of stern action taken against those who mishandles commodities supplied through ration shops. If customers were unable to buy a particular commodity from a PDS, then they could get it the next day. The Minister also distributed face masks to vegetable vendors and visitors at the market.
06 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, a device for COVID-19 risk detection||To address the issues such as lack of mass screening and data-driven methodology for COVID-19 risk detection, surveillance and management, VinCense, an Internet of Medical Things (ioMT)-based health screening and monitoring platform, has built the country’s first clinically-graded wearable, which can measure critical vitals such as pulse rate and respiratory rate in just two minutes. Speaking to The Hindu here on Sunday, MedIoTek Health Systems Managing Director Sharmila Devadoss said it can record oxygen saturation and skin temperature, and 90 people can be screened in an hour and real time data would be made available for quick action. The vitals would be transferred via low-energy Bluetooth to the mobile App from where they are sent to a secure cloud through Wi-Fi mobile data. Data analytics dashboards enable real-time surveillance and eases monitoring and evaluation. So quick decisions can be taken and lives saved. Another feature is tracking the vitals of Covid-19 patients or other at-risk patients remotely, thus minimising workers’ risk and easing the load at hospitals.
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow firms to issue ID cards’||As the process of getting identity cards for employees of companies termed as essential services from the Police and the District Supply Offices, is difficult, companies must be allowed to issue these identity cards, said Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry senior president S. Rethinavelu. Speaking to The Hindu , he said employees from various sectors, including rice mills, were being stopped on their way to work. “The State government has made provisions to ensure that employees in industries considered as 'essential services', should be allowed to get to their workplace to ensure smooth functioning during the lockdown. With permission becoming increasingly difficult to procure, it creates a sense of inspector raj,” he said. In a letter to Principal Secretary of Agriculture, Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Mr. Rethinavelu said that companies must be allowed to issue these identity cards furnishing details of the establishment’s Goods and Service Tax identification number or its Food Safety and Standards Authority of India number. Alongside this, the employee’s Aadhaar card number and picture can be displayed too, he said. The list of employees belonging to each of these companies can be forwarded to the district-level labour department via email. Officials can choose to verify all these employees eventually.
06 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Officials order closure of 9 grocery shops||Madurai Corporation officials on Sunday ordered closure of nine grocery shops on East Masi Street as these shops worked till midnight and personal distancing among customers was not followed. An official said that despite the announcement to close shops by afternoon, many customers were purchasing from these shops till midnight on Saturday. Markings in the form of squares or circles were absent in front of these shops. The official added that these shops will not be allowed to open until further orders from the civic body.
06 April 2020||Madurai/Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 114.20 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 125 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 46.03 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 60 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 2,256 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday (in mm): Mettupatti 22, Chittampatti 2.8 and Madurai City 1. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 65.10 feet (143 ft.), with an inflow of 98.84 cusecs and a discharge of 304.75 cusecs. The level at Manimuthar dam stood at 81.40 ft. (118 ft), with an inflow of two cusecs and nil discharge.
06 April 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Six test positive in Nagai, four in Thanjavur||Six patients, all attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19 virus, bringing the total number of patients who tested positive to 11 in the district. Collector Praveen P. Nair said that three containment zones had been created at three places and three more, including Sirkazhi, will be added on Sunday night. "People will not be allowed in or out except for medical emergencies," he said. The family members of the patients, and their neighbours and other contacts are being traced and tested, he added.     Four patients, all men, tested positive for COVID-19 here on Sunday night after they had attended the conference in New Delhi. The patients, including the one who tested positive earlier this week have been admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and are stable, official sources said.    A total of 71 patients who tested negative for COVID-19 have been shifted to the Jamal Mohammed College premises where a quarantine facility has been set up. The 71 patients were taken to the facility on Sunday morning after results showed that they tested negative. All patients are men who travelled to the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi. “We need to keep them under observation for at least 14 more days. Therefore, they have been taken to the newly set up quarantine facility inside Jamal Mohammed College,” R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH, said. All arrangements for the patients have been made by the health department.
06 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners request cash relief||Members of Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners Federation have requested the State government to offer them cash relief to manage the effects of lockdown due to COVID-19. Sella Rasamani, president of the organisation, said that government should provide cash relief of Rs. 10,000 for lorry owners and Rs. 5,000 for drivers a month as their livelihood had been severely affected. The organisation also demanded moratorium on interest on their loans for three months and urged the governments to take stern action against those hoarding essential goods and trying to sell them at higher price.
06 April 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Adhere to safety guidelines, Minister tells officials, workers||Health Minister C. Vijaya Baskar on Sunday advised government officials, health officials, police personnel and sanitary workers who were working at the field-level to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic to protect themselves completely by adhering to the safety guidelines. Presiding over a meeting with officials of various government departments here on the precautionary measures being taken to check the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Vijaya Baskar asked the officials to continue with the task of spraying disinfectants in rural and urban areas in the district as a precautionary measure and ensure that the shops were opened at the specified timings allowed by the government. Appealing to the general public to desist from venturing out of their homes unnecessarily during such extreme situation, the Minister appreciated the government officials of the district for working in a coordinated manner in executing the precautionary measures to check the spread of the viral disease. Collector P. Uma Maheswari, Superintendent of Police P.Ve. Arun Sakthi Kumar and officials of various government departments participated. Earlier, the Minister said inspected the ongoing precautionary measures being undertaken in Pudukottai. He inaugurated a disinfection pathway put up at the Uzhavar Sandhai in Pudukottai Town. He inspected the Government Ranees Hospital in Pudukottai Town and the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital and ascertained the facilities and steps taken for providing treatment for the viral disease. The Minister also inspected Viralimalai where he distributed protective gears to the sanitary workers and distributed relief materials to the aged persons, an official release said.
06 April 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps taken on a war-footing to check spread of COVID-19’||Health Minister C. Vijaya Baskar on Sunday said that the State government had put in place measures like initiating precautionary and preventive steps, carrying out intensive monitoring and creating awareness among the community aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19 in the State. Alongside, the State government had also notified the list of COVID-19 government and private hospitals to treat the viral disease. The State government was stepping up medical facilities on a war-footing to be in a state of preparedness to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Minister told reporters here. Mr. Vijaya Baskar made it clear that funds were not a constraint in executing the measures, adding that the Chief Minister had approved to provide necessary money from the State Disaster Fund. A high-level task force had been constituted and Rapid Response teams formed by the Health Department to work at the field-level during the current crisis situation, the Minister said. He inspected the spraying of disinfectants by fire fighters, besides inspecting a mobile screening camp in the town Replying to a query, he said the State government was working apace to contain the spread of COVID-19 at Stage 2 itself by putting in place a containment plan to find out the source of those found positive by way of effective tracking and tracing. Cooperation to the Health Department in this regard was being received from various government departments, he said. Replying to another query, he said uninterrupted supply of 1.2 lakh masks to government hospitals across the State was being ensured daily. Orders had also been placed for more ventilators.
06 April 2020||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Banks shut in parts of Ranipet district||Ranipet Collector S. Divyadharshini has ordered suspension of banking operations in Panapakkam, Melvisharam and Arakkonam regions. The decision comes in the wake of th COVID-19 crisis. ATMs in the area will function. The number of COVID-19 patients in the district has risen to 23. The list of banks to be closed are: Panapakkam: Canara Bank, Bank of India, Lakshmi Vilas Bank; Melvisharam: Indian Bank, City Union Bank and the State Bank of India; Arakkonam: Indian Bank, Federal Bank, Tamilnadu Mercantile Bank, Canara Bank, State Bank of India, Central Bank of India, Andhra Bank (Indian Bank), IDBI Bank, City Union Bank, Punjab National Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank of India, Karur Vysya Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Lakshmi Vilas Bank, Equitas Small Finance Bank, and the Suryoday Small Finance Bank.
06 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||10 meat and fish outlets sealed in Salem||Salem Corporation officials sealed 10 fish and meat shops for operating within the city limits on Sunday and seized 72 kg. of meat. Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh said in a release that license of the shops have been cancelled and legal action would be taken against them for functioning in a manner against COVID-19 prevention measures. Meanwhile, crowd thronged the alternative meat market set up at about 10 km. away from the city. The Corporation had earlier banned meat and fish shops functioning within the city limits on weekends until further notice. The civic body provided traders an alternative place near Arabic College on Omalur Main Road to operate on weekends. While there were only a few takers for shop spaces on Saturday, close to 50 meat and fish outlets functioned and huge crowd was noticed on Sunday. Travelling for over 10 km. from various parts of the city, public lined up in front of a few meat and fish outlets braving hot sun. Personal distancing was established to a certain extent. Police personnel and Corporation officials kept reminding public about personal distancing. Announcements were made advising them to wear masks. Nalini, a senior citizen, took a lift to reach the meat market. “Grand children and a few relatives are at home so thought of cooking something special for them”, she said. She was less worried about returning home despite lack of bus operations.
06 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘205 passes issued to ensure availability of essential goods’||Salem Collector S.A.Raman said that passes had been issued for bulk transport owners and drivers to ensure movement and availability of essential goods. Mr. Raman, Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh and Deputy Police Commissioner P.Thangadurai inspected the functioning of the alternative vegetable market at the new bus stand here and the meat market near Arabic College. The Collector advised the officials and traders to ensure personal distancing to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He along with the officials launched the functioning of disinfection tunnel set up at the new bus stand. Tunnels Mr.Raman said that similar tunnels would be set up at old bus stand area and at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. He said that permits had been issued to 205 transport owners and their drivers till date. They transported goods from major suppliers to wholesale markets here. A review meeting was being held once in two days and issues were addressed to ensure movement and availability of essential goods, he said. Mr. Raman added that containment measures were being taken and about 1,000-member health team including doctors, nurses and other members were involved in the exercise.  Namakkal The Namakkal district administration advised the public to apply for vehicle passes through its website namakkal.nic.in and said permission would be granted after considering the application.
06 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel given protective gears in Salem||The city police personnel deployed for duty at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here have been provided with a special coverall to protect themselves from getting infected by COVID-19. The Hospital is the primary centre for COVID-19 treatment in the district and nine patients are undergoing treatment here. Visitors’ entry to the hospital has been restricted and 60 police personnel have been deployed for duty in shifts. To protect the personnel from getting exposed to the virus, the Salem City Police provided them with a coverall suit, gloves and special goggles to wear while on duty. The coverall suit was readied here using thicker fabric, the police said. P. Thangadurai, Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order) said the personnel had been deployed for duty outside COVID-19 isolation ward and the quarantine ward at the Hospital. Hand sanitisers and other safety gadgets had also been provided to them. “A personnel, who has completed a shift, is given a day’s off,” he said and added that the personnel posted on duty had also been asked to be in quarantine. “Nearly 500 police personnel including Inspectors and Assistant Commissioners have been advised to be in quarantine at the Armed Reserve camp here. They are reposted for duty after a week only after the doctors conduct tests on them and certify that they tested negative for COVID-19,” he said.
06 April 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Good response in Salem, Namakkal||Similar to the call to honour essential service providers, public stood at balconies of their houses or in their porch and lit lamps, turned on torch lights supporting the Prime Minister’s call. People of all ages came out in support for the call and lit lamps and other illumination elements here. While little ones preferred holding flashlights from their parents mobile phone, elders lit traditional lamps. Some youth preferred the dynamic disco light to hold. Celebrating the moment, crackers were burst at various places and a mood of joy and celebration prevailed in general. S. Subramanian, a resident of Shevapet who took part by lighting a torch light said, “we keep our faith in God and leave things to him. Let’s hope this will come to end soon.” Mr. Subramanian added that the event lifted public mood. “We have been staying inside houses due to lockdown these days and this creates a positive mood among the public,” he said. R.P. Gopinath, district president of BJP, said the exercise would bring more commitment and unity among the public during this fight against COVID-19. In Namakkal, bursting crackers and pointing mobile flash lights to the sky, public took part in the call to light lamps for nine minutes here.
06 April 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||After heckling row, two test positive||A few Health Department officials who went to a village near Kayathur in Thoothukudi to pick up persons suspected of being carriers of COVID-19 were heckled by a group of villagers on Saturday. Some residents even attempted to manhandle the driver of the vehicle in which the officials were travelling. A day after the incident, it transpired that two of the five family members of a COVID-19 patient, whom the health officials eventually managed to shift to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital, had also tested positive for the virus. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Thoothukudi district has gone up to 11. “The test results of 11 other persons who are under institutionalised quarantine are awaited,” Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri said. The two new cases are the wife and son of the COVID-19 patient. The Thoothukudi district police have booked 12 persons for heckling the Health Inspector of the Vellankottai Primary Health Centre when he, along with a medical officer, a few nurses and paramedical staff, tried to take the patient’s kin to the GH in an ambulance as a precautionary measure on Saturday. The villagers had objected to the officials taking photographs of the people who were being taken to the GH, a police source said. But after the police and revenue officials explained to them the need to keep such people in quarantine in the hospital, the villagers relented, according to the police. The hecklers were booked for abusing government officials and preventing them from discharging their duty and for criminal intimidation. They were also booked under provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan said. “Around 2,500 persons are under home quarantine in the district,” the Collector said.
06 April 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Two held||Two persons, including a lodge owner, were arrested here on Sunday for allegedly selling liquor. Following a complaint, a police team raided the lodge and seized 744 liquor bottles and Rs. 2,000 cash. The arrested men were identified as Tilak Chandran, 73, and Sanniyasi Muthu, 40, of Eral. Further investigation is on.
06 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||as doctor tests positive||District Collector Sandeep Nanduri has ordered the temporary closure of the government hospital at Kayalpattinam after it came to light that a practising doctor had tested positive for COVID-19. According to sources, the doctor had attended a conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi and had returned to Thoothukudi on March 24. He subsequently reported for duty at the hospital and had even attended to a few patients.
06 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A gruelling journey from Maharashtra that ended on a sweet note||After travelling over 1,000 km from Maharashtra by walking for days at a stretch and hitchhiking, a heavenly feeling descended on seven youths belonging to Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts when a good samaritan in Tiruchi volunteered to drop them off at their homes. The group of engineering graduates, employed at a company that manufactures agricultural products in Nanded district, were caught unawares by the announcement on the COVID-19 lockdown. Though their employer had arranged for food, Nitish Kumar, R. Vijayan, B. Bharathan, S. Rahul, V. Jegan, S. Prabhu and Shoban Babu were longing to get back home, and began their journey on March 29. “We covered at least 500 km on foot. Kind souls in many villages provided us food and water despite the language barrier,” said Mr. Kumar, adding, “We also hitched rides on trucks and autorickshaws and spent nights at petrol bunks.” The most difficult part of their journey was the stretch from Nanded to Solapur in Maharashtra, Mr. Kumar said. “It was night time, and not a single creature was in sight. We only had each other for company, and a will to go home,” he said. Parents didn’t know Mr. Babu said they had not informed their parents about their trip. “Had we told them, they would have kept worrying for our safety. They did not know until we reached home,” he said. “All along, we pretended that we were staying in Maharashtra,” he said. The men were on the last leg of the journey on the Chennai Bypass Road — the Cauvery Bridge — when Arun Kumar, a photographer from Tiruchi, spotted them looking weary. “They looked exhausted. When I stopped them and asked them who they were, they narrated their tale,” Mr. Arun said. He informed the District Collector, sought a travel pass and volunteered to take the youths to their destination. They were dropped off at the Tiruvarur Government Hospital on Saturday evening. “We were asked to stay the night there, and were subjected to blood tests. We were allowed to go home only after the tests came back negative,” Mr. Babu said.
06 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Nine areas declared as containment zones||In its pursuit to contain the spread of COVID 19 virus, the Tiruchi Corporation has declared nine residential localities in the city as containment zones. As per the guidelines of the State government, the Corporation officials along with Revenue and police personnel, have brought under containment a three km radius around Thillai Nagar and placed barricades at entry points. Similar containment measures have been put in place at Palakarai on Madurai road, Bharathidasan Road, Puthur, Woraiyur, Salai Road and Madurai Road near Holy Cross College. The officials have put up notice boards informing the residents of the containment areas to stay put in their homes. Police personnel have also been posted at all entry and exit points. The special steps had become imperative in the wake of nine COVID 19 patients testing positive in the city alone. They were among 67 returnees from Delhi where they had attended the meeting of Tablighi Jamaat. They nine COVID 19 positive patients were residents of Rahmaniapuram, Thillai Nagar, Bheema Nagar, Alwarthoppu, Palakarai and Woraiyur. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the contacts of the positive patients had been monitored. Considering the nature of the exponential spread of the virus, the contacts, relatives and family members of the patients were asked to adhere to the safety protocols. People were being sensitised to safety measures at the barricade points, he said. A. Jaganathan, City Health Officer, said that a multi- pronged strategy had been put in place in the containment areas. Cleansing drive in the entire areas by spraying disinfectants, day to day assessment of health of the family members of the positive and suspected patients affected with cold and fever, and strict enforcement of curfew were among the measures envisaged in the strategy to contain the spread of the virus.
06 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||30 compartments to be made isolation coaches||The Tiruchi Railway Division has embarked on the task of converting 30 passenger compartments into quarantine / isolation coaches in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The conversion works of over 15-year old passenger coaches are under way at the Broad Gauge Coaching complex at Tiruchi Junction and at Villupuram Junction. The target of converting 30 coaches to serve as quarantine / isolation coaches was fixed by the Railway Board, New Delhi which had given a detailed set of specifications for the conversion works. Senior railway officials told The Hindu that 20 coaches were being converted as quarantine / isolation coaches at the Broad Gauge coaching complex at Tiruchi Junction and the remaining 10 coaches at Villupuram Junction which comes under the jurisdiction of Tiruchi Railway Division. Earlier, the Tiruchi Division was allocated 25 coaches for conversion. However, the Railway Board had recently revised the target to 30 coaches for Tiruchi Division alone. Similarly, the Railway Board had also revised the target in respect of conversion of coaches for other Southern Railway railway divisions – Chennai, Salem, Madurai, Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram. Likewise, the target for conversion of coaches had also been revised for the Golden Rock Railway Workshop at Tiruchi, Loco Works at Perambur and Carriage Works, Perambur in Chennai which were also carrying out the conversion works. Railway officials here said the conversion works were apace at the Broad Gauge coaching complexes at Tiruchi and Villupuram. Ten out of the total number of 30 coaches had been converted as quarantine / isolation coaches till now and the remaining coaches would be ready before April 8. A team of railway technical personnel of the Tiruchi Division was involved in the conversion work by taking necessary precautionary measures including personal distancing during its execution. The personnel had been provided with masks and hand sanitisers, a senior railway official said. The Tiruchi Division has taken 10 non-air-conditioned sleeper class coaches and 20 general coaches for conversion. Some of the modifications made in the coaches as envisaged by the Railway Board include removal of middle berths in each cabin of the sleeper coaches; conversion of an Indian style toilet in the coach into bathroom; providing suitable clamping arrangements for placing two oxygen cylinders on the berth side and fixing two additional foldable type bottle holders for every lower berth. As per the revised target set by the Railway Board, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop at Tiruchi would convert 130 passenger coaches by carrying out the specified modifications. The Railway Board had revised the target for the Southern Railway zone from 473 coaches to 573 coaches for conversion into quarantine/isolation coaches.
06 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel distribute food||Police personnel attached to the Tiruchi Rural distributed food packets to 300 visually challenged persons and their family members at Dheeran Nagar on the city’s outskirts on Sunday. Police personnel of Somarasampet for their part distributed grocery items and fruits to aged citizens and fifty other families without any support in their police station limits. Apart from this, police personnel distributed masks, toilet soaps, 100 kilograms of vegetables and 100 kilograms of rice to 30 transgender families at Vengur to overcome the crisis caused by COVID-19. Police personnel attached to the Anti Human Trafficking Unit of Tiruchi Rural distributed food items to over 20 transgenders at Manachanallur. All these initiatives were done as per the advise of the Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque, police sources said.
06 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Services of former Deans roped in||Former Dean of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital attached to the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College has been appointed on a contract basis by the Director of Medical Education to assist the healthcare providers at the hospital in the fight against COVID-19. According to an announcement, G. Anitha, and six other former Deans of other colleges, will coordinate and monitor COVID-19 patients in isolation wards in Tiruchi and other districts. The contract is under special circumstances and will be terminated after three months or till control of COVID-19 in the district, whichever is earlier. Dr. Anitha retired in 2019 and has been actively involved in volunteering with Citizens’ Action Groups in the city. “It is important to have all hands on deck at this time. I will be helping with the care of patients and coordinating with the administration,” Dr. Anitha said.
06 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man in isolation ward flees from GH, re-admitted||A patient admitted to the isolation ward of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital with symptoms of COVID 19 virus fled to his home on Saturday night and had to be brought back after much persuasion. After the patient, a resident of Bhagavathipuram in Tiruverumbur, had slipped out of the hospital, the police was alerted by the hospital authorities. By then, the man had reached home. “We found him at home and he refused to leave. He kept complaining that he was not comfortable at the hospital and would not return,” a policeman at the Tiruverumbur police station said. The ordeal ended well past midnight when the patient relented eventually and was readmitted at the hospital. “A doctor from the hospital joined us in our attempts to persuade the patient,” the policeman said. The patient is one the 125 persons under observation at the isolation ward. “Though the patient has not tested positive for the infection, he has to be kept under observation for the next 14 days,” official sources at the hospital said.
06 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 102.23 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 92 cusecs and the discharge 2,500 cusecs.
06 April 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for posting communal comments||Tirunelveli City Police have booked a man on the charge of making malicious comments against a particular community on YouTube. Based on a complaint from Kader of Tamizhaga Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, Melapalayam Police on Saturday booked Maridhas under various sections of the IPC and provisions of Information Technology Act. Maridhas was active on social media and known for endorsing right-wing views. He was accused of making comments intended to promote feelings of enmity, hatred and ill-will between religious groups while speaking on terrorism and COVID-19, police said. He was booked under Sections 292 (a), 295(A) and 505 (2) of IPC.
06 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||No Panguni Uthiram festival this year||The Panguni Uthiram festival could not be celebrated on Sunday due to COVID-19 pandemic. The festival is usually celebrated with gaiety and fervour, with devotees thronging the shrines. The famous Nellaiappar Gandhimathi Amman Temple would witness huge turnout through out the day with pujas and aradhanas . However, with the curfew in place, people remained indoors. Priests performed special pujas on the occasion.
06 April 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Rain in many places||Mild showers were experienced in Tirunelveli, Kovilpatti, Nagercoil and Pavoorchatram in southern parts the State on Sunday. The residents woke up to a pleasant weather, and the showers brought the daytime temperature to a great extent along the western ghats. In some parts in Kovilpatti in Thoothukudi district, low-lying areas were inundated. There were also complaints of sewage mixing with water. Health officials swung into action and set it right.
06 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC employees arrested||Police have arrested TASMAC employees in Madurai and Virudhunagar districts on the charges of selling liquor bottles after stealthily opening the shops during the lockdown. The police have seized over 700 liquor bottles and a car from them. A team from Vembakottai police station intercepted a car at Sethuramalingapuram in the early hours of Sunday and found 612 liquor bottles in it. Investigation revealed that the bottles were being taken from a TASMAC shop in T. Kottaiyur. Its supervisor J. Manickaraj, 44, had handed over the bottles to one V. Magesh, 40, who was running the bar attached to the liquor shop. The duo along with driver R. Thangapandi, 30, were trying to smuggle them to Melapudur to sell them in blackmarket. All the three were arrested.  In Thoppur In another incident, Madurai City police on Saturday evening found that some people were trying to take away cartons of liquor bottles from a TASMAC shop at Thoppur. The supervisor, R. Jayabal, 51, and his four associates were arrested and 96 bottles were seized from them.
06 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Stranded Indians extended help||Indian High Commission officials in Sri Lanka have met and extended a helping hand to five Indians from Virudhunagar district stranded in Colombo. The move comes after Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore wrote to the Ministry of External Affairs, requesting rescue of 21 Indians stranded in Sri Lanka because of the nation-wide curfew. Quarantined On a visit to the island country on business before the announcement of curfew, the Indian nationals hailing from Sivakasi, Rajapalayam and Sattur have been forced to be quarantine without sufficient food and essential commodities. An email from an Indian High Commission official in Sri Lanka to Mr. Tagore says there are others too in a nearby area. They have been given emergency contact numbers and will be intimated as soon as flight operations resume between India and Sri Lanka. The Sri Lankan government has also extended the validity of visas of all foreigners up to May 12.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More COVID-19 positive persons in western region||The western districts of Coimbatore, Salem, Namakkal and the Nilgiris had more number of persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. As many as 29 more persons tested positive in Coimbatore. All the 29 had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients under observation in Coimbatore hospitals has increased to 63, including a man from Tiruppur and four cases from Erode. As per government records, the number of patients from Coimbatore stood at 58. Of the 29 persons tested positive on Sunday, 20 were at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, three at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), five at Government Hospital, Annur, and one person at Government Hospital, Pollachi. The 23 persons under observation at ESI Hospital and CMCH were from Coimbatore Corporation limits. Four persons from the Nilgiris have tested positive for COVID-19. The four are among the first people who have tested positive for the infection in the district. According to the district administration, the four men had travelled to Delhi to take part in the Tablighi Jamaat event. They were among a total of 10 people from the Nilgiris who had attended the event. While two among the group are still in Delhi, four others are in isolation at the government headquarters hospital in Udhagamandalam. Among the three cases reported in Salem on Sunday, two patients were from Mettur and one from Tharamangalam, Deputy Director of Health Services J. Nirmalsen said. He added that the three persons were already in government quarantine facilities and they have been shifted to isolation ward. In Namakkal, a 40-year-old woman from Kokrayanpatti, wife of a COVID-19 patient undergoing treatment at Namakkal government hospital tested positive on Sunday.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lamps lit to show solidarity with PM’s call to fight COVID-19||At 9 p.m. on Sunday night, several areas in the city went dark and lamps and candles were lit on compound walls and balconies and lights flashed from mobile phones. Responding positively to the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, large parts of the city saw people switching off lights and lighting lamps and candles or flashing lights from their mobile phones. Mr. Modi had given the call to show solidarity and resolve to fight COVID-19. In some places, people came together and held placards, drew kolam in front of the houses and lit lamps on it and children joined their parents and stood in front of their houses with lamps. Residents of Ramanathapuram, Pappanaickenpalayam and Puliyakulam areas lit lamps and candles. They kept diyas on compound walls of houses and on balconies. Further, people burst firecrackers in many parts of the city. However, there were a few areas which saw no response to the call too. In a few areas, residents said there was a slight increase in voltage as lights were switched off for nine minutes.  TIRUPPUR  Many residents in Tiruppur responded positively to the call for lighting lamps. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan posted a picture on his Twitter page showing himself along with his family members holding lamps on plates while the lights were turned off in his residence. Bursting of crackers and display of fireworks were also observed in parts of the city.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two more die of COVID-19, 86 fresh cases reported in T.N.||The official said that as of Sunday, 90,824 passengers were under home quarantine and 127 were in a government quarantine facility. A total of 10,814 passengers had completed the mandatory 28-day follow-up and 4,612 samples had been tested. The results of 339 samples were awaited. Eight patients had been discharged so far, the official added. 7 in private hospitals Seven patients — all of them displaying symptoms — were undergoing treatment in private hospitals. They were, however, not in ICU or on ventilator support, she said, adding that as many as 1,246 persons who had attended the conference in Delhi had been traced and isolated and their samples sent for testing for the infection. "The entire focus of the government is to aggressively contain the infection. So far, we have already conducted an active surveillance of 9,22,860 households and a population of 38,88,896 has been covered," she said. The Health Department is picking up samples of all persons reporting with severe acute respiratory infection to check for community transmission. "So far, we have tested 650 such cases, of whom we have not found any unlinked positive history. We have got four positive cases and all of them have travel history or contact history," she said. The government was also aiming to increase the number of testing centres in the State. A number of machines had already been ordered and they would be installed very soon, the official said. Stage of disease Dr. Rajesh said it would be possible to assess the exact stage of the disease only after collating information following door-to-door surveillance. Laboratory technicians had been trained in doing the tests once the machines arrived and ‘high level committees’ were in place to estimate how the disease will pan out and the rate of its spread. "We have made projections and based on them, we are predicting the worst case scenario. We have been making systematically short-term and long-term plans. We need to be focussed on containment. We have to give active and passive surveillance. Full-fledged containment activity and judicious testing" are of prime importance, she said.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||This nonagenarian has seen three disease outbreaks||A 97-year-old man from Chinnaputhur village, located nearly 10 km from Tiruppur town, has had glimpses of disease outbreaks - from plague, cholera and now COVID-19. K. Subbaiyan, who underwent a hip surgery at a private hospital here recently, was born on January 1, 1923 (according to his Aadhaar card), a few years after the impact of the influenza pandemic of 1918, commonly known as Spanish flu. According to his son S. Palaniswami, Mr. Subbaiyan was about five years old when his family moved out of Chinnaputhur due to a plague outbreak in the village and settled in Ganapathy in Coimbatore. “My grandmother (Mr. Subbaiyan’s mother) has told us how difficult those times were,” Mr. Palanisami said, noting the lack of availability of nutritious food required for the growth of a young boy. Mr. Subbaiyan moved back to Chinnaputhur, a few years later following his marriage. However, Mr. Subbaiyan lost his younger sister to the cholera outbreak after he moved to his village, according to Mr. Palanisami. The nonagenarian worked in a printing press, following which he engaged in agricultural activities on his own land until recently. When asked whether Mr. Subbaiyan is aware of COVID-19, Mr. Palanisami replied that his father got to know about the pandemic through television. “He asked us (family members) to take care of ourselves,” the son said. On March 30, Mr. Subbaiyan fainted and had a fall in his residence at Chinnaputhur. Realising that he had suffered a fracture in his hip, the family decided to take him to Global Ortho and Trauma Hospital in the city on April 1. “We were only stopped at Kaniyur Toll Plaza and were asked a few questions, after which we were allowed to go,” Mr. Palanisami said.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salt industry takes a big hit||The COVID-19 pandemic has dealt a huge blow to the salt industry in Thoothukudi, with close to one lakh tonnes of salt lying in pans in the district, according to industry sources. Thoothukudi stands second, next to Gujarat, on the national salt production map. After agriculture and fishing, a large number of people are dependent on the sector directly or indirectly. Close to 30,000 workers are engaged in production. Every year, 25 lakh tonnes of salt is produced in pans spread over 20,000 acres of land. According to Salt Manufacturers’ Association secretary ARAS Dhanapalan, the pans see activity all through the year, but peak production starts from April-June. In the wake of COVID-19 and the curfew, the industry has come to a standstill. “We are not sure when normal business will commence,” he says. The salt manufactured from here is transported to various pockets in Tamil Nadu and other southern States such as Karnataka and Kerala. With the curfew and police regulations, movement of goods has been severely hit. Around this time, about five lakh tonnes of salt are transported. But in the present scenario, the manufacturers and dealers may have succeeded in selling only 25% within the district or to neighbouring towns, he points out. With workers unable to turn up due to non-availability of transport and the government’s directive to remain indoors, as social distancing is mandatory, close to one lakh tonnes may be lying on the pans. A truck operator in Thoothukudi says at least two truck loads of salt are moved daily during this time of the year to different destinations on alternate days. Now, there has been no movement for almost 20 days. “Our crew members have to be paid wages even though there is no movement of our vehicles,” he says. Production has also taken a severe beating as by now three lakh tonnes would have been produced and ready for sale. “With COVID-19 threat looming large, the future of the salt sector looks bleak”, Mr. Dhanapalan adds.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Postponing elective surgeries can save lives||The entire world is facing an unprecedented medical emergency caused by the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Medical professionals and scientists are working hard to halt the spread of COVID-19 and save lives. Many countries have gone into a lockdown, to stop everyone except emergency services personnel from moving about, in a bid to prevent ransmission of the infection. Healthcare teams are struggling to treat patients who have varying degrees of symptoms. Some may require treatment in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), and a few may warrant artificial respiration with the use of a ventilator. The warriors at the forefront are the intensivists, critical care specialists, critical care nurses, and anaesthetists. Although most of the people have understood the seriousness of the problem, a few still want to have planned or proposed elective surgeries done in this period, without realising the possible risks and difficulties involved in getting operated now. The concern and apprehension is multifold when the diagnosis is cancer. As individuals and teams have not encountered such a situation before, many organisations such as the International Society for Diseases of Esophagus, the American College of Surgeons, SAGES with inputs from WHO and CDC, are coming out with guidelines to be followed to resolve dilemmas. These professional medical societies are guarded in providing these principles, adding a note that they are based on the evidence available as on date and that the recommendations are subject to change every day. It is time we understood the implications of having a planned elective surgery at the present time. Any patient who has to undergo surgery has to consult the surgeon and the physician to get medical fitness certified, and the anaesthesiologist for an assessment. For this, he or she has to visit a hospital or a laboratory, where the patient may not be the only one going for tests. There would be people with emergency situation waiting for tests. There is a need to maintain social distancing too as one does not know the status of the others waiting there. Moreover, in the wake of COVID-19, there may be a need for additional testing. Limited resources The labs and diagnostic centres will be working with limited staff to handle emergencies. After the tests are done and you wait for the fitness report from the physician and anaesthetist, you will be intruding into the time which they would like to devote to emergencies. If you have to undergo surgery, even if it is an outpatient procedure, you have to go with a relative to give consent, subjecting them to the risk in the time of lockdown. The situation becomes complex if the surgery is a major one necessitating long operating hours, obviously warranting a full-fledged surgical team, anaesthetic team, theatre sisters, theatre technicians and workers from the sanitary department. After the surgery, there may be need for ICU care and even ventilator support, adding to the burden of the ICU staff. All these resources may be needed for another patient in crisis. Guidelines from most of the professional Societies across the globe suggest: wherever there is a possibility to continue medical therapy, to do so, and to plan surgery for a conducive time; even if surgery is the only option and but not on emergency basis, it can still wait. There is also a growing concern about doing laparoscopy or open surgery, for which we do not have a clear answer yet. Patients diagnosed with cancers have different problems: their concern will be about the potential advancing nature of the disease if not operated immediately. The medical team’s concern is about weighing the balance between the benefit and risk of subjecting them to a major surgical procedure, which may warrant long operating hours, involving a bigger team, ICU and ventilator care. Collective decision In such circumstances, multi-disciplinary meetings are held via video conferencing and a collective decision is made by the experts on what is best for the patient in the current situation. Sometimes, they resort to a treatment strategy like initial chemotherapy and radiotherapy which halts the progression of the disease. This policy gives the patient and the team the “window period”, buying time to operate at a favourable juncture. If the risk of surgery, including ICU stay, outweighs the benefits, they may be subjected to non-surgical treatment modalities. The government and the entire medical fraternity is fighting a serious pandemic, working hard to save society. If elective surgery is postponed, it is only in the interest of the patient. It is equally important to understand that their help is required for patients who are in need of more immediate care. Today’s difficult situation calls for understanding from all of us. That advice to postpone elective surgeries is given in the interest of all concerned. We must understand that by waiting, we are not wasting time. By relieving unnecessary pressure on the health system, based on sound medical evaluation, the patient is actually doing herself a service - saving oneself and society by helping doctors save more lives.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||24 Tablighi attendees quarantined in school||Twenty-four of the 91 persons, who had attended the conference organised in Delhi by the Tablighi Jamaat were in quarantine in a private school on Trichy Road. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation and the district administration said the 24, who were from various parts of the district, were in the school and not any hospital because they had tested negative for COVID-19 and not shown positive symptoms. They went into quarantine on April 4 and would remain there for 14 days, till April 17. Non-governmental organisations and a few commercial establishments had come forward to look after the daily needs of the 24, the sources said and added that while one NGO was engaged in giving food another was taking care of snacks and refreshments. The Corporation had also made arrangements for the safe stay of the police personnel guarding the school. the sources said and added that medical help was readily available to them. But there was no arrangement for doctors going to the school, once or twice a day because they had tested negative for COVID-19, the sources added.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for misbehaving with anganwadi worker||The Podanur police arrested a man on charges of misbehaving with a woman anganwadi worker, who went to his house for a health survey on Saturday. The arrested has been identified as Ismail (52), a resident of Saramedu near Karumbukkadai. According to the police, an anganwadi worker R. Jayanthi (36) had gone to his house on Saturday afternoon as part of a survey being conducted by the Health Wing of the Coimbatore Corporation to find if anyone has flu-like symptoms. The accused allegedly misbehaved with the woman and did not cooperate for the survey, police added. Violators arrested The police arrested 663 persons for violating prohibitory order in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The city police arrested 109 persons in 107 cases and seized 29 vehicles. Coimbatore rural police arrested 454 persons in 411 cases and seized 430 vehicles. Those arrested were later released on bail.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Doing it together||
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||PM invites Palaniswami to all-party meeting||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday tweeted that he had been invited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the phone to take part in an all-party meeting on April 8 to discuss the prevailing COVID-19 crisis. Calls Stalin The Prime Minister and Home Minister Amit Shah also had a telephonic conversation with DMK leader M.K. Stalin and enquired about his health, his mother Dayalu Ammal and other members of his family. Mr. Stalin told the Prime Minister that the DMK had received an invitation for the meeting, and that its representative will be Parliamentary Party Leader T.R. Baalu. “We will offer constructive suggestions to improve the situation in the country,” the DMK leader said. Mr. Modi spoke to PMK MP Anbumani Ramadoss to seek the party’s support for the efforts being made by the Central government to combat COVID-19. Mr. Ramadoss was urged to give his suggestions in writing, a press release said.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||There are many medical centres and speciality hospitals maintaining state-of-the-art facilities and services. However, when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, only government hospitals treated such patients. Recently, some of the under-developed private hospitals have been permitted to give treatment for COVID-19. The government hospitals in villages and small towns lack even basic facilities such as ICUs, ventilators and testing laboratories. So companies, under their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, can donate personal protective equipment (PPE) and ventilators to such hospitals. Parliamentarians and legislators also need to come forward to radically improve the infrastructure of our country by spending their constituency funds. The slums in the cities and small towns need clean water. Villages need clean toilets and better infrastructure. Only then will we all have a fair chance to fight the novel coronovirus pandemic. G. Stanley Jeyasingh  Nagercoil   Smart City programme is making good progress in Madurai. However, the way of execution of the projects leaves a lot to be desired. Moreover, there is no public participation or prior consultation. Wherever the projects are under way, people find it difficult to ride vehicles on the dug-up roads, there is no planning for parking too. There is dust everywhere and pedestrians find it difficult to walk on damaged pavements and prefer to walk on roads, adding to the traffic snarl. If the authorities involve people in the projects by listening to their views and suggestions, lot of things can be improved. P. Jersline, Madurai    Mullai Nagar in NGO-B Colony in Tirunelveli is a fast developing area. Street lights have not been provided at the western entrance of Middle Street here. It is sparse in the southern side of East Street too. In their absence, these places are prone to chain snatching. All kinds of reptiles move about here and cause panic among residents, especially during night. The residents, more particularly senior citizens and children, are scared to walk on the roads. I request the authorities to provide street lights wherever needed. S. Nallasivan,  Tirunelveli    A stretch of S.N. Road in Tirunelveli - from the town arch to the eastern side - is uneven and the metalled surface has gone ever since a civic work was taken up. Two-wheeler riders find it difficult to ride as one may skid and dust emanates from the road causing pollution. I urge the authorities to set things right at the earliest. A.M.N. Pandian,  Tirunelveli.   In Ramanathapuram town, pack of stray dogs wandering on streets pose a threat to the public, especially to women, children and senior citizens. The district administration must take action to ged rid of the dog menace and ensure safety for the residents. Asmabagh Anvardeen,  Ramanathapuram   With the lockdown due to COVID-19, many poor, physically challenged and migrant workers depend on Amma Unavagams. These subsided eateries have become a lifeline for them. Since other eateries are closed, they have to travel to these canteens for food. Since bus services remain suspended, they have to walk all the way. The number of Amma canteens are inadequate. I request the authorities to immediately establish Amma canteens in every ward of Madurai city. M. Sainithii, Madurai
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation deserves praise for responding to a complaint on the dangerous location of an electric pole in front of the Konakarai burial ground at Woraiyur and shifting it to a safe position in a matter of a few months. The grievance was highlighted in these columns during January with an apprehension that the electric pole fixed across the road would cause accidents. A TNEB team sprung into action at the time of a general shutdown and shifted the electric pole, much to the relief of motorists. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.    Due to the closure of restaurants during the lockdown for containment of COVID-19, the poor, the physically challenged and alms-seekers have been pushed to a situation of depending entirely on Amma Canteens for survival. But, in the absence of bus services, these disadvantaged sections of the society face an enormous discomfiture. Also, there are not enough Amma canteens to cater to the increased food requirement. Hence, it would be ideal if every ward had one such canteen. The Corporation must also make sure that enough quantity of food is prepared to feed the poor. M. Sainithii, Contonment.    The spread of COVID 19 could be better controlled by permitting pushcart sellers to deliver vegetables and fruits at doorsteps rather than establishing temporary markets on playgrounds where people assemble in large numbers. From a social angle, too, the vegetable vendors need to have a source of income. The authorities must permit this arrangement against the backdrop of the apparent reluctance of the staff at cooperative societies that are entrusted with the responsibility of door delivery of essentials to respond positively to phone calls. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.    Though most of the Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) are being replenished with cash by the banks, the absence of social distancing is glaring. The people, for instance, do not sterilise their hands with sanitisers before operating the keypad of the ATMs. It would be proper, if the ATMs were equipped with sanitisers. M. Raja, Tiruchi.      A section of police personnel seem to be resorting to arbitrary acts of punishing people defying the prohibitory order in the lockdown period for containment of COVID 19 virus. The government has to remind the police personnel of punishment as the scenes of punishment depicting the violators squatting while holding the ears and other physical endurance postures project the law and order machinery in poor light. Vetrivel, Cantonment.   Prominent presence of ‘Litter-free zone’ signboard notwithstanding dumping of waste materials has been continuing for years on a vast area near the entrance of the Reynolds Road on the way to Kalai Kaveri College of Fine Arts. Repeated representations to the authorities have not yielded any results even as the dumping spot has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and insects. The area needs to be cleaned up on a war-footing to prevent outbreak of diseases. S. Raghavan, Tiruchi.    It is shocking that the Centre had cut the rate of interest for small savings, putting senior citiens into hardship. After retirement, the senior citizens tend to deposit the entire gratuity and Provident Fund in banks and post offices, to be assured of regular returns for making a living. The abrupt reduction in interest rates has struck a heavy blow to the senior citizens who are already grappling with constant increase in the cost of living. The senior citizens oughgt to be provided with interest rates of at least 8.5 for their bank deposits. R. Pichumani, Thippirajapuram.    The Chief Minister has announced in the Assembly that family cardholders eligible for rice are entitled to financial relief of Rs. 1000 for the lockdown period to contain spread of corona virus. One wonders if the virus will not affect those family cardholders who purchase only sugar from the fair price shops. The relief has to be common for all family cardholders. K. Santhanam, Kumbakonam.      While the government's decision to provide financial relief to family cardholders is appreciable, Rs. 1,000 would hardly suffice at the time of crisis. The amount has to be increased considerably. Also, there must be a rethink on providing relief at the doorsteps. Instead, 100 families could be covered every day in order to comply with social distancing norms. They could be informed through SMS about the timing and the day to collect the relief from fair price shops. This would be of help to the section of family cardholders who had changed their residences and had not effected it on the family cards due to practical difficulties. S. Sethuraman, Thanjavur.
06 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Minister seeks repeat tests||Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has asked officials to conduct repeat tests on all patients who had tested negative for COVID-19. He told officers to ensure that the tests are conducted in an efficient manner and that repeat tests should be conducted on all those who have tested negative. He also asked officials to set up wholesale foodgrains and vegetable markets in Belagavi and other towns. The Minister also asked officers to issue licence to vegetable vending carts and vans to go round towns to help buyers.
06 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Student found dead||A 10th standard student, Suraj Kalliguddi (16) of Sadashiv Nagar in Belagavi, ended his life after his parents scolded him for wasting time during the lockdown on Sunday. On Sunday morning, his mother found his room locked from the inside and he did not respond to her . When the door was forced open, the parents found the body, the police said. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On an average, 35 people break quarantine norms every day||Home quarantine rules are being flouted by 35 people on an average every day in Bengaluru, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has found over the past week. Apart from shifting violators from their homes to institutional quarantine centres, the department is also booking police cases against them. Those in home quarantine have also been asked to send selfies every hour to the department, but many are not complying with this. People returning from abroad are ordered to be in home quarantine for 14 days and are also stamped. But department officials said despite these measures, many, including a doctor, software engineers, and students have been found violating quarantine norms. Such people have been shifted to Akash Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre at Devanahalli. As on Saturday, the Home Quarantine Enforcement squads had placed 371 people across the State in institutional quarantine for violating rules. The squads, which consist of an AYUSH doctor and a police official, started functioning on March 23. Sources in the department said that many see people with these stamps walking on the road or in common spaces in apartment complexes or buying groceries in the market and call the police helpline — 100 — or the Health Department’s helpline — 104. “Within 15 minutes, our squads reach the spot and verify the details. If the person has not completed the mandatory 14-day home quarantine, he/she is shifted to the hospital,” an official said. But Health Department officials said people have also been making calls to the helpline if they see foreigners in their locality. “People are panicking and calling us if they see foreigners. But we go and verify the details by looking at their passport and have found that many of the foreigners do not have any travel history. However, we do want the public to call us if they are suspicious and feel that a person is breaking the home quarantine rules,” the official added. In Bengaluru, they have received around 95 calls from the public and in 12 cases they found people violating home quarantine rules. There are 40 home quarantine enforcement squads in Bengaluru who have booked those violating norms under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and under different sections of the Indian Penal Code. As India suspended all international flight arrivals on March 22, the last international traveller who landed in Bengaluru will complete the home quarantine period on Monday. The State government has released a list of 14,910 foreign returnees who have been home quarantined. The list can be downloaded fromhttps://karnataka.gov.in/
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reverse migration exposes chinks in PDS||The panic return of migrant labourers working in Bengaluru to their homes in north Karnataka soon after the COVID-19 lockdown was announced has exposed some of the issues in the Public Distribution System (PDS). Even portability of ration cards — which means ration can be bought from any of the nearly 20,000 shops in the State — could not stop migrants from travelling back to their villages in fear of job loss and starvation. For, according to the Food and Civil Supplies Department website, on an average, a mere 0.02% of 1.47 crore family ration cards have been used to get monthly ration from a shop that was not the closest one to the registered address in 2020. Ration card portability within the State came into effect in 2018. If one thought this system would ensure migrants remained where they were by assuring food security, the current situation has proved otherwise. This is at least partly because ration can be taken by a whole family from only one place. “Which means that if one part of the family, say husband and wife, is in Bengaluru, leaving children and aged parents back in their village, ration can be taken at only one place. In such cases, the ration collection point is normally in the village. Portability works well only when the entire family is in one place,” an official said. This has forced officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department to think about alternatives during this situation of unexpected challenge. A large number of migrations involve a single earning member moving to Bengaluru, leaving the rest of his or her family in the village. In hundreds of villages across Raichur, Yadgir and Bagalkot districts, from where a lot of migration happens to Bengaluru, the rest of the family remains behind. “In such cases, ration is bought at the village level and the migrant brings a part of it to the city when he or she travels here. That link is now severed,” a source said. According to a senior official, the number of families that have utilised the portability option since its launch is about five lakh. “Portability has given freedom to cardholders. The department was in the process of popularising it when the COVID-19 scare arrived. This has shown us the need to further streamline it.”
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After initial hiccups, transporters are on road supplying essentials||For many, the comfort level during the lockdown is directly dependent on how well stocked their kitchen is. The functioning of the transport sector, which carries essentials such as milk, food grain and vegetables, has been crucial to ensure that the system remains working and there is no panic among citizens. In the city, in addition to trucks and vans, people are seen transporting essential commodities on bullock carts to retail shops. Though initially, drivers and cleaners of trucks transporting essential commodities faced unprecedented challenges, with hundreds stranded near toll plazas and highways without food and water, they have emerged as saviours in their own way. Ganesh K., a driver supplying commodities to the APMC yard in Yeshwantpur, said, “In the first few days of the lockdown, drivers suffered a lot. Some of them even got beaten up. But since the last few days, after the police started issuing passes, transportation of goods has become easier. The number of trucks and vehicles carrying essential goods has increased considerably. Despite facing problems, drivers are reporting for duty.” Kumaran, another driver, said, “We have been asked to wear masks and use sanitisers, but avoiding crowds at the market place is not easy. Unloading goods from trucks has become a major problem, as the number of hamalis (porters) has come down drastically. Vehicles are parked haphazardly. The authorities concerned must take some measures to tackle these problems.” The KMF faced disruption in supply for the first few days. But now, over 300 vans are supplying milk in two shifts to vendors. “We faced disruption in the supply chain for a couple of days. We have been advised to put on a mask and maintain social distance at the work place. Our vehicles also get sanitized when we reach our plants,” said a driver. G.R. Shanmugappa, president, Federation of Karnataka Lorry Owners and Agents’ Association, wants the Union government to consider extending the Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover recently announced for frontline health workers to drivers as well. ‘Measures taken for movement of essentials’ Rajendra Kumar Kataria, secretary to government, Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture, said measures have been taken to address the grievances of people transporting essential commodities. “Initially, there were reports of drivers and transporters being harassed. As per the order of the CM, all measures have been taken to ensure transportation of essential commodities. In the last few days, there has been adequate supply of food grain, vegetables, fruits and other items. The rates of these items have come down drastically,” he said.  In the first few days of the lockdown, drivers suffered a lot. Some even got beaten up. But after the police started issuing passes, transportation of goods has become easier. Despite facing problems, drivers are reporting for duty. Ganesh K.a driver
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lamps lit across State as a show of solidarity||A large section of people across the State responded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call and lit lamps, candles, and flashed torchlights from their homes at the stroke of 9 p.m. on Sunday. It was aimed to be a show of solidarity to fight the darkness of COVID-19 pandemic. People enthusiastically participated despite rains in Tumakuru and Chitradurga. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa also lit a lamp and stood for nine minutes at his residence. However, despite instructions to the contrary, residents in several apartments gathered together raising slogans of “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” in Bengaluru. The city’s skies were also lit with fire crackers. But the exercise did no harm to the power grid and supply in the State. “Citizens have behaved responsibly and switched off only lights in their houses and not electric appliances. There was a load dip of around 20%, nearly 1,200 MW less than the peak load at this time of the night. It went off smoothly and no issues were reported,” said Manjula Naik, Managing Director, Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd.  Citizens have behaved responsibly and switched off only lights in their houses and not electric appliances.Manjula NaikManaging Director, Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Has PM slyly asked for candlelight vigil on eve of BJP’s foundation day?’||Challenging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to offer a credible scientific and rational explanation for the candlelight vigil, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said: “Has the Prime Minister slyly asked the nation to observe a candlelight vigil on the eve of the foundation day of BJP? April 6 being its foundation day, what else can explain the choice of date and time for this event?” In a series of tweets on Sunday, the former Chief Minister said: “The government is yet to provide PPEs to doctors and make test kits affordable for the common man. Without telling the nation what concrete steps are being taken to combat COVID-19 menace, the Prime Minister is giving meaningless tasks to an already exhausted population.” In another tweet, he said: “It is shameful to convert the national crisis into an event of self-aggrandizement and it is beyond shameful to push the hidden agenda of his party in the face of global calamity. May sense prevail upon the Prime Minister.”
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Looking for clues||Suspecting that the Nanjangud pharma company employee, who tested positive for COVID-19, could have contracted the infection through packages that the company had got from China, the Health Department got swabs of the packages tested. As this tested negative, the department is now getting the raw material that was supplied to the company from China tested. “We have asked NIV, Pune, to test the samples and are awaiting reports. It may take two to three days,” a top official said.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Crash course for class 10 students before SSLC exam||Class 10 students will be given a crash course for a week before the SSLC examination, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said on Sunday. Speaking to presspersons in Chamarajanagar, he said, “There will be too much of a gap between classes conducted and the exam now. So we have decided to have a review of subjects for a week or so. This will help students revise the subjects and be better prepared for the exam.” Over eight lakh students have registered for the SSLC exam, which was originally scheduled to be held between March 27 and April 9. The fresh dates are expected to be announced on April 14. Initially, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education had decided to take precautionary measures, including allowing children to write the exam with masks, keeping sanitisers in classrooms, and changing the seating arrangements to ensure there was sufficient distance between the students. However, it subsequently decided to put off the exam.
06 April 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Benefits of portability||The Union government, under ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’, is implementing ration card portability across the country. In the first three months of 2020, families with ration cards issued in Karnataka used the service in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Telangana. In all, 135 purchases have been done using Karnataka-issued ration cards in other States. Similarly, those with ration cards issued in Andhra Pradesh and Kerala have bought ration in Karnataka.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah seeks special package for daily wagers||Stating that workers in both organised and unorganised sectors were losing their jobs and livelihood in the State, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to announce a special package for them. In a letter to Mr. Yediyurappa, the former Chief Minister said that he had been receiving calls from daily wage workers from various unorganised sectors who were sharing their plight with him. They include workers in the film industry, taxi drivers, barbers, construction workers, garment workers and fishermen, he said, adding that the government should convince employers to provide salaries to the workers during the lockdown period.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Markets shifted to outskirts||To prevent the spread of COVID-19 owing to overcrowding and also to streamline the supply of vegetables and fruits during lockdown, three major wholesale markets in the city located at Yeshwantpur, Kalasipalya, and Yelahanka have been moved to the outskirts. Onion, potato, and garlic traders in Yeshwantpur have been functioning from Dasanapura, whereas the Yelahanka market has been shifted to Byatarayanapura and Kalasipalya market to Sigena Agrahara. However, this has not gone down well with traders who claim that facilities at Dasanapura and Sigena Agrahara are poor and that it was not feasible for them to operate from such faraway places. ‘Will stop trading’ C. Uday Shankar, a trader at the Yeshwantpur APMC yard now functioning from Dasanapura, said many onion and potato traders of the APMC yard would stop trading from either Monday or Tuesday and resume only after the lockdown ends. “Many traders have agreed to it. Once the already procured onions and potatoes are sold, we will shut business till the end of the lockdown. Everything, including, transport to labourers, is a problem,” he said.  ‘It’s inevitable’ Karee Gowda, director of the APMC, said they had provided all basic facilities at the new places. He said shifting was inevitable to maintain social distancing.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||B.C. Patil to tour districts||To ensure that farmers are not troubled during the lockdown, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil will start touring districts on Monday. During the tour, he will look into the returns farmers are getting on their produce and will review the situation on the ground, an official communiqué said. Over five days, he plans to visit Dharwad, Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Yadgir, Raichur, Ballari, Koppal, Gadag, Haveri, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, and Ramanagaram districts. Over the past couple of weeks, there have been reports of farmers destroying their own produce owing to lack of transportation facilities and good returns because of the restrictions. Many farmers have criticised the government for the “ill-planned lockdown”.
06 April 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||What’s the road ahead?||Discussions have begun informally within the Food and Civil Supplies Department to see if partial portability for ration cards — that is, allowing a split of benefits on a single card — can be allowed, and if so by what means. “There is a need to split the benefits of ration cards per family member or per beneficiary, depending on the scheme. This is considering the challenges thrown up by the COVID-19 situation, where a single family is split between two places. The government cannot issue two ration cards to overcome the challenge. We have talked about it, but more discussions are needed,” an official in the department said.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Strictly confine to lockdown, CM tells people||Expressing concern over the rapid increase in COVID-19 positive cases in the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday urged people to strictly confine to lockdown conditions to prevent the spread of virus. In a statement released here, the Chief Minister said that the number of those testing positive has seen a significant increase daily in Bidar, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Bengaluru, and Kalaburagi districts. To prevent the spread of virus, he said that the government had taken steps to close the borders, prevent movement of public and gatherings in religious places, besides a host of other steps. He urged the people to understand the reason behind enforcing the lockdown.  The number of people testing positive has seen a significant increase daily in Bidar, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Bengaluru, and Kalaburagi districts.B.S. YediyurappaChief Minister
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exorbitant rates||In Bengaluru, liquor is available at exorbitant rates in the black market. According to sources, many bars and wine stores are servicing their clients despite being sealed by the Excise Department. Excise Commissioner V. Yeshwantha said the alcohol in circulation in the blackmarket seems to have been taken out of stores before they were sealed off. “Till now, we have suspended seven excise licences, including five in the city. This action was taken after we were able to ascertain that the liquor being sold was from the stock of a particular store,” he said. Last week, Central CrimeBranch sleuths arrested two men in R.T. Nagar and recovered 100 bottles of whisky, beer and vodka that they were allegedly selling at exorbitant rates falling between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 5,000 abottle.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 100 soldiers donate blood||More than 100 Indian Army personnel donated blood here recently in aid of cancer patients being treated at the State-run Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology. “The Army undertook a quick blood donation camp at the MEG & Centre on the request of the medical authorities in Bengaluru,” the regional public relations unit of the Ministry of Defence said. KMIO sent them a distress request as it is facing an acute shortage of blood for its patients.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ramaiah hospital’s promise||Ramaiah Medical CollegeHospital has kept 200 beds ready to treat COVID-19 patients. A team from Gokula Education Foundation, led by chairman M.R. Jayaram, met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa last week and assured him that Ramaiah hospital was ready to treat COVID-19 patients. According to a release, Naresh Shetty, president of Ramaiah Memorial Hospital, sought the government’s help in getting PPEs, N-95 masks, and rapid testing kits.
06 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||A stop to wash vehicles||The district police have made arrangements for travellers on Charmadi Ghat to wash their vehicles before entering the district at Kottigehara. Those travelling on the stretch to supply essential goods such as vegetables have to stop at Annappa Swamy Temple in the stretch and spray water mixed with sodium carbonate on their vehicles. Two policemen attached to Banakal station in Mudigere taluk have been deputed at the temple to ensure that all vehicles stop there for a wash. Containers have been placed to store water.Travellers also get soaps and sanitizers to wash their hands and feet. Srinath Reddy, PSI of Banakal, told The Hindu that every day hundreds of vehicles carry vegetables from Chikkamagaluru to Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and other areas. “So far, there is no confirmed case of COVID-19 in Chikkamagaluru. But cases have been reported in Mangaluru, Udupi, Belthangady, and Puttur. We are asking people to wash their hands, feet and their vehicles before entering the district. If any vehicle reaches the check-post at Kottigehara without a wash, we will send them back to the temple, where arrangements are made for vehicle wash,” he said. The policemen at the temple insist that people wash at least theparts of the vehicle —mirrors and window panes— that normally come in contact with others. Movement of passenger vehicles is banned completely. Only emergency vehicles and those carrying essential items are allowed.
06 April 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Cases of illicit liquor trade on the rise||As the COVID-19 lockdown has meant the closure of bars and liquor shops, there has been a spike in crimes related to liquor. There have been burglaries in liquor shops even as excise officials have been very busy preventing illicit liquor trade. While there has been one case of people addicted to the bottle burgling an MSIL outlet in Hubballi, another has been reported in Gadag. The Hubballi case resulted in the arrest of four persons and the recovery of liquor boxes worth Rs. 1 lakh. Interestingly, in the Gadag incident, the burglars did not touch the Rs. 1.5 lakh kept in the cash box, but made away with liquor bottles worth over Rs. 7,000. Excise officials have booked several cases and continued holding raids to prevent any instance of illicit liquor trade. In Belagavi, officials are keeping a close watch on places with a history of illicit liquor production. Deputy Commissioner of Excise Basavaraj Nandigawad said that armed escorts have been provided to all vehicles transporting spirit and methyl alcohol between districts and across State borders. Awareness In Vijayapura district, where six persons have been arrested in connection with eight cases of illicit liquor trade during the lockdown, the focus is more on awareness. “Besides conducting raids, we are holding awareness programmes, appealing to people not to entertain those engaged in illicit liquor trade as any contact with a person with COVID-19 can put their lives at risk,” said Deputy Commissioner of Excise Ravishankar. In Bidar district, through multiple raids, 240 litres of illicit liquor have been seized in connection with three cases. In Raichur district, booking 32 cases and seizing liquor worth Rs. 3 lakh, excise officials have arrested 12 persons. Hanumanth Guttedar, Deputy Superintendent of Excise in Raichur, said check-posts have been established to check illicit liquor trade on the borders.
06 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||A ‘disinfection tunnel’ at APMC yard in Hubballi||As part of the efforts to check the spread of COVID-19, the Dharwad district administration has set up a ‘disinfection tunnel’ at the main entrance of the APMC yard at Amargol here. All visitors to the yard will have to walk through this tunnel maintaining prescribed distance. The sprayers overhead sprinkle protective substance on them. Workers and public are advised to raise their hands with their palms facing front while walking through the tunnel to ensure efficient disinfection. The first-of-its-kind initiative in the State has been set up in association with the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC), Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), and the local chapter of Young India. HDMC would supply the 1% hypochlorite solution. CII and Young India have set up this facility on an experimental basis at a cost of Rs. 1 lakh, said Young India president Srinivas Joshi. District in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar visited the APMC yard on Sunday and inspected the facility. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa, Police Commissioner R. Dileep, HDMC Commissioner Suresh Itnal, and others were present. Mr. Shettar said this special facility would help ensure the health protection of a large number of farmers, traders, workers and others. Taking cue from such an experiment in Tirupur of Tamil Nadu, it was decided to install a similar facility here, he said and appealed to the people to use this facility without fail while entering the APMC premises.
06 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cured patient to be discharged today from Wenlock Hospital||In a first for a COVID-19 positive case reported from Dakshina Kannada district getting cured, a 22-year-old Bhatkal resident, who tested positive for coronavirus on March 19, will be discharged from the Government Wenlock Hospital here on Monday after he was found to be negative for the disease. The Bhatkal resident was one among the 165 passengers who landed at the airport here from Dubai on March 19. He was the first to test positive for COVID-19 in Mangaluru and was kept under observation at the Government Wenlock Hospital. According to a health bulletin released by Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh, the throat swabs of the Bhatkal resident were tested on April 2 and 3. Wenlock Hospital Superintendent Sadashiva said that the district administration will arrange a vehicle to send him to Bhatkal on Monday. However, he would have to remain under home quarantine for another 14 days, he said. As on Sunday, 4,461 persons were under home quarantine and 1,342 persons have completed the 28-day quarantine period. As many as 15 persons were under observation in the ESI Hospital. Of the 331 samples sent for tests, 298 were found negative, while 12 were found positive for COVID-19, the bulletin stated. There was no fresh positive case on Sunday.
06 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Essential commodities are going to Kerala as usual||Notwithstanding the prohibition on entry of emergency medical cases from Kerala to Karnataka via National Highway 66, the State continues to allow the supply of essential commodities to Kerala, particularly its northern parts, through the Talapady check-post in Dakshina Kannada district. Kasaragod district and Malabar region of Kerala are dependent on Karnataka for essential commodities such as rice, cereals and pulses, including green gram. Coastal Karnataka used to get copra, coconut oil, rubber sheets and more from Kerala. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh told The Hindu that essential commodities were being moved to Kerala regularly. The March 31 order issued by the State government under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, barring the movement of patients from other States into Karnataka for treatment or diagnosis, in view of the severe shortage of healthcare facilities in the State, has not come in the way of the transport of essential commodities. The order, effective from April 1, will be in force till April 15. Bunder market The Old Bunder wholesale sub-market in Mangaluru has been the main source of commodities for Kerala. Old Bunder Wholesale Kirana Merchants’ Association President P. Panduranga Bhandarkar told The Hindu that merchants have been adhering to tshe directions issued by the district administration on the supply of commodities to Kerala. Regions in north Kerala, up to Payyanur and Kannur, get commodities from the Mangaluru market. Though there are restrictions on the number of people who can be present at a time in the market now, about 50% of the workforce, comprising loaders as well as merchants, is working to ensure supply of commodities within the district as well as outside, he said. Petroleum products Meanwhile, the movement of petroleum products to Kerala too is going on unhindered. Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., the lone petrochemical complex in Karnataka, caters to the requirements of north Kerala. Bullet tankers carrying LPG to bottling parts and fuel tankers transporting petrol and diesel in Kerala have been moving on a routine basis. Oil marketing companies get theseproducts from MRPL.
06 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Traditional fishing too cannot be allowed’||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Sunday informed the government that it was difficult to allow fishing even by traditional fishermen along the coast since people from border areas may enter the district for treatment of COVID-19 or any other treatment through boats. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh wrote a letter to the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department stating that a meeting chaired by district in-charge and Fisheries Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Sunday took the decision not to allow even traditional fishing in the district. As such, the department’s direction of April 2 to allow traditional fishing was difficult to be implemented. The meeting noted that deep sea fishing has been banned along the coast to prevent large gathering of people in Dhakkes (fish landing points). If traditional fishing was allowed, it would also result in gathering of people. Moreover, some instances of people from across the State’s border landing in Mangaluru through traditional boats and getting admitted in hospitals of Mangaluru have come to light. If traditional fishing was allowed, more people might come to Mangaluru circumventing the restrictions imposed on roads along the borders, the meeting noted.
06 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Lights signify collective will of the people to fight gloom’||Diyas will be lit at the Sri Manjunatha temple in Dharmasthala on Sunday night in response to the call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a message, Dharmadhikari of the temple D. Veerendra Heggade said that lighting diyas on Sunday night signified the collective resolve of the country to fight COVID-19 pandemic. “We should keep away differences of caste and region aside and join together to overcome the problems posed by the pandemic,” he said and added that he will pray for the well being of people while lighting diyas before Lord Manjunatha between 9 p.m. and 9.10 p.m. Supporting the call of the Prime Minister to light lamps and candles, Sri Satyatma Tirtha Swami of Uttaradi Math said that this light signifies knowledge needed to fight that gloom that has been set in by the pandemic. Sri Gurudevananda Swami of Odiyooru Gurudevadatta Samsthanam in Bantwal said that lighting lamps has a lot of significance to people in the region as it comes just before the Souramana Ugadi celebrations. Tulu actors Naveen D. Padil and Vijaykumar Kodailbal also supported the Prime Minister’s call.
06 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Keeping tribals abreast of the latest during pandemic||A community radio station operating out of Sargur bordering the national parks and tiger reserves in Mysuru district is creating COVID-19 awareness among the tribals and rural people living on the periphery and keeping them fully abreast of the pandemic. An initiative of the Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement, ‘Janadhwani’ (voice of the people) – a community radio by the community for the community – as its tagline proclaims, is operating since the last few years with focus on development and tribal issues. But once the COVID-19 became a pandemic and the lockdown came into effect, Janadhwani with its live phone-in programmes was effective in spreading awareness in rural areas and the remote outback of H.D. Kote and Sargur that are not easily accessible. Flight lieutenant M.A. Balasubramanya, secretary of SVYM, told The Hindu that the signals of Janadhwani radio station has an aerial radius of 10 km. “But as we are located at considerable height, we get calls from as far as Metagalli on the outskirts of Mysuru and a few villages along the Outer Ring Road, which are about 60 to 70 km from Sargur,” he added. The community radio’s app ‘Janadhwani’ can be downloaded on Google Play. The seven staff and compères of the radio station, all trained and working with SVYM, rope in doctors and government officials ranging from the taluk health officer and district health officer to the Deputy Commissioner who answer queries to infuse confidence in the community. With a reach of nearly three lakh people spread over 200 villages, Janadhwani broadcasts for 14 hours daily of which 2 hours — 10 a.m. to noon — is dedicated to health issues, including COVID-19. It also provides radio consultation that are not prescriptive but general advisory and guidelines. On an average, there are at least 15 to 20 questions daily from the Adivasis and rural people, according to G.S. Kumar, CEO of SVYM. H.D. Kote and Sargur are among the most backward regions with tribals constituting 10% of the total taluk population. And where physical connectivity by way of road is poor, the community radio station plays an effective role.
06 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Outreach for stray animals during lockdown||An emaciated stray dog was foraging through a heap of garbage. It had competition from other strays in the area. But there was little to sustain them all. The condition of stray dogs, most of which survive on bits offered by customers at bakeries and roadside eateries, is grim, following the lockdown which is now into its 10th day. With eateries and bakeries shut, many of these dogs seem to have disappeared from the roads. Some may have died of starvation while a few could have relocated in search of food. But many organisations and individuals are stepping up to feed these strays. Maneka Gandhi, MP, issued a communiqué to all NGOs engaged in animal welfare that street dogs, cows and birds neither acquire nor spread coronavirus and cautioned that if not fed many could starve to death. “I have asked animal welfare workers to feed the animals during the lockdown and I will be doing the same, she said. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has permitted People For Animals (PFA) to feed street dogs. PFA has launched an outreach programme for street dogs and distributed nearly 700 kg of dog food since last Sunday.
06 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Samples of 5,061 sent for tests; 11 have been cured and four died: Minister||The State government has taken all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus, Health and Family Minister B. Sriramulu has said. He was addressing a meeting in Raichur on Sunday. Mr. Sriramulu, who is also district in-charge Minister, said that the State government issued an order to the departments concerned to take immediate steps to ensure that the virus did not spread. Hospitals have been kept ready to attend to patients suspected to having symptoms. “So far, blood and throat swabs of 5,061 persons, who had showed signs of having symptoms, were sent for tests and of them, 146 have tested positive. Of those who tested positive, 11 have been completely cured and four have died,” the Minister said and added that a total of 32,647 people have been kept under observation in home quarantine and necessary direction has been given to officials to carry out follow-up checks as part of the health protocol. In Raichur district, 400 beds with 32 ventilators have been kept ready at RIMS, OPEC and Navodaya hospitals to attend to cases of coronavirus. Explaining the State government’s initiatives, the Minister said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had already directed the officials to distribute foodgrains to BPL card holders with no cost. The Minister said that he will discuss with officials of the departments concerned to release three tmcft of water into the Tungabhadra Canal for the second crop. Later, he visited OPEC Hospital and inspected the isolation wards. Sanganna Karadi, MP, Shivanagowda Naik, Shivaraj Patil, Basanagowda Daddal, Raja Venkatappa Naik, MLAs, Hanumana Gowda Belagurki, Chairman of Agricultural Price Commission, Adimani Veeralakshmi, zilla panchayat president, N.S. Prasanna Kumar, District in-charge Secretary, R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Lakshmikanth Reddy, CEO, C.B. Vedamurthy. Superintendent of Police, and others were present.
06 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Muslims told to adhere to lockdown norms||With Muslim clerics urging their community members to cooperate with the government for the successful implementation of the lockdown, the former Union Minister and MLC C.M. Ibrahim too has joined them. Speaking to The Hindu over phone, Mr. Ibrahim appealed to Muslims to follow the direction strictly. “I request every Muslim to strictly adhere to the direction of the government. Some of them are seen violating the lockdown norms by offering mass prayers in mosques. The government has banned public gathering of any sort to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Therefore, I appeal to the Muslim community never to involve in any act of violation of the direction.”
06 April 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Minister asks officials to carry out follow-up action in Yadgir||Minister for Animal Husbandry and district in-charge Prabhu Chavan has directed the officials to carry out follow-up action based on the guidelines issued by the State government to ensure complete lockdown. He was addressing a meeting in Yadgir on Sunday. Mr. Chavan, said that people, who came to the district from outside, should be kept under home quarantine for the specified period and officials of the Health Department should conduct health check-up for such persons, as per protocol. “The Police Department should take stern action against those coming out without specific and valid reasons and seize their vehicles,” he directed the Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane. He appealed to private doctors to extend a helping hand to the district administration and serve patients who have tested positive as the district was facing shortage of doctors at government-run hospitals.
06 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||ASHAs and anganwadi workers greeted with flowers and claps||For them, it was a surprise gesture which they never expected. Yes. ASHAs, who were allegedly beaten up in Bengaluru while they were discharging their duty entrusted them, were surprised by the way they were greeted by residents of Belagera village of Yadgir district on Saturday. When ASHAs and anganwadi workers entered the village to create awareness among residents about coronavirus, the residents greeted them by clapping and showering flowers on them in appreciation of their unselfish and remarkable service to the people and society under the threat of the virus. “I am overwhelmed by this honour. We never received such respect in the past,” an emotional worker said. After the assault on ASHAs in Bengaluru, ASHAs and anganwadi workers were worried and felt insecure. But, this gesture has definitely encouraged them to work more for the people and society.
06 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Four police officers donate salary||Most of those who saw videos containing police using the lathi to disperse the public after the lockdown was announced would have thought that men in khaki did not have mercy or humanity. However, four police officers of Yadgir district have shown otherwise by donating their salary for March to the Chief Minister’s relief fund to be used in the fight against coronavirus. Venkatesh Ugibandi, Deputy Superintendent of Police of Surpur, Sahebagowda M. Patil, Circle Inspector of Police of Surpur, Srinivas, Circle Inspector of Police of Shahapur Rural and Raj Kumar Jamagonda, Sub-Inspector attached to Bheemarayanagudi Police Station, have made the donation to help people.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A ray of light in darkness||
06 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Floating supermarket brings essentials to the doorstep of lockdown-affected||Kudumbashree, the State’s women neighbourhood collective, has made its presence felt in diverse fields. When the State launched its fight against COVID-19 pandemic, Kudumbashree joined the front line by making masks and sanitisers, preparing and serving food through its community kitchens, information sharing and so on. Now, members of two Kudumbashree units in Kainakary grama panchayat in Kuttanad have joined hands to come up with a floating supermarket, Thanima, to cater to hundreds of families affected by the lockdown, imposed following COVID-19, in a place surrounded by water. Group of five The group of five — Preetha Shine, Kavitha Anil, Preetha Manikuttan, Archana Somasekharan and Salilamma Bhasuran — has rented a boat and turned it into a floating store. From April 2, the boat cruises the Pampa river every day offering consumers a new shopping experience with multi-brand products, including rice, locally produced vegetables, spices, egg, fruits, snacks, beverages, dried fish, non-food items to name a few. “Prior to the lockdown, we used to run a Kudumbashree vegetable sales outlet at Pooppally. But the lockdown forced us to close the shop. In the meantime, people in the area started to find it difficult to buy essentials as they have to travel long distances. We raised the idea of a floating supermarket with our CDS chairperson, who took it with the panchayat authorities. After receiving the nod from the panchayat, we rented a boat, together raised Rs. 1.5 lakh and bought various products. Response from the public to the initiative is immense as they no longer need to row a boat to buy essentials,” says Preetha.  The floating supermarket connects at least eight places in the area, including Patel Jetty, Malechira, Kochugovindan Jetty, Palli Jetty etc. Before starting from the Panchayat Kadavu, approximate time of the boat’s arrival at respective boat jetties will be sent to mobile phones of members of neighbourhood groups, local ward members among others, which helps the people to come and buy commodities without waiting long. Prasanth Babu J., Kudumbashree District Mission Coordinator, says the initiative is turning out to be a success and the group is conducting good business.
06 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||One shifted to hospital for violating quarantine||A person in quarantine in Ambalappuzha was arrested and shifted to the isolation ward of the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, after he ventured out in violation of curbs on Sunday. District Collector M. Anjana directed the police and Health Department officials to act tough against all those who violate home quarantine. The district administration has shifted eight persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin and observing self-isolation at homes to a facility in Alappuzha. Officials said this would help better monitoring of the people.
06 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two elephants trapped in pond rescued in Wayanad||Forest Department officials on Sunday rescued two elephants trapped in a pond at Anakkadu. South Wayanad Divisional forest officer B. Ranjith Kumar told The Hindu that early on the day local people informed the department that two elephants, a tusker aged about 20 and a she elephant aged about 25 years, were struggling to get out of the pond located on a private coffee estate at Anakkadu, near Kunnampetta under the Meppadi forest range. Slippery Since the three sides of the pond were steep and the other side was slippery, the animals could not get out. Their distress call had drawn the attention of the local people. The elephants might have got trapped in the pond when they reached the pond to drink water, Mr. Ranjith said. Though the officials tried to rescue the animals using human force, it was in vain. After a three- hour effort, the elephants were rescued by using an excavator. Later the elephants were driven away to the nearby Chembra forest area, he said.
06 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No home for women prisoners||Jail is where the home is for a few women in the State. When hundreds of prisoners, including the convicted and the undertrials, happily walked out the prisons for short paroles, a few women returned to the jail as they did not have a place to go. A 40-year-old woman, housed at the Women’s Jail, Palakkad, was among the few prisoners who found the life inside the jail more comfortable than the one outside. Though the prisoner, who was released on self-bail, went to the house of a relative, she came back after a few days. She found the relative’s place uncomfortable to stay for the 45-day parole period and had no other place to go. She was unwelcome in her family as she had a dispute with her husband and was involved in a crime, according to jail authorities. Three other women prisoners too returned immediately after being released. 1,500 released As many as 1,500 prisoners, both men and women, were released from the jails for up to 45 days under the amnesty scheme announced by the Supreme Court to decongest jails in the wake of COVID-19 spread. Around 50-odd are staying back in the prisons despite being released on bail or being eligible for the benefit, said S. Santhosh, DIG (Prisons Headquarters). Many of the prisoners who opted to stay back were either accused or convicted in the offences involving their family members. With such offences booked against them, they would not be received by their family members or relatives, when released. With nowhere to go, they are forced to stay in the prisons, he said. No transportation While releasing the prisoners on parole, the jail authorities had to provide transportation for a few as public transport facilities were off the road. Some prisoners had to be dropped at Wayanad from the Kannur jail and a few others at Thodupuzha from the Thrissur jail. These prisoners were taken in the vehicles of the Jail department. Most of the prisoners arranged their own transport facilities, the jail official said.
06 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Palm Sunday celebrations with church compound gates locked||The faithful in Kochi celebrated Palm Sunday with the gates of church compounds locked and police personnel standing guard to prevent gatherings of more than five at any of the churches. Palm Sunday marks the beginning of the Holy Week, the most important week in the liturgical cycle in the Christian calendar. Palm Sunday recalls the New Testament account of Jesus’ triumphant entry into Jerusalem ahead of his betrayal and death on the cross. In a normal year, churches would be packed to capacity. But the lockdown to contain COVID-19 saw only the mass celebrants and one or two assistants in most of the churches. Archbishop of Varapuzha Joseph Kalathiparambil celebrated the Mass at St. Francis Assisi Cathedral while Cardinal George Alencherry celebrated the mass at St. Mary’s Cathedral in the city. The Palm Sunday Mass at CSI Immanuel Church, Broadway, was live telecast on YouTube. Father P.J. Jacob and Father Aneesh Mathew led the services. Palm Sunday celebrations at Malankara churches too followed the instructions issued by the State authorities and the police. The Holy Week observances in the coming days will also be closed to the public following police instructions. Even Easter Sunday celebrations will be without the usual gathering. In Thrissur The Holy Week celebrations began at various churches in Thrissur on Sunday with no congregation in the wake of COVID-19 restrictions. Archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath held the Holy Mass with a few assistants at the Lourdes Metropolitan Cathedral in the city.
06 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Making migrant workers feel at home||S. Karunakar’s ability to flit comfortably between Odia and Malayalam has him manning the COVID-19 helpline for migrant workers in the district. Karunakar and five others have been handling over 600 calls daily for nearly a week at the Collectorate at Kakkanad. Food availability “Nearly all calls have to do with not getting sufficient food. Some recently have had to do with not being able to pay rent,” said Karunakar, who works in a plywood mill in Perumbavoor, and is from Kandhamal, Odisha. “To address the food supply issue, we get the contractor’s number or the contact number of the owner of the building the workers are staying at. We let them know that they must provide the workers with food or else the district administration will take action,” said Rajendra Naik, another volunteer, also from Odisha. The process involves multiple follow-ups to make sure that the workers have received dry ration or food, he said. “The calls we get thanking us for the intervention makes this worth it,” he said. Between them, the six volunteers can speak Odiya, Hindi, Bengali, Assamese, Urdu and a smattering of Tamil and Telugu. They are a part of the National Health Mission’s Atithi Devo Bhava project in the district that works towards addressing health concerns among migrant workers. They were trained to be ‘link’ workers who could create awareness among migrant workers on health issues, tiding over the language barrier. “Several callers have asked when they can go home or if tickets can be booked soon,” said Hasina Khatun from Murshidabad, West Bengal, who works as a teacher. In the twelve years since she moved to Vazhakulam, Hasina has been able to learn to read, write, speak and teach Malayalam – a skill that is now proving to be handy while talking to contractors or owners of buildings while asking them to address the issues of workers. They are provided with transport facilities to reach the Collectorate everyday, she said. “Most problems are resolved without any complaints being registered. But if necessary, Assistant Labour Officers might intervene,” said V.B. Biju, District Labour Officer (Enforcement).
06 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ban on mechanised fishing boats along coast||The Fisheries Department has said that the movement of mechanised fishing boats in and out of Ernakulam district has been strictly prohibited during the 21-day lockdown period to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Mechanised fishing boats have also been banned from engaging in fishing activities during the lockdown period. There was some ground to believe that fishers from Tamil Nadu reached Ernakulam district in fishing boats, said a statement by the the Public Relations Department. No boats with registration outside Kerala are allowed to be brought to any of the harbours in the State. If any boat from another State is in need of diesel, the boat operators should get in touch with the Vypeen Fisheries Station between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. The boat will be supplied with diesel in the presence of an officer of the Fisheries Department. Boats with Kerala registration that had gone for fishing before March 24 can enter Ernakulam district only with the permission of the Fisheries Department. The numbers to be contacted are: Vypeen Fisheries Station — 0484 2502768; Fisheries Control Room — 9496007048 Meanwhile, the National Fish Workers’ Forum has alleged that there is a move by boat owners in the State to ‘sabotage’ the annual ban on trawling under the cover of the shutdown following the spread of COVID-19.
06 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dip in number of quarantined persons||As many as 106 persons were placed in home quarantine on Sunday as part of precautions against COVID-19 spread. The number of quarantined persons in Ernakulam has come down considerably after fresh norms were rolled out. As per the new norms, only high-risk people who have returned to the State after March 5 from abroad or other States need to undergo the 28-day quarantine. Hence, all the 10,806 persons who completed the 14-day quarantine were removed from the list. Now, there are only 1,142 persons in home quarantine. Nine persons were shifted to isolation wards on Sunday. While two were admitted to the Government Medical College, four were shifted to the Aluva District Hospital and three to private hospitals. One patient at MCH and two at the Aluva hospital were discharged.
06 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SNC designs training capsule||The COVID-19 core working group of the Southern Naval Command (SNC) has prepared a training capsule for Battle Field Nursing Assistants (BFNA) to train non-medical personnel who work as force multipliers in times of emergencies. The basic concepts of hand hygiene, donning and doffing of personal protective equipment, concept of biomedical waste management, and carriage of casualty have been covered for non-medical personnel. Simple strategies for infection prevention have also been dealt with in the course.
06 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fishers lock horns over fishing ban||The fishers in traditional and mechanised sectors have locked horns over the annual fishing ban that begins in the East Coast States on April 15. A proposal to merge the lockdown days with the ban period, allowing mechanised vessels to resume operations three weeks early, has not gone down well with traditional fishers who believe it will wreck the marine ecosystem. Meanwhile, boat owners from the State, one of the West Coast States where the trawl ban comes into effect from June 1, have approached the Centre to call off the ban as a one-time measure to revive the pandemic-hit seafood industry. Stagnant since January “The mechanised sector became nearly stagnant from January due to the dip in exports and we had completely stopped operations after the lockdown. During the past three months there was minimal activity and we want the authorities the to call off the ban this year considering this,” says Peter Mathias, president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association. The mechanised sector is keen on getting the ban lifted since they anticipate enormous export demand as overseas cargo movement improves. “Trawlers mainly cater to the export industry and a lot of others, including processors, ice plants, peeling units and vendors are dependent on us. If the ban is not lifted, we will lose a golden chance to revive our country’s economy and we feel banning trawlers immediately after the COVID-19 crisis will cause irreparable damage to the industry,” Mr. Mathias said He adds that around 2.5 lakh vessels across India will have to stay idle during the ban period. Traditional fishers’ view According to traditional fishers, changing the dates will beat the purpose of the ban that was introduced to conserve the fishery resources and protect the habitat during the spawning season. “It is the time during which the marine stock gets replenished and blocking it will affect the sector in long-term. According to the proposal, the ban period for the East Coast should be considered to have begun from March 24 which is unacceptable from the environmental perspective. Just like all other sectors, the lockdown has affected the entire population engaged in fishing and allied activities. Lifting the ban early or cancelling it altogether will create serious repercussions since it’s not environmentally sustainable,” says T.Peter, general secretary, National Fishworkers’ Forum. The lockdown has also affected a large section of traditional fishers who could not venture into the sea since several restrictions were in place. “The lockdown has hit all stakeholders in the sector uniformly. So instead of protecting the short-term interests of mechanised sector, we should think about the future. To preserve the marine environment and ensure sustainability it’s very important to maintain the ban in both coasts,” he adds.  If the ban is not lifted, we will lose a golden chance to revive our country’s economy.
06 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two die as man sets himself on fire||In a tragic incident, a 36-year-old man set himself on fire and tried to immolate a woman, killing himself and the woman’s mother in the process. The incident took place at Kavanad on Sunday and the deceased have been identified as Tamil Nadu resident Selvamani and his relative Getty Rajan. Reportedly, Selvamani wanted to marry Getty’s daughter, but the family was against the alliance. According to the police, Selvamani reached the woman’s home at night and tried to set the front door on fire. Seeing this, the family tried to flee through the kitchen door, but he followed them. Later, he poured kerosene over himself and tried to drag the woman after immolating himself. Getty sustained third-degree burns when she tried to save her daughter. Though Selvamani was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, his life could not be saved. The woman also succumbed to burns at a private hospital in Kollam around afternoon. Suicide prevention helpline: 0471- 2552056.
06 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||All is going good for Responsible Tourism units||Few tourist faces grace the interiors of Kumarakom or Vaikom these days as the COVID-19 outbreak has joined the growing list of challenges crippling tourism in Kerala over the last one year. Yet the period witnessed the largest inflow of tourists, mostly foreigners, to experience the life in its villages. As per estimates, the units under the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission in Kerala recorded a sharp uptick in its revenue to Rs. 23.07 crore in 2019-20 as against Rs. 4.98 crore and Rs. 4.51 crore in the previous two fiscals. The total number of guests, who visited rural Kerala under the experience packages offered by the agency during the period, stood at 49,017 including 32,433 foreigners. Meanwhile, the expenditure incurred by the agency during the period was Rs. 2.17 crore. A detailed analysis of the figures suggested that December 2019, typically a peak tourism season for the State, clocked the highest monthly income of Rs. 2.75 crore followed by September 2019 with Rs. 2.34 crore. The monthly turnover, however, began to recede from February this year onward and hit its lowest point of Rs. 67.96 lakh in March with the viral outbreak turning a global pandemic.  140 packages The latest figures -- a huge improvement over the targeted income of Rs. 15 crore for the period, has come as a major boost to the RT Mission. “Among the 140 experiential packages, 40 have already been implemented. The packages have been designed to benefit the 17,008 traditional art and crafts units registered with us,” said K.Roopesh Kumar, Coordinator, RT Mission. Considering that the global travel will remain grounded for some more months following the post COVID-19 period, the Mission is now planning to conduct virtual tours to the State’s villages through its online platform. Plans are also afoot to launch a massive campaign by focussing on the domestic travel community including Keralites and school groups from other States.
06 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Keralite health-care worker dies in Ireland||A 54-year-old woman from Kottayam, Beena George, died in Ireland after contracting COVID-19. The deceased, a native of Kuruppanthara here, was working as a health-care worker at a hospital in Drogheda. According to sources, the woman had been diagnosed with cancer earlier and was tested positive for COVID-19 a couple of days ago. The deceased is survived by husband George Paul and two daughters, who are medical students. The family members are now in quarantine. The funeral of the deceased will be conducted in Ireland as per the local disease protocol. In Saudi, New York Shafan, 42, a driver from Malappuram, died in Saudi Arabia on Sunday. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Hours before his death, he had sent an audio file to his friend here, saying things were turning bad. His wife, who also tested positive, has been isolated at their home there. Shaun George, 21, a student, who hailed from Thiruvalla, died in New York on Sunday. The family was settled in the U.S. He had tested positive last week and was in hospital.  (With inputs from IANS)
06 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||HNL staff seek salary dues||Amidst efforts by the Central government to avoid salary cuts or lay-offs during the COVID-19 pandemic, a section of employees of the debt-ridden Hindustan Newsprint Ltd. (HNL) in Velloor in the district has approached the authorities seeking at least a part of their salary dues. The employees of the PSU have not been paid salaries or other benefits for the past 18 months. In a memorandum submitted to the Kottayam District Collector, the HPC Engineers Association, an employee organisation in the company, has requested to take steps to disburse the salary dues of at least six months to all the employees and contract workers. “The extraordinary circumstance caused by the COVID-19 crisis has dealt a final blow to the employees, most of whom are on the verge of committing suicide,” it read. It further requested the Collector to issue necessary directions to the Insolvency Resolution Professional and The Committee of Creditors that are governing the company to release the salary dues of at least six months with a clause to retrieve the amount later.
06 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode up by five||The number of COVID-19 patients in Kozhikode district has suddenly shot up by five, with four persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month and another person who returned from Dubai testing positive for the virus on Sunday. Meanwhile, one more infected person who was undergoing treatment was discharged. All the four who attended the Tablighi conference had no COVID-19 symptoms. However, they were under observation after their return from the national capital. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao told the media that their primary contacts had been traced and put under observation. He said three of them had travelled together by Navyug Express to reach Kozhikode on March 22. They were in S4 compartment. Before reaching home, they had spent some time at a local mosque. The fourth person had returned by the Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Express on March 15. He was in S3 compartment. He was picked up from the railway station by his son, and he travelled home by car. All the four were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital on April 3. They are a 28-year-old from Panniyankara, 20-year-old from Perambra, 53-year-old from Kuttiyadi, and a 63-year-old from Kolathara. Thirteen persons from Kozhikode who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet were under observation. The nine others have tested negative for the virus. The fifth person who tested positive for the virus on Sunday had reached the Cochin international airport from Dubai on March 21 and had taken a taxi to reach his home at Nadapuram. Mr. Rao said the 56-year-old had been home-quarantined since then. On April 2, he went to a hospital at Nadapuram by an ambulance after he experienced headache and returned home by the same vehicle. He was admitted to the medical college hospital on April 4. So far, 12 persons have been tested positive for the virus from Kozhikode, and three have recovered from the infection. Apart from this, two natives of Kasaragod and one from Kannur too were admitted to hospital here after they were diagnosed with COVID-19, of whom one has been discharged. In Kasaragod A seven-year-old has been detected with COVID-19, taking the total number of infected persons to 139 in Kasaragod district on Sunday. A resident of Nellikkunnu, the boy got the infection from his parents, who are undergoing treatment for COVID-19. District Medical Officer Dr. A.V. Ramdas said their health condition was stable. As many as 10,563 persons are under observation in the district. Of them, 10,368 are in home quarantine. So far, 1,384 samples have been sent for tests. A total of 35 new cases have been admitted to isolation wards. In Kannur In Kannur district, an 81-year-old man was confirmed positive for COVID-19. Hailing from Cheruvancheri, he contracted the virus from people who returned from the Gulf. He is undergoing treatment. This is the first case of secondary infection in the district. With this, the number of infected persons in the district has reached 53. Of them, 19 were cured. There are 10,430 suspected COVID-19 cases in the district. While 39 are at the Kannur Government Medical College, 10 are at the district hospital, 15 at the Thalassery General Hospital, 23 at the COVID-19 treatment centre, and 10,343 in home quarantine.
06 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Waste management in limbo in Kozhikode||With waste management in limbo in many parts of Kozhikode city, residents are seeking alternatives to dispose of refuse accumulated over the past two weeks. Door-to-door waste collection in the city is mostly handled by a team of Kudumbashree workers. However, the recently formed Haritha Karma Sena had taken over the task in some areas. Just before the lockdown, Sena members were learning the ropes, while some had already started working. But after the lockdown was announced, neither the Kudumbashree nor the Sena collected waste properly from homes. The Kozhikode Corporation had announced earlier that there would be no trouble in continuing waste collection. “The Haritha Karma Sena has stopped operations temporarily while many of the Kudumbashree workers are not turning up for work out of fear,” said K.V. Baburaj, Health Standing Committee chairman of the corporation. However, Kudumbashree Project Officer T.K. Prakashan said workers were in field despite the risk. “Defunct waste collection vehicles are hindering the process in some parts of the city,” he claimed. Many of the residents at places where waste collection has stopped are now a worried lot. Even though the door-to-door collection is not happening, the corporation has made arrangements to transport waste to recycling plants. “Residents can drop off refuse at the designated collection points in each health circle. We will take over from there,” Mr. Baburaj said.
06 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Crackdown on hoarding, overpricing of goods intensified||Following the recent seizure of about 1,600 sacks of foodgrains illegally procured by a wholesale dealer at Punoor, joint squads comprising officials from various government departments have increased the number of flash inspections in some areas in the district. Senior officers of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) too have joined the special drive after they came across a few confidential complaints. The presence of district-level officers will be ensured to coordinate inspections. A newly launched web application, COVID-19 Jagratha, and the District Collector’s official Facebook page are making the drive more effective. The web application has already been visited by one-and-a-half lakh people for different services. Through this, more than 160 complaints have been accepted. The official Facebook page of the Collector has so far received 1,405 complaints related to various issues. An officer with the Legal Metrology Department said there were even supermarkets that tried to increase the prices of essential commodities like chilli, coconut oil and wheat in such a way to get an additional margin between Rs. 100 and Rs. 180 a kg.
06 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||More people approaching de-addiction centre||The number of people who approach the de-addiction centre functioning under the Excise Department is on the rise in Kozhikode. So far, 187 residents have sought treatment from the district-level de-addiction centre functioning at the Kozhikode Government General Hospital. The hospital has inpatient service with facilities to admit up to 10 patients at a time. Officials with the Excise Department say many of the already approached patients have been admitted and given treatment free of cost. There have been good results too, they say. G.K. Gijesh, a doctor at the de-addiction centre, says treatment is given to patients referred by other government hospitals. “On a daily basis, we get at least six or seven patients. Similar treatment is now available at other government hospitals in the district as well taking into account the rush,” he adds. Officials at the district-level Vimukti counselling centre say the number of persons who have sought support from the centre alone is close to 500 till Sunday. Deputy Excise Commissioner V.R. Anil Kumar says the proper functioning of the de-addiction centre has been ensured in view of reported suicide attempts by alcohol addicts in other parts of the State. “Even pick-and-drop service is now available for the needy,” he adds.
06 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Double whammy for Muthalamada||The nationwide lockdown to contain COVID-19 has shattered Muthalamada, the Mango City of Kerala, which was already struggling in the wake of a climate change that followed the 2018 and 2019 floods. The shutdown is the last nail in the coffin for the 500-odd mango farmers and traders of Muthalamada, whose crops have been reduced by two-thirds by the emergence of a new thrips, locally called ‘elappen,’ in the last three years. The lockdown has halted the mango movement to north Indian markets as well as foreign export. Delhi has been the main market, followed by Ahmedabad and Mumbai. About 90% of the 20,000 tonne mangoes from Muthalamada reach those markets every year. But this year, with the production having plummeted, hardly 4,000 tonnes of mangoes have reached the markets so far. “It is the worst season ever in my memory,” says M. Sachindran, a farmer who owns 10 acres of orchards. He is one of the farmers who have been cultivating mango trees in Muthalamada since the entire area spread over 4,500 hectares witnessed a crop shift from groundnut to mango less than half a century ago. Peak time The COVID-19 crisis hit Muthalamada at its peak season. “The blow came when the business was peaking by mid-March. The loss will be huge,” says Hafees J.M., a young trader and exporter, adding loads of mangoes got stranded midway during the lockdown. Ripe mangoes have begun to fall off the trees with harvesting coming to a halt. Although vegetables, considered an essential commodity, are being transported, fruit business has come to a halt. Mangoes find very few buyers at vegetable shops. “In times of curfew, vegetable is considered essential and fruit, a luxury,” says Mr. Hafees. Special grade Kerala mangoes are the first to hit the market when the season begins in December-January. “Our mangoes also enjoy a special grade as we take better care of them while harvesting and packing,” says Mr. Sachindran. Muthalamada has all major mango varieties such as Alphonso, Banganapalli, Sindhooram, Totapuri or Kilimooku or Kilichundan, Kalapadi, Mallika, Naduselai, Neelam, Rumani, Malgoa, and Gudadath. But Alphonso continues to be the leader bringing two to three times the price of other varieties. Banganapalli, Sindhooram and Totapuri are the key varieties covering two-thirds of the crops. More facilities Mr. Sachindran says unless the government provides better technical knowhow and facilities like ripening chambers, the Mango City would suffer in a big way. Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar announced on March 11 that the government would give a push to the Muthalamada Mango Park project with facilities for processing, packing and exporting. It would be funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. In the wake of the COVID-19 crisis and ensuing economic slump, it needs to be seen what priority will be given to the Mango Park.
06 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Home-quarantined girl from Delhi tests positive||A 19-year-old girl student who came from Delhi, who has been quarantined at her home in Pandalam, has tested positive for COVID-19 taking the total number of clinically confirmed cases in the district to 14 on Sunday. The girl has been admitted to the isolation ward at the General Hospital here. The clinical examination results of the throat swab and blood samples of the girl came as a shock to the Health authorities here as she did not have any symptom of the disease. There were also reports that the girl had travelled in the same train that carried a group of people returning from the controversial Tabligh Jamaat meet held in Nizamuddin. As per the route map of the infected girl released by the district administration, she reached Ernakulam in the Mangala Express (Seat No: 55, Coach - S9), from Nizamuddin in Delhi, at 10.15 a.m. on March 17. From there, she took an autorickshaw to the Ernakulam North railway station and reached Chengannur station by the Sabari Express (general compartment) by 4.45 p.m. She reached home in Pandalam by a KSRTC Venad bus by 5 p.m. She has been home quarantined since then, official sources said. District Collector P.B. Noohu said that those who were present at these places during the time specified in the girl’s route map should contact the Health authorities at 9188297118 or 9188294118. Serious concern District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said the girl student testing positive for COVID-19 even after 21 days of quarantine raised a serious health concern and hence all those who have been placed under quarantine should compulsorily observe quarantine for 28 days. Meanwhile, the clinical examination results of 176 throat swab and blood samples received from the Virology Laboratory in Alappuzha on Saturday and Sunday were negative. The results of 200 samples are expected in the coming days. Eight persons have been cured of their disease so far in the district.
06 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Crisis highlights mankind’s inter-dependency: WPA||The COVID-19 crisis is getting worse in America and various European, Middle East, West Asian, and Mediterranean countries, amply demonstrating how inter-dependent we are, says World Psychiatric Association (WPA) secretary general Roy Abraham Kallivayalil. Talking to The Hindu here on Friday, Dr. Kallivayalil said the 140 WPA branches across the world were planning to launch tele-counselling free of cost in the affected countries. In an email communication, Manon Charbonneau, Assistant Clinical Professor at University of Montreal, wrote to Dr. Roy: “I help out by doing telephonic consultation with my patients from home. We will be setting up videoconferencing facility to attend to new patients and others who need our help. We are web-mailing prescriptions for patients to pharmacists with an electronic signature. My husband, Daniel, an anesthesiologist, is on the frontline setting up protocols for nurses, family physicians, respiratory therapists, etc. to prepare them to intervene safely.’’ Another email from Said Fattah, psychiatrist in the French city of Rouffach, said: “I also consider myself at war, on the front, against a “maquisard [a member of a French guerilla group during the German occupation] virus” because I run a day hospital in Mulhouse, the eastern French city where there are more COVID-19 cases.”  Concerted effort According to Dr. Roy, our medical, public health, political, economic, and educational institutions have to work together to face this global threat. He said there were attempts to trivialise this viral disease, treating it like a ‘flu-like illness’ that was likely to disappear soon, at the beginning. But, COVID-19 has proved more devastating to the humanity as a whole. Emotional needs The healthcare systems are overworked and we have to prevent it from crumbling down. The mental health and emotional needs of all those who suffer from COVID-19, those who are quarantined, their families, and also of the health providers should be addressed. Persons with psychiatric disorders were especially at risk in these challenging times, he said. He said all 140 member-societies of the WPA across the world were involved in this fight against COVID-19, especially to manage the psycho-social consequences and emotional impacts.
06 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Virtual gathering for Palm Sunday service||It was a special Palm Sunday sans usual religious fervour, gatherings and processions, in the Central Travancore area on Sunday, thanks to the 21-day nationwide lockdown, as part of the Governmental efforts to check spread of COVID-19 outbreak. All places of worship have been remaining closed for religious gatherings since then and only routine ritualistic practices and service with bare minimum staff are permitted during the period, strictly adhering to the principle of social distancing to prevent the pandemic. “While the church doors remain closed for the annual gatherings during the Lent, God opened a browser window for the faithful so that they will not miss the special services during the 41-day Lent,” says Dr. Kurien Oommen, senior medical co-ordinator of the Kozhencherry-based Mar Chrysostum Healthcare Trust. For the first time, Churches in India took advantage of the live streaming technology and met over YouTube, Facebook, and various Church websites to celebrate the Passion Week . The Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church of Malabar headquartered in Thiruvalla, was in the forefront to utilise modern technology. Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan, supreme head of the Church with 1,000-odd parishes across the globe, led the holy communion attended by only five persons, at the chapel attached to the Pulatheen Bishop’s House in Thiruvalla at 9 a.m.  15 lakh people  Fr. K.G.Joseph, Church secretary, told The Hindu that as many as 15 lakh Church members watched the live streaming of Palm Sunday service from across the world. He said the Church has already sent the time schedule of various services to be streamlined during the Lent to all its parishes so that the believers could watch it from their homes. The schedule services to be streamlined from the Pulatheen Bishop’s House is as follows: April 6, 7: Lent evening worship, 8 p.m; April 9: Maundy Thursday holy communion, 8.30 p.m.; April 10: Good Friday Service, 9 a.m.; April 12: Easter holy communion, 9 a.m.
06 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Relief as Pothencode samples test negative||The district had much to cheer on Sunday with the administration confirming that several samples collected from Pothencode have tested negative for COVID-19. Among the 71 negative results that were received by the Health authorities, as many as 47 were of throat swabs collected from Pothencode natives. Nine among these were tested a day ago using real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kits. A total of 361 people were placed under quarantine, while 56 people were removed from the quarantine list. As many as 16,999 people remained under home quarantine. Eighteen people were admitted to hospitals with symptoms, while 17 were discharged. There are currently 102 people being treated in hospitals. The Thiruvananthapuram City police registered 98 cases in connection with violations of the lockdown. Among these, 82 people were booked under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. The police have commenced the use of the ‘Road Vigil’ mobile application that enables officials to record the details of vehicles and track motorists. Labour Commissioner Pranab Jyothinath and Thiruvananthapuram Assistant Collector Anu Kumari visited the migrant labourers’ camps at SMV School, Oruvatilkotta, Thycaud and Nanadavanam. Meanwhile, the district witnessed a low-key observance of the Palm Sunday in churches. Major Archbishop-Catholicos Cardinal Baselios Cleemis of the Syro-Malankara Church and Thiruvananthapuram Archbishop (Latin rite) Soosa Pakiam M. led the Holy Mass at the St. Mary’s Cathedral, Pattom, and the St. Joseph’s Cathedral, Palayam, respectively.
06 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Experts explore varied scenarios for State, post-lockdown||Kerala has been buying time through the quarantine, social distancing measures, followed by the total lockdown so that it can push the expected peak of the outbreak to April-end or beyond. The State’s containment strategy has so far been working well and except for one or two unexpected events, the course of the epidemic in Kerala has been along expected lines. However, as the lockdown period enters the final week and the number of positive cases from the quarantined pool of people have begun to dip, anxiety levels are high in the Health Department as to how the post-lockdown period will pan out. The crucial question would be whether the 21-day period of social distancing has resulted in a reduction in the transmission potential of SARS-CoV-2 virus so that pockets of infection do not lead to another outbreak when the lockdown is lifted. Two Indian-origin researchers from the University of Cambridge and the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who assessed the differential impact of social distancing measures on the spread of COVID-19 in India, says that a three-week lockdown is insufficient to prevent a resurgence of COVID-19. The study (‘Age-structured impact of social distancing on the COVID-19 epidemic in India’) suggests that sustained lockdown with periodic relaxation – a 49-day nationwide lockdown with intervals in between – might be the desirable option to prevent COVID-19 surfacing again. The course and nature of the epidemic in Kerala and factors like virus’s infectivity in the State has had disease modellers contemplate different scenarios for Kerala. Scenario 1 “We could envisage a scenario like Italy or Spain for Kerala, wherein, virus infectivity is very high. Then we might hit the peak after the 21-day lockdown. It will leave 1.25 crore people affected in the State, 10% of which – 11 lakh – will be hospitalised. Some 1.5 to 2 lakhs will be in the ICUs, 80% of which will be the elderly,” points out a health researcher. However, going by the nature of the epidemic in Kerala and the system response, this is not a scenario that health administrators are really expecting. Scenario 2 If one were to model a prediction on the disease pattern and infection rate amongst the 1.5 lakh people now under quarantine in the State, then the current delay phase will go on expected lines, with the peak of impact stretched out to April end or May. This might leave 60 lakh people affected in Kerala, with 10% or 6 lakh hospitalised and about 75,000 persons requiring ICU care. Scenario 3 If one were to study the rate of local transmission in the community that resulted from the imported cases from amongst the pool of 1.5 lakh on quarantine, then the numbers affected would come down substantially. “It is clear that 70% of the cases in Kerala are imported. But the local transmission that resulted in the community from these imported cases never went beyond primary contacts. Even the number of primary contacts that resulted from each of the imported cases is much less. Some 200-plus imported cases in the community now has not been able to produce another 200 cases. This means that the basic reproduction number of the infection (R0 - R zero or R nought) is less than one and the epidemic cannot be sustained,” a senior epidemiologist said. “This is a very optimistic projection and one we all hope will play out. There are two unknowns which could send all these projections to a toss, a “superspreader” event and the role of asymptomatics in the community in spreading the infection. But all this could change depending on the whether the lockdown gets extended or not. If we stop with a 21-day lockdown, then the scenario might change drastically with the influx of lakhs of Malayalis, who will all need to be quarantined and monitored. This could alter all other projections,” he warns.  A 49-day nationwide lockdown, with intervals in between, may be the desirable option to prevent COVID-19 surfacing again, according to a study.
06 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala CM airs concern for NRKs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday aired concern for Non-Resident Keralite (NRK) women under COVID-19 surveillance in the Gulf and other foreign countries. Chairing a video conference attended by leading members of Malayali diaspora, Mr. Vijayan said many of them could be single and employed for doing domestic chores in households in the Gulf. The government was in touch with the Centre to ensure that the Indian embassy ensured their welfare. The epidemic had rendered Keralites working abroad vulnerable to a unique set of difficulties. Keralites in the Gulf were forced to spend a significant amount as tuition fee for their children when the lockdown had forced the closure of schools. Mr. Vijayan promised the NRKs that he would seek a fee waiver from Malayali run schools. Stimulus package The global economic slowdown would hit NRI remittances. Kerala would require a stimulus package to make up for the loss of jobs and wages NRKs were likely to face in the future. Mr. Vijayan also frowned on attempts to stigmatise NRKs and blame them for the illness. NRK organisations The Chief Minister also asked NRK organisations to ensure that they succoured those under observation in their respective areas of influence abroad. He said NRKs should liaison with local authorities and ensure their brethren received proper aid. Volunteer units He asked NRKs to form volunteer units to deliver food and essentials to stranded persons. He said such task forces should update the details of Keralites in their localities, particularly those confined to cramped labour camps, on the NoRKA portal. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan and Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan were present.
06 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GPS application to track the quarantined||Those in the habit of breaking COVID-19 home quarantine and roaming outside, may find it difficult to do so any more, with the city Corporation launching a mobile application for round-the-clock tracking of quarantined persons. The geo-fencing application, which will be installed on the phones of people under quarantine, will track their movement using Global Positioning System (GPS), and alert the civic body if they move out of the designated area. GPS system In the initial days of quarantining, , quite a few of the people under quarantine were spotted at shops and junctions near their homes. After a few such instances, the Corporation thought of using a GPS system to track them, making it one of the first civic bodies in the country to implement it. “Ensuring that people stay in quarantine has been one of the major issues for us. This mobile application works in two levels. It will be installed in the mobile phones of the volunteers who have been tasked with ensuring that the people remain in quarantine. It will also be installed in the mobiles of the quarantined persons. Both these can be tracked using the GPS from the main office. When the person moves out of the house or switches off the mobile phone, we will get an alert,” says a Corporation health official. The information regarding persons in quarantine have been added to the application. Details on each persons, the reasons for which they are under quarantine, other illnesses which could be exacerbated due to COVID-19 and such information are collected in the application. A publicly accessible quarantine dashboard has been made available on the websitewww.covid19tvm.com, where the number of individuals under quarantine in each ward, number of volunteers in the field, and even an age-wise quarantine split up have been made available, without revealing any personal information. People under quarantine Among those under quarantine in the city are a 101-year old, two transgender persons, and two pregnant women. A heat map has also been prepared for the public to take extra care in areas near people under quarantine.
06 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No consensus over ‘workload’||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s move to revise workload criterion for sanctioning teaching posts in aided arts and science colleges has stirred up a hornet’s nest. Amidst the raging debate, two feeder organisations of the CPI(M) have adopted divergent stances, with one accusing the other of aligning with college managements to pressurise the government at a moment of crisis following the COVID-19 outbreak. The Association of Kerala Government College Teachers (AKGCT) and the All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association (AKPCTA), organisations representing the teaching communities in the public and private sectors respectively, appear to have locked horns. In strongly worded open letters, several AKPCTA members have criticised both the Finance and Higher Education Departments for allegedly taking a unilateral decision and attempting to destroy the aided sector. ‘An injustice’ They claim that an injustice is being meted out to them by increasing their workload from 9 hours to 16 hours per week to sanction news posts, while a different set of norms prevailed in the government sector. The organisation has threatened to boycott all examination-related activities if the government went ahead with the move. Taking a thinly veiled swipe, the AKGCT has criticised attempts made to coerce the government which has been facing a resource crunch that is set to worsen with the COVID-19 pandemic. Defending the government move, the association pointed out that the increased workload was in line with the guidelines prescribed by the University Grants Commission. The implementation of the order was apparently a precondition for the Finance Department to fulfil its promise of creating 1,000 teaching posts in the aided sector. Through the move, the government has also virtually reversed its order of May 9, 2018, which had stipulated 16 teaching hours per week, but permitted creation of posts “when the remaining workload in a particular subject is 9 hours and above.” Official sources said that the provision was found to be exploited by managements. They added that teachers who were appointed after the 2018 order would not lose their jobs, provided their appointments were legally tenable and made by selection panels that comprised government nominees.
06 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reverse migration raises new concerns||Local self-government institutions (LSGIs) in the State have gone on an overdrive to further step up the quarantine and allied health-care facilities in anticipation of a reverse migration from the Gulf countries once the air links are resumed post lockdown. Local Administration Department sources told The Hindu on Sunday that rural local governments had already identified 2,364 buildings in their purview for setting up isolation centres. Urban local bodies too have located about 3,000 buildings. At present, they are engaged in the task of setting up beds and other amenities. Even a lakh persons “All the funds and functionaries at the command of the local bodies are now being channelised for setting up beds and other facilities in the event of a crisis. If the State has to face another wave of virus spread in the face of a reverse migration from the Gulf and other countries, the local governments are prepared to handle the challenge. Accommodating one lakh persons will not be a daunting task in the current context,” sources said. Such initiatives are being taken up at a time when the prime revenue sources of local bodies such as rent, entertainment tax, building tax and such others have virtually dried up following the virus outbreak. The rural and urban local governments have virtually emerged as the pivot of the virus containment initiatives in the State. Kerala being a pioneer in devolving funds and functionaries to the local bodies, a majority of them were able to take the plunge once the government made the decision to open community kitchen and monitoring of persons in quarantine. “After opening 1,314 community kitchens across the State, local bodies are distributing food to about 2.5 lakh persons a day. They have also rehabilitated about 3,000 street dwellers and are attending to the needs of 2,36,851 persons who have been quarantined. Most significantly, counsellors have been engaged to help the victims overcome their emotional distress and so far it has come to the aid of 1,98,000 persons,” sources said. All these are being done in addition to their routine tasks such as maintaining public health and hygiene and disinfecting public places. The Kudumbashree has already opened 215 budget hotels for providing meals at Rs. 25 and more would be opened within a fortnight, sources said.
06 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||City shines bright in response to PM Modi’s solidarity call||Mobile phone torchlights flashed from Raj Bhavan, Cliff House and Ministers’ residences here in solidarity with the symbolic lighting of lamps, candles, and mobile phone torches to demonstrate the nation’s collective resolve to fight COVID-19. The appeal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi saw the Governor, Chief Minister, and other Ministers’ residences lead the State’s response. The Cliff House compound was first darkened before mobile phone torches of the employees shone forth. Residents Residents across the city switched off their lights and lit lamps, earthen lamps, candles, and held aloft mobile phone torchlights for nine minutes from 9 p.m. in response to the call to fight the pandemic together and ensure the well-being of their families and the country. Suresh Gopi, MP, and film director Shaji Kailas and their families lit lamps in a token demonstration to dispel the fear that COVID-19 has cast upon the State and the country. What was a nine-minute gesture lasted well beyond that with people lighting lamps in elaborate designs in balconies, terraces, and porches in a gesture of positivity. Pathanamthitta couple They joined people across the State in a show of unity, including the families of the elderly couple from Pathanamthitta who returned home after recovering from the disease.
06 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. control room helps many in distress||The COVID-19 control room at the official residence of Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala at Cantonment House here has emerged in some measure as an alternate distress relief mechanism for the public. For instance, on Sunday, the office intervened to rush life-sustaining medicines to three kidney patients in Kollam district. The imported drugs were languishing in the warehouse of a distributor in Kochi, who had no means to send the medicines to the patients. Patrol vans Following Mr. Chennithala's intervention, the police operated patrol vans in relays from one station to another to deliver the medicines to the patients. In another instance, the office arranged ambulance transport for a pregnant woman caught in the lockdown in Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. The woman, who developed complications, could not get herself admitted to a private hospital because she did not immediately have the Rs. 1.2 lakh the management had demanded as advance payment. Her husband moved the office, which had doctors in New Delhi examine her and arrange for her transport to Kerala by ambulance. Mr. Chennithala's office received scores of calls for help through the weekend. It deployed Congress workers to assist several aged couples living alone. Most of the complaints were about the quality and quantity of rice distributed through ration shops. So far, the office has processed 5,000 petitions. The control room numbers are 8921285681, 8848515182, 9895179151 and 0471 2318330.  Congress workers assist several aged couples living alone
06 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three arrested in Varkala||The Varkala police have arrested three habitual offenders for an alleged attempt to murder a woman who purportedly failed to pay them for attacking another woman last year. Those arrested were identified as Riyaz, 32, of Perumathura, Arun Krishna alias Achu, 25, of Karavaram, and Shan Thajudeen, 28, of Alamcode. They are accused of attacking Amina of Chilakkoor on February 6. A five-member gang that included the arrested trio attempted to murder Amina after breaking into her house. The attack was purportedly made after the victim failed to pay them for a ‘quotation’ that she had allegedly made to murder a Karnataka native.
06 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Houses, power lines damaged||Trees were uprooted in many places in the State capital during the thundershowers on Sunday evening, damaging houses and overhead power lines. While no one was hurt in any of the incidents, houses were damaged at least in two places in the city, according to the Fire and Rescue Service. The Fire and Rescue Service received around 20 distress calls in connection with the rain-related incidents. A tree fell atop a house at Choozhampala, damaging a shed. A similar incident was reported from Bakery Junction. At Music College Junction, a tree, uprooted in the winds, fell on the road.
06 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for repair||The Centre has given nod for repairs on four stretches on National Highway 66 in the State by relaxing lockdown restrictions, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. The Mangalapuram-Kadambuttukonam road in Thiruvananthapuram, the Kottapuram-Munambam stretch of 5.6 km in Ernakulam and Thrissur, the Kaprikaud-Edakazhiyoor road (10 km), and the Koprakalam-Chandapura Junction are the stretches. The Minister said the stretches were awaiting clearance for repairs for the 50 months and funds were sanctioned after the State had put pressure on the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.
06 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Remain open, private hospitals told||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has appealed to private hospitals to remain open and functional alongside government hospitals. With several government hospitals in the State being converted to dedicated COVID-19 care hospitals, it was imperative that all private hospitals remained functional for the sake of the patients who might have various medical care requirements, she said. Since accessibility was going to be a problem for most patients during the lockdown period, these hospitals should have a helpline facility for patients. Health workers and volunteers, with the help of police, should try to get patients to hospitals for medical treatment, she added.
06 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Summer showers likely to continue||Summer showers are expected over the next few days in the State, according to the IMD. Parts of the State, including Thiruvananthapuram, received moderate to stiff spells on Sunday evening. IMD’s Meteorological Centre in Thiruvananthapuram has issued a thunderstorm warning for the State till Thursday. Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning is very likely to occur at one or two places in the State on Tuesday and Thursday. Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and gusty winds with speeds touching 30-40 kmph is also expected at one or two places on Tuesday and Wednesday. IMD has also forecast squally weather off the Kerala coast and Lakshadweep area.
06 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MP seeks aid for EPF pensioners||N.K. Premachandran, MP, has requested the Union government to grant Rs. 3,000 as COVID-19 relief to Employment Provident Fund (EPF) pensioners. The United Democratic Front (UDF) leader also requested the Centre to reinstate the pension of EPF beneficiaries if they had completed 15 years after commutation.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Before the skies opened up||
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Will patience pay?||
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fleeing, but not from duty||
06 April 2020||Alappuzha,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala govt. facilitates child’s travel for treatment||After days of uncertainty due to the COVID-19 lockdown, one-and-a-half-year-old Anvitha and her parents from Cherthala left for Hyderabad for treatment on Sunday. The child who is suffering from retinoblastoma (eye cancer that begins in the retina), has to reach L.V. Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad on April 7.  With the lockdown in progress, her parents Vineeth Vijayan and Gopika were a worried lot. The father recently published a post on social media seeking the attention of the authorities. The State government and politicians acted with a sense of urgency and made arrangements for the family’s travel. According to Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, the family left their home in an ambulance at 7.15 a.m. and they would reach the hospital around 11 p.m. on Sunday. Govt. aid The entire travel expenses are being borne by the government. A sum was handed over to the family by Kerala Social Security Mission officials before starting the journey. After the treatment, the child will be brought back in the same ambulance, Ms. Shylaja said.
06 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||GGH staff nurse, family members quarantined||A staff nurse at the Government General Hospital here along with eight of her family members has been put under quarantine on Sunday morning and the entire Obuldevnagar, where she resides, has been declared a containment zone. She is among the 15 GGH doctors and paramedical personnel who have been quarantined after they were identified as the persons who treated the third COVID-19 positive case, a 60-year-old man, normally for four days before his status was known following a laboratory test. The samples of all the 23 paramedical staff and the family members of the third positive case would be taken after four days as per the normal procedure, District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar said. Meanwhile, three more persons from Hindupur in Anantapur district tested positive for COVID-19 taking the number of persons testing positive to six and one among them died on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Anantapur Municipal Corporation has begun a sanitation drive in the area after blocking all the roads to the colony. Police personnel have erected crossbars at all junctions and restricted movement of people.  The third positive case turned out to be the second or third contact of a 70-year-old woman, who had died after visiting Mecca and meeting friends and relatives in Hindupur. This person was originally sent from Hindupur to the GGH, Anantapur on March 31 as a normal patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a common lung disease. The patient was treated in two or three wards and in the Intensive Care Unit before he was suspected to be COVID-19 positive and transferred to a special isolation room.
06 April 2020||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four siblings fall into farm pond, die||Four young siblings were drowned in a farm pond in Ajjanakatti village near Gokak on Saturday. Farmer Kareppa Jakkannanavar has told the police that his children, Bhagavva (6), Tayamma (5), Malappa (4) and Rajashree (2), fell into the farm pond in his family field and died. The children were going from their father’s house to their grandfather’s farmhouse. Their mother left them halfway and went to a hospital, as they used to walk the two-kilometre distance by themselves everyday. Malappa was carrying a mobile phone which fell into the pond. The children went into the pond to retrieve it and were drowned, the farmer told the police. Their grandmother, Lakkavva, who came to the pond to get some water, saw the bodies and retrieved them with the help of the villagers. A case has been registered in the Gokak Police Station.
06 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concern over possible community spread||With 22 of the 151 positive cases, including the 75-year-old person who succumbed to the infection in Bagalkot on Friday, not having any foreign travel or contact history, the State health officials are at a loss to understand how they could have contracted the infection. While these 22 cases, whose detailed investigation is still under process, raise questions as to whether it is the beginning of community transmission in the State, officials have been continuously denying it. These 22 people have so far spread the infection to eight others. Also, as a precautionary measure, hundreds of their secondary contacts have been isolated in their homes. For instance, despite detailed investigation, health officials have still been unable to find out the cause of infection in the Nanjangud case of a pharma company employee, who is the first of the 17 who tested positive there. The 35-year-old person (patient number 52), who did not have any foreign travel or contact history, tested positive on March 26. Subsequently, 14 more employees from the same company got infected and tested positive “simultaneously”. While officials said that three of the 14 employees were in close contact with patient 52, it is still not clear how the remaining 11, who were neither his contacts nor had any independent travel history, got the infection. Patient 52 also spread the infection to three of his relatives. Last Thursday, two roommates of one of these 11 employees also tested positive. On Saturday, two more persons from Mysuru (aged 39 and 40), with no foreign travel or contact history, tested positive too. Sources said Mysuru has now become a “cluster hotspot” and aggressive prevention measures should be taken to further stop the spread. Similarly, on March 10, a 10-month-old baby from Dakshina Kannada, who tested positive, is also one such case that officials are concerned about. The baby or his parents did not have any foreign travel history. The only possibility is that the baby’s mother and grandmother had taken him to Kerala to a relative’s house. It is learnt that the relative did not have any travel or contact history. Likewise, on March 31, three members of a family from Hosapete tested positive. While they also did not have any foreign travel or contact history, officials said they travelled by train to Bengaluru via Davangere and returned to Hosapete after two days. On Saturday, another 47-year-old woman from Hosapete tested positive. In Bengaluru, a 62-year-old woman and a 24-year-old male who did not have any foreign travel or contact history have tested positive. On Saturday, the 62-year-old woman’s son also got infected. Admitting that tracing the cause of infection in some of the positive cases has become “complicated”, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), told The Hindu that the officials were very close to finding the cause of infection in the Nanjangud pharma company employee case. “We have found some clues. However, it is too early to term this spread as community transmission. But what is important is our containment measures are on track,” he said.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corpn. gets tough with shops violating norms||The Greater Chennai Corporation has decided to shut shops which violated norms for three months. Officials closed the temporary market in T. Nagar put up on a playground after huge crowds assembled.Many temporary markets in crowded areas have also been closed.
06 April 2020||CHENNAI/Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||TN reports 86 new cases, two more patients die||Two persons who tested positive for COVID-19 infection died, taking the death toll in the State to five, health officials said on Sunday. Meanwhile, 86 new cases were reported, bringing the total number of cases to 571. A bulletin from the Health Department said a 71-year-old man from Ramanathapuram, who was admitted to Stanley Government Hospital on Thursday around 9.45 a.m., died two hours later. The results of his blood samples returned positive for COVID-19 infection. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told mediapersons that the patient had been under home quarantine and was brought to hospital only after his condition worsened significantly. He died within 90 minutes of reaching the hospital, she said. On Sunday morning, a 60-year-old man, admitted to the same hospital on April 1, tested positive for the infection and died around 1.45 a.m. “Till yesterday, he was doing fine, but within hours ventilator support was required and it was given. Death occurred within two hours,” Dr. Rajesh added. All but one of the 86 cases were either people who travelled to Delhi or their contacts did. One person had a travel history to Dubai, the Health Secretary said. Among the 85 persons who tested positive, four had contact with those who went to Delhi and tested positive. This includes three women from Kanniyakumari, Namakkal and Thoothukudi districts and a man from Thoothukudi. Chennai with 95 positive cases tops the list of districts with the most positive cases. Among them are seven men. Cases have been reported from Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Kanyakumari, Madurai, Namakkal, The Nilgiris, Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi, Ranipet, Tirunelveli, Vellore, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Dindigul. The official said as of Sunday 90,824 passengers were under home quarantine and 127 passengers in the government quarantine facility. A total of 10,814 passengers completed the mandatory 28-day follow-up and so far 4,612 samples were tested. The results of 339 samples were awaited. Cases rise With the cascading effect of the Delhi congregation still being felt in the southern States, the tally of COVID-19 cases climbed further on Sunday. The infection curve rose in Andhra Pradesh as 26 cases were added on Sunday, taking the tally to 252. In all 62 cases were added in the State since Saturday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy over phone on Sunday evening and discussed the situation arising due to the Tablighi congregation impact. They discussed containment measures and facilities for the affected persons, official sources said. In Kurnool district, COVID-19 cases, which were just four till Saturday, shot up to 27 since Saturday night and further up to 53 by Sunday evening, a bulletin said. Close to 190 people from the district attended the Delhi event. While Kurnool topped the State list, SPS Nellore came second with 34 and Guntur third with 30 cases. More than 90 people from Guntur and 70 from SPS Nellore district were in Delhi for the meet. With five coronavirus patients discharged, and the death of a 55-year old man, active cases in A.P., stood at 246, a bulletin said. The two north coastal Andhra districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram remain unaffected by the virus so far. 62 cases in Telangana As many as 62 new cases were detected in Telangana on Sunday taking the total number of cases to 333. Thirty-two persons have been discharged. Across the State, the highest number of 145 active cases were reported in Hyderabad.  Eight in Kerala Eight more persons, including four who had returned from the Jamaat meeting tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total cases in the State to 314. Of the eight new cases, five were in Kozhikode while one each was reported from Pathanamthitta, Kannur and Kasaragod districts. Four of the five cases at Kozhikode were linked to the Nizamuddin meeting, while one other person had returned from Dubai. The Pathanmthitta resident had returned from Delhi. The cases at Kannur and Kasaragod were contacts of imported cases. So far, 10 people from the State who had returned from Nizamuddin had tested positive for COVID-19. Of the 314 cases reported, 256 are under treatment.  (With inputs from Amaravati, and Thiruvananthapuram)
06 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension grips Chittoor district as cases reach 17||It was not at all a happy Sunday for denizens of Chittoor district, as the sudden spike in the COVID-19 positive cases took the tally to 17, from 10 on Saturday. While the western mandal remained stable with three cases registered last week, the officials were on toes in the eastern mandals as all the fresh cases of seven on Sunday emerged from here, with Tirupati at 3, Renigunta 1, Nagari 2 and Nindra 1. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah said all the seven new positive cases in the district had links with the Tablighi Jammat event held in mid-March in New Delhi. As many as 30 persons, family members of the positive cases and those who had been in close contact with them, were shifted to Tirupati for quarantine, while the positive cases were shifted to isolation wards. Emergency meeting Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) chairman and local MLA R.K. Roja and COVID-19 Task Force special officer P. Ravi Raju conducted an emergency meeting with medical and paramedical staff and ward volunteers. “Ten wards in Nagari and several localities in Nindra mandal headquarters have been declared red zones. We request everyone to stay indoors and maintain social distancing. A 290-member COVID-19 action team will conduct a door-to-door survey to identify symptomatic individuals. The entire tumult zone will be sprayed with disinfectants,” said Ms. Roja, appealing to all Jamaat attendees and their family members to voluntarily come for tests. Mad rush On a side note, even as news of the fresh positive cases trickled in, many in Nagari and Puttur municipalities rushed to the markets to stock up items for a week at least, in the anticipation that the areas from where the positive cases had emerged would be declared red zones. A big commotion was also seen in Nagari Assembly Constituency, where hundreds of families depend on powerloom industries.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why exclude us from meet, asks Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday questioned his party’s exclusion from the Prime Minister’s COVID-19 video conference of parliamentarians, and termed this as an ‘tauheen’ (insult) to the people of Hyderabad and Aurangabad, from where the party won. Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Prahlad Joshi stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would interact with the floor leaders of political parties with more than five representatives in both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Taking to Twitter, Mr Owaisi said, “@PMOIndiathis is tauheen of the proud people of Aurangabad & Hyderabad. Are they lesser humans because they chose@aimim_national? Pls explain why they're not worthy of your kind attention? As MPs it's our job to represent to you the economic & humanitarian misery of our people (sic).” Mr. Owaisi said that he and his party colleague Imtiaz Jaleel were elected by people of Hyderabad and Aurangabad respectively so that they could represent the issues of constituents. “Now, we're being denied an audience with His Highness. Hyd has 93 active#COVID19cases, I want to put forth our ideas on how we can fight this pandemic & identify areas where we're lacking,” he tweeted.
06 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poor state of affairs at rythu bazaar irks Deputy CM||The conduct of the grocery and vegetable outlets at the rythu bazaar here irked the Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha, who conducted a surprise visit to the prime crowding centre in the town on Sunday. The absence of social distancing to keep the COVID-19 at bay, was conspicuous at the bazaar. He also noticed the stalls moving forward into the public space, thus shrinking the pathway and causing inconvenience to the visiting public. “All you are doing is for your own revenue and personal gain. You don’t seem to understand the implications of the virus,” he fumed at the vendors. He directed the Municipal Commissioner Lavanna to immediately demolish the space encroached upon by some of the outlets. While the rythu bazaar is basically meant for farmers to sell their produce directly, he wondered how could a banana ‘mandi’ (wholesale outlet) and grocery retail stores exist there and sought an explanation from the estates officer.
06 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will bring out district-wise crop calendar, says Kannababu||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu on Sunday said that the State government was preparing to bring out a district-wise crop calendar with details of harvesting period of various crops to improve export of the agricultural produce. Addressing the media here, Mr. Kannababu said that the departments of Agriculture and Horticulture had been entrusted with the task of preparing the calendar. ‘Harvesters ready’ “At least 600 crop harvesters are available in East Godavari district for harvesting paddy in the rabi season. A good number of harvesters will be made available in West Godavari district too. The government will declare the crop harvesting charges for timely completion of the activity,” said Mr. Kannababu. The Minister appealed to the farmers to register details of the paddy and maize crop with the village secretariat. Banana procurement “The State government is gearing up to procure paddy and maize at the village-level through the Agriculture Department and MARKFED,” he said. On banana procurement, Mr. Kannababu said that the daily procurement of export quality banana by the Marketing Department was nearly 100 tonnes. “If need be, banana will be traded through the rythu bazaars in the days to come,” said Mr. Kannababu. “The government is striving to avoid inconvenience in transportation and availability of labour at the chilli market in Guntur,” he added. “Online trade of mulberry cocoons is being encouraged. Traders from Karnataka and other States have been invited to procure the cocoons by offering the remunerative price of Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 per kg as per the grade at the markets at Hindupur, Dharmavaram and Chebrolu in the State,” the Minister said.
06 April 2020||Kottayam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala nurse raring to return after recovery||“I will leave this room within a week after defeating you,” the nurse had vowed after contracting the coronavirus while attending to India’s oldest COVID-19 survivor, expressing unflinching faith in Kerala’s health care system. Last Friday, Reshma Mohandas, 32, walked out to her home, where she is placed under 14-day quarantine, after she and the elderly man and his wife were discharged from the Medical College Hospital here on being cured of the disease. Soon after, Thomas Abraham, 93 — whose recovery has been called a ‘miracle cure’ by doctors — and Mariyamma, 88, left the hospital, Reshma, too, headed home, but with the resolve to come back and serve the patients after the mandatory quarantine. ‘World-class system’ “I will leave this room within a week after defeating you [the novel coronavirus],” Reshma had posted in a WhatsApp group of her friends and colleagues while undergoing treatment. “I posted that message in the WhatsApp group because I have full faith in Kerala’s health system. It is world-class,” she told PTI from her home. The nurse, who took care of Thomas and Mariyamma since March 12, believes she contracted the virus as she was in close contact with and often talked to the couple, who did not wear masks, for they made them uncomfortable. She said she loved taking care of all their needs. “I was not tensed at all. I love taking care of elderly people. We used to talk a lot [in the Intensive Care Unit],” she said.  The warning sign came on the morning of March 23 when she had a throat infection. Reshma immediately alerted the head nurse, who informed the doctors. She was asked to visit the fever clinic at the Medical College and was referred to the isolation facility where she took care of the elderly COVID-19 patients. Some 20 nurses who had come in contact with her were sent to home quarantine. On March 24, she tested positive. “I did not have any other complications, barring headache and body pain,” she said. Reshma said she was ready to serve in the isolation facility for COVID-19 patients after the home quarantine. “I am ready to work again in the isolation facility when I return,” said the nurse, whose husband is an engineer.
06 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurt in cases in Kurnool jolts officials into action||The city reacted with shock as 49 persons tested positive for COVID-19 here in a single day on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 53. The steep rise in the number of positive cases prompted authorities to ramp up containment measures, with over half of the city being declared a red zone. Only medical shops will be allowed to remain open, according to authorities. The district administration, with the help of police and municipal officials, has extended the containment and buffer zones to more colonies, like Gaffar Street, Budhawarapet, Sri Lakshmi Nagar and Park Road, from where the positive cases have been reported. Collector G. Veerapandian instructed police officials to ensure that nobody comes out of their homes, and has ordered that only medical shops be allowed to remain open. He also warned that those spreading false information on COVID-19 or attempting to defame any particular community would be dealt with in a stringent manner. Samples were taken from 338 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi, and 92 of them tested negative. The only other person who tested positive, hails from Nossam and is now making a fast recovery. One positive case was recorded in Owk on Saturday while one each was reported from Banaganapalli and Kurnool Roja Street. Over 400 persons had gone to Delhi and efforts are on to contact all of them using their cell tower location, and they are being asked to come and get themselves tested at the quarantine centres. Those who are displaying symptoms of COVID-19 are being shifted to Santhiram Hospital, which is a designated COVID-19 Hospital in addition to the Kurnool Government General Hospital.
06 April 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 new cases reported in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Four more persons — two each in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts — tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday. Nellore district has reported the highest number of cases in the State at 34. Among the positive cases are a doctor who has treated COVID-19 patients. Eight persons tested negative while results of over 60 persons were awaited, health officials said. Two thousand beds were arranged at the Government General Hospital and Narayana Medical College to provide high-end medical treatment to patients. Nellore Urban Development Authority vice-chairman Bapi Reddy, who has been asked by the State Government to coordinate relief operations in Nellore, asked people to remain indoors as the next two weeks are crucial to contain the spread of the disease. In Prakasam, two more persons from Karamchedu tested positive, taking the total number of infected persons to 23 in the district, Government General Hospital Superintendent D. Sriramulu said. Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar rushed to Kunkulamarru village to oversee the implementation of the containment action plan in the rice-rich Karamchedu zone as four persons from a single family tested positive for the disease. All roads to Islampet, where seven persons contracted the disease, were sealed to prevent movement of people to and from the area. Police erected barricades to restrict the movement of people in other areas also to implement the lockdown more strictly.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nurses move SC, say health staff ill-equipped||A Kerala-based 3.8 lakh-strong nurses’ association has approached the Supreme Court saying the government has not formulated a National Management Protocol for COVID-19 to address the serious concerns relating to imminent and extreme risks posed to the health and safety of medical personnel across the country. Noting that the pandemic is seeing a “persisting and ever escalating spread” the United Nurses Association, represented by advocates Subhash Chandran and Biju P. Raman, pointed out that nurses and health workers are ill-equipped and exposed to infection. “Health care workers are at the front line of the COVID-19 outbreak response and as such are exposed to hazards that put them at risk of infection. Hazards include pathogen exposure, long working hours, psychological distress, fatigue, occupational burnout, stigma, and physical and psychological violence etc,” the petition said. No testing kits The problems highlighted in the petition include lack of availability or sub-standard personal protective equipment(PPE) in numerous hospitals, non-availability of sufficient number of COVID-19 testing kits, lack of training on infection prevention and control, lack of basic facilities in isolation wards, mental harassment in the nature of forced over-time followed by negligible transport facilities and deduction of salary on account of leaves, health workers who are pregnant, lactating or immune compromised are being forced to work. The association also urged the court to direct the government to expand the scope of personal accident cover provided under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19 to include all health care workers.
06 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Undertrial snatches gun from guard, escapes||An undertrial, Jilakara Prasad (UT No 4135), housed in district prison at Sarangapur, under the charges of robbery and theft, escaped after snatching a pistol from an armed reserve head constable Gopal from the general ward in Government General Hospital, here late on Saturday night. Another AR constable Gandhi, who was on escort duty along with Gopal, was not present at that time. The undertrial, belonging to Gouthamnagar in the town, was taken to the hospital after he complained of fever and discomfort in stomach on Saturday. He is an accused in four theft cases in Makloor mandal, two robberies in Mogpal mandal and an accused in a murder that had taken place in Dichpally police station limits in 2014, according to Circle Inspector of Police (Rural) R. Raghunath. Superintendent of District Prison Promodh said that the undertrial was sent to the hospital with two escort constables as he complained ill health on Saturday. The undertrial escaped giving a slip to the escorts and hospital staff, he added. Mr. Raghunath said that the police raided the house of Prasad but did not find him there. Special teams have been formed and are searching for the undertrial. Meanwhile, DCP, Armed Reserve, Bhaskar said that steps have been initiated to take action against the escort constables.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP using aid disbursal to gain political mileage: TDP||The TDP has appealed to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to intervene and stop the YSRCP leaders and candidates who are contesting the local body elections from disbursing the financial assistance being given by the government to the poor to help them tide over the problems arising in the wake of the lockdown. In a letter to the Governor on Sunday, TDP leaders Yanamala Ramakrishnudu (Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council), and Kinjarapu Atchannaidu and Nimmala Ramanaidu (deputy floor leaders in the Legislative Assembly) said the government, with a view to providing support to the poor families, was disbursing Rs. 1,000 through the village and ward volunteers. However, the YSRCP leaders and candidates wishing to contest the local body elections (which had been postponed after the outbreak of COVID-19) were disbursing the amount to the beneficiaries by taking this as an opportunity to campaign with overt display of party flags. ‘Seeking votes’ While disbursing the aid, the leaders were overtly seeking votes for the forthcoming elections, they alleged. The YSRCP leaders were moving in groups from door to door, organising meetings in open spaces and disbursing the amount in utter disregard to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19, thus endangering the lives of people, they alleged. In its guidelines, the Government of India had categorically imposed a ban on all social and political gatherings. Therefore, such blatant political display was in violation of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the leaders alleged said. “We, therefore, request you to intervene and ensure the safety of people. Your intervention will not only help the people of Andhra Pradesh fight against the dreaded sCOVID-19 but also uphold the spirit of democracy,” they said.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 arrested for ‘defying’ lockdown||The Rayavaram police arrested a person for allegedly conducting a religious meeting in East Godavari district on Sunday. On a tip-off, the team led by Sub-Inspector L. Srinu dispersed the gathering and booked a case against organiser N. Vijaya Ratnam under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005. In another incident, the Jammalamadugu police registered a case and arrested 30 persons for allegedly congregating at a shrine defying the lockdown at Jammalamadugu town. “We have taken a serious view of the unlawful congregation of the public, unmindful of the growing number of cases. We arrested a man named Jayaraj, who arranged the meeting,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Nagaraju. They were released on bail later, police said. Police said that they have booked two lakh cases under the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act, and seized 12,453 vehicles and collected penalties worth Rs. 8.9 crore in the State in the last 15 days. In all, 19,215 persons were booked in 9,157 for violating the lockdown in various parts in Andhra Pradesh, the police said. Cases were also booked against shops and other establishments and 958 others, the police added. The special teams constituted to identify the Delhi returnees have so far identified 11,067 persons in different districts of Andhra Pradesh, a senior police official told The Hindu .
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP complains to poll panel||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has complained to State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar that the YSRCP leaders are using the disbursement of Rs. 1,000 financial aid to the poor for their political ends by seeking votes for the ensuing local body elections. Mr. Lakshminarayana alleged that the ward and village volunteers were advising the beneficiaries to vote for the YSRCP in the elections, which amounted to hijacking the occasion (of distributing relief to the needy) by the MLAs, YSRCP leaders and contestants for achieving their political objectives. Mr. Lakshminarayana said it was the government that was extending the assistance to the BPL families and not the party. Trying to garner votes in the guise of disbursement of aid to those affected by the lockdown was unethical and highly objectionable. Allowing it would provide an undue advantage to the candidates of the ruling party over others, he said. ‘Health hazard’ Besides, the movement of a large number of YSRCP cadres increased the risk of the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Lakshminarayana said, and requested the SEC to stop the “illegal involvement” of YSRCP leaders and cadres in the relief distribution and disqualify the candidates found to be influencing the people by invoking the provisions of the Panchayat Raj Act, 1994.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power utilities in State brace for revenue shortfall||Power utilities in the State are bracing for a steep decline in energy consumption in the next two months. Officials are estimating consumption to fall by up to 20% due to the lack of commercial activity and railway traffic. Some fear that the consumption might fall even further if the present trends continued. According to official sources, the revenues of the power utilities are being badly hit due to the decline in grid consumption from 190.5 Million Units (MU) on March 21 to 154.50 MU by March 26. The revenue collection stood at only Rs. 158.60 crore during this period, which is only 40% of the receipts in the same month last year. Officials state that normalcy can return by August if the monthly consumption goes down by 20%. If the fall in consumption goes down by 30%, it would take up to September for the situation to stabilise. Officials fear that in the wake of a steep fall in consumption, the discoms would be unable to fulfil their payment obligations to the generators. To keep the utilities afloat, the State government provided guarantees for securing loans to the tune of Rs. 3,500 crore from the Power Finance Corporation Limited. The Centre also revised the Letter of Credit requirement for the above period. Apart from this, the power utilities have sought a moratorium for three months on debt servicing schedules. “In spite of various bailout measures, we are expecting additional financial deficit considering the dip in collections and other revenue sources,” a senior official in the Energy Department said.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown severely impacts banana farmers||Banana farmers in the State are a worried lot because of the steep fall in the price of the produce. The crop is ready for harvest, but there are no takers even for half the price that prevailed a fortnight ago. With no farm workers turning up in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown that followed, the farmers are keeping their fingers crossed. Estimated yield Banana is one of the major horticulture crops in the State. Different varieties of banana are cultivated in an extent of 1,04,953 hectares across the State. The yield is estimated to be 62,97,180 tonnes this year. Kadapa, Anantapur, East and West Godavari districts top the list with the highest area under cultivation. After the announcement of lockdown, most of the retail outlets have also been closed. As a result, there are no takers for banana. “Traders are not coming forward on the pretext that there is no market for the produce,” bemoans Bandireddi Damodar Reddy, a farmer, at Mallempudi village of Guntur district. “I cultivated banana in five acres. I have been able to harvest the crop in two acres. I am worried about the remaining crop as it is becoming a Herculean task to find labourers, traders, and means to transport the produce,” says Uyyur Sivarama Reddy, another farmer. “I will be incurring a loss of not less than Rs. 1 lakh per acre, which includes tenancy,” he laments. ‘FPOs back out’ As per sources, the Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) had procured 22,000 tonnes so far. Of this, while 18,500 tonnes had been exported, the remaining was sold in the domestic market. The average price (per tonne) offered to the farmers was between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 17,000. After the lockdown, the FPOs were not picking up the harvest from the fields on the pretext that the retail outlets such as Reliance, Big Basket, Cash and Carry, and super bazaars had either closed their operations or scaled them down. This in turn hit the supply chain and the traders were not willing to purchase from the farmers. “As a result, the farmers are getting Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000 per tonne, which is a huge loss,” says a senior official. Farmers such as A. Surra Reddy are of the opinion that the government should allow them to take up agricultural operations at least till noon and sell the produce in the local market. “Due to lockdown, workers too are not turning up,” he says. ‘Control rooms set up’ Horticulture Commissioner Chiranjiv Choudary says, “The government has set up a control room for essential commodities. Horticulture officials will visit the district-level control rooms. The government is in talks with other States to ensure hassle-free movement of commodities. Traders’ meeting is also being organised. We are in talks with the transporters too. Banana (export quality) is being exported from Anantapur and Kadapa districts. Varieties such as ‘Chakkerakeli’ have a demand in the local market.” “The situation has eased up to a large extent, but the farmers are not getting the expected rate,” the official adds.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aqua products’ shipment resumes in State||The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) has begun export of seafood products to different countries from Andhra Pradesh. China which stopped imports due to COVID-19, has started taking shrimp and the market is picking up. However, there is no demand for shrimp in the international market as US, European Union and other countries are suffering a lot due to the global crisis in the last few days. Andhra Pradesh was contributing 34% of the total exports, followed by Kerala and Maharashtra 12%, Tamil Nadu 11% and Gujarat and West Bengal 10%. In 2018-19, seafood products worth about Rs. 16,000 crore were exported to different countries from the State. But the dreaded virus has hit the exports in the last quarter of 2019-20 causing a huge loss to the farmers, processing units, exporters and other stakeholders in the State. With almost all the countries imposing a ban on imports due to coronavirus, exports have stopped. CM holds talks Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Fisheries Minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana held discussions with MPEDA chairman K.S. Srinivas on Saturday, and enquired about improving aqua exports. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was understood to have asked the chairman whether the government could take the produce from the farmers directly to minimise losses to them. Mr. Srinivas explained that shipment has been started from Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Krishnapatnam Ports in the last five days and shrimp, fish and other products have been sent to Malaysia, Hong Kong and Singapore. Later, the chairman held a meeting with the exporters at the MPEDA regional office in Vijayawada, and asked them about the procurement and demand. The MPEDA chairman told The Hindu on Sunday that exports were picking up slowly to the neighbouring States and to some countries. MPEDA was taking all measures to improve exports to prevent losses to the farmers and other stakeholders, he said. “There is no demand for 30 to 50 count shrimp per kg in the international market. Prices are fluctuating and exporters are not coming forward to procure the stocks immediately,” Mr. Srinivas said. MPEDA Joint Director Y. Vijay Kumar said inter-State exports have resumed and the market is improving. Farmers worried Meanwhile, farmers fear further price fall due to coronavirus impact in A.P. and neighbouring States and other countries. “There is no demand for L. Vannamei shrimp. We are harvesting the crop fearing losses and selling it at lesser price in the domestic market,” a farmer S. Nageswara Rao of Akiveedu said.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NABARD disburses Rs. 6,060-cr. loan to State govt., corporations||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has disbursed loans worth Rs. 6,060 crore to the State government and various State-government owned corporations during the year 2019-20. NABARD Chief General Manager S. Selvaraj said that it was an all-time high from Rs. 3,331 crore the previous year – a growth of 82%. Under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF), the bank sanctioned three projects worth Rs. 1,199 crore to the State government: Rs. 515 crore for additional infrastructure in 615 government schools under Mana Badi and Naadu Nedu schemes, Rs. 534 crore for construction of four new Rural Health Centres and upgrading and strengthening of existing 43 Health Centres and Rs. 150 crore for construction of 158 agricultural labs, four Regional Coding Centres and 46 aqua labs as per the State government’s plan to overhaul the testing infrastructure in the State by constructing integrated labs with all agri inputs.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaders turn good Samaritans, reach out to the needy||Communist Party of India-Marxist’s State Secretariat member Ch. Baburao is visiting fair price shops and other localities in slums to get a first-hand account of the problems faced by residents due to the lockdown. On Sunday, the CPI(M) leader visited ration shops in various divisions, and enquired with the beneficiaries if they were getting the ration. He also spoke to fair price shop dealers about the issues being faced by the beneficiaries. Mr. Baburao told reporters that supply of essential commodities had been stopped at some shops for want of rice stocks, while at others, the beneficiaries were denied red gram and sugar citing non-availability. Some of the beneficiaries complained that they were not given ration despite having a card, and at some shops, not even half of the distribution was completed even after eight days of the commencement of the process. The CPI(M) leader demanded that supply of commodities be restored where it had been stopped by allocating adequate stocks. Migrant workers should be given ration even if they did not have ration cards in view of their difficulties during the lockdown, he said. Mr. Baburao also sought that the move to supply three cooking gas cylinders free of cost to beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana be extended to beneficiaries of ‘Deepam’ and other similar schemes. Young Kesineni Swetha has become a familiar face at rythu bazaars and ration shops. Wearing a face mask and gloves, she is going around distributing masks to the public and food packets to the poor. Daughter of Vijayawada MP Kesineni Nani, Ms. Swetha is the TDP’s mayoral candidate in the local body elections. She has also been raising awareness among vendors at the vegetable markets on the significance of social distancing, urging them to share the knowledge with customers visiting their outlets.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway police arrange check-posts||The Government Railway Police (GRP), in association with the Railway Protection Force (RPF), have set up check-posts on the inter-State borders in the Vijayawada and Guntakal divisions. The GRP and RFP personnel were patrolling the tracks to prevent the entry of migrants from the neighbouring States, said Vijayawada Superintendent of Railway Police Narayana Naik. Check-posts were arranged on Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Karnataka and Telangana borders, said GRP Vijayawada Deputy SP A. Subashchandra Bose. “We have nabbed many persons who entered into the State illegally, provided them food and sent them back. A few were handed over to the police for accommodating them in the shelter homes arranged by the government,” said Mr. Bose.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies after failing to undergo dialysis||A man suffering from a chronic kidney ailment died on Sunday after reportedly failing to undergo dialysis due to the closure of several hospitals. District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said that the patient was forced to run from pillar to post for dialysis and died later as his health deteriorated. At a meeting with representatives of private hospitals and doctors, Mr. Imtiaz warned that he would recommend cancellation of licences of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and others whose services have been deemed essential if they do not turn up to work.
06 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bring grievances to our notice’||A.P. Lokayukta Justice P. Lakshman Reddy has said that people may complain to the Lokayukta over phone in emergency cases/grievances. People may lodge their grievances over phone by contacting Lokayukta Director (Legal) & HoD Vijaya Lakshmi on 9000011404 or Secretary Amarender Reddy on 9848924455. Some farmers of Chittoor district had brought to its notice their grievances in transportation of agricultural produce.
06 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strict screening in red zones continues for fourth day||Screening of residents continued for the fourth consecutive day in the red zone areas comprising Akkayyapalem, Muslim Thatichetlapalem, Railway New Colony, NAD Kotha Road, ITI Junction, Poorna Market, Kancharapalem and Thatchetlapalem. On Sunday, two persons with COVID-19 symptoms were sent to the isolation ward at Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases and nine were put on home quarantine. As many as eight persons have been tested positive, including three from a family, from these areas in the last four days. “The curve is flattening and there has been a spurt in COVID-1 cases as many of the Tablighi Jamaat returnees have been tested positive,” said a senior officer from the GVMC task force team. Three-step strategy With the spurt in cases, the district administration, along with the police and GVMC, has formulated a three-pronged strategy to contain and break the chain of spread of the virus. As soon as a complaint is received at the control rooms of the GVMC or at the Collectorate, the Rapid Response Team (RRT) is alerted. Around 20 RRTs have been formed to work in three shifts in the GVMC limits. “As soon as the control room receives a call, the RRT is informed and the team comprising a doctor, a multi-purpose community health assistant, an ambulance with driver and City Planning staff rushes to the spot,” said the GVMC officer. After checking the case, the team takes the decision depending on the symptoms whether to send the patient to isolation ward or advise quarantine. “If the case is serious and tests positive for COVID -19, we shift the patient to the GITAM hospital or the VIMS. The symptomatic cases are being shifted to the chest hospital or ENT hospital,” said GVMC Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry. In the second phase, sanitation staff undertake extensive outdoor and indoor sanitisation. “We use mobile pumps for indoor sanitisation and fire tenders for the outdoor work. A mixture with at least 5% sodium hypochlorite is sprayed,” he said. Containment zone Immediately after this, the cluster committee barricades the area and the localities in 3-km radius is declared as the containment zone. Extensive survey and health check-ups are undertaken. Clampdown It is learnt that around 290 persons from the various containment zones have been screened till date and about 60 have been either quarantined or admitted to the isolation centres or quarantine wards or kept under home quarantine. On Sunday, a strict clampdown was enforced in the red zones and containment areas. “All shops are closed down except for medicine stores. We faced problems to buy provisions and vegetables. The shops selling essential commodities were closed by 9 a.m.,” said a resident of Akkayyapalem. Two patients discharged Meanwhile, two patients of the total 15 who have been tested positive have been discharged after treatment. Both belong to the same family from Allipuram area and were among the the first cases to be reported from the city. They include a 65-year-old-man with a travel history to Saudi Arabia and a 49-year-old woman.
06 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Electricity bill for April will be same as March: Discom||The Eastern Power Distribution Company of AP Limited (APEPDCL) has said that the consumers should pay their last month’s electricity bill amount for this month too due to the lockdown. “The consumers should pay the same bill amount of March in the month of April. The decision was taken as the meter readers are unable to visit the consumers’ houses to record the readings and issue the bills in view of the lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19,” said T.V. Surya Prakash, SE (Visakhapatnam), APEPDCL. The decision will apply to the power consumers in five districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, East and West Godavari under the jurisdiction of the APEPDCL. The electricity bill of March will be sent to the consumers as the April bill to their registered mobile number as SMSes from April 6 (Monday). The consumers can visit the official website of APEPDCL (www.apeaternpower. com) for their bill details in the ‘View Bill’ section. Consumers can register their mobile numbers and can update their mobile number details from ‘Sc. No-Mobile Mapping’ option on the website. ‘Pay within 15 days’ “Consumers are requested to pay their electricity bill within 15 days after receiving the SMSes. After normalcy restores, the bill amount will be adjusted according to their actual readings,” said Mr. Surya Prakash.
06 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deepavali celebrations come early to city||It looked like Deepavali celebrations as people lit lamps, candles, flashed torch light of cellphones and to express their solidarity to the fight against COVID-19, in response to the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at 9 p.m. on Sunday. At 9 p.m., siren was sounded at the ‘smart poles’ in the city. People released sky lanterns from theirs roof tops, while others burst crackers. “This is the time for us to showcase the unity despite differences in religion, languages and traditions. We need to send a strong message to the world that India is one in the fight against COVID-19,” said G. Hanumantha Rao of MVP Colony. “My mother lit lamps on the terrace of our apartment complex. It is a good idea to respond to the call of the Prime Minister and express solidarity. But, I have my reservations on the measures being taken to overcome the shortage of masks, gloves and PPEs for the frontline workers,” said Satish Bongarala from Appayyanagar. Earlier, there was a rush for candles and diyas (earthen lamps) on Sunday morning. Traders made brisk business by setting up special counters . Demand relief For APEPDCL, the total power demand is around 2,400 MW for the five districts and the relief for nine minutes was around 400 MW, said APEPDCL Director (Operations) Ramesh Prasad. The load transfer for the nine minutes was handled by State Load Dispatch Centre.
06 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy sailor dies in accident||A sailor who was critically injured in an accident on board a naval ship in Eastern Naval Command (ENC) base on Wednesday died on Saturday. The sailor was identified as Paramjit Singh. As per a release issued by the Navy, the accident occurred due to the reported material failure in the high-pressure air system on board a naval vessel berthed alongside at the ENC base late on Wednesday night. Paramjit Singh who was on duty in the vicinity was grievously injured. He was shifted to the naval hospital, where he died undergoing treatment. A Board of Inquiry has been ordered by the Navy to investigate into the case.
06 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Social distancing not being followed at FP shops’||Alleging that the distribution of COVID-19 relief amount of Rs. 1,000 at the doorstep of people was being done by YSRCP leaders and those contesting the local body elections, BJP party floor leader in the Legislative Council P.V.N. Madhav on Sunday demanded that such persons be barred from fighting the elections. Despite of the presence of village and ward volunteers, distribution of relief material was done at fair-price shops leading to mass gathering, compromising the social distancing norms, Mr. Madhav said. Referring to the deferment of salaries of the government employees, he said the financial condition of the State had worsened in the last few months and the government must take blame for it, not the COVID-19 situation. “It is unfortunate that the number of positive cases has gone up , but it should not give room to unnecessary comments. There is no room for parties, religion or castes in the fight against COVID-19,” said Mr. Madhav. The MLC said all frontline workers, especially doctors, should be provided with the personal protection equipment.
06 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traders booked for ‘fleecing’ customers in Vizianagaram||Legal Metrology Deputy Controller N. Janardana Rao and Assistant Controller S.M. Radha Krishna and other officials cracked down on the erring traders who reportedly sold essential commodities at exorbitant prices. They registered five cases against the traders who sold pulses, tamarind and other commodities for more than prices prescribed by the Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal. “The traders have been collecting up to Rs. 8 per kg above from the customers, violating the price list and guidelines issued by the government. Heavy fines will be imposed on the traders if they fleece people during the lockdown period,” warned Mr. Radhakrishna. The officials said that two cases were booked on fish sellers for cheating customers. The customers can inform the department by calling on phone numbers 940165682, 08922-223844.
06 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP asks police personnel on duty to take precautionary measures||Expressing concern over many police personnel ignoring safety precautions while implementing the lockdown rules, Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Raja Kumari asked all police personnel to wear masks and gloves. “Taking precautionary measures is very important for police personnel as they are working at public places such as rythu bazaars, markets and other places where many people are gathering to buy essential commodities. The police personnel must not make them vulnerable to infections,” the SP said. Meanwhile, Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust founder Raparthi Jagadish Babu handed over 1,000 masks and gloves to Ms. Rajkuamari. Speaking on the occasion, she said police personnel, doctors and municipal staff were on duty round the clock and they needed to take care to protect themselves from COVID-19 infection. The trust also handed over 1000 masks and gloves to sanitation workers of Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation, in the presence of former MP Botcha Jhansi and Municipal Commissioner S.S.Varma. Vegetables distributed TDP leaders Chigurpati Kutumba Rao and Ch.Rajani distributed vegetables and eggs to 200 families in the 29th ward. MLA K. Veerabhadra Swamy also distributed essential commodities .
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A crisis that disciplines||We live in a society based on instant gratification. Hungry? A microwave can get us something to eat in minutes. Life has become so convenient that the act of ‘waiting’ has almost become a thing of the past until COVID-19 changed it all. The virus has put a brake on our lives moving at a breakneck speed. The situation has pushed us out of air-conditioned offices, forcing to spend long hours under hot sun in serpentine queues formed at rythu bazars, super markets and other facilities, thanks to the lockdown. “I went to the ration shop to collect free ration the government has announced, in the early hours only to find at least 50 people already standing in a long queue at the fair price shop,” said a man, adding: “I am sure about at least one outcome of this situation. I would emerge a man with enormous patience by the time this crisis gets over,” he smiled.     The COVID-19 pandemic brought with it a lot of new words that were totally foreign to people living in the interior areas. Media was bamboozled when a farm worker kept saying “corona wireless”. What the person was referring to was actually coronavirus. Similarly, another person kept telling the media that a 3-km patch in Tirupati was subject to radiation and declared red zone. What he wanted to actually say was that all houses and streets in a 3-km radius had been declared as red zone.   The word corona is itself being mispronounced by most, including Ministers. While the ‘c’ and ‘o’ in the name should be pronounced like in coconut, they are pronouncing it with ‘ka’ like in car. The reason being that it is being written with a ‘ka’ in the vernacular print media.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hygiene matters||
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lamp of unity shines bright||
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||kerala||
06 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Doctors, staff having a tough time handling returnees||There is a greater possibility of the viral infection spreading at the isolation wards, thanks to the obstinacy of the COVID-19 suspect Jamaat returnees who, according to sources, are violating all laid down procedures of quarantine. Doctors and other staff manning the isolation wards have become wary of the fact which eventually led to authorities toughening the measures to ensure that nothing unpleasant happens. “Right from day one, it was difficult to handle them (persons in quarantine). On the intervening night of April 1 and 2, they complained of bathrooms not being clean, demanded sugar-less tea in the dead of the night claiming they were diabetics,” a staffer lamented recalling the difficult hours. “The persons in question also demanded better beds to sleep on and occupied the doctors’ room, literally, making the latter flee. All concerned were scared and brought these happenings to the notice of higher-ups,” another source disclosed. Reports have also emerged that many inmates say their prayers together and eat together. This, according to experts, was violation of the social distancing norms. Adilabad Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier, however, said that the problem was under control. “Our consistent efforts in counselling them have yielded results and they are cooperating with doctors and staff,” he affirmed. While this is the scenario of the insides of an isolation ward, defiance among suspects was also seen outside. A case in point is the events connected with the isolation of suspects, who are primary contacts of a COVID-19 positive patient in the district. While being taken to isolation wards in vehicles at night, a couple of them were seen deliberately spitting on the road. “Fortunately, they did not spit on humans,” observed a staffer.
06 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||One tests positive in Nirmal||One COVID-19 suspect tested positive at Nirmal on Sunday, making him the first such case in the district. As many as 97 samples were sent for tests, out of which results of 35 were received by the authorities. The test report with regard to the doctor at RIMS in Adilabad, who hid the fact that he had visited Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Nizamuddin in Delhi, is awaited. Meanwhile, localities such as Khanapur, Quilla and Masood Chowk, from where the positive cases hail, have been sanitised. As many as 24 teams at the urban primary health centre at Putlibowli were formed to conduct surveys at concerned localities. There was no positive case in Mancherial district so far. Of the 13 samples sent for testing to Hyderabad, 11 tested negative while the result for two samples is awaited. The number of persons undergoing home quarantine at Mancherial district head quarter town is 76, and 29 others are at the quarantine centre in Tallagurijala and three at the isolation ward in Area Hospital, Bellampally town.
06 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Mild tremors in parts of Palvancha mandal||Mild tremors were reportedly felt in some parts of Palvancha mandal on Sunday afternoon. Unconfirmed reports said slight tremors occurred for a few seconds in Palvancha town and a few other areas in the mandal at 12.30 noon. But there was no immediate confirmation from the officials concerned. Several residents of Contractors' Colony in Palvancha town and residential areas near the Mandal Revenue Office claimed that they had experienced mild tremors on Sunday afternoon. According to sources, some panic-stricken residents rushed out of their houses and spent anxious moments in fear. A few minutes later, they returned to their homes in view of the lockdown in force.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabadis light it up to honour PM’s solidarity call||Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday led the State in responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights at 9 p.m. for nine minutes as a symbolic gesture to fight COVID-19 pandemic. Lights were turned off and candles and diyas were lit at the Raj Bhavan and Pragathi Bhavan. The CM lit a candle, and was joined by Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy. Meanwhile, city residents came out onto their balconies with mobile phone torches turned on. While several neighbourhoods such as Lanco Hills observed the PM’s appeal, there was mixed response in others areas such as Gopanpalli. There were reports of residents lighting crackers in Begumpet while in other places such as Attapur, residents blew conches. A few young men raced through the streets holding aloft lights of mobile phones. In Gachibowli, a large number of gated communities and apartment blocks turned off lights. ‘Go Corona Go’, ‘Corona Down’, whistles and cat calls rent the air. Firecrackers lit up the night sky in the neighbourhood. The demand for power went down during the nine-minute period from 7,300 MW before the event to 5,800 MW during the event, according to Chairman and Managing Director TS-Genco and TS-Transco D. Prabhakar Rao.
06 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jamaat returnees proving ‘tough nut’||Telangana police are going through one of their hardest days, as the pressure to find and isolate the Markaz attendees is rising with little cooperation from them. Several police officers revealed how the families of returnees are refusing to reveal their travel details. In one case, a family of 17 members in North Telangana refused to admit that one of them had attended the Markaz prayers in Delhi and even did not reveal any details about their primary and secondary contacts. The family also gave police a tough time while leaving the house and moving to a quarantine facility, using the safety of ‘valuables’ at house as an excuse. “They are tough nuts to crack. Not many came forward by themselves to get tested or even inform us about their travel,” a senior police officer told The Hindu , adding that there are at least 1,400 from Telangana, who were part of the congregation. Despite police tracing them across the State, they were resistant, with many of them flatly refusing to acknowledge that they participated at Markaz, and even insisting they are healthy enough to not get the virus, he said. “There is a dangerous lack of seriousness on the part of many Jamaat members. Our task to trace them is akin to searching a needle from a haystack,” said another officer. He said that had the TJ attendees showed up voluntarily and disclosed their travel history, it would have been much easier for them to isolate them, find their primary and secondary contacts and send their swabs for tests. But, police were forced to analyse their call records to understand their movement after they returned from Delhi, as many were hiding the information. “The utter disregard for community help by a section of population has jeopardised the State’s effort in containing the virus in its nascent stage. The demographic density of hotspots has proved to be a real challenge as near blood relatives have turned hostile to voluntarily go for screening,” he said. “These people are deliberately giving incorrect information about the size of their families, travel history, and their relatives,” the top police officer added.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Minister tells officials to ensure paddy procurement||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials concerned to ensure that there is no interruption in harvesting of paddy and procurement of commodity from the farmers in spite of the lockdown that is in force across the State. The ongoing lockdown has brought the life to a standstill, but the government has decided to procure entire produce from farmers to ensure that they did not suffer financially. Steps should be taken to ensure that paddy is procured till the last grain. The government had decided to procure the farmers’ produce from the village-level so as to ensure that there is no overcrowding at the market yards. The Chief Minister who reviewed the situation with senior officials till late on Sunday evening exhorted the officials concerned to educate farmers on the use of harvesters. At the same time, steps should be taken to provide special passes to those operating the harvesters and the shops selling spares relating to these machines should be allowed to be opened. Permissions should also be given to vehicles deployed to transport paddy from the fields to procurement centres while the villages should allow the machines and their operators along with the vehicles for transporting their produce into their villages, he said. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao was particular that the officials concerned should take steps to ensure that there was no overcrowding at the procurement centres. Coupons clearly specifying the date and time of procurement should be distributed among individual farmers so that they come to the procurement centres at the specified time. The Chief Minister expressed concern over the shortage of gunny bags required to transport paddy. He called Prime Minister Narendra Modi over telephone and explained him about the difficulties faced in gunny bags as majority of factories manufacturing gunny bags were located in West Bengal which was under lockdown. He told the Prime Minister that the State would require at least 20 crore gunny bags and requested him to allow their transport through special trains. The Prime Minister is understood to have responded positively to the request and assured that he would speak to the departments’ concerned to ensure that gunny bags in required quantities reached the State in time. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister appreciated the Energy department officials, TS-Transco and TS-Genco chairman and Managing Director D. Prabhakar Rao in particular, for his initiative in ensuring that there was no disruptions in power supply in spite of the switching off of lights across the State for nine minutes in line with the call given by the Prime Minister. The Energy department staff worked efficiently and allayed apprehensions about scope for disturbances in power supply due to sudden lowering of the demand.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||The harrowing hunt for a doctor||The suspension of outpatient services in several private hospitals and closed clinics in the city have made life during lockdown more difficult for the ailing. The problem is compounded with the State government halting all public transport, making access to healthcare difficult for such people. Arifunnisa Begum, 55, a pensioner and resident of Kalapather, suffered a brain stroke days after the Janata Curfew and lockdown, on March 26. She was taken to two private hospitals in Old City, but the doctors were unavailable. She was then rushed to a smaller hospital at Shamsheergunj, where the doctor diagnosed her problem. “Not a single neurologist was available at the two hospitals in Old City and Mehdipatnam on that day. They had asked me to get admitted first, and later they would call the doctor. My son then took an online consultation, showed the reports and then got a prescription,” she said. She fell sick again on April 3, and there was a repeat of the same ordeal, along with lack of modes of transport. “Most of the time was wasted on looking for transport. But we managed to get help from a few kind autorickshaw drivers to travel from one hospital to another for over three-and-a-half hours. We even had to request an autorickshaw carrying relief material to drop us to a clinic,” Ms. Begum said with exasperation. Her late husband was an assistant sub-inspector and the reduction in pension had hit her family, she said. Shabana Begum, 32, shared a similar experience. A resident of Mustafa Nagar, she was consulting a private practitioner at Banjara Hills. “I am not able to travel these days because the doctor is not available, and when he is there, I am not able to find transport,” she said. Meanwhile, a lot of people have brought this issue up with the authorities concerned, over social media.  Most of the time was wasted on looking for transport... We even had to request an autorickshaw carrying relief material to drop us to a clinic. Arifunnisa Begum, Resident of Kalapather
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Many not taking lockdown seriously||Despite several appeals by the State administration to people to stay indoors, many in different parts of the city were seen on roads and in neighbourhoods, throwing caution and all social distancing norms to the wind. Residents were seen up and about at Alwal, parts of Banjara Hills, Toli Chowki, and Kalapather. Eyewitnesses said that despite the one person per two-wheeler and two persons every four-wheeler norm, several were found flouting this rule. “I have seen some people either walking their dogs or going on a run or walk on either Road Number 7 or Road number 14 of Banjara Hills. This is an almost an everyday affair and happens towards the evening,” said a Vijay Kumar (name changed), a resident of the area. Eyewitnesses also said that a large number of people were seen on the roads in Alwal area as well. Those in the know pointed out that some parts of Old City such as Falakunuma, Kalapather and Mandi Mir Alam, have been witnessing people moving on roads. “People have been thronging the Falaknuma Rythu Bazaar in large numbers. Some were even found wandering aimlessly in this area,” an eyewitness said. “In urban slums, people are moving about because there is a lack of supply of basic needs. This is one of the reasons why people are out. But the administration needs to do more to enforce the lockdown and crack the whip on those who are out for no reason at all,” said social activist S.Q. Masood.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vigil stepped up as freight trains pick up speed||With freight trains running double the usual speed because of all the mainline lines devoid of any passenger trains in the current lockdown period, South Central Railway (SCR) has decided to keep a tight vigil on the loco-pilots, their assistants and the track personnel. More so, because the breath analysers have been dispensed with along with the biometric attendance system due to COVID-19. Goods specials, which hitherto used to trudge at 35 kmph, are now moving at almost double the speed transporting essential commodities across the country. The relative high speeds and seamless movement across the sections has made railway authorities take a self-declaration from each loco-pilot before signing in for duty and it is followed by counselling by ‘controllers’ about the dos and don’ts, informed senior railway officials. Loco-pilots are allowed to keep their cellphone, but switch it off during the journey. However, the assistant loco-pilot can keep the cellphone on and it is he who will be getting calls from the controlling staff to check for their alertness. “A loco-pilot on a running train answering the phone means asking for trouble and will be liable for departmental action,” they said. It is imperative to check on loco-pilots for safety as about 130 freight trains are being run on of 60-75 kmph, speeds which are usually the domain of passenger trains, in the zone and another 100 trains are criss-crossing from other zones. Quicker speed has also brought about a change in the concept of duty hours. ‘Round trip’ concept With the running staff now able to complete their journeys faster, SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya has introduced a ‘round trip’ concept so that trips are done within the reasonable time for staff to return home sooner. “There has been a good response as 80% of 2,433 goods train loco-pilots are benefited. The others make use of the running rooms only because of non-availability of train in opposite direction,” claims SCR chief PRO Ch. Rakesh. Running rooms are being sanitised at regular intervals with disinfectant and physical distance is maintained in provision of beds. Utmost hygiene is ensured in supply of food being served in the running rooms. Thermal scanners are installed at crew booking points for screening before commencement of duty. In a few sections, the staff are handed over a kit with Dettol soap, 200 ml hand sanitiser, triple-layer mask, a set of hand gloves and tissue papers. This is to be extended in all six divisions. Soaps and sanitisers are also made available in crew booking lobbies with locos and brake vans too getting a thorough clean-up before dispatch from respective workshops, senior officials added.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||e-mass for the third successive Sunday||For the third consecutive Sunday, devout Christians across the Twin Cities and the State were glued to the social media platforms such as Facebook and YouTube to hear the holy message from the respective preachers in view of the lockdown. Sunday was celebrated as Palm Sunday to celebrate the entry of Jesus Christ into Jerusalem, who rode on a donkey when a large number of people placed palm branches on the road to give him a rousing welcome. Almost all the mainline Catholic, Protestant and other independent Churches beamed the Sunday mass live. The State government, through an order on March 18, had issued orders to temples, mosques and churches to curtail movement of people in view of COVID-19. Accordingly, all churches first suspended their Sunday mass and other religious activities and took recourse to online platform to reach out to the congregation. In view of the Janata Curfew on March 22, no service was conducted, and March 29 too, all churches beamed their service live. This Sunday, too, the same practice was followed. At the historic Medak Cathedral, the seat of Church of South India, Diocese of Medak, a group of clergy conducted the Palm Sunday service duly maintaining social distance. In the twin cities, too, St Mary’s Cathedral at Secunderabad had the Reverend delivering the message without the congregation. Representatives of the mainline churches said that the Good Friday service on April 10 and Easter Sunrise service would also be beamed live in view of the lockdown.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TJ centres make room for quarantine centres||At least three mosques in the city, which serve as nerve centres for the Tablighi Jamaat, have doubled up as quarantine centres, a senior worker said. The mosques include a markaz – Idara-e-Millia Masjid – at Malakpet, Masjid-e-Alamgir at Shanti Nagar, and Jama Masjid Moazzampura at Mallepally. Sources from the Tablighi Jamaat said that there are around 35 persons at Masjid-e-Almagir and about 40 at Idara-e-Millia Masjid. Several others have been quarantined at Jama Masjid Moazzampura. “People have been quarantined here. The families of those who came in contact with Jamaat workers are here as well, including women and children. We have a few people from other faiths also at the masjids. Food is being provided to them and we are doing our best to take care of them,” he said. The senior worker also said that they were working in coordination with the authorities. The names of other Tablighi centres that could serve as quarantine facilities, have been suggested to the authorities. These centres include a large facility at Shaheen Nagar called Kanz-ul-Uloom, and two others at Shapur and Akbarabad in Srinagar Colony.
06 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Surgeons’ body to contribute PPEs worth Rs. 45 lakh to health workers||Association of Surgeons of India (ASI) and some of the sections of the association — Association of Breast Surgeons of India, Association of Colon & Rectal Surgeons of India and Indian Association of Endocrine Surgeons — have jointly contributed Rs. 45 lakh to the Central ASI fund, which is being utilised solely towards bulk purchasing 3500 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). ASI president P. Raghu Ram said that after extensive search and negotiating the best possible rates, the association has placed the order to procure the PPEs from a Government of India-approved manufacturer with an established track record based out of Bengaluru. Within 10 days, the PPE sets would be delivered to the representatives of ASI in every State, which in turn will be “hand delivered” to healthcare workers that need them the most. He urged every member of ASI to adopt a few families who are homeless and provide them food and shelter. Crowdfunding initiative Healthcare professionals from government and private sector are pooling money to buy Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for those working in front line at government hospitals. In an initiative by former students of Gandhi Medical College and Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association (HRDA), 400 PPEs were distributed on Sunday. Of those, 150 PPEs were distributed at Gandhi Hospital, 100 at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, 50 each at Osmania General Hospital, Fever Hospital and Niloufer Hospital. Now, doctors from private sector hospitals are also contributing to the crowdfunding initiative.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guarantor for Rs. 25,000 Civil Supplies loan||The State government has permitted the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC) to avail an additional loan of Rs. 25,000 crore to meet the procurement expenditure of paddy, fine rice ( sannabiyyam ), and other requirements for Rabi 2019-20. The government had agreed to give guarantee for the Rs. 25,000 crore additional loan, which is over and above the Rs. 20,000 crore for which it had already given a guarantee. The decision comes in the wake of a request made by the TSCSC. Procure up to last kilo The corporation made the request in view of the huge quantity of paddy expected during the current rabi season as well as the prevailing lockdown situation. In fact, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that the government would procure the entire commodity cultivated by farmers “up to the last kilo”. Moreover, the government will procure the entire commodity ensuring payment of Minimum Support Price to farmers. Procurement would be taken up village-wise to prevent overcrowding at market yards as a precautionary measure. Keeping in view the urgency as the procurement process is likely to start in a couple of days, the TSCSC has been allowed to avail an additional loan from nationalised banks with the government guarantee.  In its orders, the government has asked the TSCSC vice-chairman and managing director to pay a guarantee commission of 2% to the nationalised banks for the entire guarantee period as it could not be exempted under the Reserve Bank of India guidelines. It has also been asked to negotiate with the banks for the lowest possible interest rate for the loan. Further, the TSCSC had been directed to utilise the loan amount only for the sanctioned purpose and “not for any other purpose.”
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to procure more bengalgram||At a time when the disposal of their produce to the farming community is getting increasingly difficult due to the lockdown measures being implemented in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, the State government has requested the Centre to procure at least 28,000 tonnes of bengalgram more in Telangana at minimum support price under the price support scheme. In a letter addressed to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated that bengalgram was cultivated in a record extent of 1.46 lakh hectares this rabi season, and with a yield of 12.95 quintals per hectare, the estimated production would be about 1.89 lakh tonnes. The key rabi crop was cultivated in 1.1 lakh hectares in 2018-19, 1.02 lakh hectares in 2017-18, 1.17 lakh hectares in 2016-17 and 1.18 lakh hectares in 2015-16. Under the price support scheme, the Centre has permitted procurement of 47,600 tonnes of bengalgram with MSP of Rs. 4,875 per quintal in Telangana, and till April 4, over 19,876 tonnes from 12,963 farmers. However, disposal of the crop is difficult outside, in the private markets or to the traders, in the wake of lockdown measures. Mr. Niranjan Reddy explained to the Union Agriculture Minister that even if another 27,830 tonnes of bengalgram procurement was allowed under the PSS in Telangana, the total quantity of procurement under the scheme would be 75,430 tonnes and it would be less than 40% of the total estimated production and requested the latter to increase the PSS procurement quantity keeping in mind farmers’ welfare and to encourage them cultivate the important pulses crop in the future too.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet Secretary briefed on steps taken||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has said that the government had set up a high-level committee to monitor the situation during the lockdown imposed across the State from March 22 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). As part of the measures, the government successfully identified people migrated from different areas and is taking steps accordingly. The Chief Secretary informed this to Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba during a video-conference conducted by the latter with Chief Secretaries and senior officials of high case loaded districts in different states. Three districts in the State -- Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal -- had been identified as high case loaded and measures were accordingly being taken for containment of spread of the coronavirus. The government had initiated the process for distribution of 12 kg rice and Rs. 1,500 cash for the white cardholders, he said. Food points In addition, 700 food points had been arranged in different parts of the State capital feeding 6,000 people daily while ensuring that steps for maintaining social distance were taken. In all, 2,200 people had been quarantined in government institutions and another 27,000 are in home quarantine across the State. Joint teams of officials are visiting the quarantined people twice a day to ascertain their situation, the Chief Secretary said.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS fine-tuning account details to credit Rs. 1,500||The State government has intensified efforts to credit the Rs. 1,500 in cash assured to the white ration cardholders in their respective accounts. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that Rs. 1,500 each would be deposited into the accounts of the cardholders. Mr. Rao also announced 12-kg rice to each member of the cardholders’ families, enabling them to purchase other food-related essentials. The government earmarked Rs. 1,100 crore towards distribution of 3.36 lakh metric tonne rice to 87.59 lakh families while Rs. 1.3,10 crore had been allotted for distribution of Rs. 1,500 cash each to families of cardholders. The arrangements for distribution of rice had been completed but the process for crediting cash into the accounts could not be started because of the unavailability of the details of the accounts of the cardholders. The cards, forming part of the public distribution system, are all linked to the Aadhaar numbers of the holders, but there was no insistence on the submission of the account details in the past. The government had therefore forwarded the Aadhaar details to the bankers asking them to submit details of accounts pertaining to the Aadhaar numbers. Officials said the banks have completed identification of the account details.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||WCD dept. comes to the aid of children’s homes||Women and Child Development department, in coordination with various district administrations, has embarked upon the task of providing essential supplies to orphanages and children’s homes across the State, in view of the difficulties faced by them during the current lockdown. Several of these homes, referred to as child care institutions (CCI) by the department, are unable to get their supplies in bulk owing to the present curfew-like situation. A large majority of these homes are run by NGOs and philanthropic organisations, while a few are government-run. As per the data collated by the department, there are a total of 446 CCIs across the State, of which 48 are State-run institutions, and 398 are privately run by NGOs. The task of collating information regarding these institutions was deputed to District Welfare Officers, District Child Protection Officers and Balaraksha Bhavan coordinators as soon as the lockdown began. “An online reporting mechanism was developed at the commissionerate level, where in a format needs to be filled with details such as the number of children present at each home, requirement of ration, medicines, sanitary supplies, and passes for caretakers, to name a few,” an official from the department informed. The format lists a total of 11 kinds of institutions, including children’s homes, observation homes, special homes, homes for the differently-abled, for children with multiple disabilities, children with cerebral palsy, children with HIV and AIDS, children with speech, hearing and other disabilities, and specialised adoption agencies. Homes for the aged too have been added to the list. Most of the CCIs were already inspected by the child protection officers who issued necessary directions with regard to the precautions to be taken in view of COVID-19 spread. DWOs have assumed the charge of all the 48 government-run institutions, while among those run by the NGOs, 174 have sought help, he said.
06 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ensure safety of doctors and health staff, says DGP||Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy said that the entire police force have been directed to ensure safety and security of all doctors and other healthcare professionals involved in dealing with COVID-19 cases. “With a view to improve safety and security of doctors and para medic staff dealing with COVID-19 cases at various government hospitals across the State, all SPs and CPs have been directed to form Whatsapp groups for local jurisdictional police officers, doctors and other healthcare professionals to establish a seamless communication to respond to emerging issues in real time and take effective action at once,” he said in a press release on Sunday. Mr. Reddy said that unit officers were also in constant touch with top leadership of the health department, both at district and State level. “We salute all those medical professionals who are relentlessly involved in fighting COVID-19 with utmost commitment and sincerity, risking their own personal safety.” he added. Also, a letter from Hyderabad PC Anjani Kumar has upped their morale and reassured them of all support.
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Allow us to help the poor: social activists urge GHMC||Civil Society groups, relief workers and social activists from the city under the umbrella of Advocacy COVID-19 Lockdown Group, have written to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, requesting him to permit its members to distribute dry ration and cooked food, apart from gloves, masks, bedsheets and towels, to the needy. In an elaborate letter, the group has expressed concern about the overnight decision by the GHMC to restrain relief supply by individuals and social organisations, and the warning that legal action would be taken against violation. The GHMC asked donors to deposit supplies at a centralised pool, from where distribution can be taken up. The group has proposed that GHMC facilitate and network with several independent civil society initiatives to provide relief to people. Representatives from Aman Vedika, MAKAAM, SAFA, Montfort Social Institute, Domestic Workers’ Union, and some others signed the petition.
06 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rice distribution is slack: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) and Nalgonda MP, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the slow pace of the rice distribution in the State is worrisome as only 22 lakh families got the benefit out of 87 lakh white ration card holders, and asked the State government to hasten up the process. Interacting with party workers on Facebook on Sunday, Mr. Reddy said that the process of giving Rs. 1,500 per family has also not been initiated though Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced the same several days ago. The amount is too small and it should have reached the poor by this time. This is the failure of the leadership though the lockdown is nearing two weeks. Similarly, the distribution of rice and cash among migrant workers is not being carried out in a proper manner and a majority of migrant workers were yet to get the promised 10 kg rice and Rs. 500 cash.
06 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Track Trace and Treat’ concept is the best||State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar has said that the ‘Track, Trace and Treat’ concept was the only way to contain the spread of COVID-19 and Telangana has taken the lead in the country. He was interacting with chairman of Public Health Foundation of India K. Sreenath Reddy and South India Director of the foundation, G.V.S. Murthy, to discuss steps to be taken and role of the government.
06 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP leader distributes food items to poor||Former Uppal MLA and senior BJP leader N.V.S.S. Prabhakar distributed essential commodities to more than 1,000 people residing in the slums of Nacharam, Erragunta, Raghavendranagar, Moulali, Tirumalanagar and Vijayapuri. Mr. Prabhakar said that food and other essential commodities that would suffice for a week were distributed. He said these people had lost their livelihood due to lockdown for the last two weeks and need some support for their families. He complimented people for staying indoors despite the suffering.
06 April 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||Doctors who resigned relent||Six doctors, who have been working on contract basis at Government General Hospital here and resigned to their posts on Saturday, withdrew resignations after being prevailed upon by the district Collector A. Sharath. The doctors while being afraid of COVID-19 and unable to cope up with the increase in number of patients following the closure of all private hospitals put in their papers. Besides, they complained that the patients and visitors coming to the hospital were not observing social distance. The Collector, District Medical and Health Officer and hospital Superintendent Ajay Kumar promised them to address their grievances.
06 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Doctor’s novel idea to raise funds for needy||Not allowing boredom to get to him during the lockdown period, a town-based doctor has decided to raise funds for the PM-Cares Trust for the fight against COVID-19 through a novel initiative — indoor marathon. Eminent physician of Karimnagar, Ajay Khandal, on Sunday launched a campaign that requires the participants to simply walk inside the house and donate Rs. 1 for every metre covered (or Rs. 1,000 per kilometre). “No matter where you walk, whether in the house or on the terrace during the lockdown, make your steps count. You could donate the money to the trust or to the less privileged in your area,” said Dr Khandal, who walked 42.2 km within his house for eight and a half hours and accordingly, will donate Rs. 50,000 to PM-CARES. His wife Usha Khandal, also a doctor, did her bit by taking part in the indoor marathon by covering 10 km and will donate Rs. 10,000 to PM-CARES. The couple will present a cheque for Rs. 60,000 to Collector K. Shashanka on Monday. Dr Khandal said his friends in the USA, Canada, Australia and Indian cities such as Chennai, New Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Hyderabad also participated in the novel campaign to raise funds and stay fit too. Combating the stress of staying at home is a big part of surviving the lockdown, said the doctor. “A lockdown can cause emotional stress which often goes neglected. The campaign is expected to serve as a vent for mental stress,” he added.
06 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Rich tributes paid to Babu Jagjivan Ram||Rich tributes were paid to freedom-fighter and former Deputy Prime Minister Babu Jagjivan Ram on the occasion of his 112th birth anniversary in Karimnagar town on Sunday. Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar, Mayor Y Sunil Rao and other dalit organisation leaders paid floral tributes to his statue at Mancherial crossroad in the town. Collector K. Shashanka, Municipal Commissioner Valluru Kranthi and others paid tributes by garlanding the portrait of Babu Jagjivan Ram in the Collectorate conference hall.
06 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam NGO a ray of hope for thalassemic children||With blood donation drives coming to a halt due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, the situation has thrown up a major challenge to those engaged in the vital task of providing blood transfusion services to patients suffering from thalassemia and other blood disorders. Sankalpa, a town-based NGO, has been providing free blood transfusion services, including medication (iron chelation therapy) to a little over 200 thalassemia-affected children from various parts of the erstwhile composite Khammam district for the past several years. The district has an estimated 500 thalassemia patients, mostly children. A major chunk of these children hail from poor families, who cannot afford the cost of regular blood transfusions every month. The lockdown has brought the blood donation camps, which hitherto used to be held once or twice a month, to a complete halt and the fear triggered by the global pandemic has cast a shadow on voluntary blood donation across the district in the last couple of days, sources said. “We have been ensuring regular blood transfusions to all the 280 thalassemia-affected children presently enrolled with our organisation at Shiva blood bank with the support of donors, including several members of the medical fraternity and voluntary donors,” said town-based radiologist Rajesh Garge, who is the founder of Sankalpa. Blood transfusion services are being offered without any break with the help of police, who have issued passes to the children to travel to the blood bank and avail the services during the lockdown period, he said. People can extend their helping hand to thalassemic children by voluntarily donating blood individually in compliance with the lockdown norms to help bridge the gap between the requirement and availability of blood in view of the prevailing situation, he suggested. In a humane gesture, several journalists and a woman conductor of the TSRTC donated blood for the cause of thalassemic children in adherence to lockdown regulations at Shiva blood bank on Sunday, he added.
06 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Authorities doing every bit to track secondary contacts||If those who returned from the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi not coming forward voluntarily to disclose their travel details was not enough, the authorities here are facing a new problem. It has become a herculean task for the police and medical teams to find out the secondary contacts of these COVID-19 positive patients. So far, the authorities have identified as many as 21 persons, who had attended the Markaz event and returned to their native places in Sangareddy, Angadipeet, Zaheerabad and Kondapur, among others. Out of them, six were found positive and shifted to Gandhi Hospital. Their family members have been put in isolation at Narayana College in Patancheru mandal. As the first contacts were already identified and kept in isolation, officials are now trying to get the information about secondary contacts and where all they had travelled. But, these people are not coming forward to divulge details stating they had not moved anywhere. “A COVID-19 positive patient from Zaheerabad had visited Bidar in Karnataka and met several people, but hid this information from us. We have used modern technology and our sources to ascertain the facts and track the secondary contacts,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. “We are checking with local religious leaders and villagers about the movement of secondary contacts. CCTVs and travel logs are helping us in this. We have checked the train tickets and reservation charts,” said the officer. About 70 secondary contacts have been identified so far. The number may double by the time the final list would be ready. However, he added, “We have made efforts in identifying the people who attended the meet. At least two persons from Sadashivapet are still in Delhi quarantine.”
06 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||15 places in Warangal ‘no movement’ areas||The Warangal Urban District administration has declared Julaiwada, Subedari, Eidga, Kumarpally, Mandi Bazaar, Pochamma Maidan, Charbouli, Kasibugga, Ganesh Nagar, Nizampura, Laxmipuram, Rangampet, Shambhunipet, Bapuji Nagar and Chintagattu camp, which have witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases in the last few days, as ‘no movement areas’. Urban District Collector Rajeev Gandhi Hanumanthu said that these 15 areas have been sealed off to contain the spread of the virus. He said that people can call toll free number 1800 425 1115 if they face any hardships. The administration has made arrangements for the supply of essentials, including vegetables, to residents of these areas, he said, referring to door delivery through specially-designated vehicles. Commissioner of Police V. Ravinder said that they have set up police picketing in these areas to ensure zero movement.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Power charges in times of lockdown||Already neck deep in financial crisis, the Telangana government has to contend with slowdown in receipts from one more segment. The trade body of industries and the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry have separately petitioned the Electricity Regulatory Commission that the power distribution companies not insist on them to pay the power bills for March as the industries did not function for most of March due to lockdown. The regulator is awaiting the response of the government to their plea. On the other side, the distribution companies have also approached the commission with the request that they be allowed to bill the consumers for March on the basis of their payments for the corresponding month last year. Where new consumers were added after March last year, it was suggested that the bills paid by them for February this year be considered. The distribution companies clarified to the commission that the excess or shortfall in payments will be adjusted against bills generated for April. The commission will decide the petition on Monday.  RTC bus on ‘quarantine service’ An RTC bus with a couple of passengers and a police picket outside the King Kothi hospital in Hyderabad on Sunday drew curious looks from passers by. They were wondering whether RTC had resumed services, only to be told that it was a special ‘quarantine service’. The police picket which came up only on Sunday was also on quarantine service. It was said that one out of six people from King Kothi who were quarantined in Nature Cure Hospital at Ameerpet tested positive for coronavirus. All of them attended Markaz prayers in Delhi. He was one of the 48 members of a joint family who were all tested for the virus. The remaining five Delhi returnees also had large families with 20 members each. So, the bus of BHEL depot was used to ferry these people between various medical facilities. Coming to the police, it was obvious that they were posted to protect the isolation facility at King Kothi hospital against frayed tempers from local people.  Row over part-payment of salaries The State government’s decision to make part-payment of salaries to all sections of employees drew flak from the employees and political parties alike. The government may have its own reasons be it economic or otherwise for taking such a major decision. But the political parties wondered how the revenue surplus State faced economic crisis within two weeks of lockdown while employees had their own reason behind their opposition to the government’s decision. This was a recent order prescribing the dos and don’ts to employees. Point 45 of the order says: “All the government as well as private establishments shall make payment of wages/salaries fully to workers/employees including those on contract and outsourcing basis. Any violation will invite penal action under The Epidemics Diseases Act, 1897.”  Is “all’s fair in love and war”? The coronavirus pandemic may have erased the difference between the rich and poor or haves and have nots at least notionally across the globe by striking every section with same ease and lethal capacity and brought them together to fight the spread of the virus. However, one section appears to be still at loggerheads even in the adverse situation prevailing now. Yes, it’s the political section where the ruling and opposition parties appear to be at loggerheads more stronger than before. Slanging matches are on every aspect linked to coronavirus pandemic – from the lockdown to relief measures and from salary cuts to religious beliefs instead of joining hands in the efforts to fight the challenge on hands. A legislator from the City and an MP from the rural area are flaying a City MP as to why he was not criticising even the attacks on doctors treating coronavirus patients while the latter questions the rationale behind some steps in the fight against the infectious disease. Perhaps, they believe in the proverb “all is fair in love and war” now more than ever before! N. Rahul, M. Rajeev and B. Chandrashekhar
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Spend CMRF fund to fight coronavirus’||Similarly, all the contact persons of the positive cases were being sent to quarantine. The meeting was attended by Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister S. Narsing Rao, Special Chief Secretary of Medical and Health Shanti Kumari and other senior officials. A release later said Mr. Rao complimented the health staff who worked to prevent the spread of Coronavirus and treat the positive cases. The government was fully focussed on security of their health. It had taken special care for protection of their lives. Presently, the government had enough stock of testing kits, personal protective equipment, masks and other gear required for people turning up for tests and medical treatment. If their number went up in future, the government will procure further stocks.
06 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Case filed after cartridge found near mosque||A case has been registered by the Gurugram police under the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act after an empty cartridge was found near Jama Masjid at Dhankot village here on Sunday. A hole was spotted in the building. Some locals claimed they had heard sounds of “firecrackers” near the mosque late last night. Gurugram police spokesperson Subhash Boken said there were no eyewitnesses in the incident, but the case was registered after an empty cartridge was found at the spot. He said that forensics team was sent to the spot for examination. Kherki Majra mosque Imam, Shahid said that he searched around the mosque with the locals to find an empty cartridge and also spotted a hole in the building. He then reported the matter to the police. He said that it was the act of miscreants.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Who is to blame for virus going viral from Nizamuddin?||Government agencies are playing a passing-the-buck game on who was responsible for allowing the congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin, from where a large number of COVID-19 cases across the country have been traced, at a time orders were in place prohibiting large gatherings. The Delhi Police, the local municipal corporation as well as the Delhi government, are yet to come clean on the issue and fix accountability on those responsible for Nizamuddin becoming the single largest source of COVID-19 infections in the country. At a time when robust efforts are needed to fix accountability, there’s little doubt that a common sense approach could have prompted the Tablighi Jamaat to cancel the March 13-15 ijtema , or congregation, given that the virus went viral from a similar February 28-March 1 gathering in Malaysia. Delhi government Since COVID-19 cases started appearing from the Tablighi’s Nizamuddin centre, many Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders blamed the city police for not enforcing Delhi government bans on large gatherings of people. On March 13, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, announced that “all sports gathering/conferences/seminars beyond 200 people” were prohibited in Delhi. “We have told all Sub-Divisional Magistrates and District Magistrates that all orders from the Health Department on COVID-19 should be followed strictly and if anyone violates it, action will be taken immediately,” Mr. Sisodia had said. Again, on March 16, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, announcing a ban on any gathering of more than 50 people in Delhi had said, “If protesters or any other groups still continue to gather in large numbers then apt actions under the Epidemic Disease Act will be taken by the area DMs, SDMs.” Addressing the press on March 31, Mr. Kejriwal had said that action would be taken against officials if found negligent in the matter and no one would be spared. “Many people are saying that this letter was written to that officer on this date and he did not take any action, etc. If any officer is found to be negligent, he would not be spared,” the Chief Minister had said. But “action”, if any, is not in the public domain. On March 31, Mr. Kejriwal “ordered” the registration of an FIR against a cleric at the Tablighi Jamaat centre even though time and again he has pointed to the fact that the Delhi Police reports to the Union Home Ministry and not the Delhi government. When contacted, a government spokesperson said that it was not aware of the religious congregation at the centre. To a question about the enforcement of Delhi government orders banning large gatherings, the official said that it was primarily the duty of the police to enforce it. Commenting on the statements made by Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Sisodia that SDMs and DMs should take action, the spokesperson said that the government would look into it. “Right now, we are handling the cases that are coming from the Tablighi centre and testing is still not over. We will look into whether there was any neglect too,” the official said. Deputy Commissioner (South-East) Harleen Kaur, and SDM (Defence Colony) Vinod Yadav did not respond to multiple calls and messages. “It is not our duty to check what is going on in different parts of the city. Once the incident came to light and after getting orders, we helped in the evacuation of people from the Markaz (centre) with the help of police,” a senior Delhi Health Department official said, when asked about actions taken by the department while people were still at the centre. Delhi Police The Delhi Police, for its part, has been unable to explain their role in implementing March 16 Delhi government order over restrictions of more than 50 people for a religious or social purpose. “From March 16 onwards, a police team from Hazrat Nizamuddin police station visited the centre and asked them to clear it and they assured they would adhere to the Delhi government orders,” said a police officer. By this time, of course, the congregation at the Nizamuddin centre was already over. Also, the Delhi government ban on gatherings of more than 200 people was issued on March 13, the day the congregation began. Later, on March 24, a police officer said that a meeting was held with Tablighi Jamaat officials at the Hazrat Nizamuddin police station where the imposition of the lockdown and repercussions if they didn’t follow were explained to them. The evacuation process from the centre began only after this. It may be recalled that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a “janata curfew” for March 22, he announced the ongoing nationwide lockdown to tackle the spread of COVID-19 only at 8 p.m. on March 24. Local body At a meeting convened by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) on February 4, municipal corporations in the city had also been instructed to track all foreign tourists in their respective jurisdiction residing in hotels and guest houses and provide daily updates. Senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) officials said that the foreigners residing at the Nizamuddin centre were not covered under this as they were residing at a religious centre and not in a guest house/hotel. The municipal corporations compiled information on the foreign tourists in their jurisdiction by procuring details from the managers of hotels and guest houses registered with them, an official said. As such, the responsibility of screening individuals coming from abroad was the responsibility of the authorities at the airport and the civic bodies were not involved in any screening activity, civic officials claimed.
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi responds to Modi’s appeal, lights up candles||At 9 p.m. on Sunday, lights went out in hundreds of households across Delhi as people gathered in their balconies to light candles and switch on flashlights for nine minutes straight, in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal asking citizens to demonstrate a collective will to fight against COVID-19 — the pandemic that has claimed thousands of lives worldwide. In some colonies of Delhi, many burst crackers and also played patriotic and religious songs on loudspeakers. “Unlike the call to ring bells and bang on utensils, today’s was a more sober event as lighting a candle in these dark times had a nice feeling to it. This also ensured that no one came to the streets in enthusiasm,” said Sanjana Grover from Defence Colony. It felt a little like Diwali as people hung lights from their houses and we also did a small puja at home before 9 p.m., she added. Anitya Kumar, a resident of Laxmi Nagar, said: “My wife and I lit a lamp to show our support to the doctors, police personnel and sanitation workers who are working round-the-clock. But I don’t know why were people bursting crackers and causing pollution.” Architect couple — Sandal and Pritha — who reside in a colony in south Delhi, said they had kept three large candles in stock. “We are doing this as a symbol of our gratitude to the health workers, policemen and the government officials who have been at the frontline to fight the virus,” the couple said, adding: “We switched off all lights in our house, including television, but kept the fridge running while we were out for nine minutes in our balcony.” In Gurugram, Bharat Vikas Parishad president Vivekanand Tiwari, a resident of Sector 15, said he along with his family and neighbours, lit diyas and flashed lights at 9 p.m. He said it was one of the ways for the people of the country to show that they were united in their fight against the virus and stood firmly with the government and Mr. Modi. He said it was a reaffirmation of the people’s resolve to emerge victorious from this “state of despair”. Former deputy director, research and development at Doordarshan, Jagdish Kumar Mehta, said the call from Mr. Modi to light diyas for nine minutes at 9 p.m. had an astrological significance and would undo the effect of “Rahu and Ketu”, whose phase begun in December last year. He said he was a firm believer in astrology and he along with hundreds of residents of Kendriya Vihar in Sector 56, most of them retired central government officials, participated in the event. Choosing to stay away from the event, Inqlabi Mazdoor Kendra central committee member Shyambir Shukla, who also runs a helpline to help migrant workers in the distress due to lockdown, said it was an attempt by government to hide its “failures and mislead” the people. He said the need of the hour was better resource management to minimise the hardships of the poor and augment the medical capacity and provide protective gear to the doctors, our frontline soldiers in the fight against the virus.  Electricity discom Electricity discom, Tata Power-DDL said a “meagre drop” of 157 MW took place during the lights off exercise, which was successfully managed by the company. Working closely with the load dispatch centre and other associated authorities, all adequate measures were taken to maintain grid stability, it said. Discom BSES said there was a reduction of 726 MW demand in areas covered by it Delhi.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure families of riot victims who lost ration cards get dry ration: HC||The Delhi High Court has asked the city government to ensure that families of the recent Delhi riots victims, who lost their ration cards, are provided the dry ration as per their entitlement. A Bench of Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva and Justice Navin Chawla, which heard the case through videoconference, asked the nodal officer to provide dry ration if approached by such families. The High Court’s order came after it was informed that Mr. Kishan, Section Officer (Admin) in the Office of the District Magistrate, North East, has been appointed as the nodal officer to specifically deal with the 275 riot-hit families who are staying at relief camps. Delhi government Standing Counsel Rahul Mehra said Mr. Kishan is in touch with the representatives of the families and is looking after the issues of curfew passes and provision of food. Two nodal officers Mr. Mehra also submitted that in addition to Mr. Kishan, the Chief District Medical Officer has appointed two nodal officers, Dr. Surya Kant Singh and Dr. Abha Dhand, both medical officers, for providing medical help to the members of the said 275 families. “Medical kits, containing over-the-counter medicines, have already been prepared and are ready for distribution to the said 275 families,” he said. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the victims, said the nodal officers and the medical officers are at present taking care of the requirement of these families and are taking proactive steps to ensure that none of them face any problem. He also submitted that some of the family members may not have ration cards as all their belongings were destroyed when their houses were burnt. He said that besides cooked food, some free ration is needed and accordingly, they shall be approaching the nodal officer and expressing their requirements.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records 58 new cases, one death||The total number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital crossed 500 after 58 new cases were reported on Sunday, the Delhi government said. One person also died on Sunday taking the toll to seven. The total number of cases now stands at 503. Out of the new cases reported, 19 patients are connected to Nizamuddin centre — from where a large number of cases in the country are linked. In total, 320 patients in Delhi, who have tested positive for the virus, are connected to the Nizamuddin event, the health bulletin released by the government read. Cases under probe Apart from this, only three cases are linked to those with foreign travel, 11 had contact history and 25 are under investigation. In total, 71 positive cases here are still under investigation. Among those who tested positive for the virus, include two nurses from Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI), two sanitation workers, an employee from AIIMS trauma centre and another staff from Charak Palika Hospital, said Srinivas Rajkumar, general-secretary of AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association. The bulletin also stated that 6,567 samples have been collected so far, out of which 5,398 have tested negative and at least 667 are pending. These include samples tested at government as well as private hospitals.  Among those who tested positive for the virus, include two nurses from Delhi State Cancer Institute [DSCI], two sanitation workers, an employee from AIIMS trauma centre and another staff from Charak Palika Hospital Srinivas Rajkumar general-secretary of AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||I had permission to leave campus, says JNU student||A Jawaharlal Nehru University student, Pranav Menon, responding to an FIR filed against him for allegedly not adhering to the lockdown guidelines on April 1, said the university was trying to malign his name. Mr. Menon, an M.Phil Student at the Centre for the Study of Law and Governance at the university, said he had permission to exit campus from the warden of Tapti hostel. “I made clear that I had no intention of returning in view of the lockdown and my respect and consideration for my fellow students on campus. My reason to leave was because my friend was unwell and could not carry on alone in his residence. I had the requisite permission and I had not acted without any just cause,” he said. “I was not a threat to any student and did not violate any protocol from March 18 till April 1 — when I was residing in JNU. I was merely asking to be let out as per procedure prescribed,” he said, adding that the security guards confined him to their room and assaulted him. “Such actions were a grave threat to my life merely because I chose to call out this blatant bias exercised by the agency by denying me exit from campus despite the appropriate procedure followed by me,” he said. Mr. Menon said he is hopeful that the truth will come out.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- Gautam Gambhir||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir has made various efforts to alleviate problems caused due to the lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, his office said on Sunday. These include, distributing cooked food to about 15,000 people as well as birds and dogs, distributing 2,100 ration kits and about 125 Personal Protect Equipment (PPE) kits and 4,000 N95 masks to doctors, his office said. More such kits and protective gear will be distributed to hospitals in the coming weeks, they said.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- SDMC||Disinfection drives in south Delhi have been stepped up to help contain the spread of COVID-19, with a focus on major vulnerable spots, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation said on Sunday. Densely populated areas such as slum clusters were targeted for disinfection with the deployment of drones and fire tenders. Nearly 25 litres of disinfectant solution was sprayed using drone.The SDMC has so far sanitised 200 localities and 60,000 houses across all four zones, it said.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Travel diaries||
06 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Shower of flowers for worker||A female sanitary worker of the local municipal corporation received a a joyous surprise when she reached Bachuari Street in Odisha’s Berhampur on Sunday for her regular visit even during the COVID-19 threat. In the morning, inhabitants of the area, mostly women, greeted her with a shower of flowers. She was presented a new sari and also received a garland made of currency notes as financial assistance. The sanitary worker sweeps and cleans the street every day. Chakradhar, an inhabitant of Bachuari Street, said it was a token of their appreciation for the sanitary workers who continue to put themselves in danger to keep people of the city safe. Shyamala, a local resident, said the female sanitary worker serving their area was an unsung hero, who also has a family to protect and home to look after. Ironically, the inhabitants of this street did not know the full name of the sanitary worker, whom they honoured. She is known as ‘Rani’ by all at Bachuari Street.
06 April 2020||Bhopal,||Man who held feast for 1,500 persons in Morena tests positive||Fourteen days after he returned from Dubai, a 40-year-old man from Morena tested positive for COVID-19 along with his wife on Thursday. And a day later, 10 of his relatives who had taken part in a feast thrown by him tested positive too. More than 1,500 people who had attended the feast ceremony in honour of his mother, who had died on March 8, had been confined in quarantine and the locality where the venue was located had been sealed too, said District Chief Medical and Health Officer R.C Bandil. Of the 23 persons whose samples had been taken, 10 relatives, including seven children, had tested positive, he added. The district administration had declared the house of the man, a restaurant waiter who had returned from Dubai on March 17, as the “epicentre” and the area within its 3 km radius as the “containment area”. The children were aged between two and 14, whereas a 60-year-old woman had contracted the illness too, said Sapna M. Lovanshi, Additional Director, State Directorate of Health Services. Curfew was imposed in the area and all persons were being screened at its exit points and traffic was prohibited too, said district officials.  Primary contacts “His own two children have tested positive. We are collecting samples of all their primary contacts now and those residing within the containment area who have symptoms, including cough and cold,” said Dr. Bandil. When the man landed in New Delhi, he was screened for illnesses but showed no symptoms until March-end, according to A.K. Gupta of the Morena district hospital. “His wife told us she had caught a cough and cold even before her husband’s return,” he said. Still, even when the couple turned up at the hospital on March 29, the man did not declare his travel history. “However, he returned to the hospital on March 31 complaining of mild cough and cold that’s when he declared he had returned from Dubai, and we took their samples,” said Dr. Gupta. “The ten members who had tested positive a day later didn’t have any symptoms,” said Pallavi Jain Govil, Principal Secretary, State Public Health and Family Welfare Department.
06 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Ten new cases in Ghaziabad||Ten more cases of COVID-19 have come to light in Ghaziabad. Nine of them attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. The district now has 24 cases. After four people from the Masuri area tested positive on Friday, late on Saturday evening, four persons from Pasonda, three from Muradnagar and two from Loni were found to be infected with COVID-19, Chief Medical Officer N.K. Gupta said. He said the number of cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat could go up as results of 80 more samples were awaited. One person from a housing society in Indirapuram also tested positive. Sources said he got himself tested at a private lab and had been admitted to a private hospital in Delhi. Contact tracing has started and areas within three kilometres of the localities were being sanitised, an official release said. “A stringent lockdown has been imposed in the Masuri area where four persons have been found positive,” said Superintendent of Police (Rural) Neeraj Jadaun. “It is a densely populated area. We are not taking any chances and are getting support from the community,” he added. 15 booked In a related incident, 10 Indonesians, including five women, with an alleged link with the Tablighi Jamaat were found to be staying in the Shaheed Nagar area since January. “Their samples have been sent for testing and they have been placed under quarantine,” the CMO said. The police have booked 15 persons under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, for giving shelter to the foreigners without informing the administration, Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani told reporters. Meanwhile, District Magistrates of Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad have issues orders asking private schools not to force parents to pay fees of their wards during the lockdown period. Gautam Buddha Nagar DM Suhas L.Y. has also issued an order whereby people who have been asked to be in institutional quarantine can avail of the facilities of designated star hotels on a “self-paid” basis.
06 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||All should unite to face COVID-19 menace: AMU teachers||Senior faculty members of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) have expressed deep concern over the irresponsible act of a section of Tablighi Jamaat by holding a congregation at its centre in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. The appeal signed by senior academicians said it was negligence to allow such a large gathering, knowing well that the dangerous COVID-19 virus had already spread its tentacles in different parts of the country. The faculty members also took a strong exception to the attempts being made by certain sections to paint the entire Muslim community as a villain and to squarely blame it for accentuating the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. They are of the considered opinion that the Nizamuddin episode was only an aberration as the Muslim community is religiously following all the instructions and directives of the Central government regarding social distancing, complete lockdown and maintaining personal hygiene, and is extending full cooperation to the authorities. Fatwas against Sir Syed Rahat Abrar, Director of Urdu Academy, who has written extensively on Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, reminded how some orthodox clerics issued fatwas against Sir Syed for instilling the spirit of scientific temper in Muslim society. “Sir Syed talked of striking a balance between ilm-e-din (knowledge of religion) and ilm-e-science,” he said. Communalising the issue, he added, will only weaken the fight against the virus. “AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru College and Hospital is the centre for testing COVID-19 samples in west U.P. So far, 736 samples have been tested of which 54 have been found positive,” said Dr. Abrar , who is also the associate member-in-charge of Public Relations Department, AMU.  Deep concern The faculty expressed deep concern over the campaign launched by certain vested interests to give a communal twist to this devastating human tragedy. The AMU faculty appealed to all sections of society, including the Muslim community, that at a time when the entire human race faces a huge crisis, they should join hands and face the menace unitedly and with full determination and follow all the directives of the government and advice of the doctors so as to win the battle against the deadly virus. Those who have signed the appeal include Professor Shahid Siddiqui (Principal, JN Medical College), Prof. Ali Mohammad Naqvi (former Dean, Faculty of Theology), Prof. Mohammad Zaheeruddin (former Dean, Faculty of Law), Prof. A.R. Kidwai (Director, UGC HRDC), Dr. Mohammad Shahid (Deputy Director, Sir Syed Academy), Prof. Asim Siddiqui (Department of English), Prof. Mohammad Sajjad (Department of History) and Prof. Asfar Ali Khan (Director, School Education, AMU).
06 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Police deny ruckus by Tabligh men||Saharanpur Police has denied media reports suggesting that quarantined members of the Tablighi Jamaat in the district asked for non-vegetarian food and defecated in the open. Senior Superintendent of Police Dinesh Kumar P. said some quarantined members littered the place after consuming food from the packet and were advised to use dustbin. “There was no demand for non-vegetarian food and claims of open defecation could not be substantiated,” he said. An official release said inspector of Rampur Maniharan was asked to probe the allegations. So far, 12 persons from a village of the district have tested positive in Lucknow.
06 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Fifth virus death in Rajasthan||An 82-year-old COVID-19 positive man, who was a resident of the curfew-bound Walled City of Jaipur, died at Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here on Sunday. He was admitted to the hospital on Saturday. This was the fifth virus-related death in the State. Two patients had earlier died in Bhilwara and one in Bikaner, while one person hailing from Alwar, who tested positive, died in Jaipur on Thursday. As many as 39 new COVID-19 positive cases, including the one who died, were detected in Jaipur on Sunday. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said the majority of them were already lodged in the National Institute of Medical Sciences, which is a private medical college situated on the Jaipur-Delhi national highway. Elsewhere in the State, five COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Dausa, Jhunjhunu, Tonk and Nagaur districts, taking the tally of patients to 222. Counted with the 31 evacuees from Iran staying in the Army's facilities in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer, the total number was 253. Thirty-two of the 37 recovered patients have so far been discharged. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the State government was committed to saving the lives of all people.
06 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. records its third death||Uttar Pradesh recorded its third death due to COVID-19 with a patient from Varanasi, which falls under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency, succumbing to the virus . The patient was admitted to the hospital in Banaras Hindu University on April 2 with acute respiratory syndrome, said Varanasi Commissioner Deepak Agarwal, adding that the patient died before the sample report was received. The victim died late on April 3, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Secretary (Health). The patient did not come to any government hospital or medical college for timely treatment, Mr. Prasad said, pointing out negligence on behalf of the patient’s kin. The patient, who was also suffering from diabetes and blood pressure ailment, was getting treated by private doctors, said Mr. Prasad. “When the patient came to BHU, his condition had already deteriorated,” he said.  ‘No travel history’ Mr. Agarwal said the deceased, who lived in Gangapur area of Varanasi, did not have any known travel history. But his full details were being investigated. The first two deaths due to COVID-19 in U.P. were recorded in Basti and Meerut. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in U.P. reached 278 till Sunday evening, with Noida (58), Agra (47), Meerut (33), Agra, Ghaziabad (23) and Lucknow (17) the worst affected, as per the State Directorate of Health Services. The State has so far reported positive cases in 31 out of 75 districts and sent a total of 5,255 samples for testing and put 3,927 persons under institutional quarantine.
06 April 2020||SOHANA (PUNJAB),||Punjab villages self-isolate to fight COVID-19||Standing at the entry point of his village on Chandigarh-Landra road, 24-year-old Sarvan Kumar wouldn’t let any outsider enter the village unless it’s an emergency. The reason: to ensure that COVID-19 doesn’t enter his village. Sohana village in Punjab’s Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar district has closed it’s door to outsiders and gone into ‘self-quarantine’ mode since March 31. “I am not literate but I understand that the virus is contagious and could be fatal. I understand that it can be prevented by staying at a safe distance. There are several others like me who are keeping a vigil,” said Mr. Sarvan, a daily wage worker. “We are trying to make people understand and convey that it [COVID-19] is not a joke... people have been taking it lightly,” he added. Twenty-one-year-old Ram said several youths are guarding the village day and night so that no outsider can sneak in. “We want everyone in the village to be safe,” he said. Sohana’s municipal councillor and former Sarpanch Parvinder Singh told The Hindu that as many people were not taking the curfew seriously, it was decided that entry and exit should be restricted. “We have deputed two to four volunteers at all the 22 entry-exit points. We request people to adhere to the curfew and if anyone doesn’t, then we inform the local police. We have made necessary arrangements to provide essentials to those in need. In case of a medical emergency, we ensure that transportation is provided. Our aim is to keep COVID-19 at bay and that no one is deprived of food,” said Mr. Singh. Sohana is not the only village which has gone into self-isolation mode. As many as 7,842 of the total 13,240 villages have isolated themselves. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said drug peddling has also reduced significantly due to the presence of village watchers. The recently appointed Village Police Officers are playing a pivotal role in facilitating the self-isolation. “The VPOs have become the bridge between the villagers and the supply chain of essential items,” he said.
06 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. braces itself for ‘toughest virus week’||U.S. President Donald Trump warned Americans to brace for a “very horrendous” number of COVID-19 deaths in the coming days, ahead of a rare speech by Queen Elizabeth II on Sunday aimed at rallying hard-hit Britain. Global deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic have soared past 60,000, with Europe continuing to bear the brunt of the virus which has left roughly half the planet confined at home. There are now more than 1.2 million confirmed cases across the globe, and around 65,000 people have died since the virus first emerged in China late last year, according to a Johns Hopkins University tally. Mr. Trump said the U.S. was entering “a time that’s going to be very horrendous. This will probably be the toughest week,” he said. “There will be a lot of death.” At the same time, the President stressed the U.S. — where infections have surpassed 3,00,000 — cannot remain shut down forever. “Mitigation does work but again, we’re not going to destroy our country,” he said. “I’ve said it from the beginning — the cure cannot be worse than the problem.” Over 45,000 global deaths have been in Europe, with Britain reporting a new daily high in fatalities, taking the overall toll to 4,300 out of nearly 42,000 cases. The Queen speaks Queen Elizabeth II is to make a rare, “deeply personal” speech on Sunday to urge people to rise to the challenge posed by the virus, and thank healthcare workers. “I hope in the years to come everyone will be able to take pride in how they responded to this challenge,” she will say, according to extracts released on Saturday. Some relief in Europe There was, however, some encouraging news from Europe over the weekend. Worst-hit Italy cheered after seeing its number of intensive care virus cases drop for the first time — from 4,068 on Friday to 3,994 on Saturday. “This is a very important data point,” said civil protection service chief Angelo Borrelli, adding that it “allows our hospitals to breathe.” Spain, which is under a near-total lockdown, saw a second successive daily fall in coronavirus-related deaths with 809 fatalities. New York State saw a record 630 deaths in a single day and Governor Andrew Cuomo warned the worst was yet to come. New York City appealed for licensed medical personnel to volunteer their services.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The mystery of low German COVID-19 fatality rates||They call them corona taxis: Medics outfitted in protective gear, driving around the empty streets of Heidelberg, Germany, to check on patients who are at home, five or six days into being sick with the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They take a blood test, looking for signs that a patient is about to go into a steep decline. They might suggest hospitalisation even to a patient who has only mild symptoms; the chances of surviving that decline are vastly improved by being in a hospital when it begins. “There is this tipping point at the end of the first week,” said professor Hans-Georg Kräusslich, head of virology at University Hospital in Heidelberg, one of the country’s leading research hospitals. “If you are a person whose lungs might fail, that’s when you will start deteriorating.” High engagement Dr. Heidelberg’s corona taxis illustrate a level of engagement and a commitment of public resources that help explain one of the most intriguing puzzles of the pandemic: Why is Germany’s death rate so low? The virus and the resulting disease, COVID-19, have hit Germany with force: According to Johns Hopkins University, the country had more than 92,000 infections as of midday Saturday, more than any other country except the U.S., Italy and Spain. But with 1,295 deaths, Germany’s fatality rate stood at 1.4% compared with 12% in Italy; around 10% in Spain, France and Britain; 4% in China; and 2.5% in the United States. “There has been talk of a German anomaly,” said Hendrik Streeck, director of the Institute of Virology at the University Hospital Bonn. Dr. Streeck has been getting calls from colleagues in the United States and elsewhere. “‘What are you doing differently?’ they ask me,” he said. “‘Why is your death rate so low?’” There are several answers to this question, experts say — a mix of statistical distortions and very real differences in how the country has taken on the epidemic. The average age of those infected is lower in Germany than in many other countries. Many of the early patients caught the virus in Austrian and Italian ski resorts and were relatively young and healthy, Dr. Kräusslich said. The average age of contracting the disease remains relatively low, at 49. In France, it is 62.5, and in Italy 62, according to their latest national reports. Another explanation is that Germany has been testing far more people than most nations. That means it catches more people with few or no symptoms, increasing the number of known cases but not the number of fatalities. More ICU units But there are also significant medical factors, epidemiologists and virologists say, chief among them early and widespread testing and treatment, plenty of intensive care beds and a trusted government whose social distancing guidelines are widely observed. In mid-January, long before most Germans had given the virus much thought, Charité hospital in Berlin had already developed a test and posted the formula online. By the time Germany recorded its first case of COVID-19 in February, laboratories had built up a stock of test kits. By now, Germany is conducting around 3,50,000 coronavirus tests a week, far more than any other European country. Early and widespread testing has allowed authorities to slow the spread of the pandemic by isolating known cases while they are infectious. Further, all across Germany, hospitals have expanded their intensive care capacities. And they started from a high level. In January, Germany had some 28,000 intensive care beds equipped with ventilators, or 34 per 1,00,000 people. By comparison, that rate is 12 in Italy and 7 in the Netherlands. By now, there are 40,000 intensive care beds available in Germany.NY Times
06 April 2020||Beijing,||3.86 billion masks exported since March: China||China has sold nearly four billion masks to foreign countries since March, officials said on Sunday, as they tried to stem widespread fears over the quality of medical exports. Despite Chinese cases dwindling, Beijing has encouraged factories to increase production of medical supplies as parts of the world face a protective equipment shortage.  China has exported 3.86 billion masks, 37.5 million pieces of protective clothing, 16,000 ventilators and 2.84 million COVID-19 testing kits since March 1, customs official Jin Hai said, with orders to more than 50 countries. She added the country’s medical supply exports were valued at 10.2 billion yuan ($1.4 billion). However numerous nations — including the Netherlands, the Philippines, Croatia, Turkey and Spain — have complained about substandard or faulty medical products shipped from China. Recall of orders Last week, the Dutch government recalled 6,00,000 masks out of a Chinese shipment of 1.3 million that did not meet quality standards. China said the manufacturer “stated clearly that (the masks) are non-surgical.” Spain also rejected thousands of rapid test kits sent by an unauthorised Chinese company after it found that they were unreliable last week. Chinese officials hit back on Sunday at media reports over defective medical supplies, saying that they “did not reflect the full facts”. “In reality there are various factors, such as China having different standards and different usage habits to other countries. Even improper use can lead to doubts over quality,” said Jiang Fan, an official with the Ministry of Commerce. The comments echoed remarks from Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying, who over the past week has repeatedly urged Western media not to “politicise” or “hype up” the issue. Tighter regulations Earlier this week, Beijing tightened regulations for exported virus medical equipment, requiring products to fulfil both domestic licensing standards and that of their destination countries. China has also increased its production capacity of COVID-19 testing kits to over 4 million a day, said Zhang Qi, an official with the National Medical Products Administration.
06 April 2020||Washington,||Fired intelligence official was a disgrace: Trump||U.S. President Donald Trump suggested that he fired the Inspector General for the intelligence community in retaliation for impeachment, saying the official was wrong to provide an anonymous whistleblower complaint to Congress as the law requires. Mr. Trump called Michael Atkinson a “disgrace” after informing Congress late on Friday night that he intended to fire him. In letters to the House and Senate intelligence committees, Mr. Trump wrote that he had lost confidence in Mr. Atkinson but gave little detail. A day later, Mr. Trump was more blunt, telling reporters at the White House: “I thought he did a terrible job, absolutely terrible.” The whistleblower report was a detailed complaint written by an anonymous intelligence official who described Mr. Trump’s pressure on Ukraine to investigate Democrat Joe Biden and his son. Mr. Atkinson determined the complaint was urgent and credible and therefore was required by law to disclose it to Congress, but he was overruled for weeks by the acting Director of National Intelligence, Joseph Maguire. On Saturday, Mr. Trump questioned why Mr. Atkinson didn’t speak to him about the complaint, though Mr. Atkinson’s role is to provide independent oversight. “Never came in to see me, never requested to see me,” Mr. Trump said. He added: “That man is a disgrace to IGs.”
06 April 2020||Lahore,||Over 300 Tablighi Jamaat members test positive in Pakistan’s Punjab||Over 300 Tablighi Jamaat members have been tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus till Sunday in Pakistan’s Punjab province, amid efforts by authorities to track down and quarantine thousands of people who attended a massive congregation of the group last month. Authorities have placed the entire city of Raiwind that houses headquarters of the Pakistani faction of the Jamaat under . According to the data released by the primary and secondary heallockdownth care corona monitoring room on Sunday, over 300 preachers of the Tablighi Jamaat in different parts of Punjab province have so far been tested positive. Most of them belong to Lahore’s Tablighi Jamaat Markaz that has been turned into quarantine centre. A large number of preachers who had attended a major congregation in early March in its headquarters in Lahore were later tracked down across the country and placed in quarantine centres. According to the government, in March the Tablighi Jamaat went ahead with its annual congregation in Raiwind, Lahore against its ‘advice’ that the gathering might spread the virus. Pakistani authorities had urged the cancellation of the five-day Tablighi congregation, which was attended by thousands of people from several countries.
06 April 2020||Islamabad,||Coronavirus: Pak cleric booked for gathering 400 people for Friday prayers despite ban||A case has been registered against former Lal Masjid cleric former Lal Masjid cleric Maulana Abdul Aziz and six others in Pakistan for gathering around 400 people for Friday prayers at a prominent mosque here, despite a ban on such religious congregations.PTI
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A niggardliness that is economically unwarranted||The three-week long lockdown imposed on the country, it can be argued, was an over-reaction. More widespread testing of possible cases, “social distancing”, self-quarantining by the elderly, and selective lockdown of sensitive areas (as the Chinese government did in Wuhan) might have been quite adequate. But while this can be debated, what cannot be is the utter thoughtlessness that has accompanied the actual lockdown. Ameliorative steps made necessary by it should have been announced simultaneously, to prevent the mass exodus of migrant workers which occurred not because of any “Fake-News”-induced panic, as the government claimed before the Supreme Court, but out of sheer desperation. Instead, some steps were announced by the Finance Minister a full 36 hours into the lockdown; and they were minuscule. A comparison Indeed, India stands out among all the countries of the world as much for the scale of the draconian measure it has imposed as for the extent of unconcern it has displayed for the working poor affected by it. In the United States, for instance, where the lockdown has raised the number of persons filing unemployment claims from 2.8 lakh to 6.6 million in a matter of days, those affected can fall back on unemployment benefit; and the government has approved a package of ameliorative steps costing roughly 10% of that country’s GDP to cope with the crisis. In India by contrast, the Finance Minister’s package comes to less than 1% of its GDP; and much of it is just a repackaging of already existing schemes. New expenditure comes to just a little over half of the Rs. 1.7-lakh crore earmarked for the package. Besides, none of the steps will help the migrant workers; not even the larger foodgrain ration which in principle could, because most of them would have ration cards back home rather than in the places where they stay. But much has already been written on all this, and I need not repeat it here. What can be done What I wish to argue here is that this niggardliness is totally unwarranted on economic grounds. Many economists and civil society activists had suggested a cash transfer of Rs. 7,000 per month for a two-month period to the bottom 80% of households to tide over the crisis, in addition to enhanced rations of foodgrains and the inclusion of certain other essential commodities within the ration basket. The cost of their proposed cash transfers alone would come to Rs. 3.66-lakh crore, which is more than 10 times the cash transfers provided in the Finance Minister’s package. Providing assistance on the scale proposed by civil society organisations is necessary; it will no doubt pose logistical problems, but not financial problems. Even if all of it is financed through a fiscal deficit for the time being, the economic implications of such an enlarged deficit would not be forbidding. These implications can manifest themselves in two ways: one is through inflation, and the other by precipitating a balance of payments problem. Let us consider each of these. As long as supplies of essential commodities are plentiful and these are made available through the Public Distribution System to the vast majority of the people, so that they are insulated against the effects of inflation, any inflation per se should not be a matter of great concern. This is the case in India at present. Foodgrains aplenty The supply of the most essential of goods, foodgrains, is plentiful. Currently there are 58 million tonnes of foodgrain stocks with the government, of which no more than about 21 million tonnes are required as buffer-cum-operational stocks. This leaves a surplus of 37 million tonnes which can be used for distribution as enhanced ration, or for providing a cushion against inflation. The rabi crop is supposed to be good; as long as it is safely harvested, this would further boost the government’s foodstocks. There are some reports of labour shortage holding up harvesting. This may be a temporary problem that would disappear once the lockdown eases; but if necessary Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act work can be extended to cover harvesting operations in areas experiencing labour shortage. Likewise, the supplies of other essential commodities which consist of manufactured goods and where output has been demand-constrained all along, will get boosted in response to higher demand; and in special cases, imports may have to be resorted to. There is in short no reason to think that inflation of a worrisome magnitude will follow if the fiscal deficit is increased. There is an additional factor here. The increase in total demand caused by an initial increase in demand, which is financed by a fiscal deficit, is a multiple of the latter. Now in a situation like the present, when even if the lockdown is lifted social distancing and restrictions on social activities will continue, the value of the multiplier will be lower than usual. People in short would hold on to purchasing power to a much greater extent than usual because of the continuing restrictions on demand, which would act as an automatic anti-inflationary factor. Of course there will be shortages of some less essential commodities and also hoarding on account of such shortages. But since these shortages will be expected to be temporary, a result of the pandemic unlikely to last long, there will be a damper on hoarding. Issue of deficit True, if inflationary expectations are strong and persistent, then the prices of non-rationed commodities may rise sharply for speculative reasons; but the government can prevent such expectations, by adopting measures such as bringing down petro-product prices, taking advantage of the collapse of world oil prices. A larger fiscal deficit, therefore, need not cause disquiet on account of inflation. On the balance of payments front, the worry associated with a larger fiscal deficit is financial flight caused by frightened investors. Some financial flight is already happening, with the rupee taking a fall. This flight is not because of our fiscal deficit but because, whenever there is panic in financial markets, the tendency is to rush to dollars, even though the cause of the panic may lie in the United States itself. But India has close to half a trillion dollars of foreign exchange reserves. These can be used, up to a point, to check the flight from the rupee to the dollar. If the flight nonetheless persists, then India will have a legitimate reason for putting restrictions on capital outflows in the context of the pandemic. We are currently in a bizarre situation where cross-border movement of people is virtually barred, while cross-border movement of finance is freely allowed. If the hardships of the people caused by the pandemic, and the lockdown it has created, are not ameliorated through larger government expenditure, because of the fear that the larger fiscal deficit required for it would frighten finance into fleeing, then the privileging of finance over people would have reached its acme. This must not be allowed. The Centre must not worry about its fiscal deficit; and since the State governments will bear a substantial expenditure burden on account of the pandemic, the Centre must make more resources available to them. It should raise their borrowing limits, perhaps double their current limits as a general rule, apart from negotiating the magnitude of fiscal transfers it should make towards them. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Reducing farm distress during a pandemic||Social distancing and living under a lockdown appear to be the only effective ways of dealing with the pandemic. As India lacks the resources to significantly ramp up testing, imposing a lockdown was the government’s preferred option. Although there is limited evidence to suggest that this strategy may be working in containing the spread of the virus, its after-effects on thousands of migrant workers is already out in the open. Distrustful of the government’s promise of providing support, most migrant workers decided to walk back to their home States despite efforts by the state machinery to prevent them from moving out. Impact on agricultural income Migrants are not the only ones who are facing the after-effects of the lockdown. With the economy coming to a complete halt in most of the informal and formal enterprises in urban areas, the lockdown is also likely to affect the large population in rural areas, a majority of whom are dependent on agriculture. At a time when the rural economy was witnessing declining incomes, both for casual workers and self-employed workers, even before the pandemic broke out, this lockdown is only going to hurt the agricultural economy further. Even before the lockdown, rural wages were declining in real terms but there were hopes for agricultural incomes rising with food prices rising until January 2020. However, recent data on prices suggest that the trend is reversing with the decline in agricultural prices in most markets. In the short run, we will likely witness a breakdown of supply chains of agricultural produce with no facilities for transportation of produce. This is likely to hurt those engaged in the production of fruits and vegetables, which are perishable goods and cannot be stored. With horticultural production exceeding foodgrain production in the last decade, many farmers are likely to face uncertain or no markets for their produce. Media reports have already confirmed that farmers are finding it difficult to dispose horticultural produce. Some of them have taken the extreme step of destroying their produce. There will also be short-term impacts on foodgrains and other rabi crops that were ready to be harvested at the beginning of April. In some cases, harvesting may be postponed but it is difficult to do so beyond a week or a fortnight. While the government has exempted operation of agricultural markets and mandis from the lockdown, it will be difficult for farmers to harvest the agricultural produce in the surplus States of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in the absence of migrant labourers. Even if standing crop is harvested, April is the labour-intensive month. Labourers are required for packing, processing, transporting and selling the produce. This year is expected to register a record in the production of cereals, pulses, cotton and oilseeds. Most of these are labour-intensive crops and the absence of working labourers during the harvest and post-harvest season is likely to affect the prospect of higher incomes in agriculture. Some of the short-term impacts may affect price realisation by farmers but the real worry for farmers is going to be the decline in prices for the majority of agricultural produce. There are already signs of a collapse in agricultural prices, which predates the outbreak of the pandemic. The food price index of the Food and Agricultural Organization, which was showing a rising trend in food prices until January 2020, reported a 1% decline in prices month-on-month in February 2020. This is likely to worsen further, particularly for cash crops. It is well-known that commercial crop prices follow a similar pattern as other primary commodities, particularly petroleum prices. With the sharp decline in petroleum prices, most of the commercial crops have seen a downward pressure on prices, which is likely to worsen in the coming months. But even for foodgrains and other crops, there is likely to be downward pressure on prices due to declining demand. The slowdown in the economy domestically and the expected recession worldwide will contribute to lower demand for agricultural commodities. At a time when the agricultural sector was already battling declining demand and lower prices, the faint hope of better prices appears unlikely to materialise. It is the decline in prices which is likely to hurt the income of farmers in the long run more than the short-run supply disruptions and labour shortages. What the government can do While it is clear that agriculture will be affected due to short-term disruptions and the long-term economic impact of the pandemic, there is an opportunity for the government to help farmers through state support. Political expediency and fiscal concerns led the government to stock up foodgrains, with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) reporting 77 million tonnes of cereals in stocks as against the buffer requirement of 21 million tonnes as on April 1. However, with the lockdown forcing a humanitarian crisis and with most migrants heading back to the rural areas, it is also time for the government to release the food stocks through the public distribution system. The Central government has already announced that for the next three months, 5 kg of free grains will be distributed in addition to what people are entitled to under the National Food Security Act, but this has not yet reached the State governments due to the lockdown. While this may free up FCI godowns to some extent, it will be prudent to extend the scheme to all residents, particularly migrants who may not be able to avail of free grain in urban areas. While raising procurements is desirable and may be necessary for the forthcoming rabi crops, the state is also expected to intervene and assure remunerative incomes to farmers. One way of ensuring this is to reduce the input costs through existing schemes of subsidies such as the fertilizer subsidy and through price reduction in petrol/diesel meant for agricultural purposes. But for the immediate short-term, farmers need to be compensated for the loss of income and the best way to do it is through the PM-KISAN scheme. Unfortunately, the only announcement in this regard is the disbursal of the first installment of the transfer which is due in April. However, the scheme only used two-thirds of its budget allocation for 2019, so efforts should be made to not only enhance the coverage monetarily but also include tenant farmers and wage labourers who are as much dependent on agriculture as the land-owning cultivators. Such a step is necessary not just for the survival of the agricultural sector but also for the overall economy which is expected to see a sharp slowdown and decline in demand. While income transfers may not be the best way of supporting the agricultural sector at times like these, they are the best available instruments to raise rural incomes and create demand. Himanshu is Associate Professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, JNU, New Delhi
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The criticality of community engagement||A highly significant observation arising out of a pioneering health-care initiative led by a doctor couple in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra in the 1970s greatly inspired primary health-care delivery, both within and outside the country. This observation was that a significant cultural gap existed between health-care personnel such as auxiliary nurse midwives and rural and tribal beneficiaries, significantly impeding delivery of preventive and promotive health care. It was realised that a cadre of health workers recruited by and from within the community, and also accountable to the community, would have greater affinity with people, thus ensuring greater community participation in care delivery. Soon, a series of community health worker schemes followed, the latest being the accredited social health activist (ASHA) programme. Ground reality The recent attack on an ASHA worker conducting a COVID-19 survey, due to an alleged suspicion that she was a government National Register of Citizens agent betrays the faltering of our community health worker programmes in a way. Over time, they have become de-facto public health employees rather than being community representatives enjoying the unswerving confidence of people as originally envisaged. Two things remain common to the sporadic incidents of non-cooperation with our anti-coronavirus campaign, from the Tablighi Jamaat fiasco to migrants escaping quarantine and allegedly unleashing violence against the police. First, that a strong felt need for coronavirus control remains absent due to deficient threat perception. Second, that deficient threat perception has resulted in strict control measures such as quarantine to be perceived as high-handed government instruments. What this signifies is that government messaging of the coronavirus threat will alone not suffice, and that a willingness to cooperate can only be engendered from deep within the community. Key strategy Community engagement is a pre-requisite for risk communication, which entails effectively communicating the threat due to the virus, instilling the right practices and etiquette, and combating rumours and stigma. Till date, the government’s machinery to communicate risk has served a thin upper- and middle-class segment quite well. However, with COVID-19 moving briskly towards slums and rural hinterlands, one should not be surprised if such incidents of non-cooperation start surfacing at a brisk pace too. Rural awareness generation and community engagement has unto now comprised mainly of engaging with local panchayats, disseminating publicity material in local vernacular, and calling on the participation of civil society organisations. For our anti-coronavirus campaign to be a success, community engagement has to ensue on a war-footing, much akin to the production of ventilators and masks. Like the Antyodaya approach, it has to embrace the remotest community stalwart who enjoys the community’s confidence and is perceived as an impartial non-state agent. One may say that we are too far into the pandemic to focus on risk communication. But community engagement is more than just risk communication. It is the bedrock of community participation, the need for which will only be felt even more acutely as the epidemic worsens. Contact tracing activities will have to pick up as COVID-19 increasingly percolates to rural areas. Enhancing testing for SARS-CoV-2 and concomitant expansion of quarantine, isolation, and treatment activities along vast expanses will tremendously strain our thin public health machinery. This will not be possible without community participation at every step. Further, mitigation activities in case of considerable rural penetration of COVID-19 will require efforts of dreadful, phenomenal proportions. Imagine a primary health centre equipped with one doctor and a nurse catering to 20- odd villages spread across miles of difficult terrain. Even attending to the mildest cases and referring severe ones will not just be infeasible but highly risk-laden too. Strongly involving the nearly 2.5 million informal health-care providers would become crucial for a range of activities. Makeshift arrangements for transportation and care, such as motorcycle ambulances and mobile medical units, will need to be made. Further, initiatives such as community kitchens of Kerala will assume tremendous importance in cases of a stringent and prolonged lockdown. These, along with simply a strict adherence to social distancing throughout the pandemic, cannot be conceived without full community participation. Crucial factors The criticality of community engagement on a war-footing is underscored by a set of factors. First, a concoction of local culture, values and beliefs can lead to blithe disregard of the coronavirus threat and gravely endanger containment and mitigation efforts. Second, threatened livelihoods due to lockdowns and a resultant downplaying of the coronavirus risk can instil indignation and non-cooperation, as witnessed in the case of many migrants. With our weak social support system, we cannot afford quarantine allowances like in Sweden and Singapore; even the entitled modest relief could get delayed. Third, there is increased likelihood of repeat lockdowns due to the virus likely to bounce back, which will greatly test public patience and co-operation. Lastly, we also need to remember the trust deficit between health workers and the public that has lingered on since decades, given our unsatisfactory public and profiteering private health care. One may say that these challenges are not completely mitigable through community engagement, but that is undoubtedly the best shot we have. Urgent reinforcing and galvanising of community engagement activities will largely decide the trajectory COVID-19 undertakes in India. Recruiting a medical workforce, augmenting infrastructure, and manufacturing personal protective equipment on a war footing – unless these go hand-in-hand with the former, will result in undermining of both. Dr. Soham D. Bhaduri is a Mumbai-based doctor, health-care commentator, and editor of the journal, ‘The Indian Practitioner’
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Shooting the messenger||While the economic cost of the pandemic has been discussed widely, not as much attention has been paid to the lurking danger of the shrinking of democratic spaces. The most explicit manifestation of this global malaise can be seen in Hungary now, where Prime Minister Viktor Orbán recently secured parliamentary approval for a set of draconian measures including jail terms for spreading misinformation and no clear time limit to a state of emergency that allows him to rule by decree. The Opposition parties’ demand for a sunset clause on the legislation was brushed aside by the ruling party, which has a brute majority in parliament. The editorial in this newspaper, “Uncritical endorsement” (April 2), pointed out how the Indian Supreme Court has uncritically accepted the official narrative that “fake news” about the duration of the lockdown being “three months” caused a panic reaction from migrant workers across States. As the editorial said, neither the Court nor the government acknowledged the real factors such as “the short notice of just four hours for the lockdown to take effect, the lack of planning and coordination with the States, the fears of the people about being left without cash and running out of food, and worries about their families back home.” In the same case, the Union government sought a direction to restrain the media from reporting or publishing “anything” without ascertaining the factual position from the government. It was an Indian Orbán moment where only the official version, however limited the information may be and with its inherent elements of propaganda, would have legal sanction. Role of the media The plea of the Union government indicates a democratic deficit in the executive in realising the role of the media during a pandemic and the necessity for a credible information ecosystem. While the apex court upheld the right to free discussion about COVID-19, it also directed the media to refer to and publish the official version of the developments in order to avoid inaccuracies and large-scale panic. Herein lies the catch. It is a fact that fake news and deliberate misleading of the public happens from the top, and often through people who wield power. This fact was established in studies on fake news conducted by the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism, University of Oxford. Claims by the AYUSH Ministry Let’s look at how the Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) has performed during this crisis. Early last week, the Minister of State for AYUSH, Shripad Naik, said that Ayurveda and Homeopathy medicines cured the U.K.’s Prince Charles of SARS-CoV-2 and asserted that his recovery only “validates our age-old practice since thousands of years”. But the Prince’s spokesperson rejected the claim. In an e-mail to The Indian Express , The Clarence House spokesperson said, “This information is incorrect. The Prince of Wales followed the medical advice of the NHS (National Health Service) in the U.K. and nothing more.” The Press Council of India issued a statement soon after this, which read: “The Press Council of India advises the print media to stop publicity and advertisement of AYUSH-related claims for COVID-19 treatment in order to prevent dissemination of misleading information about AYUSH drugs and services in view of the emerging threat in the country due to the pandemic.” In this context we should remind the government and the apex court some considered views about a free press. Nearly three decades ago, Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen emphatically said that “in the terrible history of famines in the world, no substantial famine has ever occurred in any independent and democratic country with a relatively free press.” A study by UNESCO says, “Press freedom and good governance are not mutually exclusive. They support each other while promoting a country’s economic and human development.” The Ground Zero report in this newpaper, “The long march to uncertainty” (April 4), reveals the hollowness of the Government of India’s submission to the Supreme Court and documents the plight of migrant labourers, who are the backbone of the Indian economy. The hope is that the courts recognise that during a crisis such as a pandemic, a government cannot be permitted to undermine hard-won democratic rights and that a free and independent media is a basic need in a democracy. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Enemy at the gates||Kerala’s grievance over Karnataka sealing its border to prevent the spread of COVID-19 has brought under focus the extent and the possible limits, of restrictions that may be imposed by the government to deal with a public health emergency. After the Kerala High Court directed the Centre to ensure free vehicular movement for those requiring urgent medical treatment on the national highway that connects Kasaragod in Kerala to Mangaluru in Karnataka, the Supreme Court has directed the Centre to confer with the States and formulate the norms for creating a passage at Talapadi, the border. An amicable solution is possibly round the corner, as there are reports of Kasaragod district suffering due to the highway closure. Many here depend on medical facilities in Mangaluru for emergencies, while others rely on inter-State movement for essential medicines to reach them. These include those battling endosulfan poisoning for many years. Karnataka’s objection is based on the fact that Kasaragod has Kerala’s largest number of positive cases. It has a reasonable apprehension that allowing vehicles might result in the disease spreading to its territory. However, it is clear that those who may travel across the border for urgent medical needs are patients other than those who are pandemic victims. A key question that has arisen is whether legal measures taken by the State to prevent the further spread of an epidemic can extend to a point where there is no exception even for medical needs. The Kerala High Court took the view that denying emergency medical aid amounts to a violation of the right to life and liberty, and addressed jurisdictional objections from Karnataka by observing that its direction was to the Centre, as what was under closure was a national highway. There is significant irony in the Kerala point of view. Late last month, the Kerala Governor promulgated the ‘Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020’ to arm itself with extraordinary powers to deal with the pandemic. One of its clauses says the State can seal its borders for such period as necessary, while another empowers it to restrict the duration of essential or emergency services, including health, food supply and fuel. Karnataka may have reason to believe that it is equally entitled to seal its borders and restrict essential services. It is a moot question whether Kerala’s new law would weaken its case that its neighbour cannot shut down its border and deny medical access to its residents. Interestingly, inter-State migration and quarantine are under the Union List, while the prevention of infectious diseases moving from one State to another is under the Concurrent List. This can only mean that while States have the power to impose border restrictions, the responsibility to prevent a breakdown of inter-State relations over such disputes is on the Centre.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Mockery of justice||Thursday’s ruling by the Sindh High Court that overturned the conviction of Omar Saeed Sheikh, and three others, of murdering American journalist Daniel Pearl, for lack of evidence is scandalous in its utter disregard for criminal jurisprudence. The court observed that no evidence had been brought before it by the prosecution to link any of the four — the others being Fahad Saleem, Syed Salman Saqib and Sheikh Muhammad Adil, whose convictions were similarly overturned — to the killing of Pearl. This is sophistry at its best and speaks eloquently of the systematic way the case has been diluted from the beginning. Pearl, then South Asian Bureau Chief of The Wall Street Journal , was abducted in Karachi in January 2002, in an operation managed by Omar Sheikh, who had demonstrated links to, among others, Pakistani militant groups as well as to al-Qaeda. Pearl had been baited while investigating links between al-Qaeda and the British ‘Shoe Bomber’ Richard Reid, who tried, in mid-air on a flight, to light explosives in his shoes on December 21, 2001, just two months previously. Many ransom demands later, a video was handed over on February 21, 2002, wherein Pearl was shown being methodically beheaded with a knife. When the Americans began to squeeze Pakistan to go after the perpetrators, Omar Sheikh ‘surrendered’ to Ijaz Shah, a former Intelligence Chief, then Home Secretary of Punjab; he is now the country’s Interior Minister. Even more curiously, it was after many days that Sheikh’s arrest was shown. The Sindh government has extended Sheikh’s detention and the provincial prosecutor has said that the High Court ruling will be appealed in the Supreme Court. But these moves could be aimed at blunting growing international opprobrium, including at the FATF, the global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog, that has already put Pakistan on its ‘grey list’, and where India has said it will bring this matter for discussion. It is likely that once the pressure eases, Sheikh and his cohorts will be let off as has happened with others before them. Pakistan’s record of leniency on this has been as consistent as it has been alarming. In 2015, Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, who supervised the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, was released from detention, and remains free. Just last month, Pakistan’s Economic Affairs Minister Hammad Azhar revealed that Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar had conveniently gone “missing” along with his family. Masood Azhar, Omar Sheikh, and Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar had been released in exchange for hostages of Flight IC 814 in December 1999 into Taliban/ISI custody in Kandahar. Pakistan needs to be persuaded to move beyond tokenism and demonstrate a much higher order of commitment to deal with such terrorists than it has hitherto shown.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Why everyone should wear masks||Flattening the epidemic curve (case distribution curve) is the need of the day. On the curve, Y axis and X axis represent case numbers and time, respectively. A normal epidemic curve is bell-shaped, with an early ascending slope (first phase), a peak (second phase) and a declining slope (third phase). The area under the curve represents the total number of cases. India is now in the first phase of the COVID-19 pandemic. A rapid increase in cases will demand far more healthcare facilities than now available. Healthcare facilities were not created in anticipation of a pandemic and are grossly inadequate for India to tackle the first phase. A flattening of the curve will reduce the demand on beds in intensive care units, respirators, and specialists to manage acute respiratory distress syndrome. The peak will be dwarfed and come after some breathing time; the pressure will be eased. However, the area under the curve, the total number of cases, whether the curve is bell-shaped or flattened, will be the same. This crucial information in the epidemiology of the epidemic must be taken into account for planning a response. Flattening the curve There are two ways of flattening the curve: imposing a strict lockdown for a number of weeks or use of face masks all the time when outside our homes. A lockdown physically distances families from each other. The disadvantage is that family members may not be able to keep a physical distance of two metres from one another all the time. As a result, intra-familial spread occurs and more people are infected at the end of the lockdown than at the beginning. But during a lockdown community transmission is prevented. There are four reasons for the universal use of masks. First, any infected person will not infect others because the droplets of fluids that we let out during conversations, coughing or sneezing will be blocked by the mask. Remember, most infectious people don’t have symptoms, or have mild symptoms, and are unaware that they are infected. Second, uninfected people will have some protection from droplet infection during interactions with others. For those who wear eyeglasses, there is additional protection from droplets falling on the conjunctiva. When both parties wear masks, the probability of transmission is virtually zero. Third, the mask-wearers will avoid inserting their fingertips into their nostrils or mouths. Viruses deposited on surfaces may be carried by hand if we touch such surfaces; if we do not touch our eyes, nostrils or mouth, this mode of transmission is prevented. Fourth, everyone will be reminded all the time that these are abnormal days. In overcrowded areas such as slums, a lockdown will not be efficient in slowing down transmission. In such places, universal mask use is a simple way to slow down transmission. In India the wise choice would have been to ensure universal mask use in slums, bazaars, shops selling essential commodities, etc. before the lockdown. But then, wisdom, proverbially, is slower than adventure. Making your own mask Taiwan and the Czech Republic depended primarily on universal mask use and slowed down the epidemic. In the Czech Republic, people made their own masks. Cotton pieces, preferably coarse, three layers, stitched with two straps, make masks of sufficient quality. These masks should cover the nose from just below the eye level and reach and cover the chin. All adults, and children who are old enough to wear masks, should wear them. At the end of the day, cotton masks can be washed in soapy water and hung to dry for re-use. COVID-19 mortality is due to three reasons. Virus virulence is the given and cannot be altered. Co-morbidity (diabetes, chronic diseases) is already prevalent. Then there is low-quality healthcare. Slowing down the epidemic by imposing a lockdown and ensuring universal mask use gives us the chance to protect people from infection and improve healthcare quality; wherever that was done, the mortality was less than 1%. T. Jacob John is retired Professor of Virology in the Christian Medical College, Vellore
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Hijacked Plane Back in Tokyo||After five anxious and tension-packed days, a happy ending was written here (Tokyo) this morning (April 5) to the most bizarre and longest airliner hijacking case in history with the return to Tokyo of the Japan Airlines plane “Yodo” with its three crew members and hostage, Transport Vice-Minister Mr. Yamamura. All of them were no worse for the experience than being somewhat shaken up. It was a satisfactory conclusion to all parties involved because hijacking leftist radicals could reach their desired destination of North Korea, its over 100 passengers were safely let off and the crew and hostage were able to go to North Korea and return home without a scratch. The episode, however, is believed to have cost Japan hundreds of millions of yen in terms of money spent by Government and Japan Airlines in securing the early release of the plane and passengers, potential revenue lost by the airline due to the plane being tied up for five days and chartering of other planes and colossal amount of advertising space and time sacrificed by newspapers and radio and television stations in giving saturation coverage.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Get set for volatility||After an initial spike in the first week of March, precious metals fell sharply along with other asset classes in the second week. Comex gold gained 1.91% in March to settle at $1,596.6 an ounce while Comex silver fell by a whopping 13.6% to close at $14.15 an ounce. In the domestic market, gold futures on the MCX gained 3.3% in March to settle at Rs. 42,956 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures slipped 10.1% in to close at Rs. 39,523 per kg. As observed in the previous post, Comex gold turned weak and fell way below the target zone of $1,510-1,520. The short-term outlook for Comex gold remains weak and a slide to $1,450-1,490 appears likely. From a medium-term perspective, gold price is likely to trade in the range of $1,450-1,700. Until there is a breakout from this range, a range-bound action is likely to persist. Comex silver, too, ruled weak and hit the earlier mentioned target zone of $15.5-15.7 an ounce. The short-term outlook remains weak and a drop to $13-13.5 appears likely. The trend would remain weak until the price moves past the resistance at $16.6-17 zone. Outlook positive for MCX gold The short-term outlook for MCX gold futures is positive and a breakout past Rs. 43,800 would push the MCX gold price to the short-term target of Rs. 44,800-45,000. The trend would turn weak if the price falls below Rs. 41,500 per 10 gm. The short-term outlook for MCX silver is positive and the price could move up to Rs. 42,800-43,500 range. A move past Rs. 41,750 would strengthen the positive view. A drop below Rs. 33,000 would indicate a major trend reversal and the price could then slide to far lower levels. To summarise, precious metals achieved their short-term downside targets and have rebounded thereafter. Though there is a case for a minor bounce, especially in the domestic market, the international price of gold and silver are likely to remain volatile and range-bound. ( The author is a Chennai-based analyst/trader. The views and opinion featured in this column are based upon the analysis of short-term price movements in gold and silver futures at COMEX and the Multi Commodity Exchange of India. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice )
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Ask Us||Q.If a person is sailing for six months and has no income generated from any source in India, is he still liable to pay tax here ? If that is the case, what would be his tax liability? Naireen Ahmed  A.A person leaving India during an assessment year as a member of an Indian ship will be considered a resident if he is in India for more than 182 days. If the number of days crosses 182 in India, then any income earned by him from anywhere in the world will be taxable in India. He will be treated as a resident and all provisions applicable to a resident will be applicable to the said sailor. Q.My son is presently working in an MNC, drawing an annual salary of Rs. 14 lakh and other perks, in addition. He is also entitled to the company’s shares. What I would like to know is: are the shares eligible for tax payment when sold or while holding them; does he have to pay tax the next year also for the same shares? Mathew Jacob A.As per the tax provision for AY 2020-21, taxability of Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) – the taxability of ESOP is two-fold: first, at the time of vesting the options viz. at the time of accepting the eligible shares as a perquisite. The difference between the fair market value (FMV) and the exercise price is the perquisite and the same will be taxed in the hands of the employee. Usually, TDS will be deducted for the perquisite, taking care of the tax liability. Second, on sale of the shares received by way of exercising ESOPs, the same is to be treated as a capital asset and tax is to be computed in the following manner — sale proceeds minus transfer expenses minus FMV on the date of exercise. If the shares are held for more than one year (in the case of listed securities) it will be termed as long- term capital gain/loss, and short-term otherwise. In case the shares are not listed, then the holding period criteria will be three years. Determination of FMV: unlisted – price determined by the merchant banker; if listed – if traded, the average of opening price and the closing price on the exercise date, in case traded on both the exchanges, then, the exchange which records the most volume is to be considered. Q.I had filed my income tax return on June 19, 2019 for assessment year 2019-20. The status shows ‘successfully e-verified.’ It’s been six months now, I have not received my refund yet. All my previous returns were done within the normal time and refunds issued. This year, I had done the e-verification from outside the country. Please let me know if refunds should take this long and whom to approach for getting this sorted out. Vishwanath A.This is something that we don’t have an answer for; refunds are processed based on various parameters set by the Central Board of Direct Taxes. You may want to raise a ticket through the help desk in the web portal e-Nivaran. Further, the processing is held up especially in a case where the transactions are to be matched with AIR (Annual Information Return) information and other data reconciliations which the CBDT undertakes for that particular assessment year.  Q.Kindly clarify whether TDS is applicable on dividends from equity shares as per the Budget for financial year 2020-2021 P.K. Damodaran  A.Under section 194 w.e.f 01-04-2020, TDS is to be deducted by companies on the dividend issued to its shareholders if such sum paid to a shareholder exceeds Rs. 5,000 in a year.  (The author is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Chirag-Satwik looking for coach||The crack men’s doubles pair of Chirag Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy is now hoping to avail the services of a new foreign coach to help in their Olympic preparation after the sudden exit of Indonesian Flandy Limpele. Limpele, appointed till the Tokyo Olympics, stepped down as doubles coach last month, becoming the fourth foreign coach to resign without completing his tenure. Chirag said the postponement will now give them more time to deal with the departure of Limpele, who was specifically hired to prepare them for Tokyo. More time to prepare “We will definitely get more time to prepare now. Since it is more than a year to go, I believe we will get a new foreign coach. If the Olympics had happened this year, we wouldn’t have got a coach for 3-4 months. But now, BAI might get one to help us,” said Chirag. “Now we have a year... hopefully, we will get a new coach and adjust to the new regime. So in a way, we got lucky with this postponement. If an experienced coach comes on board, it will make a big difference.” “We are almost there, it is a matter of 2-3 points. We are 90% there and a good coach like Rexy Mainaky (head coach of Thailand) would give us that extra 10%. A high-calibre coach can help us get into world’s top three.” Satwik said: “We also have coaches like Dwi Kristiawan and Namrih Suroto who can make a programme for us.”
06 April 2020||Chennai,||No squash till July||The Professional Squash Association (PSA) announced in a release recently that the suspension of the PSA Tour due to COVID-19 has been extended and all World Tour, Challenger Tour and WSF & PSA Satellite Tour events, scheduled for May and June, have been postponed. On March 13, the PSA initially suspended both the PSA World Tour and PSA Challenger Tour until the end of April, but following regular communication with players and organisers, the suspension will continue till July. Two PSA Challenger Tour events in July — Victoria Open and the Noida Leg of the HCL SRFI Indian Tour — are expected to go ahead as planned (the Thiruvananthapuram and Pune legs have been affected), while the PSA World Tour is expected to resume in August. Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, Cyrus Poncha, secretary of Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI), said “the Thiruvananthapuram and Pune legs will be held at a later date. Fortunately, no big events were planned by SRFI at this time.”
06 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Bergamasco has not lost hope||Despite being caught between a rock and a hard place, Raffaele Bergamasco has not lost hope. Even as Bergamasco, the foreign coach for Indian women boxers, is leading a solitary life on the campus of the Indira Gandhi Stadium in New Delhi, his heart is with his ailing wife and daughters in Italy. No other choice With the coronavirus outbreak hitting Italy hard and spreading dangerously in India, Bergamasco has no choice but to wait for the situation to improve. “I would like to travel back home and spend some time with my family as and when the situation improves. However, my commitment is towards Indian boxing and the boxers and till the time there is no clarity on the status of travel I would like to stay put here. “As per the current government guidelines, if I return to Rome my visa will stand cancelled. With Olympics postponed, there is time for preparation and I hope I can visit my family once travel bans are relaxed,” Bergamasco told The Hindu . Glad that family is safe The Italian is happy that his family is safe. “My family is fine as they live far away from the areas of major outbreak in Italy. Fortunately, today we have social media and video-call facility. I talk to them often and we also have family video chats.” Bergamasco is worried for his wife, though. “Unfortunately, she is unwell and has been on therapy for the ast two years. I am concerned about her well-being. “I try to talk to her often over phone and my daughters are there with her and keep me updated. “I had promised to my wife that I will be there with her every month, even for a day or two, during the therapy. But she understands. She is a brave lady.”  Bergamasco, who had a tough time during self-quarantine when he returned with the Indian side from the Asia/Oceania Olympic qualifier in Jordan, wants to continue with his current job and has been guiding the women boxers despite being in isolation. “I am connected to all the boxers and my team through video conference on a daily basis. I provide them with what they are supposed to train at home. “The aim is to keep them fit so that once we resume we can take things further for our Olympic preparation,” said Bergamasco.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Young Rohit reminded me of Inzamam, says Yuvraj||Former India cricketer Yuvraj Singh said that Rohit Sharma reminded him of Pakistan batting legend Inzamam-ul-Haq in his early days. The flamboyant India vice-captain made his ODI debut in June 2007 while his maiden T20 game came during the World Cup later that year against England, where unfortunately Rohit didn’t get a chance to bat. Asked about his first impression of Rohit, the left-hander said the swashbuckling batsman looked like somebody who had a lot of time to play his strokes. “I think when he came into the Indian team, he looked like somebody who had a lot of time,” Yuvraj said during a YouTube chat show. “He reminded me of Inzamam, because, when he batted, Inzi had a lot of time (to play the bowlers),” Inzamam, a veteran of 120 Tests and over 300 ODIs, is known to remain calm under pressure situations. He captained Pakistan from 2003-07.
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||Fast bowlers have biggest challenge to remain fit: Nehra||A batsman can make do with yoga and weight training. But for merchants of speed, former India pacer Ashish Nehra felt the absence of running for more than three months at a stretch could affect fitness levels. According to him, the fast bowlers will have to start running sooner or later. With sporting activities coming to a standstill, elite athletes are confined to their homes, trying to remain fit. “Let’s consider a few situations. Even if the lockdown ends on April 15, it will take a lot of time for life to become normal. Long break “I am not expecting any cricketing activity before July. So this is a long break but once action starts, fast bowlers have the biggest challenge to remain fit,” Nehra said. “Lack of running time for fast bowlers is an issue. So whoever has a garden with say 15 metres or 20 metres space, they should do shuttle run thrice a week,” said Nehra. He had a word of advice for those who had sprawling terraces with soil and grass cover. “It’s fine if you are doing ‘Surya Namaskar’ on the terrace, but if you start doing shuttle run, you will end up damaging your knees and ankles because of the hard surface.” Nehra also had a word of caution for the fast bowlers. “Zaheer Khan and Nehra can afford to come back from the lockdown with a paunch, not active players. So a break from sport doesn’t mean you will have biryani.”
06 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown triggers novel online competition||Amidst the global health crisis, Indian shooting is staying robust. An online competition for rifle and pistol shooters across the country, conducted over the weekend, has opened a new avenue for efficient training. Ved Prakash Sharma, A qualified coach and an ISSF-approved official, who got the idea from the Chinese, conducted the competitions from his base in New Delhi. About 60 shooters connected via the internet for the competition. The shooters shot at electronic targets in their homes and computers, connected through two applications, provided live video and scores to the central module. The SIUS-Ascor scoring system gave complete details, while the live video checked on the shooters, making the whole exercise transparent and lively. “I got this idea after reading about the criticism about the training camp for the National team at the Dr. Karni Singh Range. I decided that we should also try it. There was a good response to our effort, and we didn’t charge any entry fee,” said Ved Prakash, who invited Asian Games gold medallist Jitu Rai to inaugurate the competition from his army base in Mhow. “We will do it bigger in the future. State competitions can be done this way, so that shooters don’t have to travel. Most of the shooters have invested in electronic targets. I am also trying to develop a software so that we have a good system,” said Ved Prakash. “Shooters have known me for many years. I announced the competition through social media. Jitu has said that he will join the competition in future,” observed Ved Prakash.
06 April 2020||London,||Premier League players reject pay cut||The English Premier League players rejected a move on Saturday by clubs to cut their wages by 30% during the coronavirus pandemic, escalating a bitter row as their union claimed the government would lose out on more than £200 million in tax. “This would be detrimental to our NHS (National Health Service) and other government-funded services,” the Professional Footballers’ Association said in a statement. Taking on the Premier League as a whole, the PFA said the £20 million pounds being given to the NHS by the world’s richest soccer competition was “welcome, but we believe it could be far bigger.” The union’s strident stance came after further talks on Saturday involving clubs and the league. No-win situation Former England captain Wayne Rooney said the move would have placed footballers in a “no-win situation”. “If the government approached me to help support nurses financially or buy ventilators I’d be proud to do so — as long as I knew where the money was going,” said Rooney. “I’m in a place where I could give something up. Not every footballer is in the same position.”
06 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Prasad turns his attention to books||Former BCCI senior selection committee chairman M.S.K. Prasad has used the lockdown to find the key to what makes a champion. Prasad, who has just finished reading tennis great Andre Agassi’s ‘Open: An Autobiography’, called it “awesome and a truly inspiring story.” “I am keen to make optimum use of the free time now after a demanding schedule as the selection panel chief which involved a lot of travelling,” said Prasad in an exclusive chat with The Hindu on Sunday.  “It is not that I was not aware of the process of producing a champion. But, reading about some of the sporting greats will always provide interesting insights into how they handled pressure and went on to become big names,” he said. “Right now, I am reading books authored by former England captain Mike Brearley. They are just fascinating and should help me in my endeavour to give back to the game when I decide to start full-time coaching soon,” said the former India stumper. “After a long time, I have been spending time at home with my family members in Vijayawada,” said Prasad. Follow the guidelines About the coronavirus crisis, Prasad said it was the duty of every citizen to strictly follow the guidelines to prevent its spread. The former India cricketer also appealed to everyone to treat the affected patients with respect and dignity. “Do not not treat them like criminals. It is of no fault of theirs that they got affected by this virus,” he said, emphasising the need to stay united during this tough period.
06 April 2020||London,||Could have handled KP better, admits Strauss||Former England captain Andrew Strauss admits he may not have handled Kevin Pietersen well during his time at the helm. The flamboyant batsman should have been given some space despite not exactly adhering to the team ethos, Strauss said on a Sky Sports podcast. However, Strauss maintained that while he understood why the cash-rich Indian Premier League (IPL) is necessary for players, he still does not agree that it should get precedence over Test cricket. Strauss and Pietersen had a major fallout due to their difference of opinion on ECB’s IPL policy. “I always had sympathy with KP over the IPL. I understood what a big event it was with all the best players playing there and huge amounts of money on the table as well,” he said. It must be mentioned that when Strauss became ECB’s Director of Cricket he created a window for England players to play in the IPL, something Pietersen had always advocated. “But I thought it was incredibly dangerous to allow players to miss Test cricket to play in the IPL. The message you’d be sending and the precedent you’d be setting was the IPL is more important than Test cricket,” he said. Strauss said he repeatedly tried to make Pietersen aware why Test cricket is more important. After being dropped for good in 2014-15, Pietersen had hit out at some of his teammates like Matt Prior and Stuart Broad in his autobiography, which also included criticism of Strauss for not supporting him. In hindsight, Strauss feels he should have cut Pietersen a little slack. “I think instead I just let KP be KP. In retrospect that was a mistake and might have sowed the seeds for what was to come down the track,” Strauss admitted. Strauss said Pietersen had not exactly been a team-man but the England dressing room should have been more accepting. “I’ve always felt a good team environment embraces difference and finds a space for everyone. “I think we did that for large periods of time but possibly through neglect, KP became increasingly isolated,” Strauss said.
06 April 2020||Kolkata,||East Bengal signs Iranian winger Omid||East Bengal on Sunday signed Indian-origin Iranian midfielder Omid Singh on a two-year deal. “Omid has signed with us for two years. He will join us once the next season starts,” East Bengal top official Debabrata Sarkar said here. The 29-year-old left-winger, who originally hails from Punjab and holds an Indian passport, plies his trade for Naft Masjed Soleyman FC in the Persian Gulf Pro League. The I-League has been suspended with four rounds left. East Bengal is second in the table.PTI
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||India submits bid to host AFC Asian Cup||India has submitted its bid documents for hosting the AFC Asian Cup in 2027, a top official of the national federation confirmed on Sunday. If India wins the bid, it will be the first time the country will host the continental showpiece. “We have already submitted our expression of interest to the AFC (Asian Football Confederation). That is what’s required as of now,” said AIFF general-secretary Kushal Das. The AFC is expected to announce the host early next year. Saudi Arabia, which has never hosted the tournament, had already announced its bid. South Korea is likely to join the race. China will host the 2023 tournament.
06 April 2020||KARAIKUDI:,||Sankar Subramanian’s all-round show highlights Devakottai’s win||Sankar Subramanian’s allround performance (47 and four for seven) was the highlight of Devakottai’s 31-run win over Devakottai Juniors in the Sivaganga DCA first division league.  The scores:   Devakottai 118/8 in 20 overs (Sankar Subramanian 47, Ravi 3/25) bt Devakottai Juniors 87 in 19 overs (Venkat 28, Sankar Subramanian 4/7, Muthumani 3/18).   TCPL 112 in 17.4 overs (Alaguraja 41, Muthupandi 3/8) lost to Newland 116/7 in 19.3 overs.   ACCET 109/8 in 20 overs (G. Vignesh 31) lost to TCPL 113/7 in 17.3 overs (Parthasarathi 50).   Devakottai Juniors 110/8 in 20 overs (Ragu 46, Kruthickrosan 3/20) lost to Lathif Memorial 111/7 in 18.5 overs (Rafiq 4/19).    R. Venkatesh (eight for 32) and M. Tamilarasan (122) starred in Thrillers’ 183-run win over Stadium CA-A in the DCAT fourth division league.  The scores:   Thrillers 241 in 49.5 overs (M. Tamilarasan 122, S. Thirumoorthy 4/28, N. Senthilraj 4/49) bt Stadium CA-A 58 in 16.2 overs (R. Venkatesh 8/32).   Blue Rock Warriors-A 129 in 42.3 overs (Srinivasan 42) lost to Royal 133/4 in 17.1 overs (Karthik 35, Prabhu 44).
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Change is in our hands||The first step of inner purification ( antar tap ) in Jainism is repentance ( prayaschitta ). Repentance, as explained by the Mahavira, is a unique concept very different from conventional notions. The Sanskrit word ‘prayaschitta’ contains the suffix ‘ chitta ’, the self, the most significant part of the word. Repentance is ‘not crying over spilt milk.’ Repentance is the process of a radical transformation; a mutation of the level of being of the individual. Mostly one repents for their actions believing that certain actions are condemnable and some praiseworthy. But when it is thought about, can any ‘action’ ever be right or wrong? It is simply dependent on the situation and one’s perception of right and wrong. But it is very convenient to blame actions, because it reinforces the belief that “I am good, the situation made me do it” or “that person made me do it”. This approach to life can’t lead one further; rather it is the process of staying at the same place. So, the Mahavira did not stress much on changing actions, but rather that the individual must undergo a metamorphosis. Jain philosophy gives utmost importance to the self. Actions are pointed to other people, making the latter more important, when one decides to change actions. To simplify this concept, if a person decides to not get angry at any cost, they will have to wait for several situations to test their resistance. The most likely outcome is that that person will just learn to put on a façade, maybe even hiding the anger from themselves. Yet if a person simply changes the self, making the self incapable of anger, they are free.  On the pious occasion of Mahavir Jayanti let all of us look within and continue to evolve in the journey of life — just like the Mahavira, the Buddha, and several others did.  (Rushil Khajanchi & Avni Khajanchi Kolkata)
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 08:06 IST,||Sudoku - April 6, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
06 April 2020||New Delhi,||As demand for online essentials rise, firms devise new strategies||The lockdown due to COVID-19 outbreak has hit life hard in the city and across the country but for online delivery firms, the situation presents a unique opportunity as more and more customers are avoiding public places for buying essential items. “Across the country, due to the lockdown, there is a demand for essentials and in these extraordinary times, companies need to rise to the occasion,” said a spokesperson for Dunzo, an e-commerce company, which provides delivery partners for all kinds of goods. The company has reportedly trimmed its catalogue to sell only the ones mandated under the Essential Commodities Act, they added. The company has also been advising its partners on the types of goods they ought to store to meet the demand on the app. These include fruits and vegetables, grains and pulses, hygiene and sanitation products, and other basic necessities, Dunzo said. It added that users across the platform are primarily looking for essentials and preventive healthcare items like sanitisers while also being extremely judicious about their shopping. Hard approach Online grocery company Groffers has also taken a “hard approach to hoarding of essential commodities”. The company said: “To ensure supplies to genuine customers, we are proactively blocking people who are trying to game the system to acquire items. Promotions for essential commodities are being discontinued as well and excessive buying or multiple orders to bypass inventory limits can lead to order cancellations.” While the company is reportedly facing a warehouse-staff crunch, many are not turning up either due to the fear of contracting the virus or they had returned to their hometowns. Rohith Sharma, head of supply chain at the company, explained: “Currently, 65% of our warehouse staff is operational and we are hiring an additional 2,000 from the industries, which have been deeply impacted by the current crisis such as textile, manufacturing, and services.” With regard to delivery, the company said it was working with other platforms such as Zomato but were also “encouraging supply chain hiring through referrals by giving bonuses to those who are referring friends and family for work.” Meanwhile, Zomato has started a “Zomato Market” option on its mobile application, which allows users to purchase goods from grocers in the city. Online grocery delivery company Big Basket said while their supply side was “working fine”, there had been an unprecedented increase in demand — “well beyond what we had planned for”. The company added that suppliers had been working closely to cater to the increased demand, which it expects to continue over the coming weeks. However, to meet the demand, it was also increasing the number of bikes, vans and manpower. The company has also partnered with cab aggregator Uber to deliver everyday essentials to consumers. Focus on hygiene The companies have also taken measures to limit the risk of transmission of the virus, with provisions for contactless delivery, temperature checks of delivery agents and other protocols for sanitisation. Groffers, for instance, said their warehouses were being disinfected and sanitised daily, there is mandatory temperature checks for staff, strict protocols on use of sanitisers, regular disinfection of crates and other measures. Big Basket said they were also following similar precautions, equipping personnel with gloves and encouraging digital payments among other measures. Similarly, Zomato and Swiggy have given detailed instructions regarding various precautions they have been taking on their mobile applications. These include training drivers on safety precautions, ensuring restaurant safety practices, contactless delivery, with recommendations to leave a stool outside your door to allow agents to leave the package.
06 April 2020||April 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The brighter side of dark days||Let me start with a confession. I am probably one of the least affected by the nationwide lockdown. Having worked for the jet-set corporate world for a lifetime, mine is now a SOHO (small-office-home-office) and my work can be best described by the quote from the chimney sweep in Mary Poppins : “I do what I likes, and I likes what I do.” Not only do I work from home, but I also take special pride in running the house, including cooking — which is one of my many passions. So staying indoors for three weeks is not a big challenge for me. By now it is obvious to all that the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown would be huge. The daily wage earners are already feeling the heat. Small, medium and even large business houses will be impacted by this like never before. Experts have not dared to predict the quantum of damage. But this sudden change will also bring about some major social changes, and all of them may not be totally undesirable. The family unit The urban middle class today is a combination of complicated sets of relationships. The man of the house is busy earning more to meet the growing demands of the family. He has very little time for home. The erstwhile “housewife” is now a liberated working woman, yet struggling to balance work and home. Children, as it has been for generations, do not find much to talk about at home and are busy with their social life and social media. Conversations within the family are monosyllabic and eating together is rare. That is what life was before March 25, 2020. Today, they are all confined within the four walls of the house and bump into each other more often than desired. Meals are served together and though one has the option of looking at one’s smartphone while eating, stray conversations have started happening. Perhaps this may lead to an end to their obsession with mobile phones.  Who does what in the family was well defined. All undesirable and difficult household chores were delegated to the hired domestic help. It was a happy equilibrium. That has also changed now. I called an old colleague the other day. He grudgingly said that he was washing utensils and would talk to me after some time. Another (male) friend shared his newly discovered knowledge that “you walk forward when you sweep and move backwards when you mop”. The forgotten skills I live in a condominium in Gurugram surrounded by millennials. Four or five such youths share a flat, spend most of their time looking at their laptop or smartphones while at home. Even the food is ordered using the same gadget, and is promptly delivered by the aggregators. Those who are more health conscious have someone come in and cook for them. Unfortunately, all this has also changed. With restaurants shut down and admission of helps banned in the condominium, the millennials have no option but to acquire some new skills. I overheard a conversation between two boys in the elevator. One of them was taking telephonic lessons from his mother every day and said that he took 45 minutes to make one para n tha the previous day. Green working style Working from home was never a bad idea for many professionals. Now people are realising that it is probably a more efficient one too. Environmentalists have been shouting from the rooftops for many decades to do so. For the first time in 15 years I could see stars from my 12th-floor balcony. The sky was clear blue, something I had never seen before in busy Gurugram. They say human behaviour can change in just 21 days. Ironically, we have a 21-day lockdown to do things that people have not done in a long, long time. Some of these changes will certainly be in a positive direction.  Billy Chatterjee has worked as a market research professional for more than three decades. For the last three years, he has been producing Bengali feature films.   Meals are served together and though one has the option of looking at one’s smartphone while eating, stray conversations have started happening
