06 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Biden edges closer to victory as Trump mounts legal challenges||Democrat Joe Biden edged closer to victory over President Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential race on Thursday as election officials tallied votes in the handful of States that will determine the outcome. The Republican President, who during the campaign attacked the integrity of the American voting system, has alleged fraud without providing evidence, filed lawsuits and called for at least one recount. Some legal experts called the challenges a long shot unlikely to affect the eventual outcome of the election. As counting continued two days after Election Day, slowed by large numbers of mail-in ballots this year, Mr. Biden was leading in Wisconsin, Nevada and Arizona and closing in on Mr. Trump in Georgia and Pennsylvania. Multiple Trump lawsuits and a recount request would have to succeed and find in some cases tens of thousands of invalid ballots to reverse the result if Mr. Biden does prevail. Some of the outstanding votes in Georgia and Pennsylvania were clustered in places expected to lean Democratic — like the Atlanta and Philadelphia areas. In Georgia’s Fulton County, which includes most of Atlanta, officials said they expected to finish vote tallying on Thursday morning, with 10,000 absentee ballots left to count. By early Thursday, Mr. Trump led by 19,000 votes out of nearly 5 million cast in the State. Mr. Trump had to win the States where he was still ahead, including North Carolina, plus either Arizona or Nevada to win and avoid becoming the first incumbent U.S. President to lose a re-election bid since fellow Republican George H.W. Bush in 1992. The President appears to have grown more upset as his leads in some States have diminished or evaporated during the counting. On Thursday morning, he weighed in on Twitter, writing, “STOP THE COUNT!” To capture the White House, a candidate must amass at least 270 votes in the Electoral College. Such electoral votes are based largely on a State’s population. Edison Research gave Mr. Biden a 253 to 214 lead in the Electoral College votes. Other networks said Mr. Biden had won Wisconsin, which would give him another 10 votes.
06 November 2020||Washington,||Biden edges closer to victory as Trump mounts legal challenges||America woke up on Thursday to another day of uncertainty around the winner of the presidential election, even as Joe Biden appeared to be on the verge of reaching the 270 of 538 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House, after he won Michigan and Wisconsin. President Donald Trump’s campaign mounted legal challenges in several States. Mr. Trump’s supporters, some armed, protested in Arizona and hundreds of anti-Trump protesters in Minneapolis blocked a highway. The nation’s focus had narrowed to four States by Thursday — Georgia, Pennsylvania, Arizona and Nevada. Results were also not in for North Carolina and Alaska. Mr. Biden’s lead shrunk in Arizona by Thursday while Mr. Trump’s leads in Georgia and Pennsylvania went down. When reports last came in, Mr. Biden led Nevada by over 7,600 votes (six electoral seats) and Arizona by just over 68,000 votes (11). Mr. Trump led Georgia by over 18,500 votes (16), North Carolina by around 76,700 votes (15) and Pennsylvania by about 1,35,700 votes. An increasingly frustrated President with limited paths to victory took to Twitter to air his grievances. “STOP THE COUNT!” he tweeted as Mr. Biden appeared to be inching towards 270. “Here, the people rule. Power can’t be taken or asserted. It flows from the people,” Mr. Biden said in an address on Wednesday afternoon in Delaware. He said while he was not yet declaring victory, he believed he would win when the votes were in. “And now after a long night of counting, it’s clear that we’re winning enough States to reach 270 electoral votes needed to win the Presidency,” he said. Nevada and Georgia were expected to wrap up counting on Thursday. Pennsylvania has been given time until the end of Friday to finish the count. Democrats continued to be optimistic about Pennsylvania as mailed-in ballots tend to be used more by Democrats than Republicans. When reports last came in, some 7 lakh ballots were yet to be counted. In Philadelphia county alone — which is a Democrat stronghold — some 1,20,000 votes were yet to be counted.
06 November 2020||Pune,||11,000 more recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported a high number of COVID-19 recoveries yet again, with as many as 11,277 patients being discharged on Thursday. The total recoveries have now risen to 15,51,282, with the State’s recovery rate crossing 91% to reach 91.07%. A total of 5,246 new cases reported across the State, taking the total case tally to 17,03,444. The number of active cases has now come down to 1,06,519. With 117 deaths, the State’s death toll has reached 44,804. “Of a total of 92,50,254 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,03,444 (18.42%) have returned positive, with 65,000 samples being tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. He added that the State’s case fatality rate currently stands at 2.63%. Pune district reported 552 cases to take its total case tally to 3,36,982, while 12 deaths saw its total death toll climb to 6,990. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s recovery rate is over 94%, with its active cases now standing at 11,400. Mumbai reported 841 cases to take its tally to 2,61,681, of which 16,116 are active. With 25 fatalities, the city’s death toll rose to 10,377. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 12 fatalities and more than 250 new cases. Its death toll has now reached 2,000, while the total case tally has crossed the 82,000-mark.  Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 400 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,03,600, of which 3,884 are active. Only two deaths were reported. The district’s cumulative death toll now stands at 2,813. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported four deaths, taking its cumulative death toll to 1,439. As many as 275 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 48,619, of which 3,897 are active. Sangli reported 86 cases and four deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 47,367, of which 2,372 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,663. Kolhapur recorded just 51 cases as its total case tally reached 47,647. Its active case tally has reduced drastically to just 258 cases. Five deaths took the total death toll to 1,652. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported a high surge of more than 500 cases as its total case tally reached 96,985, of which just 3,880 are active. With five deaths, the district’s total death toll has now reached 1,597. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported its lowest surge of 31 new cases and just one death as its total case tally reached 53,786. of which only 1,457 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,361. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 13,35,681 people across Maharashtra are in home quarantine, while 11,648 are in institutional quarantine facilities.
06 November 2020||Patna,||This will be my last election, says Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has said that this was going to be his last election. “ Parso chunav hai aur y eh mera aakhiri chunav hai…aur ant bhala to sab bhala [the day after tomorrow, there is an election and that is my last election… all is well that ends well],” he said on the last day of campaign on Thursday. The JD (U) president was addressing a public meeting at Dhamdaha in Purnia district of northeast Bihar. Mr. Kumar, 69, is seeking a fourth consecutive term as Chief Minister. RJD takes a dig RJD leader and party spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari, said, “Our leader Tejashwi Yadav has been saying for long that farewell for Nitish Kumar is guaranteed on November 10.” “ Yeh to aise bhi unka last chunav hi tha [even otherwise it was his last election],” Mr. Tiwari said. BJP leader Prem Ranjan Patel countered Mr. Tiwari saying the JD(U) chief “might have meant that it was the last phase of poll of the ongoing election”. “Even if Mr. Kumar wanted to retire, the people of Bihar would not allow him to,” Mr. Patel said. In an interview to a news channel a few days ago, Mr. Kumar had said that “he would work until people liked him to work”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Mr. Kumar and Mr. Yadav addressed a series of public meetings across the State during the campaigning for the final phase of the polls.  The Pulwama terror strike, dilution of Article 370, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, Ganga and Chhatee Maiya (sun god) figured in Mr. Modi speeches.
06 November 2020||Kolkata,||‘Maintain dignity in political discourse’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took exception to remarks made by Union Home Minister Amit Shah to uproot her government. “I also know Hindi. If I say the same words… uproot and throw away, will you feel good,” she asked. While the Chief Minister did not refer to Mr. Shah, her remarks were clearly aimed at the Minister, who said earlier in the day “death knell of the Mamata Banerjee government has been sounded”. Ms. Banerjee urged Mr. Shah to maintain dignity in political discourse. She said nobody should cross the ‘Lakshman rekha’ . There were concerted attempts to defame West Bengal. “West Bengal has a special sense of pride. If some outsiders come and target our sense of pride, we will not accept it.” Targeting the BJP, she stated that in the name of protests, one particular party had regularly violated the laws related to COVID-19 and spread the infection. The Chief Minister, who was chairing an administrative meeting at the State Secretariat, said attempts were being made to intimidate IAS and IPS officers. “These officers have nothing to fear as they work under the State government. It is also important to bear in mind that West Bengal is not outside the country.” She asserted that she did not interfere in the affairs of the Centre. The Centre should not interfere in the affairs of the State, she added. Appointment order In another development, the government appointed Geeta Mahali, a member of a tribal community from north Bengal, as a Home Guard. Mr. Shah had lunch at her house in 2017.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC reserves judgment in Central Vista case||The Supreme Court reserved its judgment on Thursday in petitions challenging the Central Vista redevelopment project in the national capital. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said the court would examine whether the project complied with land use and environmental regulations peculiar to the area which houses Parliament and the Central Secretariat buildings. Written submissions However, the court indicated that it may not have fully accepted submissions made by the petitioners that there was a prohibition on building new structures in the area. The court allowed parties to file written submissions by November 16. The government has defended its multicrore redevelopment plan, saying the existing Parliament building, which is nearly 100 years old, is under tremendous pressure and not a brick of the heritage structures will be touched while constructing the new Parliament, Central Secretariat and various Ministries. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has argued that the redevleopment plan was a “broad vision” and on the practical side, it would save the public exchequer Rs. 1,000 crore in annual expenditure besides improving coordination among Ministries, which would be housed in 10 buildings vantageously connected via metro rail. The petitioners have objected to the proposed change in land usage of Central Vista, the historical boulevard of approximately 3.5 km from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, and further to the National Stadium, which is a symbol of India’s historic past, its nationhood, its vibrant democracy. “It is where living history breathes from every inch of this cherished stretch of land, where the Republic Day parade and Beating Retreat are held every year. Central Vista is an essential ingredient of our sovereignty and pride, and also where recreational spaces are available for the enjoyment by the citizens,” they said.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||Celebrate Deepavali without crackers: Health Minister||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday appealed to the people of the State to celebrate a firecracker-free Deepavali this year to reduce air pollution and prevent a surge in novel coronavirus cases. Following a review meeting with officials and members of the State Task Force and Death Audit Committee set up to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Tope said he would take up the issue with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. “People should be extra careful ahead of Deepavali and must follow all safety norms. Smoke due to firecrackers leads to respiratory problems. I appeal to the people of Maharashtra to celebrate the festival without crackers. I will be placing the demand before the Chief Minister and the State Cabinet,” Mr. Tope said. The State government has also decided to continue with the decision to reserve 80% beds in private hospitals for COVID-19 patients. The government has also directed the setting up of death audit committees at hospitals where the COVID-19 death rate has witnessed a spike. He said, “We do not expect a second wave of COVID-19 in Maharashtra, but we have to be prepared for any situation. We will be increasing testing through 500 labs. Considering the onset of winter, the government plans to increase fever surveillance across the State for early detection of COVID-19. Private doctors are advised to conduct COVID-19 tests as per the symptoms.” The government will also increase testing at malls, shopping complexes, grocery shops and public transport, among others, as people who frequent these locations have been identified as “super- spreaders”, the minister said. Those who will undergo tests include shopkeepers, milk and vegetable vendors, small-scale businesspersons, and public transport employees. If the Maharashtra government bans firecrackers, it will be joining a few other States like Rajasthan which have already imposed the rule. The Delhi government on Thursday decided to ban firecrackers in the national capital ahead of Deepavali. The Odisha government on Tuesday banned the sale and use of firecrackers during the festive season to check air pollution, which can aggravate health conditions of COVID-19 patients. The period of the ban is from November 10 to 30. The Calcutta High Court on Thursday also banned the use and sale of firecrackers on Kali Puja to curb pollution amid the pandemic. (With PTI inputs)
06 November 2020||Kolkata,||HC bans sale, use of firecrackers in Bengal||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday banned the sale and use of firecrackers on Kali Puja, Deepavali and other festivals to curb pollution amid the spread of COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee added that certain restrictions imposed on Durga Puja would continue for Kali Puja. For Kali Puja, 15 persons would be allowed in pandals having an area up to 300 sq.m. and 45 persons in the bigger ones, the court said. The Bench also disallowed processions during immersion of idols in Kali Puja or other pujas. The directions came during the hearing on two public interest litigations. The matter will come up for hearing again on November 10. The court also lauded the State government for effectively implementing the directions issued by it during Durga Puja. The West Bengal government had urged people to avoid and stay away from firecrackers. “With everybody’s cooperation, we want to hold the Kali Puja and Diwali festivals avoiding firecrackers. The administration appeals to people to avoid firecrackers,” Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had said. An association of firecracker makers has already demanded compensation of Rs. 2 lakh for each licensed fireworks dealer, numbering over 53,000.
06 November 2020||Kolkata,||Suburban train services to resume from Nov. 11||Suburban train services will be resumed in West Bengal from November 11, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. “With adequate safety measures in place, this will enhance passenger convenience and facilitate smooth travel for the people,” he said on social media. The announcement comes after a series of meetings between the Railway officials and the State government officials over the past few days. The services have been suspended for more than seven months due to the pandemic. Over the past few weeks, protests had erupted at various places in the suburbs which led to the meetings on the resumption of train services. A detailed standard operating procedure on the running of trains will be announced on November 9. Trains will be run as per the existing time table. It was suggested that only 10 to 15% trains will run but during the meeting it was decided that a higher number will have to be run for crowd control and to maintain the health protocol. The services will run in all the three divisions — 100 in the Howrah division, 34 in the Kharagpur division and 224 in the Sealdah division. The Chief Minister had said the Railways should run more trains to check the spread of COVID-19. She said the Chief Secretary will speak to the Railways about the safety arrangements.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,||No permission for ‘Vetri Vel’ Yatra, govt. tells HC||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that it has decided to reject an application made by the BJP to take out a ‘Vetri Vel’ Yatra, a tour planned across the State starting from one of the six abodes of Lord Murugan at Tiruttani on November 6 and ending at another abode at Tiruchendur on December 6. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy were told by Advocate-General Vijay Narayan that the government was in the process of finalising and communicating the rejection order to the BJP office-bearers. He said it would not be advisable to permit such a tour when the threat of COVID-19 was yet to subside. The Advocate-General said the BJP’s State secretary had made an application to the Director-General of Police (DGP) on October 15 for permission for the yatra. The same day, the DGP asked the applicant to approach individual Superintendents and Commissioners of Police and instructed the latter to consider the plea in accordance with local conditions. On November 2, the party’s Tiruvallur district secretary filed an application before the Superintendent of Police for permission to conduct a public meeting at Tiruttani on November 6. That application did not state that the party was planning a State-wide yatra. However, now, the government decided to deny permission for the entire tour, he said. ‘Centre has issued advisories’ Mr. Narayan also stated the Centre itself had been issuing periodical advisories against permission for large gatherings. Further, a State Government order issued on October 31 had prohibited religious gatherings till November 16. Even thereafter, the government decided to permit gatherings with a rider that not more than 100 people should congregate at a time. Pointing out that the Deepavali festival season was fast approaching and the threat of a second and even third wave of COVID-19 was looming large, Mr. Narayan said it would not be appropriate to permit the yatra in such a precarious situation. “There are certainly other overtones, too, to the yatra,” he told the first Division Bench. The submissions were made at the hearing of two public interest litigation (PIL) petitions filed against the conduct of the yatra. Counsel for one of the petitioners pointed out that the yatra had been planned to end on December 6 when Muslims across the country mourn the demolition of Babri Masjid. He feared that the yatra might disturb communal harmony. ‘Premature’ However, advocate V. Raghavachari, representing BJP State president L. Murugan, said it was too premature for the litigants to have approached the court when the government was yet to pass final orders on his application for permission. He said the government could not reject permission without giving him an opportunity of hearing. He also contended that the Centre had not prohibited religious congregations in toto and it had only insisted upon maintaining physical distance among the participants. After hearing all of them, the judges disposed of the two PIL petitions with an observation that the government would be free to pass appropriate orders on the application for permission for the yatra. Such orders passed by the government could be challenged by any of the aggrieved parties, the Bench said. BJP vice-president K.S. Narendran, who is in charge of the yatra, said the State unit had asked the central leadership for directions. “...We have faced many issues. We know how to handle this,” he said. Mr. Narendran said BJP State president L. Murugan had already said, “The Vel [a spear] will ‘pierce’ and go no matter what the hurdles.” Asked whether the party would defy the government and take out the yatra, he said, “We didn’t say that. We only say the Vel will ‘pierce’ no matter what”.
06 November 2020||Coimbatore,||Govt. will act to ban online gambling: CM||The State government will take steps to ban online gambling in the wake of multiple suicides across the State, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Thursday. He told journalists that legislation to deem those who “conduct and indulge in online gambling” as criminals would be brought in soon. He said online gambling was destroying the lives of youth and driving them towards suicide. As for the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, he said the Governor would take the final decision. “Some powers are with the Governor,” he said, recalling that the Assembly had passed a unanimous resolution calling for their release. On the government rejecting permission for the ‘Vetri Vel Yatra’ by the BJP’s State unit, he said the rally could not be allowed “as per law”. The State government decided to re-open schools and colleges on requests from the managements of educational institutions. However, because of the concerns expressed about the possible spread of COVID-19 after re-opening, the government decided to consult parents and representatives of the parent-teacher associations, he said. Regarding the rumour that actor Vijay had started a political party, the Chief Minister said all citizens have the right to start a party. Mr. Palaniswami will chair review meetings at Udhagamandalam and Tiruppur on Friday.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC notice on plea against HC stay on probe into graft during TDP rule||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought a response from TDP leader Varla Ramaiah and another on an appeal filed by the Jaganmohan Reddy government against the Andhra Pradesh High Court decision to stay efforts to inquire into complaints about “large-scale improprieties and acts of corruption” allegedly committed by the previous regime. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, however, orally remarked that State did indeed have the power to appoint commissions, take appropriate actions and sue. Notice The court issued notice to the respondents, including Mr. Ramaiah, whose writ petitions in the High Court led to the stay on September 16. The Supreme Court said it would consider, after four weeks, both the appeal filed by the government and the State’s plea for interim relief to lift the High Court stay order. Cabinet sub-committee On June 26 last year, the government issued a notification constituting a Cabinet Sub-Committee to review major policies, projects, programmes, institutions established and the key administrative actions taken by the TDP government following the bifurcation of the State of Andhra Pradesh. The first report of the committee on December 27, 2019 pointed out “several procedural, legal and financial irregularities and fraudulent transactions concerned with various projects, including in the Capital Development Authority region”. On February 21, 2020, the government issued another notification setting up a special investigation team (SIT) to “inquire, register, investigate and conclude the investigation” into the findings of the report. Both the notifications were stayed by the High Court indefinitely in September last. “The entire process was extremely fair. The State was proceeding in a very, very cautious manner. The committee report suggested major manipulations. The SIT was constituted to look into financial irregularities... It was impossible for the High Court to interfere at a investigation stage ... How could it interfere on the petitions of busybodies?” senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the government, submitted. ‘State sought probe’  Countering the High Court’s apprehensions of bias against it, the government said the State had suo motu sought a CBI investigation. Mr. Dave, along with senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, said a premature stay order from the High Court would only demoralise the investigation. “The High Court is not some extraordinary power, it is bound by law,” Mr. Dave submitted. The government petition said the two notifications were “necessitated in view of complaints relating to large scale improprieties/acts of corruption on part of the erstwhile government.” Mr. Dave said it was erroneous on the part of the High Court to believe that rule of law did not permit the incumbent to overturn the decision of the previous government. He said the question here was not about policies of the TDP regime but it was about “alleged acts of corruption/misfeasance.” No constitutional democracy denied a government the power to investigate corruption. The government said one of the essential functions of the Executive was to ensure that the government was free of corruption.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi could soon become ‘corona capital’, says HC||Expressing displeasure over the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital, the Delhi High Court on Thursday said the city could soon become the “corona capital of the country”. A Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad made the remark while hearing a bunch of petitions relating to non-payment of salaries to doctors, paramedical staff, safai karamcharis, teachers and retired engineers among others, employed with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The Bench noted that the Delhi government had made many claims of topping the charts in testing but the number of cases had also soared. “The city could soon become ‘corona capital’ of the country, thanks to the number of cases shooting up,” the Bench said, adding it was going to take the matter very seriously. The High Court said the unpaid municipal workers and retired staff have faced the real and maximum pinch during the pandemic, and asked the civic bodies to make an attempt to release their pending salaries as the festival of Deepavali is round the corner. During the hearing, the civic bodies raised the issue of non-release of full amount by the government, leading to non-payment of salaries. The Delhi government’s counsel disputed the claim saying the way revenue collection had hit the municipal corporations, it had affected the State too. The court directed the three civic bodies and the Delhi government to file status reports regarding the release of the salaries and pensions and listed the matter for further hearing on December 16.
06 November 2020||Belagavi,||Three killed as motorcycles collide||Three persons died when two motorcycles collided in Baleshwar in Vijayapura district on Thursday. The fatal collision between two motorcycles occurred near Nandi Sugar Cooperative factory in the morning. Lakshman Madar (45) of Todalbagi village and Kashibai Madar (40), his wife and pillion rider, died on the spot. Anil Melligeri (25) of Galagali village died before he could be shifted to hospital. A case has been registered in the Baleshwar Police Station.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||In deep waters||
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital’s AQI slips to ‘severe’ category||The Capital’s air quality deteriorated on Thursday and settled in the “severe” category with an average 24-hour Air Quality Index (AQI) score of 450, the highest since December 30, 2019, when it was 446. Air quality monitoring agencies said 42% of the city’s pollution was caused due to farm fires, which was the maximum so far this season. On Wednesday, thick smog engulfed the city and the AQI was in the “very poor” category at 343 that slowly rose to the “severe” category as conditions were unfavourable for the dispersal of smoke from the farm fires. The smog however, cleared on Thursday. Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram and Noida also recorded ‘severe’ air pollution.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||China bars travellers from India, U.K.||China on Thursday effectively barred travellers from India, the U.K, Belgium and the Philippines by temporarily suspending valid visas, with measures targeting other countries also expected as Beijing moves to tighten international travel restrictions, citing a rising number of imported COVID-19 cases. The moves have left unclear whether four repatriation flights announced by India for this month will go ahead on schedule. The Indian Embassy in Beijing said a Vande Bharat Mission Delhi-Wuhan-Delhi flight set for November 6 will be rescheduled because it “has not received the required clearances from the Chinese authorities”. Air India had scheduled VBM flights for November 13, 20, 27 and December 4 to China.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||In deep waters||
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||All sectors looking up, says PM||Pitching India’s resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic as a signal of its inherent strengths, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India’s economy has been stable and all sectors are now looking up, as he invited global money managers looking for “returns with reliablility” to invest in the country. Mr. Modi said the government is finalising a “pioneering multi-modal connectivity infrastructure masterplan” under the National Infrastructure Pipeline, which envisages investments of $1.5 trillion. “We are building millions of affordable houses for the neo-middle class. We want investment not just in big cities but smaller cities and towns too,” the PM said, citing the GIFT City in Gujarat as one such city being developed. “Today, each sector in India is looking up… India is the place to be if you want returns with reliability, demand with democracy, stability with sustainability, and growth with a green approach,” he said.  ‘Brave fight’ Addressing a virtual global investor round table attended by 20 large global investment funds managing over $6 trillion, the PM said India’s “brave fight during the pandemic reflected its sense of responsibility, spirit of compassion, national unity and the spark of innovation”. “India has shown remarkable resilience in this pandemic, be it fighting the virus or ensuring economic stability. This resilience is driven by the strength of our systems, support of our people and stability of our policies,” Mr. Modi said, explaining that social distancing and wearing of masks practised by the people helped India put up a strong fight against the COVID-19 virus. “We are building a new India which is free of old practices… India’s quest to become ‘Atma Nirbhar’ is not just a vision, but a well-planned economic strategy,” the PM said, listing out recent administrative reforms as well as legislative changes in areas such as agriculture, labour, education, manufacturing and the “rationalisation of the public sector”. The stability of India’s policies has made it a preferred investment destination, the PM said, citing the 13% rise in FDI (foreign direct investment) inflows in the first five months of this year. “I am happy that the global investor community has been showing confidence in our future… Your active participation in this round table increases the confidence even more,” he told top officials of these global institutional investors, which included sovereign wealth funds as well as pension funds. Economic resurgence “India’s growth has the potential to catalyse global economic resurgence. Any achievements by India will have a multiplier effect on the world’s development and welfare,” Mr. Modi concluded.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Cabinet approves new sand policy||The State Cabinet has approved the new sand policy, under which auctions will be limited to the sand reaches. The government plans to accord first priority to central public undertakings. In case, if they don’t come forward, tenders will be invited from private entities. The Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday discussed the recommendations of the Cabinet Sub-Committee. The Cabinet decided that the tenders had been sorted into three groups with three districts in each group, where separate tenders would be called for each group. The sand reaches in the State would be divided into three groups. Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts would be part of the first group. West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts would fall under the second group. Nellore, Anantapur, Chittoor, Kadalay and Kurnool will form the third group, Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu told presspersons.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,||City corporations will get Rs. 50 cr. each, says CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday announced that 10 city corporations in the State, including that of Mangaluru, would get special development funds of Rs. 50 crore each. Speaking after inaugurating the State executive meet here, Mr. Yediyurappa said that if the corporations performed well, additional grants of Rs. 75 crore would be released. His remarks came in the backdrop of Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari’s opening remarks that Mangaluru had witnessed tremendous development during Mr. Yediyurappa’s earlier stint.
06 November 2020||Patna,||Bihar’s pandemic polls winding to a close||With the campaigning concluding on Thursday for the last and final phase of polling for the Assembly election, Bihar is on course to complete the first election in India during a pandemic. There are 1,204 candidates in the fray in the 78 seats in this phase, with 110 women nominees. For both the JD(U)-led NDA and RJD-led UPA stakes are high in the third phase of polls.
06 November 2020||Guwahati,||‘Mizoram occupying 1.5 km of Assam land’||The Assam government accused Mizoram of occupying Assam’s land near the 164.6 km inter-State border as the economic blockade on the roads leading to the hill State continued for the ninth day on Thursday. Assam’s Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya said the people of Mizoram had occupied up to 1.5 km from the border. He represents the Dholai Assembly constituency in Cachar, one of the three Barak Valley districts bordering Mizoram.
06 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Gang strikes at 10 shops in APMC Market Yard||Taking advantage of the reduced security, a gang of thieves struck at the APMC Market Yard and Filter Bed areas on Wednesday night and made away with cash available in the trading units. The exact amount of money stolen is yet to be established.
06 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Mizoram occupying 1.5 km of Assam’s land’||The Assam government accused Mizoram of occupying its land near the 164.6 km inter-State border as the economic blockade on the roads leading to the hill State continued for the ninth day on Thursday. Assam Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya said the people of Mizoram have occupied up to 1.5 km from the border.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Traffic police unroll virtual simulator||A virtual game where players have to manoeuvre their motorcycles and scooters around pedestrians, potholes and other hurdles sounds like fun, but not if your driving licence depends on it. To instil discipline among two-wheeler riders, the traffic police have unrolled an innovative virtual simulator to “reform repeat offenders”.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC extends interim bail to over 3K undertrials||The Delhi High Court on Thursday extended the interim bail granted to 3,337 undertrial prisoners by another 30 days in order to de-congest jails here in view of the ongoing pandemic. The 3,337 prisoners were released under different criteria laid down by a high-powered committee constituted on the direction of the Supreme Court.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Delhi govt. puts complete ban on firecrackers||New Delhi The Delhi government on Thursday put a complete ban on sale, purchase and use of all firecrackers in the city between November 7 and 30. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also appealed to the residents to celebrate Deepavali by performing Lakshmi Puja at their homes instead of bursting crackers.
06 November 2020||Patna,||Nitish was the weakest CM, says Chirag||Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan lashed out at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday saying that the JD(U) chief would “stand with folded hands and head bowed before Tejashwi Yadav when the poll results will be out”. He said Mr. Kumar had been the “weakest Chief Minister”.Page 9
06 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||First nearby||Two people, including a woman, were killed and six others were injured in an explosion at a chemical factory in Khopoli in Raigad district on Thursday. The incident occurred at 2.55 a.m. at Jashnova Pharmaceuticals and Specialists Private Limited located in Sajgaon industrial area. According to the police, prima facie the reason behind the blast was a breakdown in reactor.
06 November 2020||Pune,||Second nearby||Intensifying its agitation against the Centre’s contentious agrarian reform legislation, the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee on Thursday launched a massive tractor agitation across the State. Big rallies were organised in Kolhapur, which saw the participation of MPCC chief Balasaheb Thorat, the Congress in-charge for Maharashtra, H.K. Patil, and District Guardian Minister Satej Patil, and in Amravati district in which State minister Yashomati Thakur took part.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Health Dept. to seek deferring of GP polls||Fearing an explosion of COVID-19 cases in the State if the gram panchayat elections are held in the winter months, the Health Department is set to request that the polls be put off at least till the end of February.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,||City corporations will get grants of Rs. 50 crore: BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday announced that 10 city corporations in the State, including that of Mangaluru, would get special development funds of Rs. 50 crore each.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Letter on loudspeakers in mosques creates a stir||A letter from the office of the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police (DG&IGP) calling for “suitable action” on a petition that seeks removal of loudspeakers from mosques in the State created a stir in the community.
06 November 2020||Chennai,||‘Governor, PM discussed important issues’||Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who called on PM Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Wednesday, discussed important issues related to Tamil Nadu, the Raj Bhavan said on Thursday. However, the statement did not elaborate on what transpired during the Governor’s meetings with Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah and the Minister of State for Prime Minister’s Office, Jitendra Singh, on Wednesday.
06 November 2020||Chennai,||Over one crore persons tested in State so far||On a day when Tamil Nadu reported 2,348 new cases of COVID-19, the number of persons tested in the State by the RT-PCR method crossed one crore. In Chennai, 621 persons tested positive for COVID-19, followed by 238 in Coimbatore. Another 2,413 persons were discharged after treatment on Thursday, taking the total number of persons discharged till date to 7,06,444.
06 November 2020||Patna,||Bihar’s pandemic polls winding to a close||With the campaigning concluding on Thursday for the last and final phase of polling for the Assembly election, Bihar is on course to complete the first election in India during a pandemic. There are 1,204 candidates in the fray in the 78 seats in this phase, with 110 women nominees. For both the JD(U)-led NDA and RJD-led UPA stakes are high in the third phase of polls in constituencies comprising Seemanchal, Kosi and Mithila areas where Muslim, Yadav and Extremely Backward Class votes largely decide the fate of candidates. The Grand Alliance in 2015 won 54 — the Janata Dal(U) 24, the Rashtryia Janata Dal 20 and the Congress 10 — of those seats. The JD(U) parted ways with the RJD in 2017 to join hands with the BJP to form a government. The BJP won 19 seats, while five seats went to smaller regional parties. “Muslims in the Seemanchal area are known for tactical voting. The AIMIM [All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen] can make the difference as the BJP will be keeping a close eye on any division of minority votes,” said Ajay Jha, political analyst of the A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Sciences. Twelve Ministers — eight from the JD(U) and four from the BJP — are contesting in this phase. The Opposition too has prominent candidates such as Abdul Bari Siddiqui (Kewati), Ramai Ram (Bochaha), CPI State secretary Ram Naresh Pandey (Harlakhi), Lovely Anand (Saharsa) and Shiv Chandra Ram (Patepur). Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhury is contesting from the Sarairanjan constituency on the JD(U) ticket against RJD candidate Arvind Kumar Sahni. During the campaign, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav repeated his promise of 10 lakh government jobs to youth, and Mr. Kumar stressed development. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said those who went against the security and sovereignty of the country would be thrown out of India. The Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region comprises Kishanganj, Purnia, Araria and Katihar districts, while the Kosi area of Saharsa and Madhepura has dominant Yadav and Rajput voters. The Mithila region of Darbhanga and Madhubani has more Brahmin and Muslim voters. The BJP has been doing well in bordering areas of northeast Bihar on the division of Muslim votes and consolidation of Hindu votes. The Muslim population of Seemanchal is divided into the sub-castes of Kulahiya, Surajapuri and Bhatt and they are known to be opposed to each other. This border area has also been the focus region for AIMIM.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Active cases stay below 6 lakh||India’s active COVID-19 case load has been fewer than six lakh for seven consecutive days and stands at 5,27,962, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. It said the active cases were now only 6.31% of the total positive cases. Following the national trend, 27 States and Union Territories have fewer than 20,000 active cases. Ten States and Union Territories account for 78% of the total active cases in the country. Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi and West Bengal together account for more than 51% of the active cases. 55,331 discharged The Ministry said that the total recovered cases stand at 77,11,809. As many as 55,331 patients have recovered and been discharged in the last 24 hours, whereas the new confirmed cases stand at 50,210, said the Ministry data. “About 82% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories. Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka have contributed the maximum to the single day recoveries, with more than 8,000 recoveries. They together account for more than 45% of the new recovered cases,” said the Ministry. Among the new confirmed cases recorded in the last 24 hours, 79% are found concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories. 8,000 cases in Kerala Kerala continues to report a very high number of new cases with more than 8,000 cases followed by Delhi with more than 6,000 cases. “About 704 fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. Of these, 10 States/Union Territories account for nearly 80% of the new deaths. More than 42% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra alone [300 deaths],” said the Ministry.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Central, State agencies face off at Bineesh’s house||Central and State agencies appeared to come head-to-head during the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) protracted inspection of the house of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, here on Thursday. The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights served a legal notice on ED inspectors for “imperilling the welfare” of Bineesh’s two-year-old daughter. Police move The State police moved against them on the charge of illegally detaining Bineesh’s wife, Renita, and his mother-in-law in the house for over 26 hours without any link to the outside world. The theatre played out at ‘Kodiyeri’, Bineesh’s residence at Maruthankuzhy, even as the members of CPI(M) Central secretariat, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Mr. Balakrishnan, were cooped up in a meeting at AKG Centre here. 26-hour inspection The ED took over the house on Wednesday. Almost 26 hours later on Thursday, Bineesh’s relatives staged a sit-in in front of the residence demanding that the ED let them inside. Soon, child rights commission chairman K.V. Manoj Kumar arrived at the gate and demanded that the ED allow the commission inside. The ED personnel responded by allowing Ms. Renita and her mother to come outside and see their relatives and speak to the waiting media. Wife’s charge Ms. Renita alleged that the ED officials had mentally harassed her and the child and attempted to hector her into signing a witness form and seizure report. She accused them of planting evidence. She questioned the ED’s statement that the inspectors had found a credit card belonging to a drug trafficking case suspect in the house. She said the ED had foisted a false case on Bineesh. “He is neither an underworld don nor boss. He just had a lot of friends,” she said. Stoic response Bineesh, who is in ED custody in Bengaluru on drug trafficking-related money laundering charges, responded rather stoically to the news of the raid. “Let them do whatever they can do,” he told reporters there.
06 November 2020||Purnia/Kishanganj,||Battleground Seemanchal can turn a swing region||For the Opposition alliance, particularly the Congress, in Bihar, Seemanchal is a critical ground that they need to hold on to in order to have a real shot at winning the Assembly election. Comprising Purnia, Katihar, Kishanganj and Araria districts, the region has 24 Assembly seats. The Congress holds eight now, the RJD three and the CPI(ML) one, totalling 12. The BJP and the JD(U) hold six each. In 2015, the JD(U), the RJD and the Congress fought together, while the BJP fought with the Lok Janshakti Party and others. In many ways, Seemanchal is different from the rest of Bihar. The most obvious one is the demographic make-up. This area has a 47% Muslim population as against Bihar’s state-wide average of 17%. It is among the most backward regions, often ignored by the political class of Patna. Purnea University, the only university here, came into existence just two years ago in 2018. The average literacy rate of the four districts is 54% against Bihar’s average of 64%. The average per capita income is Rs. 10,000 as against Rs. 14,574 for the State. Most of the year, floods submerge the area. This year, for example, paddy crops just a few weeks from harvest were destroyed in floods; in many cases, it was the third crop of the year to be destroyed. The main roads vanish every few kilometres and interior roads in villages are merely dirt paths. Scenes of children wading into flooded fields to catch fish with bare hands to supplement their families’ income is common. The final tally for the Congress will depend on its performance here. Out of the 27 seats that the party won in 2015, a much-celebrated performance for the Congress, eight were from this region. This time, it is contesting 11 seats. In seven of those seats, it faces Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen. What makes the contest tough is the anti-incumbency faced by the Congress MLAs who have been around for long. The party betrayed its nervousness at a rally in Kishanganj on Tuesday attended by former Congress President Rahul Gandhi. The Congress candidate — Abdus Jaleel Mastan — used inappropriate language against Mr. Owaisi. He threatened to break Mr. Owaisi’s backbone and send him to Hyderabad. The BJP has often managed to sneak through whenever there has been a division of the Muslim vote. In the 2010 Assembly election, BJP candidate Santosh Kumar Kushwaha managed to win by nearly 10,000 votes from Baisi, a Muslim majority constituency.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Congress will win 45-50 seats’||Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala , who was recently named chairman of the party’s election management and coordination committee for the Bihar Assembly poll, has been making concerted efforts for the party to win about 50 of the 70 seats allotted to it under the ‘Mahagathbandhan’ coalition. Excerpts from an interview:  The common perception in the State and across is that the Congress has been given more seats than its capacity to contest and field candidates. It’s hogwash. If the Congress party in Bihar does not have the capacity to contest 70 seats, then why did the RJD concede to that number? Why were thousands of applications from prospective candidates received at the party’s State headquarters Sadaqat Ashram? And why was there a swarm of people up to 2 km outside the gate of the headquarters? There was talk of intense rivalry and lobbying among State party leaders to ensure party tickets for their kith and kin. Absolutely not. There are no such things and every State party leader is working hard for UPA candidates to win the poll. How many seats do you expect the Congress to win, of the 70 it is contesting under the RJD-led grand alliance in Bihar? I’m confident that the Congress party will win 45-50 seats or more. Can you name the seats where Congress candidates will win the poll for sure? It will be quite unfair for me to name the seats where we’re going to win or lose. For the party, every seat and every candidate is important. There has been talk in the State’s political circles that the Congress was also in touch with the JD(U), in case the RJD did not offer 70 seats to contest. Absolute rubbish. This is classic BJP propaganda spread by a selective captive media of tired and retired NDA governments in the State and Centre. There was no need to be in touch with the Nitish Kumar government, which has been unethical and lost the respect of the people. But the Congress, for the last several years, has politically been dormant in the State and not successful in coming to power on its own. Yes. For success, we did not understand the division of castes and divisive politics. The central philosophy of the Congress party has been progress and development. Besides, jobs, MSP (minimum support price) for farmers, industry too have been essential components for the party. The party has resurrected now in Bihar. Earlier, you said that if the UPA government is formed in Bihar, it will scrap the new farm laws. Yes, if we form the government under the leadership of Tejashwi Yadav, we’ll pass a Bill in the first State Assembly session to scrap the anti-farmer laws What do you have to say on CM Nitish Kumar and Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi? The tired and retired leadership of Nitish Kumar and Sushil Kumar Modi has to be relegated as a sad chapter in Bihar. But PM Modi has been slamming Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Tejashwi Yadav in his public meetings in Bihar as “double yuvraj (double crown prince). First, Prime Minister Modi should answer three questions to the people of Bihar: 1) Five years ago, he had questioned Nitish Kumar’s DNA…[about] betrayal in his [Nitish Kumar’s] blood and now he is campaigning for him to make him CM for the fourth consecutive time? 2) In the 2015 Assembly poll campaign, PM Modi had said there were 33 scams in Nitish government and why has he joined hands with him again? and 3) Why has PM Modi forgotten the Rs. 1.25 lakh crore package to Bihar? Do you think RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav will be the Chief Minister in the UPA government in Bihar? Why not? Tejashwi Yadav is a young boy, completely in tune with the philosophy of the Congress. Bihar is the youngest State of the country and needs a young leader like Tejashwi Yadav.  Bihar is the youngest State of the country and needs a young leader like Tejashwi Yadav
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers block roads in 18 States||Stepping up their protests against the three recently-passed agriculture laws and the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill, farmers in 18 States blocked roads and staged demonstrations at more than 2,500 locations on Thursday, according to leaders from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), who had called for the “ chakka jaam ” agitation. They estimated that 5 lakh farmers had participated countrywide, adding that the agitation was only a precursor to plans to mobilise in the capital later this month. The largest gatherings were in Punjab and Haryana, with hundreds of agitating farmers in both States squatting on roads, including National and State Highways from noon till 4 p.m., hampering vehicular traffic. The protests were peaceful. “We staged ‘dharnas’ and blocked roads at least at 200 places to register our protest against the farm laws and the proposed amendment in the Electricity Act,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartaiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) in Punjab. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka also saw farmers and agricultural workers gathering in large numbers. In Puducherry, some protestors were detained by police, according to images posted on social media. There were protests in almost all districts of Tamil Nadu. “The protests clearly show a ‘One Nation, One Farmer-Protest’ phenomenon,” said an AIKSCC statement, mocking the Centre’s penchant for promoting its own schemes with a “one nation” theme. “This widespread protest has busted the myth that the Central Govt. has been spawning about the protests being localised. Farmers from Tamil Nadu to Punjab, Gujarat to Assam, gathered to make it clear that the highhandedness of the Central Govt. making laws for destroying the future of farmers, will not be tolerated.” More ahead “We do believe pressure is mounting. But this is only the trailer to our Dilli Chalo protest on November 26 and 27. We expect 1 lakh farmers from Punjab and 50,000 from Haryana to head towards the capital with more than 30,000 tractors,” said AIKSCC leader Avik Saha. “All 10 entrance roads to Delhi will most likely be blocked. This time, Punjab farmers will be coming with a plan not to go back until their demands are met.” However, leaders of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (RKMS), who said they supported Thursday’s  protest, were more doubtful about participating in large numbers in the march to Delhi. “For most farmers, it will be sowing season until December 10, so how can they leave their fields for so long? It may not be practical to have an indefinite protest at this time,” said RKMS spokesperson Abhimanyu Kohar.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Letter on loudspeakers in mosques creates a stir||A letter from the office of the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police (DG&IGP) calling for “suitable action” on a petition that seeks the removal of loudspeakers from mosques in the State created a stir in the community, especially as it comes in the wake of a rhetoric on a law against “love jihad” and reintroduction of the Anti-Cow Slaughter Bill. Advocate Harsha Muthalik petitioned the DG&IGP on September 30 seeking the removal of loudspeakers from mosques citing disturbance to residents as well judgements in multiple cases in high courts across the country. The office of the DG&IGP forwarded the petition with a cover letter for “suitable action” to all district police units in Karnataka on November 2. However, when contacted, DG&IGP Praveen Sood sought to downplay the issue. “My office has forwarded the petition for suitable action to all concerned authorities like any other petition. It is not a circular and I have not signed the letter as well,” he told The Hindu . ‘No instructions’ Later in the day Karnataka State Police issued a statement that the letter was issued by a clerk without authorisation of senior officials and further inquiry was under way. “There are no instructions to remove loudspeakers from all mosques,” the statement said. Members of the minority community fear the letter will be used by right-wing organisations to build pressure on the local police to ban the use of loudspeakers in the mosques. ‘Could be regulated’ Moulana Maqsood Imran Rashadi, a prominent member of the Karnataka Moon Committee, said the noise levels could be regulated in coordination with residents of the area, the police, and the mosque committee. “We neither want to trouble anyone nor violate any rules,” he said. However, Tanveer Ahmed, a prominent member of the community in the city, said rules should be applied uniformly to all communities. He batted for decentralised regulation of decibel levels for the sound allowed during azaan . A former bureaucrat from the community also pointed out that the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, stipulates that loudspeakers/public address systems cannot be used unless with a written permission. “Neither any mosque in the State, nor any other religious place of worship have the practice of availing this licence,” he said. Moulana Rashadi said if they apply for permits, the only contention would be the early morning azaan at 5 a.m., as norms bar use of loudspeakers before 6 a.m. ‘Sound boxes used’ Meanwhile, another senior member of the community said: “Most smaller mosques use sound boxes, which have a lower range, commonly used in auditoriums and educational institutes. They do not need any permission for that. While the authorities should have no problem with that, all mosques must preferably adapt to this mode”.  Most of the smaller mosques use sound boxes, which have a lower range, and which are commonly used in auditoriums and educational institutes. They do not need any permission for that. A senior member of the community   My office has forwarded the petition for suitable action to all concerned authorities like any other petition. It is not a circular and I have not signed the letter as well. Praveen Sood. Director-General and Inspector-General of Police
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC issues guidelines for reopening of colleges||Reopening of colleges and universities should start with libraries and laboratories, research scholars, science and technology postgraduates, and final year students, according to the University Grants Commission guidelines issued on Thursday. For all other students, online and distance learning would continue to be the preferred method. More than seven months after educational institutions across the country were closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, some students are now set to return to campuses in a cautious and gradual manner. Only institutions outside the containment zones could be reopened, and students and staff living in these zones would not be allowed to attend physical classes, the guidelines said. The Union Home Ministry had given the States permission to reopen schools and colleges from October 15, depending on the local situation. Several States have announced plans to reopen high schools and colleges and universities this month. For the Centrally funded institutions, it was up to the head of each institution to take a decision on reopening if they were satisfied with the feasibility of physical classes. All other institutions, whether private or State-funded, must depend on the decision of the respective State governments, the guidelines said. Administrative offices, research laboratories and libraries would be the first to reopen, followed by students of all research programmes and postgraduate students in science and technology programmes. Final year undergraduates may also be allowed to join for academic and placement purposes. Other students have been encouraged to continue online learning but may visit in small groups for consultation with faculty, after seeking prior appointments to avoid crowding. Hostel stay Only 50% of the student strength would be allowed on a campus at a time. All personnel on campus would be required to wear masks, and follow hand-sanitising practices. The installation of Aarogya Setu app was being recommended wherever possible. Although the guidelines discourage hostel reopening, they would be permitted so long as there is no sharing of rooms and 14-day quarantines are imposed on the students coming from other locations.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Peace comes with ability to deter war, says Rajnath||India is a peace-loving country but determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of “unilateralism and aggression”, no matter what the sacrifice is, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday. His comments come against the backdrop of the continuing stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh. More partnerships Speaking at a webinar on the diamond jubilee celebration of the National Defence College (NDC), he said India had fostered close relationships and partnerships with like-minded countries to further the common interests of countries in the region and beyond like Australia, Japan and the U.S. “Recently, India has been facing other challenges on its borders. India is a peace-loving country. We believe that differences should not become disputes. We attach importance to the peaceful resolution of differences through dialogue. However, India is determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice,” he stated. Peace could only be ensured through “the ability to deter war,” Mr. Singh said. There had been an attempt to build this deterrence through a judicious combination of capability development and an emphasis on long term policy of indigenisation. Ties with U.S., Russia “Our strategic partnership with the U.S. is stronger than ever before,” he emphasised. He also said that India also had strong, traditional and deep-rooted relations with Russia and the two countries have “weathered many a challenge in the past.” “India has also forged a very special partnership with reliable friends like France and Israel,” he noted. India and Australia shared “common concerns” and “shared values”, Mr. Singh pointed out. The India-Australia virtual summit in June 2020 gave a fillip to the already strong comprehensive strategic partnership. Towards free oceans “Our interests to secure trade routes, shipping lines of communication, fishing rights and communication networks also require the ability to contribute to the global effort, to maintain open and free oceans,” he added. Last month, the foreign ministers of the Quad grouping comprising India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. met in Tokyo and later India agreed to the participation of Australia in Exercise Malabar 2020 along with Japan and the U.S. The exercise is now on in the Bay of Bengal.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Metro Rail to airport may not take off||Chances of Hyderabad Airport Metro Rail project connecting Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) to Gachibowli taking off anytime soon is slim. However, the likelihood of the proposed 20-km Elevated Bus Rapid Transit System (EBRTS) linking Kukatpally Housing Board (KPHB) with Financial District in Gachibowli appears to be bright. Both public transport infrastructure projects are to be taken up by the Hyderabad Airport Metro Limited (HAML), the special purpose vehicle formed by the Telangana government. While the Airport Metro elevated corridor of about 32 km has been estimated to cost more than Rs. 9,000 crore at Rs. 300 crore per km, EBRTS is likely to cost about Rs. 2,400 crore at Rs. 120 crore per km. Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) including the alignments for Airport Metro and EBRTS are before the government for the final nod. Official indication is that work on EBRTS project could begin sometime next year considering the relatively less financial commitment from the government and as no land acquisition needs to be done. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar presided over HAML board meeting earlier this week and also that of Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) project along with top officials of various infrastructure-related departments where Managing Director N.V.S. Reddy has made presentations on current metro rail operations, safety protocols and the proposed pending next phase of the works. Save for announcement of appointment of ‘AECOM India’ private limited as the ‘Independent Engineer; in the place of Louis Berger for the next five years for the existing metro rail project, nothing concrete has been given away during the meeting. Senior officials, unwilling to be quoted, informed that Airport Metro will involve substantial investment by the government even as it mulls over taking it up on the Public, Private Partnership (PPP) mode or through the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract with “innovative schemes to attract more funds” to help reduce the public expenditure. HAML has suggested raising initial funds infusion through development of real estate like township along the airport route provided 50-100 acres is allotted for the Airport Metro. EBRTS construction through PPP mode has been already decided and TS Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) are the other partners with IT/ITES firms agreeing to participate. Electric articulated twin/three buses will be run on the viaduct to be built on piers akin to the metro rail project but slimmer and at less height. The route will be through HiTex, HICC, Hi-Tec City, MindSpace junction, Gachibowli and Narsingi with elevated stations at half a kilometre each connecting to the metro rail too at both ends of Kukatpally and Gachibowli.
06 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||CBI arrests former Karnataka Minister Vinay Kulkarni||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday arrested Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni on charges of being involved in the murder of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat member and BJP leader Yogeeshgouda Goudar in 2016, leading to accusations of political vendetta by Congress leaders. A daylong grilling of the former Minister, his brother Vijay Kulkarni and others, preceded the arrest. The CBI produced Mr. Vinay Kulkarni before the Second Additional District Court and sought his custody for three days. However, judge Panchakshari H. remanded him in judicial custody for a day. Mr. Kulkarni was subsequently taken to Hindalga Jail in Belagavi. The arrest evoked strong reactions from the Congress leaders, including KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. Protest staged Hundreds of Congress supporters and followers of Mr. Vinay Kulkarni staged a protest outside the police station where he and the others were grilled for hours. They accused Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar of “political conspiracy”. Mr. Vinay Kulkarni, speaking before the arrest, also termed the turn of events “politically motivated”. Meanwhile, Basava Jaya Mrutyunjay Swami of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha, Kudalasangama, sought an answer from Chief Minister from B.S. Yediyurappa on why “another leader from the community was being targeted for political reasons”. Earlier in the day, CBI sleuths visited the residence of the former Minister at Shivagiri in Dharwad and asked him to appear before them for questioning at Suburban Police Station. Another team of officials picked up Mr. Vijay Kulkarni from his Hubballi residence. Shirish Patil, a builder who is said to be a close aide of Mr. Vinay Kulkarni, and Nataraj, who took care of the dairy farm of the Minister, were also brought in for questioning. After close to three hours of grilling, both of them were let off; but the sleuths continued questioning the Kulkarni brothers. Subsequently Chandu Indi, a close relative of Mr. Kulkarni also appeared before the sleuths. The case dates back to 2016 when Yogeeshgouda Goudar, then zilla panchayat member from BJP, was hacked to death in his gymnasium in Dharwad on June 15. Investigating into the matter, the police had arrested six persons, including the main accused Basavaraj Mutagi. But the family members of Yogeeshgouda led by his wife Mallamma alleged a larger conspiracy behind the murder. They were backed by Mr. Joshi and Mr. Shettar who sought a CBI probe. Ms. Mallamma, who initially was seen in BJP protests, subsequently joined Congress, reportedly with the intervention of Mr. Vinay Kulkarni, who was then the Minister for Mines and Geology in the Congress- led government. However, Gurunathagouda, elder brother of Yogeeshgouda Goudar, continued his fight seeking a CBI probe, which was rejected by the then Congress-led government. After BJP came to power, the case was handed over to the premier investigation agency in September, 2019. The CBI had arrested six persons in March this year.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,||BJP for legislation against ‘love jihad’||The State core committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which met here on Thursday, has recommended that the government reintroduce the Bill to ban cow slaughter and also usher in a stringent law to proscribe “religious conversions for the sake of marriage” which it calls “love jihad”. Several Bharatiya Janata Party Ministers, over the past week, have been supporting a law against “love jihad” after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath mooted one such. Briefing presspersons after the core committee meeting, Arvind Limbavali, vice-president of the party’s State unit, said the committee felt that a stringent law was needed to prevent conversions through “love jihad”. Speaking earlier in the day at the inaugural of the party’s State executive meeting, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa too had said that Karnataka would not allow “religious conversion of young girls for marriage”. Old version Mr. Limbavali said that the core committee discussed in detail issues related to cow slaughter and decided that the old version of the Bill should be reviewed by incorporating necessary clauses for strengthening it. A total ban on cow slaughter has repeatedly figured in the Bharatiya Janata Party ’s election manifestos in the State. The then BJP government, led by Mr. Yediyurappa, had introduced the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2010. It was passed by a voice vote amid protests by the Opposition. The Bill was waiting the Presidential assent and it proposed to replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Laxity can raise positivity again: Kerala CM||Kerala reported 6,820 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, testing 61,388 samples. The test positivity rate dipped to 11.1%. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan told the media that the active pool in the State had been going down and that compared to the previous week, there was a 10% reduction in growth rate. He cautioned that this did not indicate that COVID-19 was on its way out and that it might hit another peak without a vigil. The Health department added 26 more deaths to the list of fatalities. These occurred between October 23 and November 3. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for nine, Malappuram five, Alapuzha three, Kollam, Thrissur and Kannur two each and Wayanad, Palakkad and Ernakulam one death each. Thrissur district had 900 cases, Kozhikode 828, Thiruvananthapuram 756, Ernakulam 749, Alapuzha 660, Malappuram 627, Kollam 523, Kottayam 479, Palakkad 372, Kannur 329, Pathanamthitta 212, Kasaragod 155, Idukki 116 and Wayanad 114 cases. Telangana recorded 1,539 cases on Wednesday, testing 44,327 people. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The 1,539 cases included 285 from Greater Hyderabad, 123 from Rangareddy, 102 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 86 from Karimnagar, 82 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, and 69 from Nalgonda. One case was recorded in Narayanpet, and four in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. Andhra Pradesh added 2,745 new infections on Thursday. The positivity rate of 84.20 lakh samples dropped to 9.93%, while positivity of the day’s 85,364 samples was 3.22%. Krishna district reported three new deaths, the highest, while Chittoor and Visakhapatnam reported two deaths each in the past day. Godavari districts reported over 400 new cases each while three districts reported less than 100 cases. The district tallies were: East Godavari (1,17,614), West Godavari (87,638), Chittoor (79,929), Guntur (68,683), Anantapur (65,247), Prakasam (60,213), Nellore (60,002), Kurnool (59,638), Visakhapatnam (56,390), Kadapa (52,767), Srikakulam (44,391), Krishna (40,871) and Vizianagaram (39,675). Karnataka on Thursday reported 3,156 new cases and 31 new deaths. While the positivity rate for the day was 2.71%, Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.98%. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,627 cases and nine of 31 deaths. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 16,716. As many as 1,16,337 tests were conducted in 24 hours.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Bengaluru bureaus)
06 November 2020||Kolkata,||Countdown on for Mamata govt.: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal had started anunprecedented oppression on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers. Mr. Shah, who is on two-day visit to the State, said that the death knell of the Trinamool Congress government had been sounded. “With the kind of the cycle of oppression that has been unleashed particularly on the BJP workers by the Mamata Banerjee government, I can say with certainty that the death knell for it has been sounded. In the times to come, the BJP will form the government here with a two-thirds majority,” he told journalists in Bankura district. Mr. Shah started his visit to Bankura by garlanding a statue of Birsa Munda. He said that the benefits of Central schemes were not reaching the State’s people, including the Adivasi population. “In this Adivasi area, the money for construction of houses is not reaching the people. Farmers are not getting Rs. 6,000, which is being allocated by the Centre, and the poor families are deprived of Rs. 5 lakh health insurance benefit. There are 80 schemes of the Centre aimed at the welfare of the poor and Adivasis but the benefits of all schemes are not reaching the people,” he said. If Ms. Banerjee thought that bystopping Central schemesshe could stop the BJP, then she was mistaken. “If she allows the benefits of Rs. 6,000 to reach every farmer, and also health benefit, toilet and housing schemes to reach the poor, then people may give a thought to her,” Mr. Shah said. The issue of non-implementation of two Central schemes — Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan — has been a subject of debate in the State. While the Trinamool Congress government maintains that it has launched similar schemes, the BJP leadership has been raising questions as to why the Central schemes cannot be implemented in the State. Recently, the Chief Minister wrote to the Ministries of Health and Agriculture, saying that she was willing to implement the schemes if they were routed through the State. Mr. Shah said that on the one hand he could see huge anger among people against the Mamata Banerjee government, and, on the other, there was hope among people that there would be change in the State under the leadership of Narendra Modi. He sought the support of people to “uproot the Mamata Banerjee government” and promised a “Sonar Bangla” (golden Bengal)” if voted to power. During the day, Mr. Shah had lunch at the house of a member of the tribal community in Bankura’s Chaturdihi village. Senior BJP leaders, including State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, national general secretary Kaliash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy accompanied Mr. Shah to Bankura. The Union Home Minister is scheduled to return to Kolkata and on Friday is scheduled to visit Dakshineswar Kali temple and have lunch at the house of a member from the Matua community.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||New dos and don’ts for foreign arrivals||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday issued guidelines for international arrivals, in supersession of the ones issued on August 2. It said that all travellers should submit a self-declaration form on portal www.newdelhiairport.in at least 72 hours before the scheduled travel or physically after arrival at the respective health counters. It allowed the States to have any additional restrictions imposed with regard to quarantine and isolation. “They should also give an undertaking on the portal or otherwise to Ministry of Civil Aviation through concerned airlines before they are allowed to undertake the journey that they would abide by the decision of the appropriate government authority to undergo facility / home quarantine/ self-monitoring of their health for 14 days, or as warranted,’’ said the Ministry. Only for compelling reasons/ cases of human distress such as pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parent(s) with children of the age of 10 or below, home quarantine may be permitted for 14 days.  Quarantine norms Travellers may also seek exemption from institutional quarantine by submitting a negative RT-PCR test report. “This test should have been conducted within 72 hrs prior to undertaking the journey,’’ the Ministry said.  International passengers arriving without an RT-PCR negative certificate and wishing to seek exemption from institutional quarantine may avail the testing facility available at the airports (where such provisions exist). International passengers arriving through seaports/land ports should also undergo the same protocol.
06 November 2020||Srinagar,||Unease over district council polls in J&K||Political parties in Jammu and Kashmir are likely to take a collective decision on contesting the first-ever elections for the District Development Councils (DDCs) in the Union Territory later this month, amid apprehension that these polls are being conducted to further delay the Assembly polls. “The leaders of the Peoples Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) are meeting in Jammu on November 7. The issue [DCC polls] will be discussed. Expectedly, it will be a collective decision,” CPI(M) leader and PAGD convener M.Y. Tarigami told The Hindu . The eight-phase polls will be held from November 28 in 20 districts, with each district constituting 14 constituencies. A PDP leader, who wished not to be named, said the parties were in a fix over the issue and it “requires a wide-ranging discussion as we are witnessing a propping up of a new crop of politicians without facing any opposition on the political platform”. “A process of disempowering the local parties was started on August 5 last year. These polls are also aimed at inventing a new political class to replace us,” the leader said. The National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which are part of the Gupkar alliance, had boycotted the panchayat and the urban local bodies elections over Article 370 in 2018. However, the Peoples Conference and the Congress, also part of the alliance, did contest these polls. “The DDC elections will give people some relief from the bureaucratic regime. People are already feeling the political vacuum. But how far these Councils will help in filling the vacuum, in the absence of an Assembly and an elected government, is a question to ponder over,” Rekha Chowdhary, former professor and Head, Department of Political Science, University of Jammu, said.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar leaked govt. info to Swapna: ED||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, shared confidential government information pertaining to the LIFE Mission and K-Fon projects with Swapna Suresh, second accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, for being passed on to Unitac Builders and Developers, according to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Unitac had allegedly paid huge amounts as commission to some of the accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The ED made these revelations in an affidavit filed before the special court trying the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases here on Thursday. WhatsApp chats According to the agency, the sharing of information was revealed when WhatsApp chats between Mr. Sivasankar and Swapna were extracted from their cell phones. The ED had searched the office and residence of chairman and managing director of Pennar Industries Ltd., Hyderabad, on November 4 and recovered incriminating materials, which needed to be verified with the accused, it submitted. When T.A. Unnikrishnan, counsel for the ED, argued that it required more time to investigate the role of Mr. Sivasankar in K-Fon, a State government initiative to provide Internet connection at subsidised rates to all families in the State, the court asked the agency to explain the connection of the case with the one booked under the PMLA. Kauser Edappagath, Principal District and Sessions judge, pointed out that the case under the Act would stand only when it was connected to the predicate offence of gold smuggling.  Counsel for the agency submitted that investigations revealed that the two cases were linked and there was material evidence to connect Mr. Sivasankar to both the cases. It submitted that Mr. Sivasankar was overseeing the execution of projects such as SmartCity, K-Fon, and LIFE Mission and Swapna was associated with these projects. Mr. Sivasankar knew all the main accused in the gold smuggling case and Khalid, former finance head of the UAE consulate, the main beneficiary of the kickbacks received from Unitac, it submitted. The judge extended the custody of Mr. Sivasankar till November 11.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||Court rejects request for Arnab’s police custody||The Magistrate Court in Alibag, Maharashtra, recorded reasons for rejecting the request for police custody for Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami on Wednesday. The court remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days. Mr. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his residence in Mumbai for allegedly abetting the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik, directors of Concorde Designs Private Limited, for not paying Rs. 83 lakhs towards the Bombay Dyeing Studio Project. In court, the prosecution argued that Mr. Goswami tried to evade arrest and had not been co-operating. The prosecutor said custody was required for questioning on some documents seized from him. Senior advocate Aabad Ponda, representing Mr. Goswami, appeared through videoconferencing and told the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) that no summons or notice was issued and after a summary report was submitted, arresting his client was illegal as Mr. Goswami was willing to pay the money. 5-hour hearing After perusing the documents and hearing the arguments for over five hours, CJM Sunaina Pingle said the victim’s death was not clearly connected with the accused. No court order was issued for such an investigation. The prosecution had not shown or informed the defect in the earlier investigation, hence police custody could not be granted, said the court. The order said, “The investigating officer on October 15, 2020 only submitted a report to the magistrate informing that certain fresh material has come to the fore in the case. There is no record to show that the magistrate permitted reopening of the case.” The 11-page-order also states, “All reasons seeking custody are primarily collection of documentary evidence hence custody of the accused is not necessary”.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘All insults not offence under SC/ST Act’||All insults or intimidations to persons belonging to Dalit or tribal communities will not be an offence under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the Supreme Court said in a judgment on Thursday. An offence is made out under the statute only if “such insult or intimidation is on account of the victim belonging to a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao observed. The court said the insult should be specifically intended to humiliate the victim for his caste. “Offence under the Act is not established merely on the fact that the informant [complainant] is a member of Scheduled Caste unless there is an intention to humiliate a member of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe for the reason that the victim belongs to such caste,” the court said. For vulnerable sections The court said the object of the Act is to punish violators who inflict indignities, humiliations and harassment. “It is intended to punish the acts of the upper caste against the vulnerable section of society for the reason that they belong to a particular community,” the judgment noted. The court was hearing an appeal filed by a man, Hitesh Verma, booked under the Act for allegedly abusing a Dalit woman in her house. The court found that allegations against Mr. Verma do not fulfil the basic ingredient under the Act that such humiliation should have happened in public view. Since the incident occurred within four walls in the absence of members of the public, allegations against Mr. Verma under the Act do not stand. He can be tried under ordinary criminal law.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC declines to hear PIL plea on Rs. 10,000 relief||Telangana High Court on Thursday declined to hear a PIL petition seeking a direction to State government to transfer online Rs. 10,000 relief to each of families affected by recent heavy rains in city, instead of paying in cash. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, however, directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to secure instructions on the matter from the government. A lawyer C.V. Srinath, who filed the plea, contended that the likelihood of the cash relief being misappropriated cannot be ruled out. Thousands of families were affected due to inundation, deluge, water-logging and floods in several parts of the State capital following recent incessant rains. The government decided to extend monetary help of Rs. 10,000 to each family whose properties got damaged in the floods. Stating that the money being paid to people was that of the tax payers, the petitioner wanted the monetary relief to be extended through either online transfer or cheque payment to ensure the genuinely affected families benefited. This would check possible misappropriate of the money being distributed physically, the petitioner stated. The petitioner’s lawyer contended that Ministers, MsLA, corporators and leaders of ruling TRS party were taking part in disbursement of Rs. 10,000 to families. Huge sums of tax payers’ money was being diverted in some cases, he said. While the middlemen are getting benefited, the real victims were being deprived of the crucial financial assistance, he argued. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy observed that newspaper reports said the government had decided to keep in abeyance temporarily distribution of the monetary relief. At this juncture, no interim direction can be given on the issue raised by the petitioner, he said. The matter was posted after three weeks for hearing.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court issues notice to journalist||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to a journalist and others on a petition filed by the Uttarakhand government to set aside a Nainital High Court order which quashed an FIR registered against them for cheating, forgery and conspiracy and went on to suo motu order a CBI probe into allegations against Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. This development comes a few days after the Supreme Court on October 29 stayed the part of the High Court order which directed a CBI probe into allegations against the Chief Minister. Now, the State government wants the entire High Court order of October 27 to be set aside, including the quashing of an FIR registered against journalist Umesh Kumar Sharma and some others. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan issued notice to Mr. Sharma and other respondents on the State’s appeal, represented by battery of lawyers led by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, P.S. Patwalia, A.N.S Nadkarni and advocate Vanshaja Shukla. The respondents may file their counter-affidavits. The case would come up after four weeks. The case pertains to a Facebook video broadcast by Mr. Sharma allegedly showing documents and back account details of one Dr. Harender Singh Rawat and his wife. He allegedly claimed that the couple were related to the Chief Minister. The video claimed that deposits of money meant for the Chief Minister were made into these bank accounts when demonetisation was announced in 2016. Mr. Rawat was then the BJP State-in-charge of Jharkhand at the time. The government plea said police inquiry found that no such deposits were made into the bank accounts of Dr. Harender Singh Rawat and his wife during or after the 2016 demonetisation period.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||All sectors looking up, says Prime Minister||Pitching India’s resilience during the COVID-19 pandemic as a signal of its inherent strengths, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India’s economy has been stable and all sectors are now looking up, as he invited global money managers looking for “returns with reliablility” to invest in the country. Mr. Modi said the government is finalising a “pioneering multi-modal connectivity infrastructure masterplan” under the National Infrastructure Pipeline, which envisages investments of $1.5 trillion. “We are building millions of affordable houses for the neo-middle class. We want investment not just in big cities but smaller cities and towns too,” the PM said, citing the GIFT City in Gujarat as one such city being developed. “Today, each sector in India is looking up… India is the place to be if you want returns with reliability, demand with democracy, stability with sustainability, and growth with a green approach,” he said. Addressing a virtual global investor round table attended by 20 large global investment funds managing over $6 trillion, the PM said India’s “brave fight during the pandemic reflected its sense of responsibility, spirit of compassion, national unity and the spark of innovation”. “India has shown remarkable resilience in this pandemic, be it fighting the virus or ensuring economic stability. This resilience is driven by the strength of our systems, support of our people and stability of our policies,” Mr. Modi said, explaining that social distancing and wearing of masks practised by the people helped India put up a strong fight against the COVID-19 virus. “We are building a new India which is free of old practices… India’s quest to become ‘Atma Nirbhar’ is not just a vision, but a well-planned economic strategy,” the PM said, listing out recent administrative reforms as well as legislative changes in areas such as agriculture, labour, education, manufacturing and the “rationalisation of the public sector”. The stability of India’s policies has made it a preferred investment destination, the PM said, citing the 13% rise in FDI (foreign direct investment) inflows in the first five months of this year. “I am happy that the global investor community has been showing confidence in our future… Your active participation in this round table increases the confidence even more,” he told top officials of these global institutional investors, which included sovereign wealth funds as well as pension funds. “India’s growth has the potential to catalyse global economic resurgence. Any achievements by India will have a multiplier effect on the world’s development and welfare,” Mr. Modi concluded.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||India slams Pakistan’s decision on Kartarpur||India on Thursday called as “highly condemnable” Pakistan’s decision to transfer the management of the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara from a Sikh body to a separate trust, saying it runs against the religious sentiments of the Sikh community. The External Affairs Ministry said India received representations from the Sikh community expressing grave concern over the decision to transfer the management and maintenance of the gurdwara from the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabhandhak Committee to the administrative control of the Evacuee Trust Property Board, a non-Sikh body. “This unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large,” it said.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||Army chief holds discussion in Nepal||Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday held discussions with his Nepalese counterpart General Purna Chandra Thapa in Kathmandu. Gen. Naravane was accorded a special guard of honour and was conferred the Honorary Rank of General of the Nepali Army. “Both delegations discussed Army-to-Army relations and enhancing bilateral defence cooperation. He was also given a comprehensive briefing by senior officers of the Nepali Army”, a press note from the Embassy of India stated. The Indian delegation presented medical equipment for two field hospitals of the Nepali Army. Nepal is home to a large number of Gurkha soldiers of the Indian Army and the two militaries have maintained warm fraternal ties that remain undisturbed by bilateral political ups and downs. Gen. Naravane was honoured in a special event at Nepalese President’s official residence ‘Shital Niwas’.
06 November 2020||Bishwanath Ghosh Kolkata,||Complains against Visva Bharati VC for praising China||A prominent teacher’s union at Visva-Bharati has written to the President of India, bringing to his notice a video in which Vice Chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty can be seen praising China and criticising his own institution in the presence of the Chinese ambassador. Mr. Chakrabarty has often been accused, particularly by the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association or VBUFA, of being partial towards right-wing ideologues while inviting speakers to the university; and now with the anti-China mood prevailing in the country, the VBUFA has seized a January 13 video to show how the VC himself sang praises of China while being publicly critical of Visva-Bharati. According to VBUFA, the VC, with his remarks, had not only surpassed his administrative jurisdiction but also shown disrespect to the Visva- Bharati community and to all the stakeholders, “ranging from the Chancellor, Hon’ble Prime Minister, the Visitor Hon’ble President of India, the Rector Hon’ble Governor of West Bengal.” On January 13 this year, Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong had delivered a lecture at Visva-Bharati.
06 November 2020||Bhopal,||‘Producing suspects before media violates their rights’||The Gwalior Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has observed that producing suspects before the media violated their fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution and encouraged media trials. While hearing a petition on Monday, Justice G.S. Ahluwalia noted, “By producing the victims and suspects before the media, the police not only violates the fundamental rights of the suspect as enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India but also encourages media trials.” Further, the court observed that although the general public was entitled to know about the progress of an investigation, producing suspects or victims before the media had no foundation under any statutory provision law. Privacy of a citizen was an integral part of Article 21 and couldn’t be infringed unless a reasonable restriction was imposed under law. “Even if a person is a hardcore criminal, but still his details/history sheet/surveillance has to be kept discreet and there is no question of posting the photographs of history sheeters even at police stations,” the Justice observed.  ‘Rationale not justified’ The court was examining whether the State government through an executive order could violate the privacy of an accused by publishing his face in the media or by parading them. The court said the counsel for the State could not justify the rationale behind the liberty of producing the accused or victim before the media. In addition, the court noted the police, instead of “tapping its own back” by disclosing the identity of the suspected persons in print, social or digital media, must concentrate on ensuring the timely appearance of the police witnesses before the trial court, so that the guilt of a person could be established.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||House panel looks at violation of privilege notice||In what could spell more trouble for Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, the privilege motion committee of Maharashtra Assembly on Thursday met to discuss violations by Mr. Goswami to the notices sent to him by the House. “Maharashtra Speaker has sent him seven notices seeking reply to the breach of privilege motion moved against him. Not a single notice has been answered. This itself is another breach of privilege,” said Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik. Mr. Sarnaik said that not only did Mr. Goswami not reply to the notice but he also made the contents of the notice public, which is a serious violation. “We discussed this at the meeting and have decided to take appropriate steps,” said Mr. Sarnaik.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Metro Rail to airport may not take off||Save for announcement of appointment of ‘AECOM India’ private limited as the ‘Independent Engineer; in the place of Louis Berger for the next five years for the existing metro rail project, nothing concrete has been given away during the meeting. Senior officials, unwilling to be quoted, informed that Airport Metro will involve substantial investment by the government even as it mulls over taking it up on the Public, Private Partnership (PPP) mode or through the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract with “innovative schemes to attract more funds” to help reduce the public expenditure. HAML has suggested raising initial funds infusion through development of real estate like township along the airport route provided 50-100 acres is allotted for the Airport Metro. EBRTS construction through PPP mode has been already decided and TS Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority are the other partners with IT/ITES firms agreeing to participate. Electric articulated twin/three buses will be run on the viaduct to be built on piers.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||In action mode||
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC dismisses Franco’s plea again||The Supreme Court has dismissed a plea to review its earlier order refusing to discharge former Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal accused of raping a subordinate nun. “We have perused the review petition and the connected papers. We do not find any error in the order impugned, much less an apparent error on the face of the record, so as to call for its review. The review petition is, accordingly, dismissed,” a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde recorded in a short order on November 3. The same Bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, had dismissed Mr. Mulakkal’s original plea seeking discharge from the criminal case on August 5. In August, Chief Justice Bobde had reacted to the insistent submissions made by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi on behalf of the bishop by asking whether the latter was trying to exercise his spiritual power over the court. “There is no case of discharge in your favour.We are dismissing your case,” Chief Justice Bobde had told Mr. Rohatgi then.
06 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||I-T searches on Believers Church office||The Income Tax Department on Thursday raided offices connected to the Thiruvalla-based Believers Eastern Church, a religious establishment led by Metropolitan Athanasius Yohan 1 (K.P. Yohannan). The operation began in the morning and continued till late in the evening. Simultaneous raids were carried out at the offices and residences of several persons associated with the Church, inside and outside Kerala. Among the sites raided were the church headquarters at Thiruvalla, a medical college hospital run by the Church, and the residence of the metropolitan. Unaccounted money The officials seized unaccounted money worth Rs. 57 lakh from the boot of a car parked on the premises of the Church headquarters. Several documents pertaining to the financial transactions of the religious establishment too were seized by the team. The officers attributed the surprise raids to some ‘specific inputs’ on tax evasion and unauthorised foreign transactions. The details of the case would be shared at a later stage, they added. On govt. radar The Church spokesperson was not available for comment despite multiple attempts. The Church had been on the radar of the government following allegations of receiving several crores of rupees in foreign funds through the NGOs run by it. As per reports, these agencies had registered a cash inflow of around Rs. 2,397 crore during the 2015-16 financial year, which included new foreign funds, transfer from other local sources, contributions brought forward from previous years, and their interest. In 2017, the Ministry of Home Affairs barred the Church and three NGOs associated with it from receiving foreign funds.  Simultaneous raids were carried out at the offices and residences of several persons associated with the Church.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Mixing ganja with toddy lands seller in jail||A 21-year-old made a success out of his toddy business with a ‘twist’, only to have it boomerang and get him arrested. K Suresh Goud of Malkapur, a small village on the Telangana-Karnataka border in Tandur mandal of Vikarabad district, mixed marijuana powder with toddy. Soon his business became a runaway hit as villagers wanted more of it by the day. The new recipe concocted by Goud found great patronage from villagers so much so that in just a matter of six months his business grew more than eight-fold. His toddy was nicknamed ‘Black Dog’ by his ‘fans’ as it enhanced ‘kick’ when compared to others. Before inventing the ‘recipe’ he used to sell just around 100 bottles of toddy per day. When he launched this magical potion, the villagers took no time to fall for it and made a beeline to get ‘high’ with marijuana toddy. The toddy consumers never had any clue what makes them crave for it, Karankote Sub-Inspector E Edukondalu told The Hindu. He said that Goud sold sold 800 to 1,000 bottles of toddy per day each costing Rs. 10. He said that the accused managed to get the ganja from one of his acquaintances, Hussainaiah Goud from Gulbarga of Karnataka every two months. “Hussainaiah supplied 500 gm to 700 gm of ganja every two months and Goud used to mix at least 30 to 40 gm per day in his toddy,” Mr. Edukondalu said. However, this ‘new arrival’ packed in used beer bottles saw his rivals run for their money as they could not find their sales picking. When enquired, they learnt that Goud mixed some ‘substance’ with toddy to improve the taste and enhance the ‘kick’. Soon, police got a tipoff that he was mixing ganja powder in the toddy. “After an initial enquiry, we raided his shop, collected samples and booked him under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act,” Mr. Edukondalu said.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||Plea before Bombay HC challenges arrest||Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami withdrew his bail plea before an Alibag court on Thursday, moved the Bombay High Court challenging his arrest, and sought the quashing of the FIR against him in the 2018 abetment of suicide case. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Goswami, currently in judicial custody, whether a habeas corpus should be issued directing authorities to produce him as he has been wrongfully detained and sought quashing of the FIR against him under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Senior advocate Aabad Ponda, representing Mr. Goswami, said the police have ignored the closure report, and without any judicial interference re-opened the case on its own. He said it was a “dead case and the arrest is illegal”, therefore Mr. Goswami should be granted interim bail as “every second is important”. The court kept interrupting Mr. Ponda and saying that the matter could not be heard unless the complainant was heard. The petition was listed for Thursday. “That also needs to be heard,” the court said. The Bench told Mr. Ponda to challenge the court’s order. Mr. Ponda then said, “The informant never went to a court of law seeking reinvestigation after the closure. It is the police who suo moto revived the case.” After senior advocate Harish Salve agreed to amend his petition to implead the complainant in the case, the Bench directed it to be done and adjourned the matter for hearing on November 6 at 3 p.m. The petition mentioned, “It is shocking that a case that was decisively closed has been reopened with the sole purpose of misusing power, concocting facts and forcefully arresting the Petitioner in a prima facie act of revenge and vengeance for his news coverage which questioned those in power in the State of Maharashtra.”
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||PM says Nitish govt. is key to development||In an open letter posted on his Twitter account, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told the people of Bihar that he needed the Nitish Kumar government to ensure uninterrupted development.
06 November 2020||Srinagar,||Two civilians injured in encounter||Two civilians were injured in an ongoing encounter between hiding militants and security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama.  “A joint operation of the Army and the police was launched in Meej area on Thursday afternoon. A firefight is on,” an Army spokesman said. Two civilians were injured. Two to three militants are believed to be hiding in the area. In Tral, unknown gunmen shot dead a shopkeeper Muhammad Ayoub Ahangar.
06 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand withdraws consent to CBI||The Hemant Soren government on Thursday withdrew the general consent accorded to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to carry out investigation in the State. The revocation of power means CBI cannot conduct any investigation in the State without prior approval. “In exercise of powers conferred by Section 6 of the Special Police Establishment Act 1946 (25 of 1946), the Government of Jharkhand hereby withdraws the consent accorded to the members of Delhi Special Police Establishment as also by any other instruments issued by the Government of Jharkhand, from time to time, to exercise the powers and jurisdiction under the said Act in Jharkhand,” a Home, Prison and Disaster Management Department order says. The powers vested on CBI were accorded by the then Bihar government in February 1996.
06 November 2020||Srinagar,||Kishtwari dies in Srinagar jail||Infamous counter-insurgent Ghulam Muhammad Lone alias Papa Kishtwari died of heart attack inside a Srinagar jail on Thursday.   Kishtwari, who worked with the security forces as a counter-insurgent in the 1990s, is accused of killing dozens of militants and civilians. He was arrested in 2015 on the directions of a court for the killing of a businessman, Ali Mohammad Mir.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Book Farooq, Mehbooba for sedition’||Over 250 retired officers of the defence forces, IAS, IPS, IFS and the judiciary issued a statement on Thursday calling for the detention and prosecution of former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Ministers Mehbooba Mufti and Farooq Abdullah for sedition for their recent remarks. Calling themselves a non-partisan group of concerned citizens, they said the former CMs’ comments promoted separatism. Referring to Ms. Mufti’s statement that she would not hoist the tricolour till the flag of J&K was allowed to be hoisted, the group said she had insulted the flag and was liable for prosecution under the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971. “The head of the Gupkar Gang, Mr. Abdullah, said Article 370 will be restored with the help of China.” Both are liable to be prosecuted under Section 124 A of the IPC for sedition, it said.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC order on NPAs causing problems: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India told the Supreme Court on Thursday that it is facing “great difficulties” with the court’s interim order against declaring as non-performing assets (NPAs) accounts found perfectly good till August 31, 2020. On September 3, the top court, as an interim measure considering the hardships of the pandemic and moratorium, directed that “accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020, shall not be declared NPA till further orders.” Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, RBI counsel V. Giri urged the court to hear the RBI on the next date. The court listed the case for November 18. During the hearing, the main petitioner, who represents individual borrowers in the top court, expressed satisfaction with the government scheme to pay back the difference in the compound interest and simple interest charged during moratorium.
06 November 2020||Patna,||Nitish was the weakest CM, says Chirag||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan lashed out at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday saying that the JD(U) chief would “stand with folded hands and head bowed before Tejashwi Yadav after November 10 when the poll results will be out”. The LJP chief also said that he was not in the race for the Chief Minister’s post in the State but asserted that a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-LJP government would be formed in the State after November 10. “The same Prime Minister, whom you [Nitish Kumar] were, earlier, never tired of arguing with or criticising but are happy to share stage with him today and bow before him, as he asks votes for you? This shows your greed for power and for the Chief Minister’s post…after November 10, when the Assembly results will be out, you will be bowing before Tejashwi Yadav or, if need be, will go to Ranchi to seek blessings of RJD chief Lalu Prasad,” Mr. Chirag Paswan told a news agency on Thursday. He said Mr. Kumar had been the “weakest Chief Minister” who could not bring any development to Bihar but “would make excuses saying the Centre will do it”.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s election experience is a good sign: CEC||India’s experience of holding elections during the COVID-19 pandemic showed that other countries could go on with scheduled polls and not defer them, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said on Thursday. Citing the ongoing Bihar Assembly elections, of which the third and final phase of polling is on Saturday, Mr. Arora told members of the Association of World Election Bodies (A-WEB), at the inauguration of a virtual election visitors programme, that the Election Commission of India had prepared meticulously for the polls. “There was no dearth of sceptics, cynics, extreme cynics, who were doing doomsday predictions for us,” he said. The elections had turned out to be leap of faith and “not a leap in the fire”. The turnout in the first two phases of polling had been higher than that in the 2015 Assembly elections for those constituencies and the 2019 Lok Sabha election, he said. “All EMBs [election management bodies] across democracies can be enthused enough from India’s foray into elections to pick up the gauntlet and organise elections as per original schedule and not defer,” he stated.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over one crore persons tested so far||On a day when Tamil Nadu reported 2,348 new cases of COVID-19, the number of persons tested in the State, by the RT-PCR method, crossed one crore. Till date, a total of 1,00,52,393 persons have been tested in the State. Earlier this week, the number of samples tested in the State had crossed one crore. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours stood at 80,192. With this, a total of 1,03,25,440 samples have been tested by the RT-PCR method in the State. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar tweeted that the State had made a policy that focused only on RT-PCR tests, the gold standard of testing for COVID-19. A total of 203 laboratories have been established in the State, and they have tested 1,01,69,917 samples (as on November 3), the highest in the country, he said in the tweet. With the fresh cases on Thursday, Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 7,36,777. In Chennai, 621 persons tested positive for COVID-19, followed by 238 in Coimbatore. There were 148 cases in Tiruvallur, 130 in Salem, 112 in Chengalpattu, 110 in Tiruppur and 102 in Kancheepuram. As many as 98 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Erode. The number of active cases in the State stood at 19,061. Of this, 6,080 persons are under treatment in Chennai and 1,224 in Salem. Another 2,413 persons were discharged after treatment on Thursday, taking the total number of persons discharged till date to 7,06,444. The State recorded another 28 deaths (14 in private hospitals and 14 in government facilities). With this, a total of 11,272 persons have succumbed to COVID-19 in the State. Chennai accounted for 12 deaths, taking its toll to 3,693. There were three deaths in Chengalpattu and two in Pudukkottai. Among the deceased was a 28-year-old man from Thoothukudi who had no co-morbidities.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM is the third largest party in State, says Kamal Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan is all set to begin his first round of campaigning for the Assembly election on November 26 and 27 in Tiruchi and Madurai, and then again on December 12 and 13 in Salem and Coimbatore. Speaking to presspersons in Chennai, Mr. Haasan said, “According to the numbers crunched internally, MNM is the third largest party in Tamil Nadu”. On the possibility of forming an alliance with existing parties, he said, “Why is everyone in a hurry to make sure I form an alliance? We will form an alliance with ‘good people’. When that happens, we will be the main alliance. This is not the time to talk about an alliance”. Though Mr. Haasan remained evasive about the possibility of an alliance with the BJP, he said, “I will form an alliance with honest people.” He added that he wanted the “good people” in every party to join MNM. Mr. Haasan also said he hoped a “good person” like actor Rajinikanth would enter politics, but insisted that his health was also important. “This is a decision that he has to make,” he said. He commented on recent political developments pertaining to the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi’s campaign againstthe Manusmriti  and the BJP’s ‘Vel Yatra’, which is proposed to start across the State between November 6 and December 6. “The Manusmriti  is not a book that is in circulation today and criticism against it is unnecessary. If there is an attack on the Constitution of India, then the protests are justified,” he said. When asked about the BJP’s ‘Vel Yatra’, Mr. Haasan used a turn of phrase playing on the word ‘vel’. “I am more concerned about generating jobs [ Velai ]. Anybody can do this ‘Vel Yatra’. If they stop the ‘Vel Yatra’ citing law and order issues, I would welcome it”. Responding to a question on whether the BJP is taking out such ‘yatras’ to create religious disharmony in Tamil Nadu, he said, “Are you saying they are doing it [creating religious disharmony] only in Tamil Nadu?” He added that his first act as Chief Minister would be to pass a strong Lokpal Bill.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dip in Krishna water discharge to Chennai||There has been a sharp decline in the flow of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh through the Kandaleru Poondi canal for the past few days. However, the Water Resources Department (WRD) said Andhra Pradesh officials have assured it of continued supply all through this year. On Thursday, the Poondi reservoir, where Krishna water is stored, received 265 cusecs (cubic feet per second). The city has so far received 2,535 million cubic feet (mcft) of Krishna water discharged from the Kandaleru reservoir in Andhra Pradesh since mid-September. WRD officials said the decision to gradually decrease the discharge to Chennai was taken because of the irrigation needs of Andhra Pradesh and the onset of the northeast monsoon over Tamil Nadu. “Water released from the Kandaleru reservoir is diverted to tanks all along for irrigation in Andhra Pradesh. There is a minimum of nine branch canals. Water is also let out through the outlets of the Kandaleru Poondi canal. The dip in Krishna water supply is only temporary,” said an official. At a meeting in August, Andhra Pradesh officials assured their Tamil Nadu counterparts of 4,000 mcft for Chennai over two months. “We expect the inflow to gradually increase after November 15. The Andhra Pradesh authorities have promised to continue supply,” the official said. As on Thursday, Chennai’s four drinking water reservoirs had a storage of 6,199 mcft, nearly 55% of their total capacity of 11,257 mcft. On the same day last year, the combined storage of these reservoirs was 2,982 mcft. A good rainfall during the southwest monsoon that sent a considerable quantum of water into the reservoirs and the Krishna water release helped to build the storage in the four waterbodies. “We need 3-4 spells of intense rainfall to fill the lakes this season. Each spell must bring in 10-15 cm of rainfall spread over at least two days. The available resources will help to sustain drinking water supply to the city until next year,” another official said. Meanwhile, the WRD has engaged machinery to remove silt from the vulnerable portions of the Kandaleru Poondi canal to weed out obstructions in the flow into the Poondi reservoir. Tenders have been called for a Rs. 24 crore project to repair the canal’s lining that has suffered damage. However, temporary restoration is being done as the 25 km canal from the entry point in Tamil Nadu to the Poondi reservoir carries Krishna water. The work would be taken up on the 6 km stretch near Periapalayam once the water flow stops, an official said.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK ropes in Kangeyam cattle foundation head||Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, a well-known face in the Kongu region and founder-cum-managing trustee of the Senaapathy Kangayam Cattle Research Foundation, on Thursday joined the DMK in the presence of party president M.K. Stalin. “My objective is to spread the contribution of the erstwhile DMK government to the development of Kongu region. Reservation and other policies played a pivotal role in the development of the region,” said Mr. Sivasenapathy, who was invited by Mr. Stalin to Chennai. He said that in the 1950s, the Congress government in Tamil Nadu included the Mukkulathor and Vanniyar communities in the Backward Class list, based on the report of the Kalelkar Commission, but left out the Kongu Vellalar community. “Only in 1974, when Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi] was the Chief Minister did he include the Kongu Vellalar and many other communities in the region in the list,” recalled Mr. Sivasenapathy, who had unsuccessfully sought DMK nomination in the 2016 Assembly election. Subsequently, the 3% cent exclusive reservation introduced by the DMK government immensely benefited the Arundathiyars, one of the important communities in the region, he said. “There is a need to highlight the benefit of reservation in our region as most of them prefer to be entrepreneurs rather than joining government services,” Mr. Sivasenapathy said, reiterating that producing powerful officials from the community and the region was very important. But for the free power supply introduced by the DMK government and waiver of Rs. 7,000 crore in farm loans, many in the region would have sold their land and moved to other professions. “Today, we have emerged as the coconut capital of the country. After reading the bookCoconut Oil Miracle, Kalaignar directed the government to use the oil at noon meal centres and sell it through ration shops. Unfortunately, it was stopped,” he said. Asked whether his consistent campaign against the BJP and the Sangh Parivar on social media would not backfire as the region was known for its staunch belief in religion, Mr. Sivasenapathy said devotion should not be confused with politics. “Politics of religion has denied development to north Indian states. On the other hand, social justice and inclusive politics in our State have paved the way for development and empowerment of communities. It was achieved by the Dravidian movement,” he said.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No economic recovery till norms end’||The economy cannot get back on track unless the lockdown is lifted and restrictions are removed, C. Rangarajan, former RBI Governor and former Chairman of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, said. “It won’t be proper to expect a recovery in economic growth without lifting the restrictions. It can’t happen. Much of the recovery would depend on what view we are going to take about the lockdown,” he said during an interaction with Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (SICCI) president Ar. Rm. Arun as part of the industry body’s 360 initiative that involves monthly discussions with distinguished guests. Mr. Rangarajan pointed out that the government may be told to spend more and the banking system may be asked to provide more credit but this might not result in an increase in production until everybody is able to move, goods start moving and migrant labourers return from home States. The decision to completely lift restrictions would be difficult given the fears of a second wave of COVID-19, he said, citing the recent concerns expressed over the opening of schools and colleges. ‘Adequate measures’ Rather than imposing another lockdown, Mr. Rangarajan said the second wave could be tackled by taking other adequate measures. Higher growth rate can be the only answer to address socio-economic issues, he added. “Without a higher level of growth, it would be difficult to achieve the socio- economic goals of reducing poverty and inequality,” Mr. Rangarajan said. Apart from increasing healthcare expenditure and expenditure to take care of the vulnerable sections in society, the government should also increase capital expenditure that goes into infrastructure-building. This would lead to a pick up in economic activity, and create jobs. Slight pick up Mr. Rangarajan said there would be a slight pick up in economic growth in the second half of 2020-21 (September-March) but that would not be adequate to make good the loss suffered during the first half. Economic growth can get back to pre-pandemic levels by 2021-22, provided the second wave of COVID-19 is tackled, he added. Thereafter, Mr. Rangarajan said, economic growth would be stronger but a lot would depend on, among other factors, what actions the government takes and whether private investments come in.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stamp duty exemption for MSMEs||The State government on Thursday ordered exemption from the payment of stamp duty for registration of agreements executed by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) for loans taken under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme. The agreements pertain to deposit of title deeds in the context of obtaining the loans from banks and financial institutions for the period up to March 31, 2021. Normally, the registration of such agreements would have carried the levy of stamp duty of 0.5% of the loan amount with a maximum of Rs. 30,000. The scheme, drawn up to provide relief to COVID-19-affected MSMEs, envisages the provision of loans to the tune of 20% of outstanding loan amounts of such enterprises. This is why the full exemption has been given for the payment of stamp duty. The government has also decided to reduce the registration fee to 0.1% in respect of the agreements on deposit of title deeds for loans taken by micro and small enterprises. Till now, the rate of the fee is 1% with a maximum of Rs. 6,000. The latest move of the government has no bearing on any specific scheme and the idea behind it is to promote the sector, the official clarifies.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||64,193 children infected in State: Minister||A total of 64,193 children aged below 19 have tested positive for COVID-19, and have been treated in Tamil Nadu, so far, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “Less than 5% of the paediatric population have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. During the initial stages, there were many doubts on how pregnant women should be treated, and how to prevent transmission to the newborn. Our doctors found that mothers wearing masks during breastfeeding helped prevent transmission to the baby,” he told reporters, shortly after inaugurating a 128-slice CT scan machine at the Institute of Child Health (ICH) and Hospital for Children on Thursday. As a result, the mother-to-child transmission of COVID-19 has been less than 2% in the State, he said, adding: “This has been due to the guidelines developed by government doctors — obstetricians, gynaecologists and paediatricians.” ICH alone has, so far, treated 1,100 children who tested positive for COVID-19, he said. Noting that in the last one to two years, 55 new CT scan machines were installed in the State, the Minister said there were a total of 115 CT scan machines in government hospitals in the State. With the 128-slice CT scan machine installed at the ICH, at a cost of Rs. 4 crore, children no longer need to go to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) or the Tamil Nadu Government Multi-Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, for tests, he added. Noting that it was difficult to expect children to cooperate during a CT scan, he said the new equipment would make the process quicker. A whole body scan of a child, that usually takes 4 minutes, can now be taken in 10 seconds, he said. He pointed out that all government medical college hospitals in the State had post-COVID-19 clinics. “At ICH, staff make calls and sending SMS to remind that children, who have undergone treatment for COVID-19, should come for post-COVID-19 check ups,” he added. He said the incidence of communicable diseases usually increased in October, November and December. “When compared to the same period last year, we have now recorded 15 times fewer cases of dengue in Chennai. Field workers and mazdoors are focusing on the prevention of dengue and COVID-19, simultaneously,” he said. During the festive season, it is important to protect the paediatric and elderly population from exposure to the infection, he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the State government was keen on continuing street-wise and habitation-wise COVID-19 control measures, as well as fever camps and monitoring of workplaces. R. Narayana Babu, director of medical education; E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, and Ezhilarasi, director of ICH, were present.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor discussed important issues with PM, says Raj Bhavan||Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Wednesday, discussed important issues related to Tamil Nadu, the Raj Bhavan said on Thursday. However, the statement did not elaborate on what transpired during the Governor’s meetings with Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah and the Minister of State for the Prime Minister’s Office, Jitendra Singh, on Wednesday. Mr. Purohit’s visit to Delhi comes a day after the Supreme Court said the Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency’s probe into the larger conspiracy behind former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination need not deter the Governor from deciding on the plea of the convicts serving their sentences for over two decades now. Mr. Purohit also called on Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, in Delhi on Thursday, and discussed important issues of the State, the statement added. The Governor will also call on President Ram Nath Kovind, and is expected to return to Chennai on November 6. Stalin’s letter DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged the Governor to accept the recommendation of the State cabinet and remit the life sentences of all seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. In a letter, a copy of which has been sent to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Mr. Stalin said the convicts had been undergoing the agony of imprisonment for about three decades. He said the Cabinet recommendation had been kept pending for over two years and the delay had caused grave hardship to the convicts. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan demanded their release as well. CPI(M) MP Su. Venkatesan appealed to the President that the release of the convicts be facilitated. The Madurai MP said it was an assault on the Indian system of justice that the convicts continue to be imprisoned, after serving more than two terms of life imprisonment.  The Governor will also call on President Ram Nath Kovind, and is expected to return to Chennai on November 6
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors implant 32 mm pulmonary valve in patient||Interventional cardiologists at Apollo Hospitals have implanted a 32 mm pulmonary valve in a 61-year-old patient without surgery. The woman had undergone surgical correction in 1981 for Tetralogy of Fallot, a condition caused by a combination of four heart defects that are present at birth. These defects affect the structure of the heart, causing oxygen-poor blood to flow out of the heart and to the rest of the body. She was doing well until the pulmonary valve, the valve to the lung, gradually developed a leak. C.S. Muthukumaran, consultant, structural interventional cardiologist, Apollo Hospitals, said she faced breathlessness, palpitations and easy fatigue.  Diagnosis showed a severe leak of the pulmonary valve. As surgery posed a high risk, she was referred for transcatheter pulmonary valve implantation. “She was taken up for assessment in June 2019. The lung tube was significantly dilated and could not accommodate a 29 mm valve that was the largest valve available last year. So, it was decided to import a Chinese-made valve of a large diameter and one that was self-expanding,” he told presspersons on Thursday. The wait for the valve was prolonged due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The patient’s condition deteriorated and maximum medical management was done for her, he added. “A new 32 mm valve came into the Indian market in May 2020. We did a valve implantation without surgery and without pre-stenting,” he said. The procedure took 90 minutes and the patient was discharged the next day. Doctors claimed that this was the largest pulmonary valve in the world. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Group, said there was a need to take steps to prevent unnecessary deaths due to non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M signs pact with Japanese firm for clean water technology||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) will collaborate with a Japanese firm to bring clean water technology to the country. The International Centre for Clean Water (ICCW) has signed an agreement with Japanese firm DG Takano to develop innovative products to solve environmental challenges in providing clean and safe drinking water across the globe. T. Pradeep, IIT-M faculty and professor-in-charge of the ICCW, termed it a timely beginning to conserve water. Provide expertise The Japanese firm will provide expertise in cutting-edge sustainable technology. It will also support the ICCW in collaborating with other Japanese companies to develop products. The company will hire interns from the institute for research and development in water-related technology. The ICCW will also conduct research, testing and validation of various water technology solutions from DG Takano, including the company’s water-saving nozzle ‘Bubble90’, which can save 90% water when attached to a faucet.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to cut property tax penalty from 2% to 0.5%||The Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to reduce the penalty for property tax assessees owing to the challenging economic conditions during the COVID-19 pandemic. The civic body has started collecting penalty for delayed payment of property tax from the second half of 2019-2020 after an amendment to the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act. Assessees had to pay 2% of simple interest for the tax if they failed to pay during the first 14 days after the commencement of the half year. “We will reduce the penalty from 2% to 0.5%,” an official said. After the revision, property tax assessees who failed to pay property tax before October 15 this year will pay 0.5% of the amount based on a simple interest calculation for the half-year period. At least 1.3 lakh assessees have paid property tax in October. More than 10.9 lakh assessees are yet to pay property tax for this half-year period of October 2020-March 2021. The assessees who have already paid the penalty will pay a reduced tax for the next half year, after adjusting the fine amount. Residents have complained to civic officials about the method of calculation of penalty for delayed tax payment. “The Corporation has to impose penalty only after the second half year, according to the amendment of the Act. So, they should collect penalty only after the second half-year period of 2019-2020. But penalty amount has been calculated for old arrears as well. Many property owners who have been delaying payment of tax owing to litigation have been asked to pay additional penalty against the provisions of the Act,” a resident said. The civic body will continue to give a rebate of 5% for property tax assessees who have paid before April 15 and October 15 every year. “The property tax collected this October is Rs. 90 crore. The collection has increased by more than 20% because of incentive of 5%,” an official said. Many residents have also complained about the increase in tax because of the identification of underassessment of property tax. At least 1.8 lakh residents in the old city have been found to be paying a reduced tax because of underassessment. Most of the properties owned by residents of added areas have been found to be underassessed, sources said.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Governor has given assent to Bill on Jayalalithaa memorial’||The State government on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that Governor Banwarilal Purohit had granted assent to the Tamil Nadu Puratchi Thalaivi Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation Bill of 2020 on October 17 and that the law had come into force in the State from October 19 after due publication in the gazette. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy were informed about the developments by Advocate-General Vijay Narayan. The submissions were made during the hearing of a case filed by Jayalalithaa’s nephew J. Deepak challenging an Ordinance promulgated for converting “Veda Nilayam”, her Poes Garden residence, into a memorial. Now that the Ordinance had been replaced with an Act, the petitioner could withdraw the present case and file a fresh writ petition challenging the Act, the A-G said. Petitioner’s advocate S.L. Sudarsanam agreed to withdraw the case but expressed difficulty in accessing the Act. Later, the judges closed the writ petition challenging the Ordinance after granting liberty to the petitioner to challenge the Act, which provides for acquiring even movable assets such as furniture, books and jewellery left behind by Jayalalithaa at her residence and maintain the memorial through the Foundation, comprising the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister as its members.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 130 crore recovered from ineligible PM-Kisan scheme beneficiaries||Around Rs. 130 crore has been recovered from ineligible beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan scheme) — an income support scheme of the Central government for farmers — in the State. The amount recovered is equivalent to nearly 70% of the estimated overall amount that has been given to the ineligible persons, said an official of the Agriculture Department, adding that the remaining amount will be recovered in a “phased manner”. A few months ago, the authorities had found out that several lakhs of ineligible persons, mainly in the northern districts, had been enrolled as beneficiaries of the scheme, and crores of rupees credited to their bank accounts. Though authorities allow the registration of prospective beneficiaries as per the Centre’s SoP, they take steps to verify their details, at two levels. In the districts concerned, officials of the Revenue and Agriculture departments carry out field verifications. On getting reports of District Collectors, an exclusive cell — the PM Kisan cell — headed by a deputy director of the department in Chennai, scrutinises land records and ration cards of the applicants online. Till now, nearly 10,000 farmers have applied for inclusion to the scheme. As for the status of crop coverage, food grains like paddy, millets and pulses are being raised across 23.7 lakh hectares — nearly 50,000 hectares more than the previous year’s coverage. Of the total area, approximately 13 lakh hectares are covered with paddy; 7.6 lakh ha millets and 3 lakh ha pulses. Making use of the cultivation seasons — samba and thaladi — the Cauvery delta is raising paddy over 5 lakh ha. The figure is expected to go up in the coming weeks, the official said. In view of sufficient water available in the Mettur dam, with a storage of about 60 thousand million cubic feet, farmers in the delta will not face any problems, sustaining their crops. But those who have raised millets and pulses in the southern districts and areas such as Ariyalur and Perambalur are eagerly awaiting rainfall, the official added.  A few months ago, the authorities had found out that lakhs of ineligible persons, mainly in the northern districts, had been enrolled as beneficiaries of the scheme
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. should set up panel to frame regulations for online games’||The Online Rummy Federation (TORF), an independent body that acts as a self-regulator for the gaming industry, said the State government should set up a committee to review, discuss and propose a regulatory framework for games of skill, similar to Nagaland and Sikkim. “TORF will be keen to provide its full support to the government in creating a safe and responsible gaming industry. In the absence of regulation, and in case of any prohibitive action that doesn’t draw a clear line between legitimate skill gaming and illegitimate operators, the government will unintentionally elevate the problem it is trying to solve by encouraging uncontrolled illegal online gaming,” Sameer Barde, CEO of the federation, said. He explained that every single jurisdiction in the world that had chosen prohibitive measures has had to deal with a large underground economy. “A case in point is the recent Rs. 1,500 crore gambling scam in Telangana which surfaced after it chose to ban skill gaming in 2017,” Mr. Barde said. On recent deaths Commenting on the recent suicides related to online gaming, Mr. Barde said, “These events are of grave concern to TORF and its members. TORF members have taken extraordinary and voluntary steps to self-regulate and give players the tools to play responsibly. On the other hand, there has been a major uptick in the proliferation of illegal gambling sites that do not follow the strict TORF standards of regulation. This combined with the pandemic, which has exacerbated problems of social isolation, are some factors that have contributed significantly to the recent unfortunate events.” Ballpark estimates provided by companies in the online rummy space show that there are over two lakh registered rummy players from the State (playing on legitimate sites). Of this, more than 70% of are frequent players who, on average, spend anywhere between Rs. 200 to Rs. 500 on the game, in a day. Deepak Gullapalli, CEO of Ace2Three, said, “This is a game of skill and there are people from Tamil Nadu who have participated and even won tournaments.” He pointed out that during the pandemic, many illegal sites had mushroomed and that was where people had lost money. His firm has around 17-18 million players across India.
06 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||In four districts, ‘mini-schools’ offer some key lessons||For nearly five months now, school teacher B. Nadhiya’s terrace has been functioning as a “mini-school” where about 20 children in the neighbourhood come together to study for a couple of hours every day. Nadhiya lives in Tiruvallur district’s Kannigaiper, where many children don’t have access to online classes. Ms. Nadhiya’s micro-classroom is part of a pilot project of 45 “mini-schools” in Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Thoothukudi and Villupuram districts to help students of panchayat schools keep up with their lessons. Ms. Nadhiya says that introducing the idea of a mini-school, even if free of cost, was initially difficult. Not only were there fears about the coronavirus but children had gotten used to the idea of not having a school routine. Asha for Education, an NGO that works with several panchayat primary schools in these districts, wanted to make sure that the COVID-19 pandemic did not disrupt the students’ learning. So, many of Asha’s teachers visited the homes of students in the area, encouraging them to come just for an hour or two a day. Lack of smartphones “When we started talking to students in June, we found many of them were blank. They had forgotten what they had learnt,” says Ms. Nadhiya, citing the sudden and prolonged break in classes as a reason. Using smartphones to teach the students was not possible because either the families did not own one or it was used by a parent who had to be away at work. Keeping the safety of both teachers and students in mind, Asha for Education developed guidelines for the neighbourhood learning centres. Initially, only 10 students were permitted at a time. After a few weeks, about 20 students were allowed. The importance of using masks, washing of hands and social distancing was taught. The venue for these micro-classrooms would usually be the teacher’s house or terrace. K. Rajaraman, coordinator of the Chennai centre for Asha, says, “In many cases, the teachers’ houses were not big enough, and the classes had to be conducted in some public space nearby.” But as students and parents got used to the idea, things started falling into place. Some unlikely locations — the verandah of a church, an open area in a temple, a partially constructed panchayat building or a library — emerged as spaces to host the mini-schools. Blackboards were painted where required. Challenges emerge But challenges quickly cropped up. When COVID-19 cases were identified nearby, the mini-schools in the villages of Neyveli, Pondhavakkam and Nandhimangalam had to be temporarily closed. Another problem was that some students did not want to get back to lessons. TV, games and hanging out with older youth in the village had become a habit. Annalakshmi, who teaches at Karadikulam Colony near Kalugumalai in Thoothukudi district, knew that a personal touch was the best way to gain trust. “We were acquainted with the parents. So we went to houses of the students nearby and gave them simple worksheets.” The teachers also promised to have games, experiments and craft classes. The trickle of students soon grew stronger. Ms. Annalakshmi says the goal is simple: refresh concepts, strengthen the basics and then move forward.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Not right for political parties to seek Rajiv case convicts’ release: Alagiri||The Congress will accept whatever decision the courts take on the release of the seven convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case but it is not right for political parties and individuals to ask for their release arguing that they are Tamils, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri has said. ‘Faith in judiciary’ Mr. Alagiri on Thursday contended that the Congress had not even once interfered in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case nor sought any specific punishment for the accused as the party had faith in the justice system and the belief that the courts and law would do its duty. “As far as the Congress is concerned, in the matter of the seven convicts, it is for the courts to decide [on their release]. Political parties’ interference or political decisions will lead to injustice and give rise to a different mentality to the people,” he told The Hindu.  According to him, one section alone was arguing in favour of their release claiming that the convicts were Tamils and must be pardoned and released. Mr. Alagiri said convicts should not be judged on the basis of their religion, caste, where they belong, or which language they speak. “Punishing or releasing a criminal is the court’s job, not that of political parties,” he said. “If political parties or individuals do this mistake of seeking the release of people on such grounds, there will be anarchy in Tamil Nadu, there will be no need for police or courts and people will justify every wrong. This mentality should change,” he said. When asked about the contrarian stand of the DMK, the Congress’ ally, on the issue, he said, “It is a different issue. My views on the matter are for everyone,” he said.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras High Court CJ admitted to RGGGH||Madras High Court Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 on Thursday. According to a senior doctor, the Chief Justice had symptoms of COVID-19 and a CT scan showed 40% lung involvement. A laboratory report is awaited.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow sale of Sivakasi green fireworks’||Congress MP from Virudhunagar Manickam Tagore on Thursday wrote to Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik to reconsider the State’s blanket ban on sale of fireworks during Deepavali and allow the sale of environment-friendly ‘green fireworks’ from Sivakasi. The ban would destroy the fireworks industry, which was already going through a tough time, he said. In his letter, Mr. Tagore said the decision to ban the sale of fireworks on account of COVID-19 was without scientific study. “If proper health and safety guidelines are maintained within the rules of social distancing, the people of Odisha and India can enjoy a safe Deepavali in the present uncertain times. Such a decision of banning fireworks would send a negative message and create paranoia and destroy the fireworks industry,” he said.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines issued for meetings with parents||With schools gearing up to host consultations with parents and representatives of parent-teacher associations for feedback on reopening schools in Tamil Nadu, chief educational officers (CEOs) have been given directions on how to conduct the sessions and ensure adherence to safety norms. The meetings are scheduled to take place at the schools from 10 a.m. on November 9. Feedback will be compiled, signed and submitted to the CEOs by each school. The CEOs will then pass it on to the School Education Department. The Director of School Education, S. Kannappan, said since a larger number of parents will visit schools with high student strengths, the institutions should ensure the meetings are held in batches. “If the school head is not able to participate in every meeting held through the day, senior faculty members should be roped in as well,” he said. Schools have been asked to ensure that physical distancing norms are strictly adhered to, and the rooms where the consultations will be held should be sanitised and disinfected. School heads have also been asked to ensure that parents wear masks, compulsorily, on campus. In government and aided schools, school heads, as well as representatives from parent-teacher associations, are expected to participate in the meetings. Similarly, school management committee members, principals and parents will participate in the consultations in private matriculation and CBSE schools. The School Education Department has further asked for DIET principals as well as district and block-level education officials to oversee meetings in their jurisdictions.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijay distances himself from political outfit||Actor Vijay has distanced himself from ‘All-India Thalabathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam’ — a political outfit reportedly registered by his father S.A. Chandrasekhar, as reported in the media on Thursday. Mr. Vijay warned that he would take legal recourse if his photograph, name or his welfare organisation, ‘All-India Thalabathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam’ are used in the campaign. In a statement, Mr. Vijay said he learnt that his father had registered a political outfit in his name only from media reports. “I would like to categorically tell my fans and the people that I have no connection with this political outfit started by my father, directly or indirectly,” he said. Mr. Vijay added that he would not be affected by political decisions of his father. “I request my fans not to join the outfit simply because it is my father who started it,” he said. Earlier in the evening, there were reports that Mr. Chandrasekhar had registered ‘All-India Thalabathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam’ as a political party. He also clarified quickly that his son had nothing to do with it.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior ICF engineer bags national award||A senior section engineer of Integral Coach Factory here has been chosen for a national award by the Indian Railways for his outstanding contribution in increasing the productivity of Linke Hoffman Busch air-conditioned coaches. P.G. Vijay Anand is among the 28 officials from various zonal railways and production units across the Indian Railways to have been given the award in the category of “New innovations/processes/procedures leading to economies in expenditure, improvement in productivity, import substitution etc.” According to railway sources, Mr. Vijay Anand was the coordinator of the LHB AC coach production programme, and he worked with all the departments in the factory in augmenting productivity. When there was a delay in supply of certain items, he suggested alternative materials that were built indigenously resulting in uninterrupted coach production.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter hacked to death in Chennai||A 30-year-old history-sheeter was hacked to death by a gang of five unidentified men near his house in Korukkupet on Wednesday. The R.K. Nagar police picked up a few suspects and are interrogating them. The deceased has been identified as Balu. His father Vijayan, a notorious anti-social element, recently died of illness. Balu had criminal cases against him for offences such as attempt to murder and assault. He was standing near his house in Ambedkar Nagar, Korukkupet, on Wednesday when a gang on bikes attacked him with knives as he unsuccessfully attempted to escape. He died on the spot due to his injuries. Following this, the gang fled. A video of the incident went viral on social media. The body was sent to the Government Stanley Hospital for post-mortem. The police suspect that he was murdered due to previous enmity with a few other anti-social elements in the area.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils skill centres for healthcare, logistics||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday unveiled the Tamil Nadu Apex Skill Development Centre for Healthcare and the Apex Skill Development Centre for Logistics, aimed at achieving excellence in these two sectors. Both initiatives got assistance from the Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA) as part of the Tamil Nadu Investment Promotion Programme (TNIPP), Phase-II. The Tamil Nadu Apex Skill Development Centre for Healthcare in Guindy here — a joint venture between the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) and Kauvery Hospital — is aimed at imparting high-end skills training in the healthcare sector. Healthcare workforce It also aims at providing high technology and demand-driven skill development courses so as to develop a pool of highly skilled healthcare workforce. The World Health Organization (WHO) has joined the initiative. In view of the pandemic, the centre will offer training in the handling of COVID-19 cases, an official release stated. The Apex Skill Development Centre for Logistics at Oragadam near here, another such arrangement between the TNSDC and the Logistics Skill Sector Council and TVS Logistics, is a state-of-the-art facility located in the industrial hub near Chennai. It is aimed at improving skills of workers involved in the logistics sector.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC apprised of efforts to assist the homeless during monsoon||The State government on Thursday informed the Madras High Court that it had instructed officials across the State to identify homeless destitutes and provide them food and shelter during the monsoon. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha were informed by Additional Government Pleader R. Vijayakumar that Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam had chaired a meeting of Collectors in this regard. After recording his submission, the judges observed that it was the Constitutional duty of the State to ensure that not even a single life is lost due to non-availability of shelter and other basic requirements. They also recorded the submission of K. Raja Shrinivas, counsel for the Greater Chennai Corporation, that the civic body was operating 53 shelters, which could accommodate over 9,000 destitutes. The judges adjourned the case to December 18.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MP urges govt. to stop toll collection on OMR, ECR||Member of Parliament Dayanidhi Maran has urged the State government to stop collection of toll fee on Rajiv Gandhi Salai, popularly known as Old Mahabalipuram Road, and East Coast Road since they fall under the limits of the Greater Chennai Corporation. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, he said this was in violation of the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008, that prohibited toll plazas from being set up within a 10 km radius of the Corporation limits. After the expansion of the civic body, both roads had come under Corporation limits, he pointed out. A. Francis, president of the Federation of Thoraipakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations, said the toll plazas on roads leading to the OMR were a menace to local residents. “Vehicles, including earth movers, trucks and cars, wanting to avoid paying of the toll, take internal roads,” he said. K. Kalaiselvan, secretary of the Federation, said the Tamil Nadu Road Development Company had not obtained any permission from the government for constructing toll plazas. A former official of the Highways Department said toll collection on the IT corridor was inaugurated when the DMK was in power. “The road has been constructed taking loans. The amount has to be repaid along with interest, which is why tolls have to be collected till 2035,” he said.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stamp duty exemption for MSMEs granted||The State government on Thursday ordered exemption from payment of stamp duty for registration of agreements executed by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) for loans taken under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat scheme. The agreements pertain to deposit of title deeds in the context of obtaining loans from banks and financial institutions for the period up to March 31, 2021. Normally, the registration of such agreements would have carried levy of stamp duty of 0.5% of the loan amount with a maximum of Rs. 30,000. The scheme, drawn up to provide relief to COVID-19-affected MSMEs, envisages the provision of loans to the tune of 20% of outstanding loan amounts of such enterprises. This is why full exemption has been given for the payment of stamp duty. The government also decided to reduce registration fee to 0.1% in respect of the agreements on deposit of title deeds for loans taken by micro and small enterprises. Till now, the rate of the fee is 1% with a maximum of Rs. 6,000.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Phase I extension to be open by next year||Chennai Metro Rail’s much awaited north line, connecting Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar, is likely to be opened in the last week of January or the first week of February next. At a recently held high-level meeting, officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited informed the State government that the stretch would be open for operations in two months. Delay due to pandemic The phase I extension should have been inaugurated by June but the construction schedule was delayed due to the pandemic and the deadline was pushed by several months. The extension will provide better transport options for commuters residing in north Chennai. The signalling system for this project would likely be installed by mid-January. After that, the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) and his team will conduct an inspection. According to officials, the CMRS will check the construction of the stations, facilities for emergency evacuation, the quality of construction and the working of passenger-related amenities like information display systems and automated fare collection gates. All-clear certificate “When the CMRS issues certification saying that the Washermenpet-Wimco Nagar stretch is fit for operations, the train services will begin,” an official said. Sources said the existing frequency was likely to be maintained when the phase I extension is opened. While some sources said the delay in the signalling system could be the reason for the project inauguration being deferred till the end of January, others said the pace of construction of stations also contributed to it. “We are expecting a marginal increase in patronage after trains services commence in north Chennai,” another official said.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Reopening of schools should be delayed’||The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, in an appeal to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the State government must further delay its decision regarding the reopening of educational institutions on November 16 until the State is declared free of COVID-19 cases.
06 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Vigilance Awareness Week held||The State Bank of India, Chennai Circle, observed Vigilance Awareness Week from October 27 to November 2. The theme for this year was “Vigilant India, Prosperous India.”
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC bus mows down girl in ICF||A 19-year-old girl riding a two-wheeler was killed in an accident involving a MTC bus on Konnur High Road in ICF on Thursday morning. Police said the victim, Misbah Mariyam, was a native of Vellore district and was working here as a medical assistant. She was riding her two-wheeler and proceeding towards Madhavaram when a MTC bus, route number 248, which came in the opposite direction, hit her vehicle. In the impact, she fell down and was run over, said police. Bus driver Sundararajan was booked by the Thirumangalam Traffic Investigation Police.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Aavin made profit despite pandemic’||Aavin has been making a profit despite the pandemic. In the current year till September, it had made Rs. 26.87 crore, said Dairy Development Minister Rajenthra Bhalaji. Addressing officials of Aavin at a review meeting held on Wednesday, he said during the peak of the pandemic, milk procurement touched 41 lakh litres a day. The milk major had been selling milk and other products in other countries, including Singapore and Malaysia, he said, adding that Sri Lanka had been asking Aavin to supply milk.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth killed in Kancheepuram||A call taxi-driver was arrested for murdering a youth and burying the body on a lake bed in Kancheepuram. According to the police, the suspect Ravichandran, 30, is a resident of Periya Kancheepuram. The victim Dinesh, 21, was in an illicit relationship with his wife. On November 2, Ravichandran killed Dinesh with a wooden log and buried the body in the Siruvakkam lake bed. He later surrendered and confessed to the crime.
06 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stamp duty exemption for MSMEs||The State government on Thursday ordered exemption from the payment of stamp duty for registration of agreements executed by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) for loans taken under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme. The agreements pertain to deposit of title deeds in the context of obtaining the loans from banks and financial institutions for the period up to March 31, 2021. Normally, the registration would have carried the levy of stamp duty of 0.5% of the loan amount with a maximum of Rs. 30,000. The scheme to provide relief to COVID-19-affected MSMEs, envisages provision of loans to the tune of 20% of outstanding loan amounts.
06 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stamp duty exemption for MSMEs||The State government on Thursday ordered exemption from the payment of stamp duty for registration of agreements executed by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) for loans taken under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme. The agreements pertain to deposit of title deeds in the context of obtaining the loans from banks and financial institutions for the period up to March 31, 2021.
06 November 2020||CHENNAI/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Revoke ban, CM urges Odisha, Rajasthan||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday urged his counterparts in Odisha and Rajasthan to reconsider their decision to ban the sale and bursting of crackers this Deepavali season to protect the livelihood of the people of Tamil Nadu involved in fireworks manufacture. In his letter to Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, he referred to reports that these States had banned the sale and bursting of crackers due to COVID-19. “I would like to bring to your kind notice that Tamil Nadu produces mainly green crackers; therefore, the question of environmental pollution does not arise. There are no empirical or validated data to demonstrate that the bursting of crackers has an effect on COVID-19 patients. I, therefore, request you to reconsider your government’s decision to ban the sale and bursting of crackers in your State during this Deepavali season,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Tamil Nadu is a major cracker manufacturing State, using raw materials with reduced emission levels and low decibel, he said, underscoring that the State accounted for about 90% of the total manufacture of crackers in the country, providing direct employment to around four lakh people and indirect employment to four more lakh. “Their livelihood solely depends on the sale of crackers during the Deepavali season. The ban on the bursting of crackers in your State can have a direct bearing on the livelihood of over 8 lakh workers in Tamil Nadu and an equal number of people engaged in cracker sales,” he said. He also recalled the Supreme Court’s October 23, 2018, judgment that directed all States to encourage bursting of crackers in public places for a limited period of two hours on Deepavali day, considering the direct and indirect employment in the manufacture of crackers, and to safeguard traditional celebrations. Fixed slots As per the Supreme Court direction, people in the State will be allowed to burst crackers during Deepavali from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. and from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m., said Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan in Bhavani on Thursday. He said the State had fixed two one-hour slots for bursting crackers, and the same would be followed this year.
06 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three of a family found dead at Vadavalli||Three persons of a family were found dead at their house on Thursday morning at Vadavalli in Coimbatore. The police, quoting a surviving member of the family, said they ended their lives due to debts. The deceased have been identified as R. Sivamurugan (50) from Leprosy Colony at Vadavalli, his wife Vairarani (40) and their daughter Yuvasree (22). While the three persons were found poisoned, the couple’s younger daughter, aged 19, did not take the extreme step, said the police. According to the police, Sivamurugan used to sell milk. He had reportedly incurred losses from some other ventures before entering the milk business. He had also lent money to a few known persons and relatives who allegedly failed to return it on time, the police said. Neighbours came to know about the deaths from the 19-year-old girl around 6 a.m. and they alerted the Vadavalli police. The girl told the police that the incident took place after 5 a.m. The bodies of the deceased were shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortems.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050
06 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Recovered idols belong to a temple, say officials||The two idols recovered from five men arrested by the Variety Hall Road police in Coimbatore city belonged to a temple near Saravanampatti, said officials involved in the investigation. The police said the idols were stolen from the temple at Chinna Mettupalayam near Saravanampatti in 2018 and a case was registered in connection with the incident. Old case Following the recovery of the two idols, the temple’s administration approached the police and shared details of the old case. The police so far arrested U. Jayachandran (36) from Dharapuram, M. Balavenkatesh (36) from Selvapuram, Thirunavukkarasu (36) from Oddanchatram, Deenadayalan (38) and Arun (46) from Dindigul district. The gang was busted with the arrest of Jayachandran and Balavenkatesh with a piece of one of the idols on Sunday night. The police are on the lookout for one more accused named Dineshpandian from Madurai. The Coimbatore City Police have shared details of the idols and the case to the Idol Wing of State police.  Help sought The police have also sought the help of the Archaeology Department to ascertain the metal and age of the idols.
06 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. must stay firm in Vel Yatra issue’||The State government must stay firm on denying permission to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s ‘Vetri Vel Yatra’, urged Deputy General Secretary of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) Vanni Arasu here on Thursday. “We welcome this decision by the State government,” he told The Hindu . He was in the city to inaugurate the distribution of pamphlets by VCK condemning the religious text Manusmriti. The VCK members were given a target of distributing 5,000 pamphlets across the city on Thursday as part of the party’s campaign against Manusmriti for its allegedly derogatory remarks on women, Mr. Arasu said. On Thursday, the State government told the Madras High Court that it had denied permission for the ‘Vetri Vel Yatra’, which was planned by the State unit of BJP from November 6 to December 6 citing the possibility of COVID -19 spread due to the rally. In a statement, general secretary of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam K. Ramakrishnan thanked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for the decision. He said the rally could allegedly incite communal tensions in the State.
06 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Six held with marijuana||The Coimbatore City Police on Wednesday arrested six persons and seized a total of 2.6 kg of marijuana from them. The Bazaar Street police arrested M. Kumar (31) from South Ukkadam and a 16-year-old boy from the locality with 280 g of the contraband. While the Kattoor police arrested V. Kannan (46) of Kavundampalayam with 1.8 kg of the narcotic, the Podanur police held N. Nowfal (25) of Vellalore with 100 g of the drug. V. Ganesan (30) of Nallampalayam and Sayed Anwar (23) of Rathinapuri were arrested by the Rathinapuri police with 420 g of marijuana in a drive.
06 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Six held with marijuana||The Coimbatore City Police on Wednesday arrested six persons and seized 2.6 kg of marijuana from them. The Bazaar Street police arrested M. Kumar (31) from South Ukkadam and a 16-year-old boy from the locality with 280 g of the contraband. The Kattoor police arrested V. Kannan (46) of Kavundampalayam with 1.8 kg of the narcotic, and the Podanur police held N. Nowfal (25) of Vellalore with 100 g of the drug. V. Ganesan (30) of Nallampalayam and Sayed Anwar (23) of Rathinapuri were arrested by the Rathinapuri police with 420 g of marijuana in the special drive.
06 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||38 test positive in Cuddalore||Thirty eight persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases in the district touched 23,419. The Health Department said that 191 patients were under care at different treatment centres. With 32 persons getting discharged on Thursday, the number of persons who have recovered from the disease touched 22,927.
06 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||38 persons test positive in Cuddalore district||Thirty eight persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases in the district touched 23,419. The Health Department said that 191 patients were under care at different treatment centres. With 32 persons getting discharged on Thursday, the number of persons who have recovered from the disease has touched 22,927. Villupuram district Villupuram district reported 58 fresh cases, taking the total to 13,949 cases. A total of 16 persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking the overall tally to 10,381.
06 November 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||PDS rice seized||Over 20 tonne of rice meant for the public distribution system was seized by the authorities, while being smuggled to Karnataka. The seizure was made at Thoppur check-post when a truck was headed towards Bengaluru. The vehicle was impounded and the rice seized was handed over to the civil supplies godown. The truck driver was held.
06 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tribal association to stage protest on November 10||Urging the State government to implement the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, members of the Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association will stage a demonstration at Bargur Hills on November 10. Members said that the Act was passed 14 years ago and is yet to be implemented fully in the State. They said that the Act ensures their basic rights. Their other demands include Rs. 10,000 as assistance for the COVID-19 period, patta for the land that people were utilising in tribal settlements, include chitta and adangal for lands in settlements, announce the tribal settlements as revenue villages. Financial assistance under PM-KISAN scheme for patta lands held by tribal people, help in creating value added products from amla and kadukkai , and guarantee 100 days job under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.   Members said that demonstrations will be held at Osur, Kongadai, Thamaraikarai and Devarmalai.
06 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to overhead cabling works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 6:  South Railway line: VVCR Nagar, Marapalam, Mandapam Road, Cutchery Road, Agraharam Road, Periyar Road and Vengidusamy Road.  Town line: Nethaji Road, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, P.S. Park, Manikoondu, Pon Street, R.C. Church, Vamalai Street, Kamaraj Street, Eswaran Kovil Street, Prakasam Street, Town Police Station, Agraharam Street, Periyar Mandapam Street, N.M.S areas and T.V.S. Street.  Market line: (November 7, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.:) Muthuvelappan Street, Kalaimagal Kalvi Nilayam Road, Periyanna Street, Vamalai Street areas.
06 November 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Study history, students told||An in-depth knowledge of history has helped many young aspirants to clear civil service examinations, said Inspector General of Police (south zone) S Murugan here on Thursday. Speaking at an online induction programme for post-graduate students, organised by the Department of History in Alagappa University here, he said that the students should take note of the importance given to history in the competitive examinations. Referring to 40 % of questions being asked from history subjects at the national as well as State level competitive examinations, he urged the students pursuing arts subjects to learn other modern subjects to compete in the competitive world. Besides acquiring subject knowledge, one has to utilise all opportunities that come their way to climb up in life. He added that a study of history needs a special interest and involvement. He asked the students to choose history as an optional subject for civil service and other competitive examinations and wished them saying “study history and create history.” N.Rajendran, Vice-Chancellor, highlighted the importance of studying history. Quoting Cicero, He said the ignorance of history on the part of the people would make them remain as children for ever. The VC added that one cannot perceive the present in a proper light without understanding the past. He said that many institutions in India like Indian National Science Academy, Indian Institute of Science and IITS- focussing on science subjects teach history to their students knowing the significance of history. As New Education Policy (NEP) insists on a transdisciplinary approach to studies, students of history should evince interest in learning Mathematics, Statistics, Economics and Computer Science. We are moving from literate society to knowledge society and in this context, history students should acquire multidimensional knowledge to succeed in their avocations. AR.Saravanakumar, Head, Department of History, welcomed the gathering. S.Rajavelu, adjunct faculty, proposed a vote of thanks . More than 200 students participated in the induction programme.
06 November 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Modern Aavin parlour to come up at Tharagampatti||A modern Aavin parlour will come up at Tharagampatti near here at a cost of Rs. 5.5 lakh, according to Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabaskar. Inaugurating a milk chilling plant at P. Udayanpatti at an estimate of Rs. 7 lakh, he said that it was the 5th chilling plant in the district. Other plants were ocated at Karur, Chinnandipatti, Velayuthampalayam and Thaliyampatti. About 79,000 litres of milk was being procured from 155 milk societies. The procurement was expected to touch 1 lakh litres in January or February.
06 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Channel obstructed due to work on New Natham Road||A Public Works Department (PWD) channel, which flows from Tiruppalai tank to Siruthur tank, has become a receptacle for garbage and trash, on a bed of nauseating sewage. Due to the ongoing elevated corridor construction work on New Natham Road, the path of the PWD channel near TWAD Colony at Tiruppalai has been obstructed, resulting in stagnation of slimy green water in the channel. With the onset of north-east monsoon, residents fear that a heavy downpour might lead to flooding of the nearby areas. According to a study conducted by Centre for Urban Water Resources of DHAN Foundation, both Tiruppalai and Siruthur tanks play an important role in controlling floods. “Hence, maintenance of the channel connecting both the tanks play an important role in flood management,” says the study. C.S. Jegannathan, a resident of Sixth Street, TWAD Colony, says water stagnates in the channel for the past six months as the construction debris choked its pathway. “The level of stagnant water is gradually rising. People are scared that the water might eventually spill over into the residential areas in the event of a heavy downpour. It might lead to an outbreak of various communicable diseases,” he says. The channel has become a depository of household sewage from nearby areas, says S. Anji, another resident. “It has become highly polluted as the residents indiscriminately dump garbage into it. It is also disheartening to note that this contaminated water fills up the tanks,” he says. The channel has become a perfect spot for mosquito breeding too, he rues. “A stench of sewage hangs thick in the air near the channel,” he adds. R. Sivanarayanapandiyan, co-ordinator of Natham Road Residents’ Welfare Federation, says no action has been taken to resolve the issue, despite complaining to various government departments. “A new pipeline must be laid as a temporary measure to ensure free flow of water in the channel,” he says. An official from the National Highway Authority of India says the issue will be immediately addressed.
06 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC judges instil confidence in HIV positive woman||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to provide a two-wheeler to the woman from Sattur who was transfused with HIV-infected blood at a government hospital in 2018. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi was informed by the woman, during the course of the hearing via video conferencing, that a team of medical experts had visited her and her neighbours to offer counselling. Earlier, the woman broke down in tears and informed the court that her husband and her neighbours were neglecting her. Taking note of the fact that they were ignorant on the issue, the judges had ordered the State to engage medical experts to provide counselling to the woman’s husband and neighbours. Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian submitted that counselling was given to the woman’s husband and her neighbours. A borewell, a separate water connection and a toilet facility attached to a bedroom was provided in the house built for the woman, the AAG submitted. Taking note of the submissions, the court asked the woman to initiate talks with her neighbours and be confident. Taking into account the fact that the woman was suffering for no fault of hers, the court directed the State to provide her a two-wheeler free of cost. The court said it would continue to monitor the case and adjourned the batch of public interest litigation petitions filed seeking relief for the woman.
06 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||20 Madurai students eligible to apply for 7.5% horizontal reservation||A total of 20 government students from Madurai district have been identified as eligible to apply under 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students in undergraduate MBBS admissions. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan attested the bonafide certificates of students on Thursday, confirming that all these students studied in government schools from Classes 6 to 12. S. Vennila Devi, district coordinator for government-sponsored NEET training, said 31 government school students from the district, including repeaters, had qualified in the NEET. “However, only 20 students were found to be eligible for applying under the 7.5% horizontal reservation, as the rules mandate that only students who had studied in government schools continuously from Classes 6 to 12 can apply under the 7.5% horizontal reservation,” she said. Tamil Nadu Private School Teachers and Non-Teaching Staff Association (Government-Aided Schools) released a statement on Thursday, urging the government to extend the reservation benefits to the students of government-aided schools too. The School Education department will conduct a camp on Friday and Monday to help these students upload their documents and apply for medical seats under the reservation, she added. Around 560 government and government-aided school students from the district have applied for the free government-sponsored NEET training for this academic year. The number has almost doubled when compared to last year, say officials. Mr. Swaminathan attributed the increase in the number of students registering for free coaching classes to the introduction of the 7.5% horizontal reservation. “Also, there is more awareness of the government-sponsored NEET training among students,” he added.
06 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to include aided school students||Days after the Governor gave assent to the Bill on implementing 7.5 % horizontal reservation for government school students, who cleared NEET in medical admissions, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was urged extend the benefit to students of government-aided schools. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi agreed to hear the petition next week after advocate Pinaygash made a mention before the court seeking a direction to the State government to extend the benefit of the 7.5 % horizontal reservation to government-aided school students. He said that the State should not have excluded the government-aided school students. Most of these students were from humble backgrounds and aspire to achieve great heights in the medical field. Therefore, the benefit of the 7.5 % horizontal reservation ought to be extended to the government- aided school students, he said.
06 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court summons HR and CE Commissioner||Taken aback by mismanagement of a temple in Tirunelveli district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday summoned the Commissioner of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to ascertain the allegations made out in the case. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi took a serious note of the fact that idols were stolen from the temple, its lands were being used for mining blue metal rock without permission and the person at the helm of the affairs was actually removed in 2015. In a status report, the Joint Commissioner of the HR and CE Department, Tirunelveli submitted that one Nainar Naikar continued to discharge his duties at the temple in Radhapuram and had refused to hand over the charges of the temple. Following serious allegations from the public that Nainar Naikar was not performing his duties, he was removed in 2015 itself. He was trying to get his hands at the compensation amount for the temple lands that were acquired for a river linking project, it was submitted. Taking note of the allegations levelled against Nainar Naikar, it wondered how he was still continuing to discharge his duties in the said capacity despite the fact he was removed. The court termed it a deliberate failure on the part of the authorities concerned. The court observed that it looked like a clandestine arrangement. Considering the fact that the temple lands were being exploited and an idol theft had taken place, the court sought to know the total loss incurred as a result of the mismanagement. The court said that it was a litmus test for the department that if they can take charge of the temple before the next hearing. Seeking a report in this regard, the judges adjourned the hearing in the case to November 20.
06 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to allow quarrying||Association of Southern Stone Industries has appealed to the State government to allow them to resume granite quarrying in Madurai district, claiming that the closure of quarries for eight long years has led to job loss for more than 30,000 workers and huge revenue loss to the State and Centre. Talking to reporters here on Thursday, its Madurai district president P. Rajasekaran said the 30,000 workers, who were directly and indirectly employed by the granite quarries, had to migrate to other States in search of jobs. Besides, public sector banks that had given credit to the granite quarry operators were facing losses. “If we go by permit fee of Rs. 26 crore earned by the Tamil gadu Government in 2011-12, the State government has lost Rs. 208 crore and the Centre has lost Rs. 3,000 crore in foreign exchange in the last eight years,” he said. Quoting a data of Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, Mr. Rajasekaran said that for the 17 years between 1996-97 and 2012-13, Tamil Nadu’s export of granite was Rs. 6,808 crore among which Madurai had a share of Rs. 2,798 crore. “When the total export value for 17 years was only Rs. 2,798 crore, the former Madurai Collector had alleged that there was a loss of Rs. 16,000 crore which was later estimated at around Rs. 13,000 crore by another committee,” he said. Mr. Rajasekaran also complained that the huge losses were arrived at due to unscientific calculations of recovery rate. “The officials had failed to calculate the huge stocks of waste minerals dumped around. Besides, they had filed a different case based on another ground for “illegal” stocking of wastage outside the quarry permitted area, he said. A report of Geological Survey of India had stated that the maximum recovery from granite was 35% to 40% and it would come down to less than 5% in structurally-affected areas, he said. “Going by this report, it is clear that the officials had a made wrong estimation of the recovery rate,” he said. Stating that the Centre and State have scientific ways of calculating the quantity of granite recovery and wastages, Mr. Rajasekaran alleged that the officials had made calculations of loss to the exchequer as per their whims and fancies. The association appealed to the State government to allow resumption of granite quarrying to help local people get work.
06 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court directs CBI to file counter||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to file a counter affidavit in the bail petitions filed by Muthuraj and Thomas Francis, the accused policemen in the case of Sattankulam custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan directed the CBI to file the counter affidavit and adjourned the hearing.
06 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend 7.5 % quota to aided school students’||Days after the Governor gave assent to the Bill on implementing 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students who had cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions, a mention was made before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court to extend the benefit to students of government aided schools too. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi agreed to hear the petition next week after advocate Pinaygash made a mention before the court seeking a direction to the State government to extend the benefit of the 7.5% horizontal reservation to the government-aided school students. He said the State should not have excluded the children studying in government-aided schools. Most of these students were from humble backgrounds and aspired to achieve great heights in the medical field. Therefore, the benefit of the 7.5% horizontal reservation ought to be extended to the government-aided school students, Mr. Pinaygash added.
06 November 2020||MADURAI/KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||28 fresh cases in Thoothukudi||Madurai recorded 45 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, which took the total number of cases in the district up to 18,943. A total of 48 persons were discharged, leaving 423 active cases. There was one fatality, with which the district’s toll rose to 423. Kanniyakumari’s infection tally rose to 15,110 with the addition of 39 new patients. After 53 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 257 active cases. On Wednesday, the district had reported 45 new cases. Thoothukudi recorded 28 fresh cases to have an overall case count of 15,227. With 50 people having been discharged from hospitals, the district has 402 active cases. One fresh fatality recorded on Thursday raised the district’s death toll to 131. Sixteen people tested positive in Theni, which saw its case count go up to 16,315. There were nine discharges. Virudhunagar also reported 16 fresh cases, and 16 discharges. The district’s tally rose to 15,523 with 92 active cases. The death toll remains at 222. After adding 15 new cases, Tirunelveli reported an infection tally of 14,328, with 179 active cases. Ten people were discharged from hospitals. Dindigul also registered 15 fresh cases of the virus infection to have a tally of 9,873. Hospitals in the district discharged six people. The daily case count in Ramanathapuram was 14, which took the district’s tally up to 6,057. There were four people discharged from hospitals. Sivaganga recorded 12 fresh cases with which its overall case count went up to 5,971. There were 13 discharges from hospitals. Tenkasi’s tally rose to 7,873 after the district registered six new cases. With three persons having been discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases in the district stands at 62.
06 November 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||One more fisherman goes missing at harbour||One more fishermen has gone missing at the entrance / exit point of the Thaengaaipattinam fishing harbour as the victim fell into the sea even as he was venturing into the sea for fishing along with seven other fishermen on Thursday. However, Fisheries Department officials said the mishap was not triggered by any giant wave that used to lash this zone as the victim, who was sitting on the side of the fiberglass boat, fell into the sea while all others are fine. Police said N. Freddy, 36, from the hamlet of Poothurai and others were venturing into the sea. Even as the boat was crossing the exit point of the harbour, Freddy fell into the sea and drowned instantly. Though his colleagues started searching for him, the efforts went in vain. They informed their fellow fishermen and the marine police about the second tragedy that struck them since last Friday when M. Jesudasan, 53, drowned after his boat was tossed up in air by giant wave and capsized on landing. Jesudasan’s body was retrieved the next day. In another incident in Thaengaaipattinam region, a fisherman of a mechanised boat going for multi-day stay fishing from Tharuvaikulam fishing harbour in Thoothukudi district went missing. Ravi, 35, of Puducherry, who left Tharuvaikulam Fishing Harbour at 3 p.m. on Wednesday in the mechanised boat of T. Maria Rajendran of Tharuvaikulam along with 10 other fishermen, went missing when his colleagues searched for him at around 6 a.m. on Thursday even as the boat was crossing Thaengaaipattinam coast. He was last seen in the boat when he had his supper.
06 November 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Follow COVID-19 protocol, says Collector||District Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya on Thursday instructed commercial establishments in the district to ensure that customers and employees wore face masks at all times and personal distancing and other COVID-19 protocol were followed. Ms. Priya convened a meeting with owners of commercial establishments ahead of the Deepavali sales to ensure that spread of COVID-19 was contained.
06 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports one death, improves recovery rate||The Union Territory of Puducherry reported one death and 125 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. With 420 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at about 2,100 cases while the net recovery rate improved further to 93.17 per cent. The capital accounted for the sole fatality. With this, the toll in Puducherry is 493, followed by Karaikal (55), Yanam (43) and Mahe (seven). The test positivity rate was 3.04% and case fatality rate 1.68%. The distribution of new cases, confirmed from 4,110 tests, was 98 in Puducherry and nine each in Karaikal, Yanam and Mahe. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao cautioned the Health Department and the public against complacency following the decline in deaths and new cases and a 93% recovery rate. Urging the public to comply with masking, hand sanitising and social distancing measures, he said complete control of the pandemic was a pre-requisite to providing the full range of non-COVID services in hospitals. Non-COVID services hit “Due to the focus on the coronavirus, non-COVID services have been affected in government hospitals. Patients are even being compelled to seek private centres for treatment,” he said. The overall tally of coronavirus cases aggregated to 35,550 after transfer of four cases to Tamil Nadu, the Health Director S. Mohan Kumar said. The cumulative death toll in the Union Territory stood at 598, while active cases were 1,829, including 1,303 patients in home isolation, and 33,123 patients discharged so far. Of the 3.25 lakh samples tested so far, 2.86 lakh were found to be negative. Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said Sultanpet had been identified as a new hotspot where seven of the eight new cases had been traced to shopping locations. The District Collector has been asked to convene a meeting with traders to ensure compliance with safety measures in shops. Further, the COVID war room will monitor the inspection of the shopping zones by municipality authorities. Health Secretary T. Arun said on the dengue prevention front, intensive source reduction measures have been carried out in coordination with the Vector Control Research Centre. The dengue hotspots have been notified to the PWD and Municipality.
06 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CENTAC commences first phase of counselling||The Centralised Admission Committee (CENTAC) commenced the first phase of counselling for admissions to various undergraduate courses at the Bharathidasan Government College for Women on Thursday. Day one of the counselling was for aspirants of B. Com. general course. Schedule According to the CENTAC schedule, counselling will be held from 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. for admissions as follows: B. Com. Corporate Secretaryship on Friday, Tamil (forenoon) and Tamil and French (afternoon) on Saturday, Economics on November 9, English (forenoon) and English and History (afternoon) on November 10, Plant Science and Zoology (forenoon) and CND and Computer Science (afternoon) on November 11, Maths (forenoon) and Physics and Chemistry (afternoon) on November 12. The next round will be held after the holidays from November 16 to 20.
06 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK delegation submits memorandum to L-G||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has urged Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to arrange for the disbursal of 11 months’ pending salary and pension for teachers working in government-aided schools. A three-member delegation comprising R. Siva, MLA, former Ministers S. P Sivakumar and Nazeem, called on Lt. Governor on Thursday and submitted a memorandum seeking her assistance in addressing several issues concerning people. They also urged the Lt. Governor to issue an order for disbursing salary and pension of government aided school teachers. ‘Revive mills’ Similarly, they also wanted the Lt. Governor to take necessary steps to disburse pending salary of employees working in government-run societies and corporations. The DMK sought Lt. Governor’s intervention to revive the functioning of three textile mills in the Union Territory. They also urged the Lieutenant Governor to abolish the garbage tax introduced by the Congress government. AIADMK flays DMK Immediately after the delegation met the Lieutenant Governor, AIADMK leader Om Sakthi Segar issued a release stating that the DMK, an ally of ruling party, was “pretending” now after being silent for more than four and a half years. People will not accept the DMK’s move, he said. The DMK was silently supporting the anti-people polices of the Congress government, he said. “DMK has now lost trust in the Chief Minister and hence was now meeting the Lt. Governor,” Mr. Segar said.
06 November 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||DCB launches probe into submission of fake stamp papers||The District Crime Branch has launched an investigation into forgery relating to submission of bogus stamp papers in the Pudukottai Court in respect of various cases. The stamp papers submitted were found to be colour facsimile copies instead of original one during an internal audit conducted by court staff. The bogus papers were submitted during the period 2014 -16 in respect of 75 cases, said police sources. A complaint was filed by the Chief Administrative Officer Paulraj of Pudukottai Court to the Superintendent of Police on Wednesday. The forgery committed through submission of fake stamp papers was to tune of Rs. 27.66 lakh, said the sources. The District Crime Branch has registered a case under various IPC sections including 465 (forgery) 467 (forgery of valuable security) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating). Further investigation was on in the case.
06 November 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Water released from dams||Minister for Dairy Development K.T.Rajenthra Bhalaji released water for irrigation of first crop from Pilavakkal Periyar, Kovilar and Sasthakoil dams on Thursday. He said that water release would continue till February 28, 2021 from Pilavakkal Periyar and Kovilar dams. Water from Sasthakoil dam would be released till November 12 based on storage, inflow and requirement. Periyar dam has a water spread area of 13.90 square miles and Kovilar has a water spread area of 9.57 square mile. Periyar dam has 94.24 mcft of water as on Wednesday as against its maximum storage of 192 mcft. However, Kovilar dam has 3.59 mcft of water as against its total storage capacity of 133 mcft. Both the dams have 0.08 cusecs of inflow. While Pilavakkal irrigation project – comprising water source of both the dams -- has an ayacut of 8531.17 acres and for the first two days 150 cusecs of water would be released. For direct irrigation, 3 cusecs of water would be released till February 28. With the available storage, Periyar canal would serve 229.41 acres of ayacut in Kansapuram and out of 40 tanks under Pilavakkal irrigation project, four tanks in Kansapuram, S. Kodikulam in Watrap taluk will irrigate 553.46 acres. The dam would totally serve 802.93 acres. Based on the monsoon impact, more tanks under the project would get water. With a water spread area of 0.308 square miles, Sasthakoil dam has a storage of 36.47 mcft. A total of 3,130.68 acres – 451.48 acres under direct irrigation and 2,679.10 acres through 11 tanks would be benefited. With the water level touching the maximum storage level, the dam was reporting 20 cusecs of inflow. Mr. Bhalaji urged farmers to make use of the available storage judiciously. Collector R. Kannan, District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Srivilliputtur MLA, M. Chandra Prabha, Sub Collector (Sivakasi), C. Dinesh Kumar, Upper Vaippar Basin Sub-Division (Watrap) Executive Engineer, Raja, Joint Director (Agriculture), Uthandaraman, Assistant Engineers, Chandramohan and C. Malarvizhi, (Periyar dam) and Jhansi Anitha (Sasthakoil dam) were present.
06 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Vehicular underpass to come up at three places on Salem-Ulundurpet Highway||The National Highways of Authority India (NHAI) would be constructing vehicular underpass at three places on Salem-Ulundurpet Highway. According to NHAI officials, the underpasses would come up near Thalaivasal bus stand, Mummudi junction and Deviyakuruchi. The Salem-Ulundurpet highway is one of the busiest stretches here and villagers and businesses have been demanding solutions to prevent accidents at these junctions. Considering public demand, NHAI has currently proposed to construct the underpasses at these three points to prevent accidents. “The vehicular underpasses would be 12 metres wide and once constructed it is expected to reduce accidents at these spots. The Thalaivasal junction is one of the busiest points with bus stand on one side and several businesses in the area. Each underpass is estimated approximately to cost Rs .20 crore and the works are expected to begin in two months”, a senior official from NHAI said. However, villagers at Thalaivasal said that a flyover should be constructed in the area to ease congestion and prevent fatal accidents. Vijayakumar, a trader at the junction said, “hundreds of vehicles pass through the junction each day. Besides bus stand, the daily vegetable market also function in the area and hundreds of farmers cross the road with their produce. Instead of a vehicular underpass, officials should consider constructing a flyover, else traffic congestion would occur due to the new facility as well.”
06 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Artificially ripened bananas seized||Food Safety department officials conducted raids on the premises of three fruit vendors and seized over one tonne of artificially ripened bananas on Wednesday. A video of vendors spraying chemicals to artificially ripened bananas was circulating on social media and based on complaints, officials from the Food Safety department conducted inspections on the premises of three vendors in Chinna Kadai Veedhi. In the raids, food safety officials found that only one of the stores was operating with a food safety licence. The officials seized 1.2 tonne of artificially ripened bananas worth Rs. 75,000 and two spraying machines used to spray ethepon solution for ripening the fruits from one of the outlets. Officials have issued notices to all three shops under Food Safety and Standards Act and the seized goods were destroyed. Similarly, a team led by R.Kathiravan, Designated Officer, Food Safety conducted inspections at jaggery units at Danishpet and Kadayampatti to check adulteration. Officials found adulteration at one of the units and seized about 2.1 tonne of adulterated jaggery worth Rs. 75,000. Officials also seized elements used for adulteration like white sugar of about 600 kg. worth Rs. 25,000, 20 kg of super phosphate, soda ash 25 kg, sodium bicarbonate 25 kg. Officials have lifted two samples for testing and it was sent to food lab at Guindy in Chennai.
06 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Traders, motorists demand speedy completion of smart road works||Motorists and traders near Satram market have requested speedy completion of smart city road works. The Salem Corporation under the Smart Cities mission is constructing smart road on Thammanan Road and Satram road which connects Pal Market to Four Roads. Residents and traders at Satram market use mainly the road to move goods. S.K. Periyasamy, district president of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu , said that authorities must take steps to complete the works at the earliest. Mr. Periyasamy said that the road is filled with potholes and during rain, the sewage overflows onto road here. “Currently, traders are forced to use Arsipalayam road to move trucks that causes inconvenience, especially during rain. Officials should take necessary measures to complete works at the earliest”, he said. Officials from Salem Corporation said that smart road works are being carried out on Thammanan Road and Sathram Road at a cost of Rs. 14.2 crore, covering a distance of 850 metres. According to Corporation officials, the works were affected due to COVID-19 restrictions and handling drain and water pipelines in the area for construction of ducts. According to officials, separate ducts are being constructed for utility cables and storm water drains here. Officials said that the works are progressing at a steady pace here. “Once completed, concrete roads would be laid here and there would not be any requirement to dig roads after that. We are expecting to complete works by January next year”, a senior official said.
06 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Unemployed youths encouraged to start new enterprises||Unemployed youths in the district were encouraged to start new enterprises by utilising the subsidy under the Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme (UYEGP) scheme. Collector S.A. Raman in a press release said that under the scheme, the State government had enhanced the maximum project cost for the manufacturing category from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh and the maximum subsidy from Rs. 1.25 lakh to Rs. 2.50 lakh. Eligible youths can visit the portal www.msmeonline.tn.gov.in/uyegp and apply for the subsidy. The application form should be submitted to the General Manager, District Industries Centre, Five Roads, Salem. For details, contact the District Industries Centre at 0427 – 2448505 and 2447878, the release added.
06 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Transport of textile goods hit as lorry owners begin strike||Following a call by the Tamil Nadu State Lorry Owners’ Federation not to transport textile goods for next three days, over 1,000 trucks halted services on Thursday. The Tamil Nadu State Lorry Owners’ Federation during the end of October announced a three-day strike against loading textile goods, between November 5 and 7 demanding textile manufacturing units load goods on the trucks within the permissible limits issued by governments. However, federation members said that despite repeated talks no solution was found. Safety risk Tamil Nadu State Lorry Owners’ Federation president M.R. Kumarasami said, “textile goods are mainly loaded from three districts- Coimbatore, Erode and Tiruppur and are taken to Northern states. The governments have issued guidelines like the goods loaded should be within 3.8 metres height, 2.6 metre width and 12-metre length.” He said that goods are, however, being loaded beyond these permissible limits and this poses safety risks. He added that there over 1,000 trucks operating primarily to transport textile goods and all those have remained halted since Thursday. R.Vanglee, secretary of the organisation, said that they are charged fines of over Rs. 20,000 in the name of violations by officials in different States and truck owners are forced to bear these fines. He said that over Rs. 1 crore business has been affected due to the strike.
06 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK manifesto panel visits Salem, Namakkal||Members of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s manifesto committee held meetings with industry representatives and the public regarding preparing poll manifesto. The committee members T.R. Baalu, Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan, Tiruchi Siva, T.K.S.Elangovan and P. Selvaraj took part in the meetings.
06 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam decreased||The outflow from Mettur dam was decreased to 15,000 cusecs on Thursday. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 96.37 ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 60,238 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 5,972 cusecs. The discharge through Cauvery river was reduced from 18,000 cusecs to 15,000 cusecs on Thursday and discharge through East-West canal is maintained at 900 cusecs.
06 November 2020||Special Correspondent Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||All India Kisan Sabha condemns farm Acts||Members of the All India Kisan Sabha, led by the CPI(M) MLA Dilli Babu, condemned the farm Acts by staging a protest outside the post office on Thursday. The Acts created a storm after it was alleged to be anti-farmer, pushing agriculture into the hands of big businesses. The opposition had objected to the laws on the grounds that these would take away the collective bargaining ability of farmers. According to the left led farmers’ organisation, the government washed off its responsibility towards farmers through the farm legislations, which effectively pushed farmers into the hands of the corporate.  Artificial inflation Similarly, the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act, would lead to artificial inflation and encourage hoarding, the farmers collective stated. The protesters also slammed the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that sought to end farm power subsidies and push for privatisation.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  Members of various farmers’ associations staged protests at different places here on Thursday condemning the Farm Acts. The protesters raised slogans against the Central government and condemned the Acts that they alleged to be against the interest of farmers. They charged that the Acts would affect the livelihood of farmers in the country.
06 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion for Deepavali from today||The police have announced traffic diversions in Kumbakonam town from November 6 in view of the Deepavali festival. In a press release the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kumbakonam, C. Balakrishnan has said that the vehicles coming towards Kumbakonam will have to take the by-pass road at Dharasuram and reach the bus stand/town via Chettymandapam and Naal Road. In the opposite direction, the police announced that the vehicles would have to take the Mahamagam Tank, Gandhi Road and ARR Arch from the bus stand area. Vehicles proceeding towards Swamimalai will have to take the Naal Road and Chettymandapam route and follow the same route in the return direction. Further, a temporary Police Control Room will function round-the-clock near Uchipillaiyar Temple for the safety of people who will be visiting the market area for making Deepavali purchase. In addition to this, police watchtowers will be set up at Uchipillaiyar Temple junction, Palakarai and at Membalam area, the Deputy Superintendent of Police said.
06 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration against new farm laws held||A demonstration against the three new farm laws of the Union Government was held here on Thursday. The demonstration was held near the Head Post Office, Thanjavur, as part of the State-wide protest called by the All India Farmers Coordination Committee (AIFCC). It was led by Thanjavur District Coordinator, AIFCC, N. V. Kannan. Alleging that the enactment of these laws would result in the hoarding of essential commodities and thereby escalation of retail price of groceries, the demonstrators claimed that the new laws would push the farmers into contract farming method of cultivation which they claimed would not provide the minimum support price cover for their produce. These laws were enacted to provide an entry route for corporates in agriculture sector which would ultimately result in usurping of lands from hapless farmers, they claimed. The Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam Thanjavur District Secretary B. Balasundaram, TNVS, Thanjavur District president P. Senthilkumar and others participated in the demonstration.
06 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Insure before monsoon sets in, farmers told||Collector M. Govinda Rao has urged farmers who have taken up samba/thaladi cultivation in Thanjavur district to insure their crop before the monsoon turns active over the Delta districts. In a press release, the Collector has pointed out that it would not be possible to insure the standing crop once it gets affected due to heavy rain or inundation.
06 November 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Maoist cremated amid tight security||A large posse of police, including sleuths from Q Branch, cordoned off the municipal cremation ground at Periyakulam, where the body of Maoist Velmurugan was cremated. Even as the body was brought here under tight security by Tamil Nadu Police, CPI (Maoists) cadre staged a demonstration near the cremation ground against the Central and Kerala governments. Velmurugan was said to be an expert in handling weapons and was a member of Kabanidalam-2 of Western Ghats Special Zone Committee. A senior police officer said Velmurugan, aged about 35, hailed from E. Pudukottai near Periyakulam in Theni district. Captured in 2007 He was caught in Murugamalai forests along with six others in 2007. A local court in Periyakulam had sent them to judicial custody. Velmurugan and five others were granted bail in 2010. While a few of them sneaked into Vadakavunchi forests in Kodaikanal Upper Hills, the others headed for Wayanad forests. Velmurugan and three others could not be traced for10 years. The police received inputs about their movements in interior forests of Kerala and Karnataka, but they were not clear. Two days ago, the Kerala Police received inputs about the movement of six Maoists in Bappanna Mala tribal hamlet in South Wayanad Forest Region. The State police commandos, Thunderbolt, conducted an operation. According to the officer, an “exchange” of fire ensued and it continued for about 30 minutes, in which Velmurugan was killed. After identification, the body was shifted to Kozhikode Government Hospital. The family members of Velmurugan were taken to the hospital and after they identified his body, a post-mortem was conducted. Amid tight security, the body was brought to Periyakulam and cremated. Two DSPs and a large number of police personnel had been posted there, the officer said, adding the cremation was over in the early hours of Thursday.  CPI (Maoists) cadre stage demonstration near the cremation ground against Central, Kerala governments.
06 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Samayapurm temple elephant will get to live in an ‘urban forest’||In a novel attempt, an exclusive ‘urban forest’ is planned to be raised at Mahalikudi near here to create a forest ambience for the Samayapuram Sri Mariamman Temple elephant. A site owned by the temple, measuring 83 cents, has been identified for raising the urban forest under the Miyawaki method, a popular Japanese method of raising a variety of plants at a close range instead of a traditional method. Out of 83 cents, 10-cent has been earmarked for the elephant path and the remaining 73 cents will be used for raising 10,000 plants. To transplant the saplings, about 10,000 pits have been dug up at the site, where Collector S. Sivarasu will flag off the drive on Friday. Besides tapping the saplings available in a few nurseries in Tiruchi, saplings of 53 species have been sourced from a leading nursery in Athoor in Salem district. Try Transforming Tiruchi, a voluntary organisation, will bear the expenditure for raising the initiative. “The project has been designed in such a way to provide a natural forest ambiance to the elephant. In about three months, the site will be transformed as a mini dense forest with the growth of 10,000 plants. It will make the domesticated animal feel as if it is living in the forest,” says Vaidhyanathan, Revenue Divisional Officer, Lalgudi, the officer behind the initiative. He said that a forest veterinarian had been consulted for the project. While a separate site has been identified for raising plants so as to use them to feed the elephant, plants, which disliked by elephants would be raised along the elephant path so as to prevent it from damaging the other plants. About 200 volunteers would be involved in transplanting the saplings. It would be raised only with the organic nutrient support as per the Miyawaki concept. Mr. Vaidhyanathan added.
06 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||This Deepavali, sweet makers fear a dip in demand||Despite the economic impact of the pandemic on businesses, sweet stalls in Tiruchi have begun preparing varieties of delicacies for the upcoming Deepavali festival. However, the quantity being prepared is markedly low this year, they say. At Sri Madapalli Sweet Shop in Thiruvanaikoil, big vats of ghee, dry fruits and sugar have been stocked ready to be added into large pots and pans to prepare sweets. The shop began preparation for around 10-15 sweet varieties on Thursday. “We first start with Mysore Pak ‘Horlicks’ and ‘Boost’ Barfi and then move on to other sweets,” said S. Balaji, shop owner. The process, which includes preparation of nearly 2,000 kg of sweets, takes six days. Badushah, jalebi and other sweets requiring use of sugar syrup are made nearer to the festival day. “Mysore Pak and Barfi take time to cool and cannot be packed until they are at room temperature,” Mr. Balaji said. The unit where Mr. Balaji’s sweets are made is a house in one of the many small streets in Thiruvanaikoil. “Only up to six people prepare these sweets to ensure quality control,” he said. The sweets are priced between Rs. 350 to Rs. 800 per kg. Meanwhile, K. R.V Ganesan, owner of Aswins Sweets, said that large sales are not expected this year. “We are making nearly 70% less sweets than we usually do. Along with reducing quantity, varieties of sweets have also been decreased,” he said. The process is yet to begin at their production unit in Perambalur. The number of orders too, has seen a sharp fall, he added. “Schools, colleges and offices make up for a large number of the festival-season orders. With schools and colleges closed and work-from-home option for offices, we are preparing for a dull Deepavali,” he said.
06 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts record a drop in positive cases||The central districts on Thursday recorded a drop in COVID-19 cases with 225 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Three deaths - two in Pudukottai and one in Tiruvarur - were reported in the region. A 65-year-old man with a history of respiratory failure and gangrene and a 72-year-old-suffering from coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease succumbed to the infection in Pudukottai. A 77-year-old woman from Tiruvarur suffering from acute respiratory respiratory distress syndrome also died of COVID-19. A total of 48 patients tested positive in Thanjavur on Thursday among which were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. In Tiruvarur, 40 patients tested positive while 30 new cases were reported in Tiruchi, among which many were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, a total of 19 patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. A total of 35 fresh COVID cases were reported in Nagapattinam district. Patients who tested positive in the district were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Karur, 29 fresh cases were recorded, among which were residents of Vennamallai, Thanthonrimalai and Kulithalai. Travellers from Tiruchi and Dindigul also tested positive. Pudukottai reported a slight increase in COVID cases with 24 patients testing positive. A total of 10 patients tested positive in Ariyalur district, of which three hailed from Ariyalur, one from Thirumanur, two from Sendhurai, one from Andimadam Jayankondam blocks in the district. Two interdistrict travellers also tested positive for the viral infection. In Perambalur, nine patients tested positive. Of the nine, two each hailed from the Perambalur block, Veppanthattai and Veppur blocks. Three patients from Alathur also tested positive. Meanwhile, 455 fresh throat swabs were lifted and sent for testing.
06 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Training for Sub-Inspectors in investigation skills begins in city||A month-long training in investigation skills for directly recruited Sub-Inspectors of Police serving in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts commenced here on Thursday. The programme is being organised to enable the Sub- Inspectors enhance their investigation skills. This will enable the Sub Inspectors to speedily complete probes in cases that have been booked at various police stations. Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, H. M. Jayaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Z. Annie Vijaya, and Superintendent of Police (in-charge), Tiruchi, T. Senthil Kumar, presided over the inauguration of the training programme that was held at the District Police Office. Mr. Jayaram also offered necessary guidance to the directly recruited Sub-Inspectors on speedy completion of cases. The month-long training programme for the Sub-Inspectors was being held at the In-Service Training Centre in the Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion campus here, a police press release said.
06 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Asst. professor found dead in hostel||A 29-year-old woman Assistant Professor of Horticulture who worked in a private agriculture college at Kannanur in the district allegedly ended her life in the college hostel on Wednesday. The deceased was a native of a village near Chidambaram in Cuddalore district. She had been working in the college for six months and had gone home during the pandemic. The woman returned on November 2 and was taking online classes. On Wednesday as she did not report for duty, a staff went to the hostel and found her dead. The body was handed over to her parents after post mortem, the police said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
06 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rural artisans fine-tune their skills||Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish on Thursday reviewed the quality of products made by a group of rural woman artisans. Khadi and Village Industries Commissioner has launched a programme to improve the living conditions of poor rural women and ensure decent monthly income for them by fine-tuning their skills in making a range of products with the locally available goods and integrating them to market their products. Under this programme, 175 rural women have been trained by a non-governmental organisation in making aloe vera, palmyrah leaf and banana fibre products ranging from bags to baskets. The group, known as ‘Kalakkad Fiber-based Products Artisans Family,’ has undergone a comprehensive training in making attractive products, mostly decorative articles, with more craftiness. As a follow-up measure, a common manufacturing unit with adequate machineries has come up at a cost of Rs. 13.50 lakh at Padmaner near Kalakkad. Ms. Shilpa, who interacted with the women in the training centre at Bhoothathaankudiyiruppu near Cheranmahadevi, said the products being made from the fibre of aloe vera, palmyrah leaf and banana would ensure decent revenue to the artisans, who had undergone extensive training and capacity-building programmes on marketing. “The women, who are making products of excellent quality, have been given the target of producing products worth Rs. 73.53 lakh during this year and these products can be sold for Rs. 86.76 lakh. This venture will ensure the monthly income of Rs. 5,000 per artisan,” said Ms. Shilpa, who has made arrangements for health and life insurance for these artisans.
06 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||No spadework for ‘pisanam’ paddy season||With north-east monsoon showing no sign of taking off in a big way, farmers in in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts are yet to start the spadework. As paddy cultivation would usually be taken up in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts during the ‘pisanam’ season on over 85,000 acres – 40,000 acres in the combined Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts and 45,000 acres in Thoothukudi district – every year, farmers used to commence their work in mid-October and start transplanting saplings in the first or second week of November anticipating good rainfall during the north-east monsoon that would start in mid-October. However, these districts are yet to get significant rainfall so far leaving the farmers sceptical about going in for the preparatory work for the ‘pisanam’ paddy season. Even after water is being discharged from the Papanasam Dam for this season, farmers are not ready to take up cultivation. While 30% of farmers of Tenkasi district, pinning their hopes on the present storage level in the Gadana, Ramanadhi, Karuppanadhi and Adavinainar dams and leaving the rest to the monsoon in store, have started the preparatory works, similar activities cannot be seen in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts which shows the farmers’ reluctance. “Even as governments are making anti-farmer policies, the nature too lets us down with belated or belied monsoons. After suffering losses in two successive ‘kar’ paddy seasons, farmers, who could not repay crop loans from banks, are not prepared to start work this year. While the monsoon has been lost for a month (October 2020) and a week (first week of November), farmers with no resources are not ready to take chances this year. So, less than 50% of farmers, who have lands close to the reservoirs, may go in for paddy cultivation this year,” says P. Perumbadaiyar of Thirukkurunkudi and vice-president of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam. In Thoothukudi also, farmers having their ranches close to the Tamirabharani and the main channels of this river alone have started the preparatory work while others have chosen to be mute spectators. With the rainfall experienced so far in the northern parts of Thoothukudi district such as Ottapidaaram, Vilaathikulam, Ettaiyapuram and Kovilpatti, farmers have started cultivating rain-fed crops like chilly, groundnut, sunflower, maize, black gram, green gram, cotton etc. However, situation in Kanniyakumari district is a bit hopeful as the district is getting rains ever since mid-October. Since the reservoirs of the district, mainly Petchipaarai and Perunchaani dams, have significant storage even at the start of the north-east monsoon, farmers of hopeful of enjoying good paddy season this year. The farmers’ confidence was very evident as agriculturists even in Thovalai region have started the preparatory work by transplanting saplings from the nursery. As availability of farmhands is always a problem, the farmers rely upon the mechanized transplanting which was inspected by Collector M. Arvind on Thursday.
06 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for bonus and festival advance||Demanding 20% Deepavali bonus to all public sector undertaking employees, members of various trade unions staged demonstration here on Thursday. Led by T. Dharman of DMK-backed Thozhilaalar Munnetra Sangam, they staged a demonstration in front of the State Express Transport Corporation depot at Vannarpet on Thursday. They said the state government should give 20% bonus like last year. Moreover, the festival advance of Rs. 1,000 should be given. As the State Government is in no mood to give the bonus and the festival advance, trade union leaders should be invited for talks, they said. AITUC’s S. Kasi Viswanathan, CITU’s R. Mohan, HMS’s P. Subramanian, AICCTU’s K. Ganesan spoke.
06 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||3.5 tonnes of banned tobacco products seized in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur District Police seized nearly 3.5 tonnes of banned tobacco products from a private godown near Palladam in Tiruppur district and arrested four persons early on Thursday. A seven-member police team from Mangalam Police Station, led by Inspector K. Neeladevi, conducted a check at the godown on a private plot of land in Mangalam at around 3.45 a.m. based on a tip-off, police sources said. In the godown, the police found seven types of banned tobacco products weighing 3,456.35 kg and worth approximately Rs. 22 lakh. The police team seized the tobacco products, two mini trucks and a car during the surprise check, the sources said. The Mangalam police arrested S. Aravind Raj (24) from Palladam, J. Vaigundaraman (38) from Palladam, P. Muthukrishnan (35) from Tiruppur and C. Saji Prasath (43) from Coimbatore. They were booked under section 273 (Sale of noxious food or drink) of the Indian Penal Code along with sections of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act and were remanded in judicial custody. This was the largest quantity of banned tobacco products seized in Tiruppur district in recent times, the sources said. Preliminary investigations revealed that the seized products allegedly arrived from Karnataka. “The accused are first-time offenders,” said District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal. Further investigations to ascertain the origin of the banned tobacco products and whether the four accused were part of a network comprising miscreants from other States were under way, she said.
06 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Security stepped up for CM’s visit||The Nilgiris district police stepped up security at the Tamizhagam Guest House in Udhagamandalam as well as the route the convoy would take during Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s visit to the district on Friday. Bomb Detection Squads swept the bungalow on Thursday along with sniffer dogs, with the police stating that more than 1,200 police personnel would be deployed during the Chief Minister’s visit. Mr. Palaniswami will be in the Nilgiris on Friday and is scheduled to take part in a review meeting to assess the impact of COVID-19 in the district and also the steps being taken to prevent its spread. According to a release, Mr. Palaniswami will also inaugurate various development projects completed in the district and distribute welfare assistance to beneficiaries. Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani will attend the event. Police presence has beenstepped up across the district on Friday, with places where the public congregate, like bus stands and major intersections coming under increased police vigilance.
06 November 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin has no moral right to seek a ban on online games’||Tamil Nadu Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Thursday said DMK president M.K. Stalin had no moral right to demand a ban on online lottery games. According to him, the Leader of Opposition was merely indulging in “statement politics” on various issues. Talking to journalists at Bommayarpalayam near Villupuram after laying the foundation stone to establish geotextile tubes as a shore-protection measure, Mr. Shanmugam said it was indeed amusing that Mr. Stalin was seeking a ban on online lottery schemes. When AIADMK supremo Jayalalithaa was the Chief Minister, she had brought in a ban on the raffle scheme. Without having any moral right, the DMK leader was now showing himself up as a champion of eradicating lottery schemes, the Minister said. No one has forgotten the fact that Mr. Stalin’s father and then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had shared a platform at the conference on classical languages in Coimbatore in 2006 with the one who was running lottery schemes in the State, Mr. Shanmugam said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had gone on record stating that it was the firm stand of the State government to abolish online lottery schemes. This being a fact, the DMK leader now pretends to be fighting for the eradication of raffle schemes, the Minister charged adding that Mr. Stalin was a politician known for issuing statements. This was clear even during his (Stalin`s) assertion recently during the NEET stir. The DMK president has no moral right to speak about these issues although he could please himself by his statement politics, the Minister said.
06 November 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Stone laid for shore protection, reclamation||The Tamil Nadu Fisheries Department is set to undertake major shore protection measures to prevent coastal erosion and reclaim the shoreline at Bommayarpalayam coast. The project to establish geotextile tubes filled with slurry (a mixture of sand and water) will be implemented at a cost of Rs. 19 crore. Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Thursday laid the foundation stone for the project. The work at Bommayarpalayam, which is being funded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) includes the laying of geotextile tubes along of 1.35 km of the coastline. The National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT) has prepared the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the project. According to a Fisheries Department official, the alignment will be finalised by NIOT using Global Positioning System (GPS) and the offshore submerged dyke will be laid at a distance of four metres from Chart Datum Level offshore. The structure will reduce the intensity of the waves and prevent erosion and allow beach nourishment, the official added. Seven segments According to sources, the proposed dyke will comprise seven segments, each with 18 geo-synthetic tubes. Each geotube spans 25 metres in length, 15 metres in circumference and rises to a height of 3.5 metres after it is filled with sand. Each geotube will be filled with 450 cubic metres of sand and will cover a stretch of 1.35 km of the coast. The segments will be situated 50 metres apart to facilitate navigation of fishing vessels through these gaps. The geotubes will be attached to concrete blocks submerged under the sea. The structure will also be equipped with reflectors for easy identification of their location by fishermen at night. According to an official, as per estimates, the sea has advanced about 500 metres at Bommayarpalayam over the last two decades. As many as 75 houses have been damaged due to erosion. The project is expected to result in the reclamation of sand levels and the restoration of the coast by 50 metres.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 238 new cases, one death||Coimbatore district reported 238 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. With the death of one person, the toll increased to 569. According to the Health Department, 270 persons were discharged on Thursday and the district had 1,009 patients under treatment. Tiruppur district reported 110 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 13,325. With the district not reporting any deaths on Thursday, the toll so far stood at 195. As many as 117 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 33 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 6,833. The toll increased from 39 to 40. The district administration said that 279 persons were undergoing treatment. Erode district reported 98 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 10,765. While 99 persons were discharged, 799 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 131. Salem district reported 130 cases, of which 123 were indigenous including 63 in Salem Corporation limits. The district reported the death of a 50-year-old woman. In Namakkal, all the 39 cases reported were indigenous. In Krishnagiri, 24 persons tested positive. With eight persons being discharged on Thursday, 290 persons are under treatment. The district has so far reported 6,714 cases. Dharmapuri reported 22 cases, taking the district’s tally to 5,709. A total of 188 persons are under treatment.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek clarity on Mettur scheme||Farmers from Gonur village whose land will be acquired for the Mettur surplus water scheme have sought clarity on the compensation they are entitled to, for giving up their lands. Madesh, a farmer, says that his 16 cents have been identified for laying pipelines under the scheme. Though he has given consent for acquisition of his land for the purpose, he is still not fully aware of the total compensation he would receive. The villagers have also urged authorities to use water from the scheme to fill water bodies as well. Mr. Madesh says that farmers are yet to receive details regarding compensation that would be awarded for the crop on the land. However, officials deny the rumours and add that due process is being followed. According to officials from the Public Works Department, approximately 300 acres of private land has to be acquired for the project and pipelines are being laid in farmlands only after land owners’ consent. R. Divakar, District Revenue Officer, says negotiations are going on to acquire the land and compensation will be provided according to government norms. Pipeline is laid in private land only after taking written consent from land owners, he adds.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No permission for ‘Vetri Vel’ Yatra, govt. tells HC||The Advocate-General said the BJP’s State secretary had made an application to the Director-General of Police (DGP) on October 15 for permission for the yatra. The same day, the DGP asked the applicant to approach individual Superintendents and Commissioners of Police and instructed the latter to consider the plea in accordance with local conditions. On November 2, the party’s Tiruvallur district secretary filed an application before the Superintendent of Police for permission to conduct a public meeting at Tiruttani on November 6. That application did not state that the party was planning a State-wide yatra. However, now, the government decided to deny permission for the entire tour, he said. Mr. Narayan also stated the Centre itself had been issuing periodical advisories against permission for large gatherings. Further, a State government order issued on October 31 had prohibited religious gatherings till November 16. Pointing out that Deepavali season was fast approaching and the threat of a second and even third wave of COVID-19 was looming large, Mr. Narayan said it would not be appropriate to permit the yatra in such a precarious situation. “There are certainly other overtones, too, to the yatra,” he told the first Division Bench. The submissions were made at the hearing of two public interest litigation (PIL) petitions filed against the conduct of the yatra. Counsel for one of the petitioners pointed out that the yatra had been planned to end on December 6 when Muslims across the country mourn the demolition of Babri Masjid. He feared that the yatra might disturb communal harmony. ‘Too premature’ However, advocate V. Raghavachari, representing BJP State president L. Murugan, said it was too premature for the litigants to have approached the court when the government was yet to pass final orders on his application for permission. He said the government could not reject permission without giving him an opportunity of hearing. After hearing all of them, the judges disposed of the two PIL petitions with an observation that the government would be free to pass appropriate orders on the application for permission for the yatra. Such orders passed by the government could be challenged by any of the aggrieved parties, the Bench said. BJP vice-president K.S. Narendran, who is in charge of the yatra, said the State unit had asked the central leadership for directions. “...We have faced many issues. We know how to handle this,” he said. He said BJP State president L. Murugan had already said, “The Vel [a spear] will ‘pierce’ and go no matter what the hurdles.” Asked whether the party would defy the government and take out the yatra, he said, “We didn’t say that. We only say the Vel will ‘pierce’ no matter what”.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. will act to ban online gambling: CM||On the government rejecting permission for the ‘Vetri Vel’ Yatra by the BJP’s State unit, he said the rally could not be allowed “as per law”. The State government decided to re-open schools and colleges on requests from the managements of educational institutions. However, because of the concerns expressed about the possible spread of COVID-19 after re-opening, the government decided to consult parents and representatives of parent-teacher associations, he said. Regarding the reports that actor Vijay had started a political party, the Chief Minister said all citizens of the country had the right to start a party. Mr. Palaniswami will chair review meetings at Udhagamandalam and Tiruppur on Friday.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Welcome shower||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||Sona College of Technology: Freshers’ Day 2020 (Online), 10 a.m.
06 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||The larger ramifications of a district bank’s elections||The elections to the board of directors of the District Central Cooperative (DCC) Bank in Belagavi, scheduled for Friday, have become a prestige battle for politicians, taking their significance beyond the district. The ruling BJP tried hard to ensure that the elections were unanimous, but polling was necessitated after three of the 16 constituencies had multiple candidates. Security has been heightened in the district. In the run-up to the elections, the district witnessed some interesting political developments. The BJP embraced Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti leader Aravind Patil after it failed one of its own in Khanapur taluk. Interestingly, the polls brought arch-rivals — Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, the Katti brothers, and the Jarkiholi brothers — to the negotiating table. They agreed that Ramesh Katti, brother of the former Minister Umesh Katti, would become the bank’s chairman, while Mr. Savadi would be selected as the bank’s representative to the apex bank. They held a joint press conference to say they had sunk their differences. RSS leader Aravind Rao Deshpande held two rounds of meetings in Athani in which all the aspirants participated. It also made the Congress, whose fortunes are waning in the district, to field candidates in six constituencies and see them win unopposed in three. The other three — primary agriculture culture cooperative regional constituencies of Khanapur and Ramdurg and the sector constituency of wool — will go to the polls on Friday. KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi said he was not actively involved in the polls, but it is well known his followers were in the race. Political manoeuvring The cooperative body that disburses around Rs. 51,000 crore loans among five lakh farmers every year is the third largest in the State, but the elections to its board are politically contested though candidates are not nomineesof parties. MLAs of various parties routinely fight for the posts of directors in the bank and there is always intense political manoeuvring. There were strong rumours that Anjali Nimbalkar, Congress MLA from Khanapur, and her opponent, Mr. Patil, had shifted their voters to private resorts outside the State ahead of the polls. Political observers point to the larger ramifications of the politics around DCC Bank. “RSS backs Mr. Savadi as they want to groom alternative Lingayat leadership in the State. That is the reason why Mr. Umesh Katti also repeatedly announces he is a candidate for chief ministership in the State,” said Ashok Chandaragi, Kannada activist and former secretary of the Janata Party. He recalled that a fight over postponement of the taluk rural development bank (earlier called PLD bank) elections had escalated into a bitter fight between MLAs Lakshmi Hebbalkar and Ramesh Jarkiholi. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi alleged that Congress leader D.K. Shivakumar was interfering in district politics through his follower Ms. Hebbalkar, leading to alarger political stir. DCC polls have affected State-level politics in the past. Old-timers recall keenly contested battles earlier too. In 2008, Congress leaders Prakash Hukkeri and Prabhakar Kore had an ugly spat over the choice of candidates in the bank and Mr. Hukkeri prevailed. That was said to be one of the reasons behind Mr. Kore joining the BJP.
06 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Maharashtra a fit case for President’s Rule’||Members of the BJP Yuva Morcha took out a rally in Belagavi on Thursday, in protest against the arrest of journalist and Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami. They walked to the Deputy Commissioner’s office holding posters and banners. They shouted slogans against the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in Maharashtra. Morcha leader Prasad Devaramani said that the Maharashtra government had violated the sacred principle of freedom of speech and freedom of the press. “It shows the collapse of Constitutional values in Maharashtra. It is a fit case for implementing President’s Rule in that State,’’ he said.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Health Dept. to seek deferring of gram panchayat polls||Fearing an explosion of COVID-19 cases in the State if the gram panchayat elections are held in the winter months, the Health Department is set to request that the polls be put off at least till the end of February. This follows a recommendation from members of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee and technical advisory committee, said Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Thursday. Addressing presspersons after a meeting with experts on COVID-19 management following the festivals/elections and during winter, the Minister said, “As gram panchayat elections are fought at the grassroots level, the candidates visit every house in their village. One of our expertssaid it could lead to door delivery of the virus.” He said the experts have recommended that the government make every effort to get the polls put off at least till February-end and that the department request to the authorities concerned. Cracker ban decision   The Minister also said the committee had deliberated on the pros and cons of banning firecrackers during Deepavali and had recommended a ban. “As the smoke can badly impact the health of those who have already been infected by COVID-19 and even those who have not, we will place the committee’s report before the Chief Minister and take a decision within a day or two,” he said. “We do not want to hurt the religious sentiments of anyone. But it is in our own interests if the festival is celebrated in a simple manner.” As people are usually prone to catching infections during winter, it is advisable that they follow extreme precautions even though COVID-19 cases are declining in the State. “People should not ignore any non-COVID-19 health issue and should seek medical advice by visiting hospitals,” he said. Post-COVID-19 rehab With the percentage of people developing post-COVID-19 complications on the rise, the government will soon start post-COVID-19 rehabilitation centres at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Victoria, Bowring and Lady Curzon, and K.C. General hospitals in the first phase. “We will start such centres in every district hospital in the second phase. Our team has prepared a detailed report on what facilities these centres should have. We will also integrate AYUSH treatment in these centres,” the Minister said. While some private hospitals have already started such centres, the government will direct all hospitals with 100 beds and more to have post-COVID-19 rehab centres, he said. “With at least 5% of the recovered COVID-19 patients getting reinfected, people should be careful and should not let their guard down after recovery. I have asked our experts to conduct a comprehensive death audit of all COVID-19 fatalities in the State and to also study the reinfection cases in detail. They will submit a report soon,” Mr. Sudhakar said.  As the smoke [from firecrackers] can badly impact the health of those who have already been infected by COVID-19 and even those who have not, we will place the committee’s reportbefore the Chief Ministerand take a decision in a day or two K. Sudhakar, Health Minister
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cultural jatha to tell stories of the working class||The COVID-19 pandemic has not just been about health and medical facilities, but also about the socio-economic impact on a large section of people. Documenting these trying times, and bringing back the tradition of cultural jathas , theatre group Samudaya will kick-start ‘Olithu Maadu Manusa - A Salute to the Working Class’ from Bengaluru to Heggodu on Friday. The group is working in collaboration with the Gram Seva Sangh. Through theatrical performances, the artistes will highlight the problems created by the pandemic and the miseries faced by labourers, migrant workers, and rural artisans, as well as the social commitment exhibited by doctors, nurses, and the paramedical staff . The three-day jatha will culminate at Charaka in Heggodu, Sagar, on Sunday. According to the group, “art is not for art’s sake, but for life’s sake.” The objective is to reach out to the masses, salute the people, and make this a confidence-building exercise for them. “At present, we are witnessing an onslaught by the pandemic, which is weakening our entire social system. Masks and sanitisers are our two weapons to face this contagion. There are also many attempts being made in the medicalfield to discover a vaccine to prevent this malady. Samudaya’s latest street play, Olithu Maadu Manusa, reflects some heart-rending incidents and the humane and inhumane reactions of our society in this period,” a statement from the group said. Shashidhar Bharighat from Samudaya told The Hindu that the plan was to stage four plays a day. “There are 12 artistes and three singers. Wherever we are travelling, we will get many taluk headquarters. So we will put on shows wherever we can. Some local activists in those places will also be joining us,” he said. He said their jathas were popular in the 1970s and ’80s. “This time, we are bringingstories around the pandemic, panning weavers, farmers, migrant workers, and the corona warriors. Social distancing has meant that even cremation is not possible normally. Many have also written poetry about these issues. So even those will be showcased,” he said. The group is in its 44th year of existence, but this will be a unique exercise, given the circumstances. “We are takingprecautions — sanitisation of vehicle, ensuring masks are worn — as the artistes are working professionals, students etc.,” he said.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 13 prisons in State are now overcrowded, govt. tells High Court||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday asked the State government to suggest notable charitable organisation who can assist prison authorities to improve facilities and living conditions in prisons in the State. Meanwhile, the government told the court that prisoner population is only 96% of the total capacity of all 47 prisons in view of measures taken to decongest prisons as per the Supreme Court’s guidelines in view of COVID-19, and and only 13 prisons are overcrowded at present. As against the total capacity of 15,083, the number of prisoners in all jails is 14,535 as of October 27, the government said in the statement filed before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty. Numbers reduced The government pointed out that the average number of prisoners in all prisons was 110% in March and the same has now been reduced to 96% of the total capacity. The overcrowding in the Bengaluru central prison has been brought down to 12% from the 34% present in March. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Amol Kale, a prime accused in the Gauri Lankesh murder case, who complained about shortcomings in protecting prisoners from COVID-19. The other overcrowded central prisons are Mysuru (with 14% overcrowding compared to 55% in March), Kalaburagi (41% and 65%), and Vijayapura (45% and 94%). The overcrowded district prisons are Mangaluru (31% and 57%), Davangere (12% and 25%), Bidar (4% and 112%), Koppal (28% and 100%), Haveri (4% and 35%), Chamarajanagar (13% and 26%), Kolar (39% and 84%), Yadgir (5% and 28%), and Chickballapur (-20% and 14%).
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Aggressive testing soon in two constituencies||Following the rampant violation of COVID-19 protocols during the bypolls in R.R. Nagar and Sira, the COVID-19 expert committee has recommended that aggressive testing be taken up in these two constituencies at least for 10 days. “As per the committee’s recommendations, all those who have actively participated in the bypolls, including the polling personnel in the booths, will undergo testing. The modalities are being worked out,” said Health Minister K. Sudhakar. Meanwhile, as many as 3,000 police personnel who were deployed on election duty in R.R. Nagar will be tested for COVID-19, also on the recommendation by the technical advisory committee. At a meeting held on November 3, the committee had said that the non-compliance with COVID-19 precautions in R.R. Nagar and Sira was a matter of serious concern. The BBMP has also made arrangements to test the staff who were deployed on election duty. Twelve testing centres will be operation-al soon in R.R. Nagar. Across Karnataka, 88 police personnel have died of COVID-19. Over 9,500 personnel who were infected have been treated successfully.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4 names to be shortlisted for polls to RS seat||The BJP core committee has decided to shortlist four names to the coming election in the State to the single seat in the Rajya Sabha. After the core committee meeting here, State BJP vice-president Arvind Limbavali said there were 10 to 12 aspirants for the ticket. From among them, four would be picked and recommend to the central election committee through the State unit president, he said. “The State core committee can only make the recommendation. The selection of the candidate will be as per the decision of the central election committee of the party,” he said. Selection in a week Later, State president of the party Nalin Kumar Kateel said the candidate for the Rajya Sabha election would be finalised within a week. The process of selecting the party candidate for the coming bypoll to the Maski Assembly constituency had begun.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada Action Plan emblem released||Kannada Development Authority (KDA) Chairman T.S. Nagabharana on Thursday released the Kannada Kayaka Varshacharane - KKV (Kannada Action Plan 2020) emblem. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on November 1 announced Kannada Kayaka Varsacharane, an action for the year ahead. According to an official release, speaking after launching the emblem, Mr. Nagabharana said KDA has planned to celebrate KKV in a meaningful way across this year [from this November to next October 2021] and implement several projects. To help people in all fields learn the language easily, the Kannada Language Skills Online testing system has been designed, he said. Steps will also be taken to use Kannada in over 1,000 Kannada websites across the State in KKV and added that the Chief Secretary will issue a notification to all the departments in this regard. Mr. Nagabharana said the new education policy will be enacted to implement the law for formulation of primary education in Kannada medium and steps will be taken to implement Kannada in the higher education in phases. He said the government press and all government departments have been directed to use the emblem compulsorily on their letterheads, press releases, and advertisements. Besides this, experts’ opinion will also be sought on how to involve citizens, private organisations, government departments in KKV.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition, industry bodies slam tariff hike||A day after the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) announced an average 40 paise per unit hike in electricity tariffs across the State, political leaders as well as industry leaders have slammed the move. JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy tweeted, urging the government to put off the tariff hikes for a year given the circumstances under COVID 19. “People are suffering after being hit by COVID-19, job losses, and pay cuts. The tariff hike will be a huge burden on them,” he said. The Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) has said that the tariff hike will have an adverse impact on MSMEs, which are already struggling. On the other hand, it has welcomed the KERC’s decision to withdraw the Rs. 1 per unit penalty for morning peak usage between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. to encourage HT industrial consumption. The Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) has also expressed its displeasure over the development, mentioning that the move would burden all categories of consumers, affect the economy as well as the prices of raw materials, such as iron and steel. On Wednesday, the KERC approved the revision of electricity tariff for all electricity supply companies (Escoms) with an average increase by 40 paise per unit, which was a 5.4% average increase, for electricity consumed from the first meter reading date falling on or after November 1. For domestic consumers, installations of government or charitable educational institutions and hospitals serviced by Bescom in BBMP and other municipal corporation areas, LT industrial consumers, HT industrial users, LT commercial category users, and private educational institutions and private hospitals, the increase is by 25 paise per unit.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines anticipatory bail to police personnel||The Karnataka High Court has declined anticipatory bail to four police personnel in the case of the death of a 55-year-old man under mysterious circumstances when he was in police custody this April. Justice B.A. Patil passed the order while dismissing the petitions filed by Rakesh, Sub Inspector, Thirumalashettyhalli police station in Bengaluru Rural district, and Muniveerappa M., Sreenivasa M., and Mahadev Reddy, all police personnel attached to the police station. While the accused claim that Munikullappa, who was detained in a theft case, fell into a well when he attempted to escape from custody, his wife, Dhanalakshmi, alleged in her complaint that he was tortured. The court, from the postmortem report, noted that there were 16 serious injuries on the body and held that it was difficult to accept that the victim jumped into the well to escape from custody as he would have found different ways if he really wanted to escape. Moreover, the court noted that the police did not make any effort to save the victim as it was family members who removed the victim from the well and admitted him to hospital, where he died.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court seeks details of complaints against stars||Observing orally that it was high time the Commissioner of Police of Bengaluru city looked into the conduct of his officers in dealing with violations of mask wearing norms by political leaders and celebrities, the High Court on Thursday sought details of the complaints lodged against star campaigners during the R.R. Nagar bypoll campaigning. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction after noting inconsistencies in the actions initiated against leaders and celebrities for violation of COVID-19 norms such as wearing mask and maintaining social distancing. The city police had informed the court that 18 complaints of non-cognizable offence were registered against Kannada film actor Darshan, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, R.R. Nagar Congress candidate H. Kusuma, and workers of the BJP, Congress and the JD(S) for violation of COVID-19 norms. The Bench wondered how the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) could say that Tejasvi Surya, a member of the Lok Sabha from Bengaluru South constituency, was wearing a mask during a rally on September 29 when a photo published by the media showed him without one. Government counsel Vikram Huilgol told the Bench that the rally had started from Chikkajala toll gate and had travelled till Malleswaram, and the DCP (Crime) had submitted his report to the court based on the input sent by the DCP (North-East). The location where the photo of Mr. Surya was captured has to be ascertained, Mr. Huilgol said, while informing the Bench that he had requested the office of the Police Commissioner to gather data from the jurisdictional police. The Bench was also informed that complaints had been filed before BJP functionaries for violating norms during the rally.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Flight makes emergency landing at KIA||A Lufthansa flight (LH755) made an emergency landing at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) due to a technical snag. The incident happened on Thursday morning. The Frankfurt-bound flight developed the snag after take-off and returned back to Bengaluru. It is said that more than 80 passengers were on board. “Lufthansa flight LH755 from Bengaluru to Frankfurt has returned to Bengaluru Airport shortly after take-off due to technical reasons. For Lufthansa, safety has top priority at all times in flight operations. At no point was there any risk for the guests and the crew. “The aircraft landed normally at 7 a.m. local time. Lufthansa will rebook all passengers to other flights as soon as possible,” a response from the airline states.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Couple arrested for burglary||The Ashok Nagar police have arrested a couple who was allegedly involved in more than five house break-ins in Bengaluru. One kilogram of gold and 5.5 kg of silver articles worth Rs. 62 lakh were recovered from them. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central division) M.N. Anucheth said that the accused — J. Babu, 33, an autorickshaw driver from Tamil Nadu, and his wife Jayanthi Kuttiyamma, 29 — would scout residential areas for locked houses. After identifying a potential house, Jayanthi would break in with a bunch of duplicate keys and steal valuable items. In a second unrelated case, the Ashok Nagar police arrested a 25-year-old, Mohammed Thoufiq, for allegedly breaking into as many as 23 houses. Valuables worth Rs. 1.5 crore were recovered from him. The police are on the hunt for his associate Aleem Ahmed who is on the run.
06 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited for scholarships||The Karnataka Sangeetha Nritya Academy (KSNA) has invited applications from candidates learning classical music (Carnatic and Hindustani), dance, Sugama Sangeeta, Katha-keertana, and Gamaka for awarding scholarships. According to a press release from the KSNA, candidates should be aged between 16 and 24 and those selected would be paid a scholarship of Rs. 10,000 each. Those interested may obtain the prescribed application form from the Registrar, KSNA, Kannada Bhavana, 2nd Floor, J.C. Road, Bengaluru 560002. The last date for submitting the application is November 30. For details, visithttps://karnatakasangeetanritya academy.com/or call 080-22215072 during office hours.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pension adalat||Office of the Controller of Communication Accounts, Karnataka Telecom Circle, will hold a national pension adalat for telecom / BSNL Pensioners on November 24. People may submit representation on or before November 12.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,156 fresh cases, 31 deaths in Karnataka||The State on Thursday reported 3,156 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,38,929. With 31 deaths, the toll rose to 11,312. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.  Discharged As many as 5,723 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 7,94,503. Of the remaining 33,095 active patients, 916 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.71%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.98%. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,627 cases, taking its tally to 3,45,134. With nine deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,926. The active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 16,716. As many as 1,16,337 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 89,902 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests rose to 84,04,516.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council polls: HC declines to interfere on postponement of counting of votes||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday declined to interfere with the decision of the Election Commission of India (ECI) to postpone the counting of votes of the elections held to the Legislative Council from two graduates’ and two teachers’ constituencies to November 10. Observing that the ECI has been vested with the powers to decide on election schedules, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty disposed of the the petition filed by the News India Voters’ Forum, Bengaluru. No prejudice has been caused to any of the candidates owing to postponing of the counting to November 10 instead of the original schedule of November 2, the Bench said, while accepting the ECI’s statement of taking sufficient security measures to safeguard the ballot boxes till the counting of votes. The petitioner had claimed that the ECI had no powers to alter the date as such a power was vested only with the Returning Officer besides complaining that no proper security arrangement was put in place to protect the ballot boxes.
06 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hasanamba Jatra begins||The 12-day Hasanamba Jatra Mahotsava began in Hassan on Thursday with opening the doors of the temple located in the heart of the city. Following the religious customs, the doors were opened in presence of Ministers K. Gopalaiah and J.C. Madhuswamy, legislators and seniors officers of the district. The administration had declared that devotees would not be allowed to enter the temple this year due to COVID-19 pandemic. However, many people had gathered at the temple to have glimpses of the deity, whose darshan is available only during this festival. Mr. Gopalaiah, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies and in charge of Hassan district, told presspersonshe was happy to be part of the festival. “The temple was opened at 12.15 p.m. The temple has a long history and the deity has devotees spread across the State”, he said. Restrictions The administration has imposed restrictions on the entry of public to the temple because of the pandemic. The people should follow them strictly to avoid the spread of the infection, he said. The Minister also said that elected representatives of the district can visit the temple along with their families on any day during the festival. However, those from other districts should visit only on November 16.
06 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three held for possessing fake currency in Sakleshpur||Sakleshpur police, on Wednesday, arrested three residents of Bengaluru on charges of possessing fake currency notes and seized a car from them. The arrested are Ajay, 53, Thomas, 23, and Shantakumari, 50. Sakleshpur DySP B.R. Gopi received information about three people making purchases in shops using fake currency notes near Anemahal on B.M.Road around 1.30 p.m. The officer sent his staff members to the spot. The police noticed that the accused were in possession of 44 fake currency notes of face value Rs. 2,000, Rs. 500 and Rs. 200. Ajay, one of the accused, had been into the printing business and he allegedly printed fake notes.
06 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||More positive cases detected in Hassan dist.||As many as 140 people tested positive for COVID-19 infection in Hassan on Thursday, increasing the total number of confirmed cases to 25,613. Among them so far 24,000 have recovered and 1,179 are under treatment. No deaths Of them, 37 are in the intensive care unit. So far 434 people have died due to the infection. No death due to COVID-19 was reported on the day. Of the fresh cases reported on the day, 15 are from Alur, 12 from Arkalgud, one from Arsikere, five from Belur, 10 from Channarayapatna, 72 from Hassan, 10 from Holenarasipur and 15 from Sakleshpur taluk, said a bulletin released by the district administration.
06 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||High drama in Dharwad before Vinay Kulkarni’s arrest||Being a place where Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni was grilled for close to 10 hours, the Dharwad Suburban Police Station premises witnessed protests and high drama through the day on Thursday, before the arrest of the former Minister. People started gathering outside the Suburban Police Station soon after news about the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) taking Vinay Kulkarni into custody spread. With a section of the media reporting the arrest early in the day itself, the gathering started swelling as the day passed with more Congress supporters and followers of Mr. Kulkarni joining in. Soon the police cordoned off the area as a precautionary measure. With the arrival of Congress leaders, including MLC Srinivas Mane, district Congress office-bearers Anilkumar Patil, Deepa Nagaraj Gouri and several others, the gathering started raising slogans against the BJP government accusing the district BJP leaders of indulging in political vendetta. While the CBI sleuths continued grilling the former Minister and his brother Vijay Kulkarni and a few more close aides of theirs, the crowd started getting impatient and raised slogans at regular intervals. The protesting Congress members accused Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi and Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar of trying to “finish off” Mr. Kulkarni’s political career by falsely implicating him in a murder case. Mr. Srinivas Mane and Mr. Anilkumar Patil said that the ruling disposition was trying to malign the former Minister and that the arrest was politically motivated. As the number grew, the police stepped up security with additional deployment of personnel as a precautionary measure. Several members of the Mahila Congress wore black badges and staged demonstration outside the Suburban Police Station to condemn the development. Meanwhile, Mallamma, wife of Yogeeshgouda Goudar, told presspersons that she was satisfied with the way the CBI investigation was progressing and hoped that the truth would come out soon. Ms. Mallamma joined Congress after she lost the Zilla Panchayat election which she contested on BJP ticket. She too was questioned by CBI sleuths in Dharwad for several hours last month.
06 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Commemorating the Mahatma’s 1920 visit||A series of programmes have been planned in Dharwad and Hubballi on November 10 and 11 to commemorate the centenary year of the visit of Mahatma Gandhi to the twin cities way back in 1920. Based on the documents collected by linguist and activist Ganesh Devy on the visit of the Mahatma to the twin cities, Gandhi Peace Foundation, Chairman of the Chair of Gandhian Studies, Chitra Film Society and DASA Trust have chalked out programmes to commemorate the historical event. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Wednesday, Mr. Ganesh Devy and Chairman of Gandhi Peace Foundation Sanjiv Kulkarni said that at 6 a.m. on November 10, a meeting of pourakarmikas (civic workers) would be held in Dharwad and sweets would be distributed. It would be followed by an all-religion prayer and also rendition of bhajans at the Gandhi Peace Foundation at 7 a.m. Then, saplings will be planted on the campus of Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) at 8 a.m. After breakfast at Buddha Rakkita School at 9 a.m., there would be a special programme at Anjuman College in Dharwad, where writers and intellectuals are expected to participate. A painting exhibition has been planned at Bala Balaga to mark the occasion, followed by a dramatised reading of Hind Swaraj of Gandhi. Dr. Kulkarni said that at 2 p.m. advocates would meet at the Dharwad Bar Association and there would be an oath-taking ceremony by Rotary Club members at 3 p.m. A release of a special cover brought out by India Posts would be held at Srujana Rangamandir at 4 p.m. followed by screening of “The Making of Mahatma”, he said. On November 11, various activities for students would be held at Sana College in Hubballi at 9 a.m. followed by a Shramik Meeting in which APMC workers would participate. At noon, the members would garland Gandhiji’s statue near KIMS Hospital. After the release of a special postcard at Mahila Vidyapeeth at Vidyanagar in Hubballi, a meeting would be held at Congress Bhavan at 2 p.m. followed by a visit to Siddaroodh Math at 3 p.m. Chairman of the Chair of Gandhian Studies Shivanand Shettar, Coordinators A.M. Khan of Chitra Film Society, writer Malati Pattanashetti and others were present at the press conference.
06 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gang strikes at APMC Market Yard, takes away cash from over 10 shops||Taking advantage of the reduced security, a gang of thieves struck at the APMC Market Yard and Filter Bed areas on Wednesday night and made away with cash available in the trading units. The exact amount of money stolen is yet to be established. As per information provided by traders in the yard, the gang broke open shutter locks and grills of over 10 shops using iron rods and stole only cash kept in counter-drawers. Most of the shops targeted are in the business of farm inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides and food items. The gang has, however, not touched any other valuables in these shops. The crime has been recorded by CCTV cameras installed in some trading units. In a lubricants shop owned by Somashekhar Kalashetty, the gang first broke open the shutter lock and then made an attempt to break the iron grill door inside. Since the grill door was strong, it could not break it open. The gang successfully broke open the doors of an edible oil shop owned by Qayamuddin Ladji but returned with empty hands as it could not find any cash there. Meanwhile, the traders in the APMC Yard criticised the government for reducing security. “After the amendment to the APMC Act, the government, as part of its cost-cutting measures, has directed all APMCs in the State to reduce the number of security guards. Earlier, we had 60 security guards and there are now only 30 who work in shifts. The APMC Yard is spread over 80 acres and the number of security guards is insufficient to look after it,” Santosh Langar, a trader, told The Hindu on Thursday. He added that the police outpost in the APMC Yard too lacked staff. APMC president Appu Kanaki, secretary Shailaja M.V. and police personnel visited the trading units on Thursday morning.
06 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Dayaghan Dharwadkar takes charge as KUDA chairman||Dayaghan Prahladrao Dharwadkar on Thursday assumed charge as the chairperson of the Kalaburagi Urban Development Authority(KUDA). Though several names were doing the rounds for a couple of months now for the plum post, speculations over the KUDA chairman’s appointment finally ended after a government notification came on Wednesday. Undersecretary, Department of Urban Development C.S. Shivakumarswamy has in the notification announced the appointment of Mr. Dharwadkar to the post for a period of three years or till further orders. Mr. Dharwadkar earlier served as chairman of the Gulbarga Development Authority between 2008 and 2010 when B.S. Yediyurappa was serving as Chief Minister. He also served as BJP city unit president between 1996 and 1999 and was the BJP district general secretary for two terms — 2000 to 2003 and 2015 to 2018. Speaking to the media after taking charge, Mr. Dharwadkar expressed his commitment to ensuring the overall development of the city. “I am indebted to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel and MLA Dattatreya Patil Revoor for giving me a big responsibility,” he said.
06 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Protest||Members of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee, an umbrella organisation comprising 250 farmers organisations, blocked major roads at Jagat Circle in the city on Thursday to protest against the Union government for the passage of three farm bills. Traffic movement was hit on the major roads for a couple of hours. The police detained 20 agitators and released them later.
06 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Hampi Utsav on November 13||Forest Minister and Ballari in-charge Anand Singh has said that the annual Hampi Utsav will be held on November 13. He also made it clear that this year’s celebrations would be confined to one day, instead of the usual three days, due to the COVID-19 situation. “The Hampi Utsav was celebrated for three days every year in the past. However, it would symbolically be celebrated for one day with minimum crowd keeping in mind the COVID-19 situation,” he said, in a press release on Thursday. As per details he provided, Shobha Yatra procession involving different folk and cultural teams would be taken out from Uddan Veerabhadreshwar Temple to Virupaksheshwar Temple.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. will implement budget promises despite pandemic: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday said the BJP government in the State would implement all budget promises despite the COVID-19 pandemic. At the inaugural of the party’s State executive meeting held in Mangaluru on Thursday, he said the finances were improving as the days passed. Hence there would be no constraints to implement budget promises. The second instalment of Rs. 50 lakh MLA development funds was just released, he said. He said Karnataka had become model to other States. The government was acting with iron hands against the drug mafia. Stringent action was being taken without fear or favour against the mafia to protect the young generation from its clutches, the Chief Minister added. Party’s prospects On the performance and prospects of the party, he said the BJP would come to power in the State by securing 140 to 150 seats in the next Assembly elections, after two-and-a-half years. He said the party that was short of nine seats to form the government after the 2018 elections got a boost with 18 MLAs from the ruling coalition resigning from their seats and 16 of them getting re-elected. The party had thus gained a foothold in areas where it was not strong before, including Chickballapur and Mandya districts. In the Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira byelections, the party would win by at least 40,000 and 20,000 vote margin, respectively, he said. The party would also win four seats in the elections to the Legislative Council and the Congress would face a humiliating defeat in all these elections, he added. “This, however, doesn’t mean that party workers can take elections lightly; they have to work hard for every election, be it gram panchayat or the Lok Sabha,” he said. Presiding over the inaugural function, State BJP president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that winning at least 150 seats in the next Assembly elections was the party’s target. The organisational structure of the party in undivided Dakshina Kannada would be extended State-wide to strengthen the party. Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi and D.V. Sadananda Gowda, BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi and others were present.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Legislators seek special grants to restore battered roads in district||People’s representatives from Dakshina Kannada on Thursday urged the government to release additional and special grants to restore battered roads and building infrastructure in the district. Led by district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari and State BJP president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, legislators from the district met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, who is in-charge of Public Works Department, in Mangaluru to press for their demands. The legislators said that public buildings and the road network in the district have taken a severe beating due to heavy rain this monsoon and additional grants were required to restore them. Meanwhile, as a result of upgrading village roads into Major District Roads and Major District Roads as State Highways, special grants were required to improve them, the legislators told Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Karjol. MLAs Sanjeev Matandoor, Umanath Kotian, Rajesh U. Naik, Harish Poonja and MLC Prathap Simha Nayak were in the delegation, said a communiqué from the executive engineer, Public Works Department.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah struggling to remain relevant: Kateel||State president of the BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Thursday that the party will win the recently conducted by-polls to Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituencies by a margin of 15,000-20,000 votes and 35,000-40,000 votes, respectively. Speaking to presspersons after the State executive and core committee meetings, Mr. Kateel said that the Congress leader and the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramiah is struggling to retain his relevance and existence in the Congress. Hence, he has been targeting the BJP daily by issuing one irresponsible statement or the other. “Mr. Siddaramaiah fears that he will be sidelined by the power of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar. Hence, he has begun discussing leadership change in the ruling party,” Mr. Kateel said and added that there is no question of replacing B.S Yediyurappa as Chief Minister. Mr. Kateel said that 10-15 non-BJP MLAs in the State are already knocking on the doors of the BJP. Following the DJ Halli violence in Bengaluru, many Congress MLAs have felt that the Congress is not coming to their rescue. The DJ Halli and KJ Halli incidents are the result of the political tussle between Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar in the Congress, the BJP leader said.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||City corporations will get grants of Rs. 50 crore: BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday announced that 10 city corporations in the State, including that of Mangaluru, would get special development funds of Rs.50 crore each. Speaking after inaugurating the State executive meet of the BJP here, Mr. Yediyurappa said that if the corporations performed well, additional grants of Rs. 75 crore would be released for them to expedite the works. His remarks came in the backdrop of Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari’s opening remarks that Mangaluru City had witnessed tremendous development during Mr. Yediyurappa’s earlier stint as Chief Minister. Meeting promises Despite the COVID-19 pandemic denting the finances of the government, the economy is slowly bouncing back and the government is confident of fulfilling all the poll promises made by the BJP, Mr. Yediyurappa claimed. “The second instalment of Rs. 50 lakh in MLA development funds was just released, thereby giving impetus for local development work,” he said. He also said the government would exploit the rich tourism potential of the State in general, and of the coast in particular, to the fullest extent. The Cabinet has already deliberated on this and major changes will be seen within six months, he added. He also said the government’s priority would be developing the fisheries sector and improving the quality of life of fishermen. Marine resources will be optimally exploited, he said, adding that the government was giving equal importance to strengthening internal security by suitably guarding the coastal line. Mr. Yediyurappa said the government would explore options to generate power through tidal power.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Take up implementation of Page Pramukh initiative seriously’||The State executive of the BJP in its meeting here on Thursday observed that the “Page Pramukh” initiative of the party should be seriously implemented across the State and the office-bearers of the State unit of the party should tour different districts for strengthening the party further, according to party spokesperson Ganesh Karnik. Briefing presspersons after the meeting Mr. Karnik, also a former MLC, said that the executive also observed that the “Kutumba Milana” initiative of the party, which has been introduced in the coastal belt, should be spread across the State to bring more people into the party’s fold. Mr. Karnik said that the party adopted three resolutions. It resolved to congratulate and welcome the Union government for introducing New Education Policy – 2020. The committee felt that it would bring drastic changes in the education sector. The executive welcomed and congratulated the Union government for amending three laws related to the agriculture sector. The government’s measure will help many farmers, he said. The spokesperson said that the executive hailed Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for effectively handling the flood situation in the State. Mr. Karnik said that the next State core committee executive committee meetings of the party will be held in Belagavi on December 5.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||One-way special train to Muzaffarpur||The Railways will operate a one-way special train from Mangaluru Central to Muzaffarpur on Friday to clear extra rush. Train No 06004 Mangaluru Central-Muzaffarpur one-way special would leave Mangaluru at 11 p.m. on Friday to reach Muzaffarpur at 10.15 a.m. on Monday, via Palakkad, Coimbatore, Jolarpettai, Vijaywada, Vizianagaram, Asansol, Barauni and Samashtipur, said a release from the Palakkad Division of the Southern Railway. The train would have two AC 3-tier coaches, eight sleeper class coaches, 10 second sitting coaches and three luggage-cum-brake van coaches. Advance reservation for the service is open.
06 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Congress has not learnt its lesson, says C.T. Ravi||Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary C.T. Ravi on Thursday said the Congress appeared not to have learnt its lesson from the Emergency and was trying to curb the freedom of the press again. The Maharashtra government will meet the same fate the Congress met after the Emergency, following curbs on the media, he said, without naming Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami. Speaking at the inauguration of the BJP’s State executive meeting here, Mr. Ravi quoted a Kannada anecdote, “Sahavasadinda Sanyasi Ketta (a hermit who got spoiled by the company he kept)”, and said that the Maharashtra coalition partner Shiv Sena too would meet the same end for joining hands in curbing the freedom of the press. The Shiv Sena, Mr. Ravi claimed, has been treading a path going against the policies followed by the party’s founder, Bal Thackeray. “Reopening a closed case only for the sake of harassing the media will not go down well,” he said. Lashing out at the Congress, Mr. Ravi said following Independence, the party had changed the definition of democracy, from “of the people, by the people, and for the people” to “of the family, by the family, and for the family”. That party has indulged in dividing people on the lines of religion and caste just to stay in power, Mr. Ravi alleged. On the other hand, the BJP, he claimed, had “reversed the practise” and brought in the “true spirit of democracy” to the country’s polity. Mr. Ravi, who is in charge of party affairs in the south, said the BJP would utilise its strength in Karnataka to penetrate the other southern States.
06 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two boys drown||Two teenaged boys were drowned in the estuary of the rivulet, Kamini, near Padubidri on Thursday. Mohsin and Mohammed Rais, both aged around 16, had been to the estuary, along with Mohammed Nabeel, for swimming. Passers-by who saw the boys struggling to come out of the currents rescued Nabeel.
06 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Now, city police nod must for all indoor, outdoor events in Mysuru||In view of growing instances of public flouting the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for indoor and outdoor public events, the Mysuru City Police have stepped in to stop such violations and encourage the public to follow precautions for bringing COVID-19 under full control. The move comes at a time when COVID-19 cases had dropped steadily across Mysuru. Amidst the fall in new infections, there are concerns over scant disregard to the rules such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance in public places. In view of this, the police have made it mandatory to seek their permission for all events organised between November 6 and 30 across the city. Police Commissioner Chandragupta has issued an order in this regard and listed out the guidelines to be followed mandatorily. He has made it mandatory for the organisers of events to seek the permission of the respective assistant commissioner of police. The organisers are now supposed to nominate a person for enforcing the government guidelines on COVID-19 at the venues and the same person has to seek permission submitting an application to the police, perhaps to make him or her accountable. Permission on the number of participants would be granted based on the dimension of the indoor and outdoor venues, so that social distancing was strictly maintained. For an indoor event, permission would be granted for accommodating less than 50 per cent of the hall’s total capacity. Police to decide For outdoor events, the participation is based on the total size or area of the ground or the area of the venue. This means the number of persons would be decided by the police. Also, the police have made it mandatory for shops, commercial complexes, religious places, cinema halls, hotels and restaurants to name one person for enforcing the COVID-19 rules and the name and contact number of such persons should be submitted to the jurisdictional police. This would help the station inspectors to coordinate with such persons. Such persons are supposed to enforce the guidelines and help in containing the spread of COVID-19. The entire responsibility of implementing the government guidelines lies with them and they are supposed to be present at the spot when there was public movement or visits. The person enforcing COVID-19 rules at marriage or community halls is mandated to ensure social distancing during the events and the participants comply with the precautions such as wearing masks, use of sanitizers, and thermal screening at the entrance. Their responsibility also includes arrangements of seats keeping social distance in mind and ensuring number of participants does not exceed the fixed limit. Help offered If required, the organisers can make use of the services of volunteers and also take the help of police, a note from the Commissioner said here on Thursday. Mr .Chandragupta said the order applies to government and private events. In case of government events, the respective department has to appoint one officer for the implementation of COVID-19 rules and seek the police’s permission prior to the event.
06 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Start house construction, DC tells 2019 flood victims||Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy on Thursday nearly 50% of the flood victims of the 2019 calamity in Kodagu have not constructed houses despite funds being released to them for the same. “They should start the construction immediately,” she said, during a meeting with the revenue officers at Madikeri. She said they should be ready to comply with the decisions taken by the government in case the construction does not commence. “If the construction was started and details are forwarded to us, steps will be taken to release the funds for the construction in the second phase.” Ms. Joy suggested verifying the applications at the tahsildar level on the applications seeking land for the construction of anganwadi centres, residential schools, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and D. Devaraj Urs Bhavans and Bal Mandir. Instead of gram panchayats giving the NoCs, tahsildars can examine the applications and give the NoCs. During the meeting, the deputy director of agriculture, Raju, said 97% of crop survey in Kodagu had been completed.  If the construction was started and details are forwarded to us, steps will be taken to release the funds for the construction in the second phase Annies Kanmani Joy, Deputy Commissioner, Kodagu
06 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vigilance Awareness Week observed||The Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), in association with The Hindu , observed Vigilance Awareness Programme-2020 here between October 27 and November 2. The theme was “Vigilant India and Prosperous India.” The programme was aimed at spreading awareness among students on a corruption-free India. The awareness week is organised every year to encourage stakeholders to participate in fighting and preventing corruption and also to raise public awareness on the threats posed by corruption. In view of COVID-19 pandemic, events as part of the programme engaging students were organised in a virtual mode. The essay- writing competition organised for the PU students here saw enthusiastic participation.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP’s plan to appoint mentors for waste processing plants hits a snag||The civic body’s plan to address the problems of odour and sanitation at waste processing plants by appointing mentors has hit a snag even before it could launch the initiative. With several communities living around the plants complaining about mismanagement, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had proposed to appoint members of the Technical Guidance Committee (TGC) as mentors. The idea, however, has been rejected by committee members. The TGC, which was constituted following directions of the Karnataka High Court, has objected to the proposal, citing conflict of interest. Many committee members also claimed that the recommendations they have made so far have not been implemented by the BBMP. In a strongly worded letter to the BBMP Commissioner, TGC members have pointed out that the role of the committee is to shape and guide policy perspectives, provide technical guidance on various aspects of waste management. If inducted into a “hands on role” for individual plants, it would lead to a conflict of interest, they maintained. “TGC members cannot be the judge and the judged at the same time. Being appointed as a mentor would put us in this conflict,” the letter read. TGC committee members also noted that mentoring was not in the spirit of “our being guides or advisors to BBMP” as per directions of the High Court. They claimed to have contributed considerable time advising BBMP on various aspects of waste management, often at the cost of their own routine academic and other responsibilities, in the best interest of the city. “Unfortunately, most of the suggestions have been largely ignored,” they alleged. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta, following consultations with the TGC and SWM Cell in BBMP, had proposed the mentorship idea. With mentorship and technical leadership, issues at the various processing plants may see some resolution, he had stated. Refuting TGC’s allegations, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (SWM) D. Randeep said the civic body had taken up many measures as recommended by the expert committee to improve SWM in the city. He said several measures, such as having dedicated plant managements, exclusive escrow account for SWM and regular reviews, have been put in place based on TGC recommendations. That apart, standard operating procedure (SOP) for processing plants under two experts is also ready and would be put in place after TGC approval. Meanwhile residents living in the vicinity of the plants say they are yet to get relief from the stench and the alleged leachate contamination. On November 1, residents of Electronics City Phase II and the neighbouring Chikkanagamangala, Doddanagamangala and Shantipura villages had participated in a ‘tweetstorm’ on social media demanding closure of the solid waste management (SWM) plant located in the area.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers form human chain, oppose land reform policies||Scores of farmers representing Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and Hasiru Sene staged a demonstration against the State and the Union government for their alleged anti-farmer policies, on Thursday. They formed a human chain near the APMC Yard and blocked the Mysuru-Nanjangud highway for some time and raised slogans against the government. Badagalpura Nagendra of KRRS said the farm bills passed by the Centre and the State would leave the farmers in the lurch. He claimed the laws were pro-corporate and anti-farmer and wanted them to be withdrawn. He said the government took the ordinance route to pass them. In Punjab and other parts, there was a people’s movement and State governments led by the Opposition parties have rejected the same and have brought in their own acts. Yet, the Centre has not taken cognisance of the farmers’ sentiments, said Mr. Nagendra. He said all the amendments introduced by the government were linked to farmers and agriculture and went against their interest. “The amendments will affect farmers, daily workers and even consumers in the long run and more than 300 organisations have joined hands to protest against them.’ He said the BJP had demonstrated its “anti-farmers, anti-workers’’ approach by passing these bills and the agitation would be intensified in the days ahead. Copy of bills burnt The farmers also burnt a copy of the bills to register their protest. They said they will assemble in front of Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru and lay siege to it till the farm laws were repealed.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A simulation where the stakes could be as high as losing your driving licence||A virtual game where players have to manoeuvre their motorcycles and scooters around pedestrians, potholes and other hurdles sounds like fun, but not if your driving licence depends on it. In an effort to minimise fatal road accidents and instil discipline among two-wheeler riders, the traffic police have unrolled an innovative virtual simulator to “reform repeat offenders”. Motorists who have been pulled up consistently for not following rules will be summoned to the Traffic Training Institute at Thanisandra where they will have to take a simulator test as well as a conventional outdoor driving test. They have to get a score of at least 60 out of 100 marks to pass. “Those who pass the tests will be issued certificates that will help them to get back their seized vehicles and driving licence. If they fail, they will be asked to retake the tests,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Traffic East M. Narayan. Those who fail the tests three times in a row will have a tough time getting their documents back. “In such cases, the traffic police will write to the RTO concerned to suspend their licence,” Mr. Narayan added. In the few days that the initiative was launched, as many as108 repeat offenders have been identified and sent for training. According to the police, the simulation is only for two-wheelers, but there are plans to introduce a similar simulation for those driving cars in the future. The virtual simulation test mimics the reality of Bengaluru’s roads, and motorists will have to navigate around jaywalkers, cows sitting in the middle of the road, traffic signals and signs. Along with the outdoor test, it will help the police ascertain whether the motorist is aware of rules. “It will help us identify a person’s driving skills and presence of mind,” said a police official. The police estimate that there are over 95 lakh vehicles in the city. “We are witnessing an increasing number of traffic violators, which is a major area of concern,” Mr. Narayan said. The traffic police are hoping that this programme will not only deter offenders but also improve people’s driving skills and inculcate discipline among motorists.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Timing of BBMP Bill questioned at debate||At a public debate on the new Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Bill 2020, former councillors called for empowering the council and ward committees, bringing all civic utilities and parastatals under the BBMP and increasing the term of the mayor. The discussion, organised by Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy on Thursday, saw many panellists question the timing of the introduction of the Bill. Opposing the Bill, former Congress councillor and opposition leader Abdul Wajid maintained that the legislation was being introduced only to put off polls to the civic body. The term of the BBMP council ended on September 10. A Bill for Bengaluru should have vision and a broader outlook, keeping in mind the growth of the city, he said. Former councillor and president of Janata Dal (S) Bengaluru city unit R. Prakash said there was no clarity with regard to work execution. “We have been stressing on the need for ‘road history’ to be maintained for better transparency in works,” he said. Shanthala Damle, State co-convenor of Aam Aadmi Party, maintained that the KMC Act could be amended to suit the needs of the city, instead of bringing in a new Bill. Former BJP councillor and opposition leader Padmanabha Reddy while welcoming the Bill, admitted to certain shortcomings. Though the council is supreme, the Bill envisages more powers for the commissioners of zonal committees. Deepak Nagaraj from the Karnataka Rashtra Samiti and Srikanth Narasimhan from the Bengaluru Navanirmana Party were also on the panel.  We have been stressing on the need for ‘road history’ to be maintained for better transparency in works R. Prakash, Janata Dal (S)
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||AWBI told to select person to inspect race horses at BTC||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to choose one of two persons authorised by the Union government to inspect race horses at Bangalore Turf Club Ltd. (BTC) to ascertain whether the club has followed provisions of the Performing Animals (Registration) Rules, 2001. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by M/s. Compassion Unlimited Plus Action, Bengaluru. The bench directed AWBI to ensure that the authorised person completes the inspection and submits the report within a specified period while adjourning further hearing till December 10. Alleging that the Bangalore Turf Club has not been following the norms with respect to transport, care and upkeep of animals at the time of training and performance, the petitioner had sought directions to AWBI to inspect BTC and cancel registration of horses whose upkeep is not as per the rules. Though the AWBI had earlier sent a person for inspection, the BTC had objected stating that the person was not authorised by the Union government. The court asked the Central government to inform the person authorised to conduct an inspection as per the rules. On Thursday, the Central government submitted names of authorised persons. The bench expressed displeasure with the AWBI for failing to communicate with the Central government on the officers authorised for conducting an inspection.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Amazon signs MoU with SMOI||In an attempt to impact the lives of weavers and craftsmen associated with some 4,200 Silk Mark Authorised Users across the country, Amazon India and the Silk Mark Organisation of India (SMOI) have entered into an MoU. India is the second largest producer of silk in the world with presence across four varieties — mulberry, eri, muga, and tassar. Karnataka is the lead producer followed by Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Jammu & Kashmir, with total production coming up to 35,000 tonnes of raw silk. As part of the understanding, Amazon will launch an exclusive Silk Mark Store with Silk Mark labelled products through multiple sellers associated with the organisation. It will help showcase over 3,000 products initially and customers will get access to Silk Mark assured pure silk products, as per a statement. Sellers who are part of SMOI would be able to avail of additional benefits by selling their products on the Amazon India marketplace. Rajit Ranjan Okhandiar, vice-chairperson, Silk Mark Organisation of India and CEO and member secretary, Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles, said, “The exclusive Silk Mark Store on Amazon Karigar and Amazon India bazaar is in line with the Go Digital mandate of the government.”
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Reintroduce Bill on cow slaughter ban’||The then BJP government had introduced the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2010. It was passed by a voice vote amid protests by the Opposition. The Bill was waiting the Presidential assent and it proposed to replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964. After the Congress came to power in 2013, it withdrew the Bill and brought back the old law.
06 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Fronts gear up for local body polls||Even though the State Election Commission is yet to notify the dates, major political fronts are gearing up for the upcoming local body polls in the district. Hectic parleys are on in the Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF), and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over seat-sharing and finalising candidates. Seats for Mani faction According to R. Nazar, Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary and LDF district convener, candidates will be finalised for all seats in the next couple of days. “We have completed seat-sharing and started to announce candidates. Candidates in all seats will be declared in the next two days,” he said. Mr. Nazar said the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani, the new entrant to the LDF, had been given adequate seats. “We have given the KC(M) more seats than what it got five years ago while in the UDF. The CPI(M) and other LDF constituents have made compromises in order to give seats to the KC(M) and other new coalition partners,” he said. Mr. Nazar added that the CPI(M) would not give tickets this time to those who had contested local body polls twice in a row. In the UDF, seat-sharing talks are going on. “An agreement has been reached over 50% of seats. We hope to finalise all candidates by next week. Committees have been formed at panchayat, block, and district levels to resolve any issues regarding selection of candidates,” said C.K. Shaji Mohan, UDF district chairman. UDF plans He said the seats contested by the Jose K. Mani faction of the KC(M) in the previous elections would be shared based on winnability. A good number of seats would be given to the KC(M) faction headed by P.J. Joseph, he said. The BJP-led NDA too is expected to complete seat-sharing and announce its candidates soon. BJP district president M.V. Gopakumar said the NDA’s candidates list would be finalised by November 8.
06 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||660 test positive in Alappuzha||The district witnessed a slight fall in daily COVID-19 cases with 660 people testing positive for the disease on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 627 people contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of 15 people remains unknown. Ten people who came from other States, four from abroad and four health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded three COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official death toll to 109. The deceased were identified as a 61-year-old man from Aroor (died on November 1), an 82-year-old man from Kunnuthara (November 1) and a 67-year-old man from Vadackal (October 23). Among the new cases, 120 were logged from Alappuzha, 32 from Punnapra South 26 from Ambalappuzha North, 25 from Arattuppuzha, 25 from Cherthala South, 25 from Mararikulam North, 24 from Aryad and 23 from Muthukulam. Meanwhile, 521 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,579. Cases against 42 The police have registered 42 cases and arrested 31 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 267 people for not wearing face masks and 894 for not maintaining physical distance. Another three cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 18 people in connection with the three cases. Municipal Colony area of ward 36 in Alappuzha municipality was declared as a containment zone.
06 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Road work begins||The work to develop the Manorama Junction (Vadakke Angadi kavala) in Cherthala has begun. It was inaugurated by Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran on Thursday. The government has acquired 17.42 cents for its development. The development works will be carried out at a cost of Rs. 10.5 crore.
06 November 2020||COIMBATORE,KERALA||Attappady girl holds classes for lockdown-hit tribal children||A Class VIII student’s effort to help tribal children in their education during the COVID-19 lockdown in a village in Kerala has drawn support and appreciation from various quarters, including a former Vice-Chancellor and a Rotary club in Coimbatore. Thirteen-year-old S. Anamika, a student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Thiruvananthapuram, had to return to her village, Attapadi in Palakkad District, when schools closed owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. The girl from Irula community set up a makeshift classroom at her home with the help of her parents in July to help 10 children in her neighbourhood with their studies as they did not have access to online classes. And, she teaches the children during the breaks from her online classes conducted by her school. Rotary to felicitate The Rotary Club of Coimbatore West has decided to felicitate Ms. Anamika at an event here on Sunday. “We came to know about her through social media,” said P.P. Subramanian, a member of the club. On Sunday, Ms. Anamika will be presented with a laptop and an award for her initiative, he said. M. Sudheer, Anamika’s father, said she was recently presented with ‘Youth Icon Award’ from the Kolkata-based Universal Record Forum. Former Anna University Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy also visited her residence on November 2 to felicitate her, he said. From 10 students initially, there were 13 children attending the classes now, he said. The children are also provided lunch because of the support from various organisations in Kerala. A daily wage labourer, Mr. Sudheer said he used to work at a brick kiln in Thadagam valley in Coimbatore district. The classes are held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., with strict adherence to the COVID-19 precautionary measures such as wearing of masks and personal distancing. Ms. Anamika said she gave assignments to the children to work on while she attended her school’s online classes. “During the breaks, I come back to the classroom and continue teaching,” she told The Hindu over phone. She said that the children learn English, Malayalam, Hindi and even German, which she has learned in her school. When asked about the awards and support she received for this initiative, Ms.Anamika replied with a chuckle, “I feel happy”.
06 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Centre of excellence for vegetables and flowers opened in Wayanad||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the government has been able to launch several innovative projects for the betterment of the farming community in the State. Speaking after inaugurating the Centre of Excellence for Vegetables and Flowers at the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS), Ambalavayal campus, in Wayanad through videoconferencing on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan said the centre would help rejuvenate the agriculture sector. The Netherlands has developed many innovative technologies in floriculture and vegetable cultivation, and they will be provided to farmers in the State through the centre, the Chief Minister said. The centre was set up at a cost of Rs. 13 crore with technical assistance from the Dutch government. Training programmes Activities such as open-field precision farming of vegetables and flowers, production and distribution of quality planting materials to farmers, and training programmes will be held at the centre in the first phase. A tissue culture laboratory has been set up as part of the project for producing good quality planting materials. The idea is to transform Wayanad into a hub of floriculture. As many as five Netherlands-model polyhouse nurseries and four Indian model polyhouses have been set up at the centre for large-scale production of flowers and distribution of quality seeds and transplants to farmers. The other infrastructure includes model open-field farms and a post-harvest technology centre showcasing post-harvest handling, storage, and marketing of produce for the benefit of farmers. Agri-horti tourism The centre will offer regular training programmes to farmers, entrepreneurs, and extension officers, and also explore possibilities in agri-horti tourism in the district. Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar presided over the function.
06 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Fronts gear up for polls in Kannur||In the run-up to the local body polls in Kannur, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has kick-started its campaign to strengthen its vote share, mostly by raising political issues and development work carried out by the government through various schemes and policies. The United Democratic Front (UDF), on the other hand, is optimistic of a comeback, with a hope driven by allegations and scams that marred the image of the LDF government in recent months. Amid the pandemic, the LDF is ahead of others, as it has announced seat-sharing in blocks and the district panchayat. While the CPI(M) will be contesting in 15 seats in the district panchayat, the CPI will contest in three seats. The Kerala Congress (M), Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Indian National League (INL), Janata Dal (S) [JD(S)], and the Congress (S) will contest in one seat each. However, the Congress-led UDF is yet to cut a deal thanks to differences of opinion among its allies. The early preparation for the election has given the LDF an edge to start campaigns in grams panchayats, municipalities and the corporation, where it has an upper hand. LDF chairman M.V. Jayarajan told The Hindu that the front was hopeful of strengthening its base in the hilly regions, with the Kerala Congress(M) and the LJD joining hands with it. He said the entry of the two parties had strengthened the front, and that it would send a clear message to the people that the LDF was the only force that can fight back communal and fascist forces. Mr. Jayarajan said that the local bodies governed by the LDF had won national and international recognition for development work. Despite the pandemic, the government has carried out several development projects. However, there are efforts to depict the government in bad light. The LDF will reach out to the people through all means, including social media. The campaign has started, and over 300 people have been engaged in each ward to reach out to people, he said and added that more people would join later. Besides, family meetings and door-to-door campaigns will be conducted in view of the pandemic spread, he said. Meanwhile, the UDF camp, which is yet to announce division of seats, is planning a strong campaign highlighting corruption and poor governance by the LDF government. District Congress Committee president Satheeshan Pacheni said seat-sharing would be completed soon.
06 November 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Hand over protection of forests to tribespeople, says MP||K. Sudhakaran, MP, has demanded that the government take steps to protect forests with the help of tribespeople. He was inaugurating a symbolic protest by the Youth Congress District Committee in the wake of frequent attacks by elephants in the Aralam Farm and subsequent loss of lives and property. “During my tenure as Forest Minister, steps were taken to prevent elephants from venturing outside the forest and causing damage to crops and human habitats. “However, overcoming all that, wild animals have started entering the farm again. In such a scenario, entrusting forests with tribespeople will be constructive given their familiarity with the forest and wildlife,” he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said that the tribal community was imparted special training and entrusted with forest duties, but it was suspended by successive governments. “Today, various other methods are being employed, which are not a way to keep wild animals away. Either wild elephants should be captured or they should be driven deep into the forest,” he observed. Youth Congress district president Sudeep James, State office-bearers Vinesh Chullian and Sandeep Panappuzha were present.
06 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Rubber glove factory to come up at Mattannur||Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan laid the foundation stone for the Rubber Glove Factory of Kannur Natural Rubber Products Limited at Mattannur Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development (KINFRA) Corporation Park on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said with the launch of the rubber-based venture, farmers in Kannur and Kasaragod districts would be protected. He said Mattannur was a place of immense agricultural importance. However, owing to the fall in rubber prices, farmers are facing a gruelling time. The crisis can be addressed to a certain extent by manufacturing and marketing value-added products with rubber as a raw material, he observed. Mr. Jayarajan said the first phase of the project was aimed at manufacturing and marketing surgical gloves. The Rubber Board has prepared a detailed project report for the purpose. Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), which is in charge of the project, owns 19% stake in the company, while KINFRA has acquired 25% stake. The project cost is Rs. 25 crore, and the construction of the factory will begin soon, he informed. Keezhallur panchayat president M. Rajan presided over the function which was held at the Velliamparambu KINFRA Industrial Park. James Mathew, MLA; KSIDC special projects director G. Ashoklal, Mattannur Municipal chairperson Anita Venu, vice chairman P. Purushothaman, and district panchayat member K. Mahija were present.
06 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Work at full steam atop three flyovers||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will dismantle slabs, girders, and pier caps of the Palarivattom flyover by mid-December, even as it has begun reconstruction of a pair of pier caps of the structure. Fifty per cent of the dismantling work that began in early October is over. Reconstruction work too began simultaneously a month ago, to cast pier caps and other structures, at the casting yard, official sources said. Similarly, pillars are being strengthened by concrete jacketing, prior to launching pier caps. The flyover will be rebuilt in eight months, as was scheduled, by June 2021. Traffic regulations at the site too are working as per plan, they added. Twin flyovers In the meantime, work on the twin six-lane flyovers at Vyttila and Kundannoor is expected to get over only by the month-end. The revised deadline was mid-November. The original deadline set by the PWD (NH Wing) for Vyttila was May 2019, and for Kundannoor, it was March 2020. Official sources said 80% of the labour-intensive work to pave the concrete surface of the flyovers using mastic asphalt was over. The rest can be completed in a few days, if there is no rainfall. A 40-mm-thick layer of bituminous concrete will be laid over it. This may take up to two weeks. Direction boards and signals too have to be installed. At Vyttila, work to top approaches of the flyover using dense-bituminous macadam (DBM) is over. Street lights which have automatic timers have become functional. Height gauges too are ready at either sides, to prevent vehicles taller than 5.5 metres from entering the flyover, over which the metro viaduct passes. Lines and cat’s eye studs to demarcate lanes will be readied in a fortnight, they added. Serpentine traffic hold-ups at the two junctions is still a problem, what with the one on the Palarivattom side of the Vyttila flyover often extending 1.5 km up to Chalikkavattom. Traffic tower Even as the flyover is nearing completion at Vyttila, the odd location of the traffic police watch tower at the junction could hamper free movement of vehicles in the Kundannoor-Palarivattom direction. It can well be relocated towards SA Road, carving out more space at the junction, which is said to be the biggest in Kerala. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Board (KIIFB) does not allot funds for such relocation work, sources said. As per estimate, a whopping over one lakh passenger car units criss-cross the junction daily.
06 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Commuter duo inaugurate metro’s 12-storey building||The new 12-storey metro station building at Ernakulam South—the tallest such building along the metro alignment—was inaugurated by two regular commuters. Vandana P.S. of Palarivattom and George C.G. of Ernakulam South jointly inaugurated the building, the last work undertaken on the 25-km-long Aluva-Pettah alignment. Though the metro station here was inaugurated in September 2019, entry/exit was confined to only one side of the station, since construction work was progressing on the other side. It is the tallest among metro buildings and is 56 metres high. It has 5,400 square metres of transit space and property development of around 6,000 sq.m. above the platform, which is suitable for various businesses. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is also planning to construct a multi-level car parking facility here. “It’s a great gesture. I was surprised when people from the metro asked me to be a guest and cut the ribbon. I used to ride the metro every other day, so it’s a special day for me,” Ms. Vandana said. Mr. George too was elated. “The metro is for the people of Kochi. So, we thought it appropriate to request metro travellers to inaugurate the new station building. Ms. Vandana is a young professional, while Mr. George is a local resident,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, managing director, KMRL. Access road The Kochi metro has already constructed an access road to M.G. Road with pedestrian walkway and a plaza at Jos Junction as part of the metro’s urban place making initiatives, KMRL sources said.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||In Chellanam, fresh voices speak up||There are fresh voices who want to be heard in public affairs. These groups are willing to forge new alliances and build new bridges for bettering the lives of people, who, they claim, have not been well served by established political parties. One of the several organisations that have been formed in the run-up to local body elections in Ernakulam district is Chellanam 2020, comprising mostly young people, who believe that political initiatives should be people-centric. “Ours is an organisation of people who make their living working in various fields,” said Joseph Dileep, vice president of the organisation, governed by a core committee of 60 people. “None of us want to live on public service,” he said, adding that he worked for a private company. “If the political fronts in the State had worked for the people and addressed their issues, the new formation would not be needed,” he said. Pavizham Biju, president of Chellanam 2020, had said earlier that the organisation had nothing to do with a similar sounding formation that made history in Kizhakkambalam in 2015 when it won the majority to the panchayat council. Mr. Dileep claimed that the new organisation was a commune of the “neglected”. “There is not a decent hospital within the 18-km stretch of Chellanam. There is not even a petrol pump or other basic amenities,” he said, pointing to what he called the perennial neglect of the panchayat. Chellanam 2020 will field candidates in all the 21 wards of the panchayat. Half of the wards have already selected their candidates. Besides, the formation would have candidates for the district panchayat seat as well as five block panchayat divisions, he said. The coastal village of Chellanam has been in the news for the severe sea erosion in the area. Hundreds of homes face the threat of sea incursion and heavy sea waves. There has been a series of protest actions by the villagers, mostly highlighted since Cyclone Okhi hit the shores in December 2017.  If the political fronts in the State had worked for the people and addressed their issues, the new formation would not be needed Joseph Dileep Vice president, Chellanam 2020
06 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||DPR on Phase-II of Vyttila Hub project to be revised||The revised detailed project report (DPR) on Phase-II development work at the Vyttila Mobility Hub (VMH) will be readied by February. This will include provision for a CNG refuelling station on the premises, it was decided at an online meeting of VMH Society held on Thursday. The meeting was chaired by Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen. The decision assumes significance, since there was opposition from within the Society earlier this year to the proposal to hand over 50 cents in the 25-acre premises to set up the refuelling station. Land ownership Sources in the Society said the decision to lease land to establish the station was taken, since the locale was envisaged as a comprehensive hub, which would have, among others, provision to recharge e-vehicles as well. But the ownership of the land will continue with VMH Society. The extent of land to be leased out for the CNG station and where exactly on the premises will be mentioned in the revised DPR. PPP mode “A decision to revise the DPR that had been submitted by Kochi Metro Rail Limited [KMRL] was taken, since the public-private partnership [PPP] mode to implement the second phase might involve an improved design. “Its components ought to be mentioned in the revised DPR. Minor changes will be made in the DPR, to make it more feasible. French lending agency AFD has already offered loan for the project. The PPP mode will entail loan, apart from investment by the State government and private stakeholders,” the sources added. “Care will be taken so that commuters of different commuting modes will have an airport-like experience. The design will take cues from countries like Singapore and South Korea,” they said. On the shoddy condition of footpaths and the road leading to the hub, they said all that would be taken care of in the second phase development project. Location The inter-modal hub is strategically located, since the NH Bypass is a stone’s throw away. An integrated coaching terminal of the Railways, having a dozen platforms, proposed at Ponnurunni, too is close by.
06 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Jhanvi’s long wait for power continues||Jhanvi, a 15-year-old from Palathuruthu in Chendamangalam panchayat, dreads nothing more than an overcast sky. For, it means the solitary light in her home powered by solar energy will shut eye earlier than usual, derailing her studies, and worse still, the online exams often slated in the evenings. Since the pandemic forced her return from the school hostel at Kollam in March, the Standard 10 student has become so accustomed to darkness, living as she does in an un-electrified tin-roofed ramshackle of a two-room house on an isolated plot of three cents. Surrounded by vacant plots, the nearest electric post is across a canal, and drawing electric lines needs consent from landowners en route, which has not been forthcoming. “That kept us away on rent, though we bought the plot seven years ago. We were forced to move in after the 2018 deluge sent my husband into depression, rendering him unable to work for a while, and hence with no means to pay the rent,” said Jeeva Ratheesh. The treatment expenses of their 10-year-old son with congenital heart disease added to their woes. KSEB has estimated that merely two posts will be needed to electrify the house by drawing lines from the nearest post across the canal, and since the family belongs to the Below Poverty Line, it can be done free of cost as well. “Since multiple landowners enroute were not willing to give consent, we alerted the Additional District Magistrate about the dispute, and a hearing is slated for Monday. We are willing to do our part any time,” said Archana M.K., assistant executive engineer, Chendamangalam electrical section. Anoop T.P., Chendamangalam panchayat president, has also written to the ADM after his personal intervention to reconcile the dispute proved futile. “The landowners claimed that drawing lines will affect their plots and suggested an alternative route that cost around Rs. 35,000, part of which they wanted the beneficiary family to bear,” he said. Since then, the Chendamangalam village and the KSEB authorities have undertaken a joint inspection, and the former had submitted a report on the ownership of the plots concerned on a direction from the collectorate. It is learnt that notices have been issued to the parties concerned for the hearing on Monday. “The demand of the family is just, and it is important for their safety as well, since their house is on an isolated plot,” said M.A. Sreedath, Chendamangalam village officer.
06 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Waste being dumped near Konothupuzha||The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has found illegal waste dumping in six spots near the banks of the Konothupuzha river. They include Nadakkavu - Mulamthuruthy bridge (Udayamperoor panchayat), Mankkumbel (Udayamperoor panchayat), Puthiyakavu Kureekad bridge, Andhakarathodu bridge, Karingachira thodu, and Aliyar bridge (all under Thripunithura Municipality). The inspection was carried out in association with the petitioners who had lodged a complaint before the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal against pollution and encroachment on the river. Konothupuzha passes through Thripunithura Municipality, Chottanikkara, Udayamperoor, Mulamthuruthy and Amballoor grama panchayats, covering a distance of nearly 17 km before joining the Vembanad lake at Poothotta. The inspection team met Haritha Karma Sena members at Udayamperoor, who informed the team that they were removing waste on a regular basis from various sites. But it is still being dumped in several areas. The board has issued instructions to the local bodies to set up squads and remove the dumped waste periodically, especially from sites where waste was seen dumped repeatedly. The secretaries of the civic bodies have to impose spot fine on persons found dumping waste at public places. Legal action has to be initiated against violators. The civic bodies should also conduct awareness programmes against dumping of waste in public places and road sides in areas under its jurisdiction. The local bodies need to implement 100% door-to-door collection of solid waste and dispose it in accordance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 after collecting user fee from those generating waste. The board has asked the local bodies to ensure effective implementation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. All local bodies on the banks of the river have to obtain authorisation from the board for handling municipal solid waste. The board had earlier reported that the lack of authorisation enabled the local bodies not to abide by the provisions under the Solid Waste Management Rules.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MG varsity freshers to learn basics of organic farming||The first-year undergraduate students of Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) will soon learn the basics of organic farming, with the varsity deciding to offer a massive open online course in the subject as a mandatory part of the learning programme. The students in affiliated colleges of the varsity will earn additional four credits by enrolling for the add-on innovative programme. There will be six theory modules each in the first and second semesters and one practical project in each semester. “They need to carry out organic farming in the practical project. This can be done either in their college or their home. The aim is to kindle their interests in agriculture, especially organic farming, and embrace the sustainable modes of living,” said Santhosh P. Thampi, director of the Inter-University Centre for Organic Farming and Sustainable Agriculture and professor at the School of Management and Business Studies. Even though the programme is offered as an online course, the authorities decided to include a practical component to let the students get a feel of soil and agricultural practices employed in organic farming. “Each college will have a course coordinator for this programme. There will be a faculty member as mentor for each undergraduate course to guide the students. The participants can also seek the help of NSS and NCC volunteers while carrying out farming initiatives on the campus,” said Mr. Santhosh. The online course was initiated after the University Grants Commission (UGC) permitted the top 100 higher educational institutions under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) to start such courses on their own platforms to promote online learning in view of the pandemic crisis. The university was ranked 49th in the country in the latest NIRF ranking. Certificates The course content has been developed by former teachers of the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) while the State Institute of Educational Technology is providing technical support. The students will get certificates after the successful completion of the course.  A green chapter Students to earn additional four credits by enrolling for programme Six theory modules each in first and second semesters; one practical project in each semester Course content developed by KAU
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Details of diplomatic immunity for Egyptian sought||The Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, has asked the Cochin Customs to clarify whether Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, former finance head of the UAE consulate and confidential partner of the UAE Consulate General, against whom it wanted to issue a non-bailable warrant, enjoys diplomatic immunity. The Customs case is that Mr. Shoukry had smuggled out $1,90,000 (around Rs. 1.30 crore) to Cairo via Oman from the Thiruvananthapuram international airport, in association with Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling case. The Customs wanted Mr. Shoukry, an Egyptian, to be arraigned as the third accused in the dollar smuggling case. Counsel for the Customs had submitted to the court a letter issued by the Protocol Officer of the Ministry of External Affairs in June 2017 for facilitation of visa to Mr. Shoukry and his family. The letter had stated that Mr. Shoukry and his family members would not enjoy any privileges and immunities.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Thrikkakara sees spike in COVID-19 infections||Thrikkakara witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases on Thursday, recording 62 of the 749 cases in the district. Fort Kochi, which continued to reel under the pandemic, had 27 new infections. Vengoor also recorded 27 new infections. As many as 215 of the new infections remained untraced to any source. Seven health workers were among the new patients. A total of 1,288 patients recovered from the disease. The district has 11,784 active patients.
06 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Film crew fined||A film production company that organised the puja of a newly announced film and the people assembled to witness the event in violation of the COVID-19 protocol at Anjumana Temple near here were slapped with fine and cases under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance on Thursday. Bigwigs from the movie industry, including actor Dileep and directors, were present at the event, which allegedly violated the limit of 20 persons set for public functions. A team led by Jayapradeep V.M, sector magistrate for South Edappally, arrived at the scene on learning about the crowding and the protocol violation. “We fined the production company that organised the event with Rs. 1,000 under Section 3E of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, while another nine were fined with Rs. 200 each under Section 3A for violating physical distancing norms and for not wearing masks in a public place,” Mr. Jayapradeep said. Besides, the Palarivattom police registered cases against the company and individuals and fined them under the ordinance.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Special children showcase artistic talents||For 26-year-old Anagha Dineshan, a student of Chavara Special School, the past month has been the best after being restricted to her house since March following the outbreak of the pandemic. Crestfallen about not being able to go to school and meet her friends, the youngster with multiple disabilities sprang back to life after the Association of Intellectually Disabled (AID), a combine of special schools, announced its biennial cultural fest, Chilamboli 2020, which is being held online this time owing to the COVID-19 restrictions. Active in extracurricular activities, an excited Anagha signed up for folk dance and started practising hard. “She has been learning dance but her teacher is not comfortable with online training. So she has been mostly learning on her own using YouTube videos with occasional tips from her teacher,” said mother Reshmi. She was among the 60-odd special children from over 27 special schools to participate in the district-level festival featuring four events – fancy dress, folk dance, speech, and light music – with every school permitted two entries. Each event has contests for juniors and seniors, with separate contests for girls and boys restricted to light music and folk dance. “We have limited the number of events and entries per school after a recent poster designing contest held online in connection with Teacher’s Day saw entries pouring in considerably, delaying judgement,” said Susheela Kuriachan, vice chairperson, AID. The district-level entries are being received over the instant messaging chat platform Telegram. The district-level winners eligible for State-level participation will be declared in a Google Meet to be held on Saturday. “Teachers have been actively cooperating with parents in preparing their children for the events. Since schools are better placed to identify the potential of these children, teachers also helped them in choosing the event and have been closely following up on their progress,” said Sr. Jaya Maria, a teacher with Chavara Special School, Koonanmavu. The winning events at the district and State-level will be shown online on Children’s Day on November 14.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||3 held for extortion bid||The Kalamasserry police on Thursday arrested three persons, including a woman, on charge of attempting to blackmail and extort a sum of Rs. 5 lakh from a doctor by allegedly laying a honeytrap. The arrested were identified as Anupama Ranjith, 22, of Nayarambalam, Roshwin, 23, of Maradu, and Jamshad, 25, of Vazhakkualm. According to the police, the accused lured the petitioner into an apartment at Edappally on October 21. They then took his photos with the woman and started blackmailing him. “The petitioner approached the police a few days later. We suspect a bigger racket behind the incident and more arrests are likely soon. Whether the racket has trapped more people remains to be seen,” said Kalamasserry police sources. The police have registered a case invoking Sections 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt), 120B (criminal conspiracy), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC upholds SEC decision to conduct local body polls||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday upheld the decision of the State Election Commission (SEC) to complete the local body election process before December 31. The Bench of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali upheld the decision while dismissing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by P.C. George, MLA, challenging the SEC decision. He sought to defer the elections in view of the COVID-19 situation. According to him, the decision taken by the SEC in the present health scenario would be violation of citizens' fundamental rights to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Dismissing the plea, the judges observed that merely because there was a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases between October 1 and 31 “it cannot be contended that the SEC has not considered the gravity and impact of COVID-19 cases. True that there is no indication by any of the authorities, including the Central government or the authorities under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as to when there will be an end to COVID-19 pandemic.” But, that alone cannot be a ground, either to declare that the decision of the SEC to conduct the elections, mandated as per the Constitutional provisions, as invalid or to issue any directions to the second respondent (SEC) to postpone the elections.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector told to hand over church keys to vicar||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday ordered the Ernakulam District Collector to hand over the keys of the Mulanthuruthy Marthoman church to the Orthodox faction vicar forthwith. The Bench comprising Justice A.M. Shaffique and Justice Gopinath P. passed the order while dismissing a few appeals filed by Jacobite faction leaders against a single judge’s directive to hand over the keys of the church to the Orthodox faction vicar. Upholding the single judge’s directive, the Bench observed that when directives had been issued by the Supreme Court on different occasions relating to the management and administration of various churches, it was the duty of the High Court to ensure that the litigants got the fruits of the litigation which had been pending.
06 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector orders closure of illegal service centres||District Collector S. Suhas has ordered the immediate closure of parallel centres offering citizen services on commercial basis near authorised Akshaya centres. He said such centres by assuming names such as ‘Akshaya’, ‘Akshara’, and ‘e-kendram’ tend to mislead the public. Such parallel centres are not authorised to offer services like the ones under the e-district project. They register illegally through open portals and offer citizen services. The district office has received several complaints in this regard. The intelligence wing has also reported the misuse of various certificates shared by the public with such centres for availing of services. The Akshaya project was implemented by the Electronics and Information Technology Department to facilitate the reach of various government and non-government services to the public. At present, four Akshaya centres in a panchayat and six in municipalities are permitted while the number is flexible within Corporation limits. New Akshaya centres are not permitted within the 1.5-km radius of existing ones. The Collector has ordered that parallel citizen centres should not be granted licence and that existing ones should be closed down immediately.
06 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 523 new cases||The district reported 523 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths, and 593 recoveries on Thursday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 included 516 contact cases, four persons with no known source, and two health workers. Two more deaths The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 60-year-old Karunagappally resident and 78-year-old Kodumon resident are due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Ettiva, Kollam Cantonment South, Thekkevila, and Vettikavala. Health workers The health workers who tested positive included a 30-year-old Thekkevila resident and 33-year-old Thevalakkara resident. The district currently has 18,186 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,64,251. While 1,012 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 88,503 primary and 7,628 secondary contacts of the patients. At present Kollam has 6,275 active cases.
06 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Caseload rises by 479 in Kottayam||The number of active COVIID-19 cases in Kottayam rose to 5,332 with 479 persons testing positive for the viral infection on Thursday. Of the new cases, all but four contracted the virus through local contact. The patients also included 70 children and 61 persons aged above 60. The disease continued to rage in Erattupetta with 50 more testing positive, followed by Kottayam with 41 cases. Changanassery reported 35 cases while Neendoor witnessed 28 cases. On Thursday, 481 persons recovered from the disease. The district has so far reported 25,903 cases, of which 19,356 have recovered. District Collector M.Anjana declared Erattupetta municipality as a separate zone requiring special surveillance and imposed an additional set of regulations to contain the pandemic. The Health Department has been directed to ensure surveillance across all wards besides conducting announcements to address the public’s concerns. Steps are also being initiated to open a stepdown FLTC in addition to the existing COVID FLTC in the municipality.
06 November 2020||KOTTAYAM/ PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Seats reserved for women in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam||Five out of six municipalities and 36 out of 71 grama panchayats, along with the district panchayat in Kottayam, will be led by women after the upcoming local body elections. Among the 36 panchayat president posts reserved for women, two are allotted for the Scheduled Caste community while one will be given to the Scheduled Tribe. Of the 11 block panchayats, five president posts are reserved for women and one for Scheduled Caste woman. A total of 1,512 persons will be elected to the various three tier local self-government institutions (LSGI) across the district. While the district panchayat has 22 divisions, the 11 block panchayats together has 146 divisions. There are 1,140 wards in 71 grama panchayats and 204 wards in six municipalities. While there are 13 divisions each in nine block panchayats, Kanjirappally has 15 divisions and Pampady, 14 divisions. The grama panchayats with the largest number of wards are Kanjirappally, Erumeli and Panachikadu with 23 wards in each. Athirampuzha is in the second position (22), and Mundakkayam and Vazhappally (21) in the third. Most wards Among municipalities, Kottayam has the highest number of wards with 52. Vaikom and Pala have the lowest, at 26 wards each. There will be 2,332 polling booths in the district of which 2,079 booths will be for district, block and grama panchayat elections and 253 for municipalities. With 50 booths, Vazhappally grama panchayat has the largest number of booths. Kottayam has 101 polling booths in the municipalities. Lead posts Meanwhile in Pathanamthitta, the lead posts in Thiruvalla municipality and four block panchayats have been reserved for women. The Ranni block panchayat has been reserved for the SC category. The post of president in 29 out of the 53 panchayats has been reserved for women and among this, two have been allotted for women from the SC and three for women from the ST category.
06 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Now, students set up science labs at homes||If arts and sports classes go online, can science labs too be set up at home? Yes, believes the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), Kozhikode, which recently persuaded over thousand students from a school here to set up little home-based labs to make science learning more effective. D. Divya, science faculty, DIET, Kozhikode, says the project is part of the Schoolinoppam project being implemented in two schools each in 15 educational sub-districts in Kozhikode. It is aimed at inculcating scientific temper in students, parents, and teachers and building an affinity towards science subjects. Changing methods “COVID-19 is changing our teaching methods in different ways. Though classes are being held online, children are finding it difficult to do scientific experiments as they do not have access to laboratories. Children in Classes 5 to 7 are being asked to use substances that are easily available in their surroundings and set up small labs at home,” she says. For example, lemon, tamarind, soap, glass, ice cream balls, wires, battery, bottles, mirror, bulbs, and lens can be used to do small experiments. Develops interest “These are being done along with the First Bell online classes,” Ms. Divya points out. Educational officers point out that they will help students arouse an interest in science as they will be able to relate their science lessons with the things around them. The pilot scheme was recently launched by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao at Sanskrit High School, Vattoli. As many as 1,667 students created small labs at their homes. DIET sources say that the modules for scientific experiments are being given in social media groups of teachers. The support of parents is also crucial in its implementation, says Ms. Divya. “This scheme may continue even after resumption of regular classes. There are plans to have little science-based projects that the students can attempt,” she says.
06 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Crackdown on sale of poor quality hand sanitisers||Noticing a spurt in the sale of poor quality hand sanitisers, the Drugs Control Department (DCD) has decided to intensify its surveillance over wholesale suppliers and medical shops in the district. Sale of cheap quality products without complying with the official manufacturing protocol will be tracked with the support of a special squad tasked to check purchased stocks in shops. Samples from some of the already seized stocks from the city have been sent for detailed lab inspection. According to DCD sources, the sized products had no details of the manufacturer, contents used for the preparation of the solution and other mandatory information to be displayed on the bottle cover. The sale of such unlabelled products could attract severe punishments including fine and imprisonment up to seven years, they added. The DCD swung into action in the wake of complaints by people who said that the sale of poor quality sanitisers could endanger the health of uninformed buyers. The complainants had also approached the State-level authorities with a call to intensify the surveillance mechanism as any laxity might affect the ongoing fight against COVID-19. An official attached to the DCD said such suspected products worth Rs. 9 lakh had already been seized from Kozhikode city and the search would continue. The products were reportedly brought here for wholesale from Mumbai, he said. Pharmacists’ take Meanwhile, some of the licensed pharmacists in the city said the supply of such products was not carried out through them. According to them, no pharmacies would permit such unlabelled products on account of public safety. It might be products brought here for bulk sale through other intermediaries, they claimed. Since the lockdown days, there had been a number of communications from the Health Department and the district administration to the public about the importance of using quality hand sanitisers. Campaigns had also been undertaken to sensitise people to the subject and its importance in fighting the pandemic effectively.
06 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Political parties scout for candidates for reserved seats||With the posts of Kozhikode Mayor and Kozhikode District Panchayat President reserved for women this time, mainstream political parties are bracing for new challenges in the selection of candidates for the upcoming three-tier local body polls. Both the CPI(M) and the Congress have been scouting for fresh candidates to contest, especially in the prestigious Kozhikode Corporation. The Left parties, which have been governing the civic body for the last 45 years, is determined to retain power. Nevertheless, the CPI(M) leadership is facing an uphill task, a similar situation as in the 1995 polls when the post of Mayor was reserved for women. However, the party was then able to rope in Prof. A.K. Premajam, who then retired as principal of Government Arts College, Kozhikode. She held the office only till 1998. Prof. Premajam was chosen to contest the Lok Sabha polls from Vadakara in 1998 and again in 1999. Her replacement was M.M. Padmavathi. Later, Prof. Premajam returned as Mayor in 2010 and completed a full term. M.K. Nalini, wife of T.P. Ramakrishnan, and Kannathil Jameela had held the post of the District Panchayat President when it was reserved for women earlier. At the same time, the Congress-Indian Union Muslim League combine is also chalking out a strategy to field existing councillors who have some experience in council affairs. The Congress wants to renominate Vidya Balakrishnan, who won from the Chevayur division. Likewise, the posts of chairperson of Koyilandy, Vadakara, and Ramanattukkara, out of the seven municipalities in the district, are reserved for women. The post of Mukkom Municipal chairman has been reserved for the Scheduled Caste. The posts of president of 35 out of 70 grama panchayats in Kozhikode have been reserved for women. The post in Kuruvattoor, Karassery, and Kadalundi have been reserved for women from the Scheduled Caste community and that in Cheruvannur, Changaroth, and Madavoor has been reserved for the SC community. The posts of president of Vadakara, Thooneri, Kunnammel, Thodanoor and Kozhikode block panchayats have been reserved for women, while Balaussery has been reserved for women from the SC. The district has 12 block panchayats.
06 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees 828 fresh infections||As many as 828 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday and there were 844 recoveries. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 8,702 samples were tested on the day and the test positivity rate is 9.51%. The number of active cases is 8,982. As many as 5,501 people are in home isolation. There were 812 cases of locally acquired infections, of which 248 were from within Kozhikode Corporation alone, 59 from Olavanna, 55 from Koduvally, 46 from Feroke, 39 in Kadalundy, and 30 in Kuruvattoor. In Wayanad A total of 114 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Thursday. The district also reported 79 recoveries. Of the new cases, 112 patients were infected through local contact and two persons came from other States. The district has so far reported 7,590 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 6,595 have recovered from the disease. The total number of active cases in the district is 940. As many as 9,138 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Wayanad bureau)
06 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Amateur radio operator achieves rare feat||Sanil Deep Muthuvana, an amateur radio operator from Kozhikode, recently found place in the Asia Book of Records for winning an amateur radio league for 14 consecutive years. Mr. Muthuvana, a retired Kerala Gramin Bank employee, has been titled ‘Grand Master’ for holding the winning streak in Quilon Amateur Radio League since 2007, winning one of the top three positions every year. The competition titled ‘Lake City Contest’ is held on the occasion of World Amateur Radio Day every year for amateur radio operators across South Asia. The participant who contacts the maximum number of operators in a day becomes the winner. Mr. Muthuvana had also found place in the India Book of Records for the same feat recently.
06 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Registrar’s appointment: VC likely to file affidavit in HC||Calicut University Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj is expected to file an affidavit in the Kerala High Court on Monday in a case that challenged the appointment of the Registrar. This follows a direction by the Single Judge Bench of Justice Devan Ramachandran, who, on November 2, pointed out that it was rather unfortunate that the Vice Chancellor had not filed an affidavit as ordered by the court on October 19. The court, however, recorded the apology tendered by the counsel for the Vice Chancellor for the delay, and adjourned the matter till November 9 by which time the affidavit should be placed. “If the affidavit is not filed, the Vice Chancellor shall remain present in virtual court to explain why,” the court added. The court had asked the Vice Chancellor to file the affidavit during the hearing on the petition filed by N. Rajesh, Senate member, questioning the Registrar’s appointment, which alleged that the university authorities provided incorrect information. The statement filed by the university had said that “... the Syndicate in its meeting held on 09/09/2020 discussed the entire issue and authorised the Vice Chancellor to take action in the matter and based on the discussion in the Syndicate, the Vice Chancellor has issued an office order to take necessary action to notify the post of Registrar, Controller of Examinations, and Finance Officer on a permanent basis...” It was pointed out that the Syndicate had not discussed the appointment to the above posts at the meeting and that the Vice Chancellor had not been authorised to take a call on it. Those posts had fixed tenures and the Syndicate did not have the power to make appointment to them, the petitioner claimed. Sources close to the Vice Chancellor said that the affidavit could be submitted to the court on Monday when the case would be taken up for next hearing.
06 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Plantation workers on the warpath||Plantation labourers in Nelliyampathy in the district are on the warpath demanding that they be given an opportunity to die in the land where they spent their entire youth. The Janata Dal district unit has taken up their cause, and launched an indefinite dharna in front of the village office at Nelliyampathy. Incorrect policies Spearheading the agitation, Janata Dal district president M.M. Kabeer said that no other village in the country witnessed such a fast depletion of residents as Nelliyampathy because of the government’s incorrect policies. Fifty-eight days passed since the plantation workers started their agitation pressing their demands under the banner of the Janata Dal, but the government has not heeded. The labourers have threatened to encroach into the government land and make settlements of their own if the authorities concerned continued their neglect. Pembilai Orumai leader Gomathi Augustine will join the agitation on November 19. “Apart from forest land, Nelliyampathy has lease land and government land. Estate and plantation owners and government officials make a beautiful living here while the plantation workers who spend their entire life toiling in this land are expelled from here after their retirement. Our agitation is against this injustice,” said Mr. Kabeer. In the 1980s, Nelliyampathy had 35,000 people working in 53 estates big and small. But today, the hill-station near Nemmara has hardly 5,000 men and women. “This depletion happened because no man or woman who spent their whole youth here was allowed to live here,” said K. Kandamuthan, a plantation worker. “My father and my mother worked and died here, and I spent almost my entire youth laboring here. Yet I don’t have a piece of land,” said Mr. Kandamuthan. After retirement, the labourers are forced to leave Nelliyampathy and settle elsewhere. They are often scattered. Many have suffered miserable deaths. “Imagine what kind of a life they can carry on with the flimsy life-savings they get from here,” said K.J. Francis, former panchayat president of Nelliyampathy. At present about 800 labourers are being offered a house of their own under the government Life Mission scheme at Nemmara, far away from Nelliyampathy. “Our ancestors were buried here. We can’t be exiled from our land. Let us live and die here,” said K.M. Saleem, Janata Dal president at Nelliyampathy. Sole panchayat Mr. Francis pointed out that Nelliyampathy was the sole panchayat in Kerala where the popular EMS Housing Scheme was not implemented. The government had completed nearly 1.29 lakh houses for poor people across the State.
06 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Hornbill aficionados crowd Nelliyampathy||Nelliyampathy, one of the popular tourist spots in the district, has begun to witness an influx of birdwatchers and wildlife photographers as the mating season of Kerala’s State bird Great Hornbill began. Social media have helped people get to know the presence of the majestic hornbills in large numbers. But people reaching the hill station appear to care less for the sensitivity of the birds that prefer to perch atop large trees. Carrying large telescopic lenses, binoculars, tripods and monopods, wildlife aficionados have been thronging the areas such as Victoria, where the hornbills swarm in Nelliyampathy. When most have been reaching the spot with friends sharing the same passion, there have been others with family as well. “We have had an eyeful of the large beautiful birds with their wings spread out. It was an amazing sight to watch. It’s rare too,” said Nazeema Jaffer, a social worker from Palakkad who visited Nelliyampathy with her family. As Ms. Nazeema and her folks stood watching the hornbills with admiration, a large number of shutterbugs were jostling at different corners for a perfect and timely click. Disturbing peace “It’s never good for these birds which are extremely sensitive to human presence. Such crowding of people can harm the tranquillity that these giant birds seek out in a place such as Nelliyampathy,” said Ali Malappuram, a wildlife photographer. According to Mr. Ali, it will be better if each photographer assumed it on themselves the responsibility of respecting the aloofness that the hornbills prefer. Nemmara divisional forest officer C.P. Aneesh, under whose jurisdiction Nelliyampathy falls, said that there was nothing much they could do as long as the people did not trespass into the forest. But many trespassed while in pursuit of their remote targets perched on treetops. Mahesh N., a tribal youth who guided the lensmen, had a tough time convincing them not to enter the forestland. “Some people care little for my warnings. Some even threw their waste in here. I had to collect them and dispose of them in a proper place,” Mr. Mahesh told The Hindu.  Last weekend witnessed the heaviest crowd of bird lovers in Nelliyampathy. Forest officials said more than 2,500 vehicles, mostly bikes, had climbed the hill last week. A huge turnout is expected this weekend too at Nelliyamapthy.
06 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||212 new cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 212 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. Of the new cases, 187 contracted the virus through local contact. With 19 cases, Ranni-Pazhavangadi led the tally, followed by Pandalam with 11 cases. Meanwhile, it has been confirmed that the death of a 102-year-old woman from Kunnathanam was due to COVID-19. With this, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the district rose to 95. This death, however, was yet to be included on the Statewide list. With 157 recoveries during the day, the district has 1,988 active cases.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital posts 756 cases, nine deaths||Thiruvananthapuram reported 756 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday when 6,586 samples were tested in 24 hours. A total of 622 people recovered from the infection and the number of active cases in the district is 8,342. Among those newly diagnosed with the infection, 738 people were found to have acquired SARS-CoV-2 through local transmission. The source of infection of 142 remains unknown. 14 health workers Fourteen health-care workers are also among those infected. The patients also included four persons who came from outside the State recently. Nine more people succumbed to COVID-19 in the district. The diseased were natives of Karamana, Pulimath, Anayara, Pothencode, Kulathoor, Mariyapuram, Amaravila, Pettah and Pravachambalam. The ages of the deceased ranged from 65 to 84 years. 1,797 quarantined As many as 1,797 persons were quarantined on the day, taking the number of people being monitored in houses for COVID-19 symptoms in the district to 25,223 and in various institutions to 207. The district administration initiated legal action against 322 people for violating the provisions of the prohibitory orders.  These included eight people who violated the COVID-19 protocol and 76 people who were fined for other offences by sectoral magistrates and the police in separate crackdowns.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active case pool goes further down in State||The COVID-19 case graph maintained the plateauing trend of the past few days with the State reporting 6,820 new cases on Thursday when 61,388 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate has dipped to 11.1%. The State also reported more recoveries than new cases on Thursday, with 7,699 patients getting discharged from hospitals. This brought the active case pool in the State further down to 84,087 cases. Average slumps The active COVID-19 case pool had hit the peak at 97,417 cases on October 24 and it looked like it was moving towards the one lakh mark. However, the weekly moving average in the case graph began slumping after October 24. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in his daily briefing on Thursday, said the active pool had been going down and that compared to the previous week, there was a 10% reduction in the growth rate. He said that after so many days, this was the first time such a trend had been noticed. He cautioned that this did not indicate that COVID-19 was on its way out and that it might hit another peak if one let go of the vigil in disease prevention and control and lead to a more serious situation. The cumulative case burden now stands at 4,66,466 cases, with a total of 3,80,650 recoveries reported till date. 26 more deaths The Health Department added 26 more deaths to its official COVID death list, taking the State’s cumulative toll to 1,613. These deaths occurred between October 23 and November 3, of which Thiruvananthapuram accounted for nine, Malappuram five, Alappuzha three, Kollam, Thrissur and Kannur two each and one each in Wayanad, Palakkad and Ernakulam. At present, official figures put the number of patients who are critically ill and in ICUs at 822, with 219 patients requiring ventilator support. Of the new cases, 6,725 cases (98.6%) are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining untraceable in 730 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 60. Among districts, Thrissur has 900 cases, Kozhikode 828, Thiruvananthapuram 756, Ernakulam 749, Alappuzha 660, Malappuram 627, Kollam 523, Kottayam 479, Palakkad 372, Kannur 329, Pathanamthitta 212, Kasaragod 155, Idukki 116 and Wayanad 114 cases.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. to float company for CRDP||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said that the government will float a company to execute the second phase of the Capital Region Development Programme (CRDP) after the upcoming local body polls. The project is expected to transform the State capital by creating a growth corridor on either side of a 79-km outer ring road from Vizhinjam to Navaikulam. He was inaugurating a webinar organised by the CPI(M) district committee on Thursday to generate suggestions aimed at evolving a framework for the city’s development. Pointing out that the proposed ring road would require nearly 1,500 acres, Dr. Isaac said the government would pursue options different from the conventional land acquisition mode for the purpose. Land bonds “Land owners will be encouraged to sell their unutilised land or plots that generate low farm income to the company. In return, they will either be issued land bonds that carry attractive interest rates or they can opt for a transfer of land with increased value later in proportion to their original property. Those requiring immediate financial settlement will be able to either sell their land bonds or seek payment for the land sold to the proposed company,” the Finance Minister said. Dr. Isaac said the city had been witnessing unprecedented development under the current LDF rule with nearly Rs. 8,000 crore earmarked for road development alone. Cutting carbon emission Haritha Keralam Mission executive vice chairperson T.N. Seema said the development projects should incorporate steps to limit carbon emission. Calling for setting a target to achieve carbon neutrality, Ms. Seema called for efforts to promote e-mobility and cycling. She also stressed on the need to reduce dependence on drinking water supplied through pipes and to find greater use for groundwater wells. Lauding the city Corporation for ensuring that the development reached all sections of society, unlike most other cities in the country, Kerala Institute of Local Administration director general Joy Elamon emphasised the need for spatial planning, a crucial component while preparing the city’s master plan. Historian Malayinkeezhu Gopalakrishnan proposed declaring specific parts of the State capital as heritage zones, especially places that house institutions, statues and other structures that are over a century old. Strict controls must be imposed for construction activities in such areas.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Act fairly, CM tells Central agencies||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said that some Central agencies were pandering to political interests hell-bent on thwarting the government’s development agenda. The “heinous powers” wanted to “exile from Kerala” investors and infrastructure projects. The government would not chase controversies. The administration was single-mindedly focussed on implementing its programme. The government would not forsake the mandate given to it by people. Mr. Vijayan said he could not comment on the Enforcement Directorate’s inspection of the house of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.  Family’s grievance The government had no information on the nature of the evidence against Bineesh. However, his family appeared to have some genuine grievance about the conduct of ED inspectors during the raid. Hence, they had moved the agencies concerned. “Central agencies should act fairly. They should not cater to the interests of any political powers,” Mr. Vijayan said. The CM said the government had no apprehensions about the ED’s summons to his additional private secretary, C.M. Raveendran. Mr. Vijayan said eliminating Maoists was not government policy. Uniformed and armed irregulars had attacked the police in the Wayanad forests. The police had fired back in self-defence, resulting in the death of one person. The Communist Party of India (CPI) had slammed the encounter death as barbaric.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elephant rehabilitation centre work on track||The first phase of the ongoing Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB)-funded development of the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at Kottoor is set to be commissioned in February. The project, being executed by the Forest Department at a cost of Rs. 108 crore, is aimed at enhancing facilities to accommodate 50 elephants at the centre. At present, the elephant centre at Kottoor can house 16 pachyderms. The project is being undertaken across 176 hectares of forestland at Kottoor. Facilities Besides setting up enclosures for elephants , the project also involves the construction of various reservoirs and check-dams in the Neyyar reservoirs, an elephant museum, veterinary hospital with superspeciality facilities, a study and research centre for nature lovers and students, a training centre for mahouts, an entrance plaza, administrative office, parking facilties for visitors, cafeteria, cottages, toilet block and a special elephant viewing facility. According to an official release issued here, other components include a post-mortem facility and a cemetery, a large kitchen for preparing food for elephants and a feeding area. The project also envisages a large convention centre and an amphitheatre at Kottoor. A unit for manufacturing paper from elephant dung, mechanism for producing biogas from waste, and special facilities for collection and disposal of solid wastes, including non-recyclable plastics. The completion of the project will create 250 jobs, including 100 elephant herders, 40 of who will be accommodated with their families and 40 others who will be provided dormitory facilities. Tribespeople hailing from nearby settlements are also likely to get employment in various capacities at the centre.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Accelerator scheme for social impact start-ups||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Thursday launched Green Innovation Fund, a fund-linked accelerator programme for social impact start-ups, as a joint initiative of Kerala Startup Mission, Haritha Keralam Mission and United Nations Development Programme, India. In his address, Dr. Isaac said: “There are a whole lot of areas which are waiting for some innovative interventions, especially in the high range belts, which are prone to larger and diverse vulnerabilities. GIF is an ambitious experimentation to leverage technology to bridge gaps which may be arduous through our traditional way of working.” Delivering a special address on the occasion, Shoko Noda, the Country Representative of UNDP, India said: “By combining modern technology such as artificial intelligence and drones with traditional wisdom of communities, we are working to improve management of natural resources, reduce negative impacts upon the environment and promote green jobs. The launch of the GIF as part of the India High Range Mountain Landscape project is a step in this direction.” P.M. Sasi, CEO, KSUM, said: “As climate change brings in exponential changes in the environment there is an urgent need to develop innovative products, services, businesses, organisational models which will bring in sustainable development through behavioural changes and new business models. There is a need to nurture and develop such ideas which could redefine sustainable enterprises in a structured manner. T.N. Seema, vice chairperson, Haritha Keralam Mission, presided.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Don’t take COVID lightly: CM||The low case fatality rate of COVID-19 in the State should not lull people into dismissing the disease lightly, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Though cases showed a declining trend, the situation could take a turn for the worse if all vigil was let down, he said on Thursday. Even after people were discharged from hospitals, complications of the disease, which manifested as blood clotting disorder or heart attacks could happen. A good percentage of people who contracted COVID-19 were left with lingering effects of organ damage or post-COVID syndrome. People should thus keep a watch on their health after COVID-19 and contact health-care workers in the event of any symptoms, the Chief Minister said. At the same time, all COVID-19 safety protocols should be maintained by all in society. Post-COVID clinics Post-COVID-19 clinics had begun functioning in all government health-care institutions from primary health centres upwards and referral clinics had been set up from district hospitals up till medical college hospitals, Mr. Vijayan said. These clinics would be on Thursdays, from 12 noon to 2 p.m.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs on entry to Shanghumugham||Restrictions have been imposed on the entry of visitors on the Shanghumugham beach on account of the precarious condition of the coastline amid swell waves. District Collector Navjot Khosa issued orders prohibiting entry within 100 metres from the affected area until further orders. Directions have also been issued to barricade the portion. While the area has remained largely deserted during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, after the reopening of beaches on November 1 numerous people have been thronging the destination. However, the severe erosion of the coastal road during the past few years has posed a grave threat to public safety, prompting the authorities to restrict access to the area. Fish sale, food carts  The Collector also banned fish sale and the functioning of food carts and other outlets in the area. The police have been instructed to implement the directives.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schemes for the elderly, transpeople launched||Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja on Thursday inaugurated Sayanthanam park for the elderly and self-employment loans and an advocacy campaign for the transgender community. She also released a book prepared by the National Institute of Speech and Hearing. The Minister said the department was trying to ensure the social and financial uplift of the most marginalised sections of society and their skill development to ensure they could get their rightful place in society. At Rs. 50 lakh The Sayanthanam park for the elderly is coming up at Vazhakulam in Manjalloor grama panchayat of Ernakulam district. The project is expected to be completed at Rs. 50 lakh. The self-employment loan is for transgender community members to start enterprises individually or in groups. The loan will be from Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh. An amount of Rs. 30 lakh has been earmarked for the project. An advocacy campaign will be conducted to reduce the discrimination faced by the transgender community in public spaces and the physical and mental trauma they undergo, besides removing any misconceptions about them. The print, visual, and social media campaign will be undertaken with the help of the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vazhamuttom coir society gets 20 automatic machines||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan commissioned 20 automatic spinning machines established by the Vazhamuttom coir industrial cooperative society near Kovalam here on Thursday. Participating at the function through videoconferencing, Mr. Vijayan reiterated the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s commitment towards regaining the State’s lost glory in the coir sector. He added that the traditional coir industry assumed the greatest priority in the sector. The government had been able to establish 200 mills in coir cooperative societies as well as in the private sector so far. The increase in number of mechanised units was bound to help the State achieve self-sufficiency in the coir sector, Mr. Vijayan said. The Chief Minister formally launched 1,000 automatic spinning machines established in coir cooperative societies across the State on the occasion. The programme figured among the 100-day action plan of the Left Democratic Front government. At Rs. 1 crore The 20 automatic spinning machines and allied equipment at Vazhamuttom have been established at an outlay of Rs. 1 crore. Their full-fledged functioning is set to enhance production and generate new jobs. The machines were made by the public-sector enterprise Kerala State Coir Machinery Manufacturing Company. Training Coir workers will be imparted training through the National Coir Research and Management Institute. Finance and Coir Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac presided over the function. Thiruvananthapuram Mayor K. Sreekumar, Coir Department Special Secretary N. Padmakumar, Kerala State Planning Board vice-chairman V.K. Ramachandran and Coirfed managing director C. Suresh Kumar were present.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA plans virtual revenue adalats||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) is adapting to the COVID-19-induced new normal by taking steps to hold revenue adalats without the physical presence of consumers as far as possible. The decision is aimed at quickly settling pending disputes pertaining to water bills and restoring revenue inflow. To enable this, the government-run water utility has reconstituted the adalat bench and redefined its powers. According to an November 3 circular, the higher adalat bench will consist of the Chief Engineer of the region concerned, the Accounts Manager or the Deputy Accounts Manager and the Superintending Engineer of the KWA circle concerned. The bench will carry out its functions via videoconference. The sub-adalat bench will consist of the Executive Engineer, Revenue Officer/Divisional Accounts Officer and the Assistant Engineer concerned. Via phone Applications will be sorted out at the division level and the adalat bench will take decisions provisionally. The consumer will be informed of the decision over the phone and his/her comments or disagreements will be recorded. “The disputes in which the presence of the petitioner is extremely essential, he/she shall be allowed to attend the office at the time slot allotted by the adalat bench, maintaining COVID-19 protocol,” the circular said, noting that the KWA could not collect water charges on time due to the disease outbreak. In May 2019, the KWA had decided to hold revenue adalats, connection melas and settle issues pertaining to unidentified connections in all 14 districts. Applications pile up Adalats were conducted in Malappuram, Palakkad and partially in Kollam in March this year. But the exercise had to be discontinued due to the subsequent COVID-19 outbreak. However, applications had piled up in large numbers in KWA offices. Consequently, the water charges also remained unpaid, disrupting the KWA revenue inflow.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC to buy 100 new buses for inter-State operations||In a bid to gain an upper hand in inter-State operations using super-class services, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is to purchase 100 new buses in three categories at a cost of Rs. 50 crore. Eight air-conditioned sleeper buses being procured for the first time by the undertaking is the key feature of the augmentation of the fleet. The government has given the nod for the purchase of the 100 buses as part of the revival package II for the KSRTC, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran said on Thursday. AC sleeper buses have berths instead of seats. The eight buses will cost the KSRTC Rs. 10.40 crore. “The sleeper buses will operate as per COVID-19 protocols during the pandemic. More such buses will be launched by the KSRTC if the response is good,” he said. GPS and luggage space Another 20 premium air-conditioned buses will be purchased at Rs. 10.80 crore for middle class commuters travelling on inter-State roads. The KSRTC will also procure 72 conventional super air buses at Rs. 28.80 crore for express services. All buses will have GPS, adequate luggage space, and mobile phone charging facilities, the Minister said. KSRTC chairman and managing director Biju Prabhakar said tenders would be floated to purchase the 100 buses approved by the government. The buses are in addition to the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board-funded 310 CNG buses, 50 electric buses, and 400 buses to be converted to LNG. To give a cosy ride to the travelling public, the Minister said air-conditioned low-floor Volvo buses will be used for long-distance services.  In a bid to generate non-ticketing revenue, the KSRTC has also decided to rent out its multi-axle Scania buses. In the first step, four Scania buses rented out to the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) will ferry scientists and technical staff from the State capital on Friday morning to Sriharikotta for the PSLV C 49 launch scheduled for November 7.  Eight AC sleeper buses, with berths instead of seats, will cost KSRTC Rs. 10.40 crore
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New centre for flowers, veggies||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the Centre of Excellence for Vegetables and Flowers at the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS), Ambalavayal in Wayanad, at a virtual conclave on Thursday. The State government had successfully implemented several novel initiatives in the farm sector, Mr. Vijayan said. Set up with the intention of transforming Wayanad into a floriculture hub and tapping the sector’s potential in Kerala, the centre would have technical support from the Netherlands government under the Indo-Dutch Joint Action Plan. Vegetables suited to the climate of Wayanad and flowers such as orchids, chrysanthemum, gladiolus and gerbera will be cultivated at the centre which will be equipped with Indian and Dutch-model polyhouses, hi-tech nurseries, and post-harvest facilities. A major component of the project involves training programmes for farmers, entrepreneurs and extension officers. The Rs. 13-crore centre will also explore the agri-horti tourism possibilities in Wayanad district.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree’s online shopping festival begins||District panchayat president V.K. Madhu inaugurated Kudumbashree’s online shopping festival, Utsav, and the Vellanad Home Shop in the district on Thursday. Mr. Madhu placed the first order. In his address, he said the online shopping festival would fetch Kudumbashree entrepreneurs more income, besides providing them more security. In addition to that, the Home Shop under the Vellanad community development society would help boost local sales besides increasing employment opportunities to people during the pandemic. Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju and assistant coordinator Shanimol A. were present.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Renovation of three fish markets begins||Renovation of three fish markets in the district — Puthenchantha at Varkala, Nadukadu at Kattakada and Panachamoodu at Parassala — formally got under way on Thursday. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, who launched the works, also inaugurated various roads in the Varkala and Chirayinkeezhu Assembly constituencies through videoconferencing. The fish markets in Thiruvananthapuram figure among 65 such facilities across the State that are being renovated at Rs. 193 crore sanctioned through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. The Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation is the the executing agency. Facilities The markets will have dedicated space for retail outlets, butcher stalls, cold storage system, preparation room, toilets and loading. Anti-skid floor tiles will be laid on the main blocks of the markets. The markets will also be equipped with leachate treatment plant, drainage system, freezer and parking space.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sabarimala prasadam through Speed Post||The Department of Posts, Kerala Circle, has entered into an agreement with the Travancore Devaswom Board for booking and delivery of Sabarimala prasadam through Speed Post to the devotees of Lord Ayyappa all over India. Kit details The booking of the prasadam can be done at any departmental post office in India through the e-payment system of India Post. The kit priced Rs. 450 contains one packet of Aravana, ghee, turmeric, kumkum, vibhoothi and archana prasadam. The booking was launched on Thursday by Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran in the presence of V. Rajarajan, Chief Postmaster General, Kerala Circle and Devaswom Commissioner B.S. Thirumeni. Bookings will be open from November 6 and the despatch by Speed Post will start from November 16.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lawyer held in rape case||The police arrested a 45-year-old lawyer for allegedly raping a woman after providing her false assurance of employment. The accused was identified as Muraleekrishnan of Ulloor. The lawyer, who also ran a job consultancy company, purportedly lured the victim to his firm at Kumarapuram after promising to assist her in finding a suitable job placement. The victim was allegedly raped in his office where he is suspected to have harassed other job aspirants. The case was investigated by Kazhakuttam Assistant Commissioner Anil Kumar, considering the victim hails from a backward class, the police said.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Award for Kerala Tourism||Kerala Tourism has bagged the coveted ‘Highly Commended’ Award by World Travel Mart London for the exemplary activities aimed at promoting Responsible Tourism during the COVID-19 pandemic. Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission received this recognition in the category of ‘Meaningful Connections’ for its innovative work on ‘Work at Home Videos’ and storytelling audio and video series produced and presented by its various units. The Work at Home Videos have been developed by the mission entrepreneurs with a message to stay home safe during the lockdown and to adopt measures to effectively prevent the spread of COVID-19. The videos showcased the activities of the units. “It was the most popular intervention in the world to give confidence to entrepreneurs and tourists who are reeling under the effects of the epidemic. The move sends a message that any crisis can be overcome by working with one mind,” the award jury has noted. Innovative ideas “The award proves that the RT Mission is becoming a driving force in sharing innovative ideas and ensuring public participation in the tourism sector,” Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said. “This is a morale-boosting recognition that celebrates the best-in-class of the global travel and tourism industry,” Tourism Secretary Rani George said. There are currently 20,017 units under the Mission with more than one lakh beneficiaries as part of its activities.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||House panel notice to ED||The ethics committee of the Kerala Assembly has issued a notice to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to explain why the agency had sought records of the LIFE Mission project from the State government. The Legislative Secretariat has issued the breach of privilege notice based on a complaint from Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator James Mathew. He alleged that the ED’s intrusive and legally questionable inquiry into the LIFE Mission had hobbled the government’s effort to provide free and modern housing for the poor. The government had promised the Assembly that the project would progress fast. The ED’s action was tantamount to breach of legislative privilege. The ED was given a week to reply. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala slammed the move as an overzealous action on the part of Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan. He said the probe into an alleged money laundering offence was not tantamount to breach of legislative privilege.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lane traffic on NH bypass||A new lane traffic system has come into effect along the NH-66 bypass stretch from Kazhakuttam to Kovalam. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said that the new system had been imposed considering the increased vehicular flow on the stretch following the commissioning of the first reach of the bypass. Motorists should proceed along the left lane and use the lane adjacent to the median while overtaking. Any violation of the traffic reform would be dealt with seriously, he said.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CEE publishes medical rank lists||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) has published the State rank lists for admissions to medical and allied courses. The lists have been prepared on the basis of the NEET-UG 2020 results. Visit www.cee.kerala.gov.in to access the list, a statement here said.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Teenager drowns||An 18-year-old boy drowned in a river after he went for a swim with his friend in Attingal on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Faizal of Uliyakovil in Kollam. The incident took place around 3 p.m. after Faizal and his friend Sharath went for a swim at the Ayilam ghat. They were in Attingal in connection with Sharath’s admission in an industrial training institute. The body was recovered by a scuba team of the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||61,290 jobs created: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said the government had surpassed the target of creating 50,000 jobs in 100 days. Briefing the media, he said, “At the end of the two months period, 61,290 jobs have been created in the State.” Kudumbasree was the largest job provider in the entrepreneur sector, providing employment to 19,135 persons during September and October. The micro-enterprises segment generated 6,965 job opportunities. He said government departments and other Public Sector Undertakings had employed 19,607 people, including temporary staff. Also, 41,683 jobs were created in enterprises which took loans from the government or financial institutions.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Food kits distribution for students||Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath inaugurated through videoconference the State-level distribution of food kits to students as part of the mid-day meal scheme on Thursday. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies P. Thilothaman presided over the function, held at Government Lower Primary School, Cotton Hill, in the district. The food kits are being distributed as food security allowance for the months of June, July, and August. In the first phase, kits for pre-primary and primary children (classes 1 to 5) are being distributed. This will be followed by kit distribution for upper primary students (classes 6 to 8). What is in kit The kits comprise food grain (rice) and eight types of food products (such as green gram, chickpeas, toor dal, urad dal, cooking oil, and three types of curry powder) to the tune of Rs. 308.14. The kit for pre-primary students has 2 kg of rice, and that for primary students 7 kg of rice. The kit to be distributed to upper primary students comprises 10 kg of rice and food items for Rs. 461.90.  The kits will be distributed to parents of students from schools in compliance with physical distancing and observance of all COVID-19 safety norms. The food kits will benefit 27.27 lakh students in 12,324 schools who are eligible for the mid-day meals. The kits are being distributed to students as schools are still not open owing to the pandemic.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10 ROBs tenders finalized for Rs. 281 crore||Tenders for 10 rail overbridges (ROBs) with pre-fabricated steel structure and to be constructed in nine months by the Kerala Roads and Bridges Development Corporation have been approved by the Cabinet. The 10 overbridges are to cost Rs. 281 crore, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said. They are to come up at Maleyakkal, Chirayankeezhu, Koduvally, Akathethara, Guruvayur, Eravipuram, Chirangara, Tanur-Theyala, Vadanamkurissi, and Chelari-Chettipadi.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Veterinary Science Congress from Nov. 14||The Indian Veterinary Association, Kerala, will host the 12th Kerala Veterinary Science Congress on November 14 and 15 in partly online mode. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the conference on November 14 in the presence of Minister for Forests and Animal Husbandry K. Raju and government officials. To register, log on towww. ivakerala.com,www.ivakvsc.com
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RCC invites applications||The Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) here has invited applications for the graduate engineering apprentice training programme. Applications will be received up to November 16. For details and application form, visitwww.rcctvm.gov.in.
06 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Additional stop||Trains 06302/06301 Thiruvananthapuram Central–Shoranur Junction–Thiruvananthapuram Central Venad specials will stop at the Mayyanad railway station from November 7. According to Railways, 06302 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Shoranur Junction Venad Special will arrive at Mayyanad at 6.06 a.m. and depart at 6.07 a.m. In the return direction, 06301 Shoranur Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Venad Special will arrive at Mayyanad at 8.34 p.m. and depart at 8.35 p.m.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Young Scientist award applications||The Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) has extended the last date for receiving applications for the Young Scientist award up to November 15. Applications in the prescribed format with relevant documents are to be sent to the Director, KSCSTE, Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram - 695004.
06 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||900 new cases in Thrissur||Thrissur reported 900 COVID-19 patients on Thursday, the highest in the State on the day. The district also registered 1,032 recoveries. There are 9,763 active cases in the district and 90 people are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 44,017 positive cases have been identified in Thrissur and 33,911 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 880 people, including seven health workers, contracted COVID-19 through local transmission. Of them 133 people are above the age of 60 years and 63 are below the age of 10. In all, 6,316 patients are under home observation, sources said. Of the 1,128 patients who started treatment for COVID-19 on Thursday, 340 people were admitted to various hospitals and COVID-19 treatment centres. Rest are under home observation. As many as 6,045 samples were collected for the test on Thursday. 372 in Palakkad As many as 372 people tested positive for COVID in Palakkad district on Thursday. District officials said that the declining trend in the number of new cases was a positive sign in the ongoing fight against the pandemic. When 193 people contracted the virus through direct local contacts, there were 166 cases whose source of infection could not be identified. As many as 10 cases came from across the district border. There were 324 recoveries in Palakkad on Thursday, officials said.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||To their capacity||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to the shore||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In anticipation||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unwavering demand||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Encouraging farmers||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||An elephantine problem||
06 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Concerted effort needed to make agriculture a profitable venture’||A concerted effort is needed by scientists, agriculture officials, and farmers to make farming a profitable venture, A.P. State Agriculture Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy has said. Mr. Naggi Reddy inaugurated a cold press oil mill on the premises of Agriculture Research Station at Rekulakunta in the presence of Acharya NG Ranga Agriculture University Vice-Chancellor A. Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Thursday. “All these years, we have been working towards improving the farm yield to feed the growing population of the country. The farm sector has come a long way from the food for all slogan to today’s nutritious food for all. However, we have forgotten about the farmers and about their profitability. It is time we thought about it,” said Mr. Nagi Reddy. The State government is doling out subsidies to the tune of Rs. 3,200 crore to farmers as input cost has been increasing. “Unless we concentrate on productivity and marketing, achieving profitability in the agriculture sector is not possible,” he pointed out. Speaking on the occasion, Agriculture Mission member and AF Ecology Director Y.V. Malla Reddy said the ARS, Rekulakunta must concentrate on farmer-oriented research in arid region. The ARS, Rekulakunta has the potential to become a specialised institution for the arid region crops and function as a university, he said. The ARS, Rekulakunta has set up a cold oil press unit, along with a bottling plant, on its premises with an investment of Rs. 7.5 lakh. The machine has the capacity to extract oil from 20 kg of pulses.  ‘ANGRAU Gold’ A kg of groundnut yields 400 ml of oil and 600 grams of oil-cake. The Acharya NG Ranga Agriculture University has proposed to market it on a commercial basis under the brand name of ‘ANGRAU Gold’. The machine can extract oil from sesame and safflower without needing any modifications, said ARS Rekulakuinta Director Sahadev Reddy. Joint Director Agriculture Ramakrishna was present on the occasion.
06 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of woman stuffed in gunny bag found||The police registered a case after the body of a woman, who was allegedly killed by her husband, was0 found stuffed in a gunny bag from the bushes in Kasinayana mandal of Kadapa district on Thursday. According to police, the accsued, Ayyaluri Pulla Reddy, was allegedly suspecting fidelity of his wife A. Narayanamma (51). He allegedly killed her and packed the body in a gunny bag before dumping it in the bushes in his field at Chinnayapalli village. The accused is at large. The victim’s son Ayyaluri Veera Mohan Reddy (25) identified the body and lodged a complaint at the B. Kodur police station. “We have launched a search for the accused,” said DSP (Mydukur) B. Vijayakumar. A case under Sections 302, 201 of the IPC has been registered and investigation is on.
06 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two foresters injured in bear attack||Two forest personnel were injured in a bear attack in the forest area of Pullampet mandal late on Wednesday. Protection watchers Babu and Bhaskar Reddy suddenly came under attack from a nursing bear, which reportedly turned aggressive on sighting the men. When Bhaskar Reddy raised an alarm on being attacked, Babu rushed to his support, only to sustain a bite on his hand. Forest staff rescued the duo and admitted them to hospital.
06 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||12-year-old drowns in irrigation channel||A 12-year-old boy drowned in a branch of Yeleru canal in Samarlkota town in East Godavari district on Thursday. Samalkota police said the boy, identified as Mohammad Ziyaad, reportedly was cycling with his friends in the Uppuvarai street of Samarlkota town in the afternoon. The boy reportedly failed to balance his bicycle. He fell into a branch of Yeluru canal and drowned. The body has been retrieved from the irrigation channel and investigation is on, the police said.
06 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release of 8 tmcft water sought for Tungabhadra Pushkarams||The Kurnool Irrigation Superintending Engineer P. Sree Ramachandra Murthy on Thursday sent a formal letter to the Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation) seeking 8 tmcft of water to be released daily from November 10 at the rate of 6,000 cusecs per day to meet the water needs at 21 ghats during the forthcoming Tungabhadra Pushkaram from November 20 to December 1. This quantum of water will be deducted from the share of Andhra Pradesh to be received through the Tungabhadra Left Lower Main Canal. Water will be released from the Tungabhadra dam from November 10 and it takes 10 days for it to travel to the Andhra Pradesh border near Mantralayam. There is no infrastructure to store this water anywhere ahead of the Puskar Ghats to release as and when needed. All this water will flow into the Srisailam dam eventually. Meanwhile, Collector G. Veerapandian conducted a teleconference with all the officers responsible for the completion of work at the ghats latest by November 13. On Thursday, he directed all the departments that had not yet floated tenders for procurement of material or construction work to initiate measures so that work was completed in all aspects one week ahead of the start of the pushkarams on November 20. The Irrigation Superintendending Engineer has been visiting the construction sites of the Pushkar Ghats daily and on Wednesday he visited the Sankalp Bagh Ghat.
06 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||High recovery brings down active COVID-19 cases to 377 in Kurnool||In April and May, the initial months of the coronavirus outbreak, Kurnool district was at the top of the nationwide charts in the cumulative number of positive cases. Given the gravity of the situation, the Union Ministry of Health paid special attention to the way the pandemic was being tackled. However, by October, the trend reversed. Now, Kurnool is among the districts with the lowest active cases in Andhra Pradesh. As on November 3, the cumulative cases got checked just below the 60,000 mark. 7.30 lakh tests done Even as the number of total cumulative cases has been put at 59,508, the high recovery rate has pushed down the active cases to only 377 cases in the district, says Collector G. Veerapandian. “The district administration has conducted 7.30 lakh tests and the recovery rate has been put at at 98.56% when compared to the 96.30% of Andhra Pradesh and 91.65% of India. Fatality, which had remained a concern for many months, has come down sharply in October and the figure now stands at 0.81%, equal to the State average and much below the national average of 1.49%,” say the officials. Even the active cases rate in the district has come down to 0.63% when compared to 2.87% of the State. The figures for the country stands at 6.83%. Vulnerability chart Citing an analysis done by the district administration, the Collector says that 22% of the positive cases (the highest) reported in the district are in the age group of 21 and 30 years. Similarly, the percentage of people above 60 years of age who got infected are only 14%. Among the persons tested positive for the virus, 41% are women, says Mr. Veerapandian. It is evident from the numbers that good care was taken of the people with comorbidities and the elderly, the Collector adds.
06 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore, Prakasam see over 1,000 recoveries in 24 hours||South coastal Andhra Pradesh witnessed four times more patients recovered than the admissions of coronavirus cases to hospitals as one more patient succumbed to the virus in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. With this, the toll marginally rose to 1,061 in the region, said a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday night. Nellore district recorded zero deaths for the second day in a row as the toll figures remained unchanged at 487. The number of recoveries outnumbered the fresh admissions into hospitals by more than 750 in the two districts during the period. In total, 1,012 patients got cured in the two districts, while 254 persons tested positive for the virus. Caseload reduces Prakasam district has reported for 574 deaths till date. The cumulative cases rose to 60,213 as 124 people tested positive in a span of 24 hours. For the first time after several weeks, the caseload dropped to 853 in the district, which has been witnessing a downward trend in the last few weeks. The round-the-clock healthcare services yielded results as 805 patients were recovered in a single day. As many as 58,786 patients have been cured of the infection in the district till date. With 130 new cases, the total number of positive cases has reached 61,568 in Nellore district. The number of active cases stood at 1,318 after 207 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. So far, 60,250 patients has won the battle against the virus in the district.
06 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers to take fight against farm Acts to Delhi||Farmers, cutting across party lines, will lay a siege to Parliament on November 26 and 27 to put pressure on the BJP-led NDA government to repeal the three “corporate-friendly” farm Acts, according to All India Kisan Sabha national vice-president Ravula Venkaiah. Taking part in an agitation staged by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee(AIKSCC) opposing the metering of farm pump sets in the State, Mr. Venkaiah gave a ‘Delhi chalo’ call to the farmers, and said the three Acts — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act — needed a thorough scrutiny. Even the RSS-led Bharatiya Kisan Sangh was for making Minimum Support Price (MSP) to the farmers mandatory and had expressed its reservation over the provisions of the three “controversial” pieces of legislation, said AIKSCC district convener Ch. Ranga Rao. Dig at YSRCP, TDP It was unfortunate that both the ruling YSRCP and the Opposition TDP ignored farmers’ interests with “ulterior political motives,” AIKSS State co-convener K.V.V. Prasad said. APCC vice-president Sripathi Prakasam said the party, on coming to power at the Centre, would scrap the “anti-farmer” Acts. The metering of farm pump sets was a part of a larger design to privatise the power sector in the State by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government and scrap the free power scheme launched by former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in the unified State over a period of time, said Congress party farmers’ wing State vice-president V. Rajagopala Reddy. Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangham Prakasam district secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy said, given the precarious financial position, there was no guarantee that the State government would honour its commitment to the farmers in the form of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) over a period.
06 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam cops’ initiatives impress BPR&D||The Bureau of Police Research and Development Organisation(BPR&D) was impressed with the ‘Spandana’ and ‘Parivartan’ initiative of the Prakasam police to ensure access to justice easy during the COVID-19 times by using information technology. The initiative has ensured easy access to the district police online through a mobile app, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal told the BPR&D officials during a conference organised through a video link, As part of the ‘Spandana’ initiative, complaints are received online from the people and through ‘Parivartan’ initiative, reception centres have been set up at all police stations and the police personnel at the grassroots level have been trained in technology to ensure quick redressal of public grievances.
06 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD opens Srivari Mettu footpath for pilgrims||After a gap of over six months, the TTD on Thursday allowed devotees to trek along the Srivari Mettu footpath – the easy and shortest route to reach Tirumala. Speaking to the media, TTD Chief Vigilance and Security Officer (CVSO) Gopinath Jatti said that the pathway was closed in March in the wake of the outbreak of coronavirus. Now, with the virus gradually on the wane, the TTD had decided to reopen the trekking route in accordance with the unlock guidelines.  Timings  Devotees for the present would be allowed to trek along the pathway from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. so as to enable them reach the town before night fall. Enough care had been taken in providing lighting and upkeep of sanitation along the route. Devotees with either online or offline sarva darshan tokens alone would be allowed to pass through the route. In reply to a question, he said that the movement of wild animals had also come down with ample rains during the season. As a precautionary measure, security personnel were deployed at certain identified points on the route for regular foot patrolling and setting up of a permanent security post similar to the one at Alipiri.
06 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lt. Governor of J&K arrives in Tirumala||Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha on Thursday arrived at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here as part of his two-day pilgrimage to the temple town. On his arrival at the Padmavati guest house, Mr. Manoj Sinha was accorded a warm reception by TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy. After an overnight stay, Mr. Sinha would offer prayers on Friday.
06 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ESI hospital workers stage protest over pending wages||Workers employed at the ESI Corporation Hospital staged a demonstration by begging in the streets here on Thursday, protesting against the non-payment of their wages for the last four months. As many as 42 workers including security guards and house keeping staff sought alms from the passers-by on the road as part of their protest. Addressing the protesters, Andhra Pradesh Medical Contractor Workers’ Union (APMCWU) district general secretary K. Radhakrishna said neither did the contractor nor the hospital superintendent come for a dialogue even as the workers have been protesting for the last three days. Describing it as the ‘indifferent attitude’ of the administration, the protesters demanded that they be brought under the ambit of the newly-formed Andhra Pradesh Corporation for Outsourcing Services (APCOS) and be provided with job security. Later, the hospital authorities assured payment of wages at the earliest.
06 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bharat Ratna’ sought for freedom fighter Kanakamma||Srimathi Ponaka Kanakamma Aasaya Sadhana Samithi (SPKAS) has demanded the ‘Bharat Ratna’ title for freedom fighter Ponaka Kanakamma (1892-1963), who gave up her property to promote the Gandhian values and strived for women’s empowerment. The SPKAS has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider Kanakamma for the nation’s top civilian award, in recognition of her services to girls’ education and farmers’ welfare. Addressing the media on Thursday, SPKAS convener B. Surendranatha Reddy recalled that Kanakamma had set up an ashram at Pallipadu in Nellore district and fought against the powerful Zamindars. She had also launched a newspaper ‘Zamin Rythu’ to champion the farmers’ cause. “She was lauded by none other than Mahatma Gandhi for her works. However, the successive governments had failed to recognise her sacrifices for the country,” he added. Samithi member Vemareddy Prabhakar Reddy said they had already submitted an online representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to this effect in September.
06 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sainik School entrance test||The process of admitting cadets into Class VI (boys and girls) and Class IX (boys) for the ensuing academic year began at the Sainik School, Kalikiri in Chittoor district. The National Testing Agency will conduct the All India Sainik Schools Entrance Exam 2021 on January 10. The last date for applying for the test is November 19 and admit cards will be released on December 23, said the Officiating Principal Lt. Col. S.K. Mahapatro. Registration for the nationwide test has already commenced and the candidates could visit the official website http://aissee/nta.nic.in for complete details. Ten cadets from the school have successfully cleared the Union Public Service Commission NDA and INA 2020 written test and are waiting for the interview call from the Service Selection Board (SSB). The school has qualified staff, experienced defence service officers and state of the art facilities to train cadets to become officers in the armed forces and other elite services, Mr. Mahapatro added.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Comprehensive land survey from Jan. 1||The State government will kick-start the ‘YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhoomi Hakku - Bhoomi Rakshana’ programme, which is a comprehensive land survey, from January 1. The Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Thursday approved the proposal in this regard. Giving details of the Cabinet meeting, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said that in order to provide permanent land ownership, every inch of land in the State would be resurveyed using the latest technology such as drones. “About 4,500 survey teams and 15,000 surveyors will be involved in the project. It is estimated that the survey will cost about Rs. 1,000 crore. The government will mark the boundaries, issue passbooks to landowners, and set up a mobile court to resolve land disputes on the spot. Such a survey is overdue, and is being taken up in the State after a gap of over 100 years,” the Minister said. The Cabinet also approved the construction of Integrated Data Centre, Integrated IT and Business Park, Recreation Centre and Skill Development University in Visakhapatnam at a cost of Rs. 14,630 crore, and the projects would be taken up by the Adani Group. “The TDP has been spreading false news that the Adani Group has shelved the project. In fact, the government has sanctioned the projects and signed an MoU by allocating 150 acres to create employment for 25,000 people. The previous government had given 500 acres for the same project that envisaged creation of just 6,000 jobs,” the Minister said. Land allotment The Cabinet also approved allocation of land for 16 new medical colleges in various districts. Land was also allotted to the Andhra Cricket Association on 33-year lease for setting up stadia in Srikakulam and Kadapa districts, he said. The Minister also said that ban on gambling, online-offline betting, use and sale of drugs and narcotics would be brought under the jurisdiction of the State Enforcement Bureau (SEB), which was also entrusted with the task of checking smuggling of red-sanders along with the task force.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State registers 13 deaths, 2,745 new cases in a day||Continuing to report less than 3,000 new cases, the State saw 2,745 new infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The tally has gone up to 8,35,953  and the toll increased to 6,757  with 13 new deaths in the past day. As many as 2,292 patients recovered and were discharged in the past day putting the total recoveries so far at 8,07,318  and the recovery rate at 96.57%. The death rate remains at 0.81% and a total of  21,878  active patients are undergoing treatment. The positivity rate of the 84.20 lakh samples tested till date has come down to 9.93%, while the positivity rate of the 85,364 samples tested in the past day was 3.22%. For the first time in nearly two months, the number of new infections was more than the number of recoveries. Deaths Krishna district reported three new deaths, the highest, while Chittoor and Visakhapatnam reported two deaths each in the past day. Kadapa, Kurnool, Nellore and Vizianagaram reported no new deaths, while the remaining six districts reported one new death each. Godavari districts reported more than 400 new cases each while three districts reported less than 100 new cases. The district-wise new infections are as follows: West Godavari (428), East Godavari (407), Krishna (398), Guntur (297), Chittoor (286), Anantapur (218), Nellore (130), Kadapa (125), Prakasam (124), Visakhapatnam (120), Srikakulam (91), Vizianagaram (83) and Kurnool (38). Meanwhile, Nellore which has the highest recovery rate and lowest number of active cases, crossed the 60,000-mark in infection tally. It was the seventh district to see over 60,000 cases and Chittoor is likely to cross the 80,000-mark in a day. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,17,614), West Godavari (87,638), Chittoor (79,929), Guntur (68,683), Anantapur (65,247), Prakasam (60,213), Nellore (60,002), Kurnool (59,638), Visakhapatnam (56,390), Kadapa (52,767), Srikakulam (44,391), Krishna (40,871) and Vizianagaram (39,675).
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP to launch 10-day awareness drive on promises kept by CM||The YSRCP will launch a 10-day ‘Prajalalo Nadu - Prajalakosam Nedu’ programme to create awareness among the people on the promises made by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his padayatra and the promises fulfilled by the government. Coinciding with three years of the launch of the Praja Sankalpa Yatra, party leaders and cadre will explain how 90% of the promises made were fulfilled by the government. Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy told the media on Thursday that the party would organise rallies and events across the State as part of the awareness programme. YSRCP president and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was the only leader who had fulfilled his poll promises and implemented the welfare schemes in a prescribed time frame setting an example for reliability and accountability , he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had fulfilled all the promises in 14 months of his governance that were promised during his 14-month padayatra, but for some major projects or long-term schemes. The Chief Minister had implemented all the welfare schemes despite COVID-19 pandemic and its economic impact on the State besides the previous government’s uncleared debts, he said. After the completion of one year in office, the government had released a pamphlet with the achievements and a calendar for the forthcoming schemes, he added. The party had prepared a video and a pamphlet on the programme with which leaders and cadre would be meeting people and get their feedback on the implementation of the welfare schemes and how to provide better services.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||First plastic bottle recycling machine set up in city||District Collector and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation special officer A.Md. Imtiaz and VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh inaugurated the city’s first plastic bottle recycling kiosk, a reverse vending machine set up on Stadium Road (Food Street), on Thursday. He said six more kiosks would be set up in various areas, including Durga temple, PWD Grounds, and RTC bus stand, in the first phase as a part of the civic body's environment-friendly initiatives to reduce plastic usage and recycle plastic waste. Discount coupons Mr. Imtiaz said anybody can deposit a plastic water bottle in the machine and enter their phone number and get shopping discount coupons. The bottles collected in the machine would be crushed into powder and reused for other purposes, he said. Mr. Venkatesh said that the machines would be set up with the support of Powergrid Corporation of India, GMR and other companies. Mr. Venkatesh said the VMC was in talks with malls and showrooms that can offer discounts through coupons delivered to the machine users. The coupons could be redeemed by the users at particular stores.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New DPR for Masula port approved||The State Cabinet has approved the new Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the Machilipatnam port. As per the new DPR, the port will be completed in 36 months at a cost of Rs. 5,835 crore. Giving details of the Cabinet meeting on Thursday, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said that the new DPR was prepared by RITES for Phase-I works. “The works will be completed in three years from the date of commencement. The A.P. Maritime Board will release Rs. 90 crore for acquiring 225 acres of land required for the purpose. The board will mobilise Rs. 4,745 crore for the project with the State government’s assistance,” Mr. Kannababu said. ‘Chedodu’ from Nov. 24 The Cabinet also approved the ‘Jagananna Chedodu’ scheme that was aimed at benefiting small traders, he said. The scheme would be launched on November 24. Under the scheme, the government would extend Rs. 10,000 interest-free loan to the small and petty traders who eke out a living on footpaths and pushcarts. Kalamkari and Etikoppaka artisans, and makers of Bobbili veena, who are dependent on traditional handicrafts, would benefit, the Minister said. The Cabinet also approved the DPR for development of the cooperative sector. The DPR envisages development works costing Rs. 1,362.22 crore. The project will be implemented through the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) and Dairy Infrastructure Development Fund (DIDF). Bulk milk chilling units will be set up at 9,899 villages that produce more than 500 litres daily.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scholarship exam on Feb. 14||The State-level National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship Scheme examination for Class VIII students will be conducted on February 14 (Sunday). In a statement on Thursday, Director of Government Examinations A. Subba Reddy said the examination would be conducted from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Telugu, Hindi, Urdu and English medium at all the Revenue Divisional Headquarters of the 13 districts. Students can download the due dates from the websitewww.bseap.org. and the applications would be received only through online procedure, according to Director of Government Examinations A. Subba Reddy Students, who score at least 55% of marks in case of the open category (OC) and Backward Category (BC) and 50% of marks in case of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Physically Challenged or equivalent grade (B+) for all categories in Class VI exams, studied during the year 2018-19, will be eligible to apply. Other qualifications include the student should be studying in government or a local body (Zilla Parishad/ Municipal), government aided, AP Model (day scholars only) schools only. Students whose parents' annual income (both parents put together) is below Rs. 1,50,000 from all sources, for which the candidate will have to produce latest original annual income certificate issued by the Mandal Revenue Officer in case of a private employee and a certificate issued by the employer in case of government employee. Students studying Class VIII in AP Residential High Schools, State Social Welfare and Tribal Welfare Residential Schools, Government Ashram High Schools and Kasturba Residential Schools besides the students of AP model schools with residential facility, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, Kendriya Vidyalayas and private unaided schools are not eligible to appear for the exam. Submission of applications Submission of online application forms and payment can be made from November 9 and the last date for uploading the candidate's application by the Headmasters concerned is December 9. The last date for submission of printed nominal rolls along with other enclosures in the office of the District Educational Officers by the school headmasters is December 12 and the last date for approval of the applications at DEO login is December 14. Mr. Subba Reddy said the students could also obtain information from the school headmasters or the DEOs concerned.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||16,457 children rescued under Operation Muskaan||The Andhra Pradesh police rescued 16,457 children in less than a week in the 'Operation Muskaan' operation aimed at freeing children from child labour and identifying homeless children. According to a release from the AP Police Department, as many as 704 teams of policemen have been formed and they, in coordination with ChildLine, Child Welfare Committees and District Child Protection wing, conducted the operation under the direct supervision of Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang. The children were found at railway stations, bus stations, parks, and hotels. Of the total 16,457 children rescued, 13,588 were boys and 2,869 were girls and a few of them were already reunited with their family members, while others were sent tof child care centres.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. move to help students cope with COVID-induced stress||Like every other sector, the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, its rapid spread, and the subsequent lockdown has hit the morale of the student community like never before. The young learners have been facing enormous stress that has a deep psychological impact on them. With their careers at stake, they have been going through an emotional turmoil. To help them deal with the COVID-induced stress, the Department of Higher Education has asked all government universities in the State to establish counselling cells on their respective campuses. Qualified psychology professors will be engaged to help the students regain confidence. “We have noticed that a lot of students are worried about their future, as they think that COVID-19 will ruin their chances of being successful. Some of them also carry the baggage of other forms of stress due to the lockdown,” said Satish Chandra, Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education. He said mental health was as important as physical health for a student.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helplines launched for kirana store owners||Ministers holding various portfolios reviewed the YSR Cheyutha scheme at Secretariat on Thursday. They also launched the logo of 'Cheyutha Retail' on the occasion. According to a release, Deputy Chief Ministers S.B. Amzad Basha, Pushpa Sreevani and Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Botcha Satyanarayana, S. Appalaraju, Ch. Srinivas Venugopala Krishna and officials and representatives of multinational companies took part in the meeting. They launched helplines for the kirana store owners. Bank and SERP officials can be reached at 0866-2468899 or via WhatsApp on 9392917899. Officials were asked to coordinate with the helpline centre.
06 November 2020||vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big plans to enhance energy security||In a major step towards enhancing energy security in the State by promoting energy conservation, the government has issued orders to set up energy conservation cells and district-level offices of the government departments. Andhra Pradesh is the first State in the country to involve every department in the energy conservation drive, essential to achieve cost-effective power and sustainable development. Chief Secretary and Chairman of the AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) Nilam Sawhney said: “Energy is the key source of economic growth and the most important input for economic development. The use of energy drives economic productivity and industrial growth and is central to the operation of any modern economy. On the other hand, buildings are an important field for energy conservation and use of energy-efficient appliances in offices and residences is one of the crucial steps in promoting energy conservation and energy efficiency. Efficient use of energy will benefit the energy end-user in the form of reducing electricity bills.” She said the government had been giving top priority to the power sector and promotion of efficient use of energy and its conservation was the least-cost option to meet the increasing energy demand. BEE estimate As per the estimate of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), an agency of Union Ministry of Power and the APSECM, there is scope to save about 25 % of energy (16,000 MU) against the State’s annual energy requirement of about 64,000 MU.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 cases booked for violations in stores||The officials of Legal Metrology Department inspected Metro Cash and Carry wholesale store in the city on Thursday and booked 19 cases for various violations. In a release here on Thursday, Deputy Controller A. Krishna Chaitanya said that following the orders of Inspector General of Police and Controller of Legal Metrology M. Kantha Rao, several teams of officials conducted raids at the stores in the city. The teams found nineteen violations of packaged commodity rules in the store and cases were registered accordingly, said Ms. Krishna Chaitanya.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Backward Classes hail setting up of corporations||Elected representatives from the ruling party, chairmen and directors of BC Corporation took out a rally and held a meeting thanking Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for setting up 56 BC corporations for every Backward Classes community as promised during elections. The rally began with garlanding of the statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Police Control Room junction and ended at PWD Grounds. Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, P. Anil Kumar, S. Appalanaidu, MLAs Jogi Ramesh, K. Partha Sarathi, Vidadala Rajini, BC leaders and several others took part in the rally and meeting. They hailed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy for ensuring the welfare of the BC community members by setting up separate corporations so that particular communities are taken care of much effectively. Few of the participants and leaders wore no masks and did not maintain physical distancing during the rally and meeting.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRM-AP plans to launch M.Tech programmes||The SRM University-AP campus plans to launch M.Tech programmes in Engineering disciplines like computer science, electronics and communications, electrical and electronics and mechanical engineering. According to a statement issued by the institutions, the curriculum has been designed and developed keeping in view the industry needs and latest trends in these disciplines for the holistic development of students.  Stipend The most attractive and noteworthy feature of this programme is the waiver of tuition and transport or accommodation fee. Instead, the institution will pay an annual stipend of Rs. 60,000 to the students pursuing these courses.
06 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC schedule for Junior Lecturer posts||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has made available on its website —https://psc.ap.gov.in— the schedule for verification of original certificates and oral test (interview), call letter (memo), check-list, attestation form, and other relevant material for the provisionally qualified candidates for interview to the post of Junior Lecturer in A.P. Intermediate Education (general recruitment).
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miyawaki forests to come up across city||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is developing 25 Miyawaki forests at various areas in the city to improve greenery. The horticulture department of the civic body has identified 25 places — 15 in Gajuwaka and 10 in Madhurawada — for the project. The department has already started working on the creation of such dense forests over small tracts of land at several areas. “Neem, Ficus religiosa, Ficus benghalensis, Terminalia arjuna, Sandra, Juvvi, Kesia, Jackfruit, Bamboos, all about 40 to 60 species of native or indigenous varieties will be planted in a limited space. The plantations will be taken up in seven rows, in a row-to-row basis or multi-layered basis in seven layers,” said Additional Director of Horticulture (GVMC), M. Damodara Rao. He said that with the arrangement of various types of shrubs, shrub trees, trees and in layers in a closed spacing, a dense forest-type atmosphere will be created. Work has already begun at nine places in Gajuwaka, he added. According to the horticulture department, for quick and smooth penetration of water into the roots, soil refilling is done. “Then again, we will refill with biomass, combination of fertilisers - cocopeat, crop/paddy husk, vermicompost on the top layers. After completion of planting, dry hay will be spread over the surface of the ground to arrest evaporation. In about 1,000 sq. m area, we can accommodate around 3,000 plants of all types,” Mr. Damodara Rao said. “By using such techniques, compared to general plantations, we can see 10 times faster growth of plants and 30 times dense afforestation,” he added. “These Miyawaki forests help in reducing evaporation and weed growth. They also generate biodiversity, as we plant flower, fruit species. Indirectly, these dense forests reduce air pollution, control day temperature, control soil absorption and also recharge groundwater. The cool breeze from these trees can be experienced for one to two km surroundings,” the officer said. In the past, the civic body has set up three Miyawaki forests at various places. The GVMC is spending around Rs. 50 lakh for the development of these plantations. Officials are also working with several PSUs and Resident Welfare Association (RWAs) for the maintenance of these forests.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City police devise strategy to combat crimes against women||Post the killing of Varalakshmi, an Intermediate student in Gajuwaka, the city police have launched several awareness activities under the name - ‘Neti Yuvathe, Repati Pourulu’ (Today’s youth are tomorrow’s citizens) in an effort to ensure such incidents do not recur. The police have decided to take up counselling programmes to create awareness among students right from Class VIII to higher classes. Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha said that the police have devised a three-pronged strategy to address the issue – by conducting awareness camps in schools, social media and posters. “Police officials will visit schools under their respective jurisdiction and conduct counselling. They will try to send a strong message that the end of a love relationship is not the end of life. We have been seeing youth ending their life or attacking others in case of a failed relationship, which is not supposed to happen,” he said. Apart from this, videos with messages from police, education department and other officials will be shared on social media. Posters are also being arranged to be put up at all educational institutions, he added. Charge-sheet Speaking on the Gajuwaka murder case, Mr. Sinha said that the police are in the process of charge-sheeting the accused. “We are also adding POCSO sections to the case. We will prosecute it very fast in the fast-track court,” he said, adding that it is a clear case of pre-planned murder. The CP said the accused Akhil Sai tried to divert the case by sprinkling lemon and turmeric powder at the crime scene to disguise the murder as a sacrifice. He told the police that someone killed Varalakshmi as part of a human sacrifice ritual.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division handles 9,100 tonnes of parcels||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) has handled 9,100 tonnes of parcel cargo during the COVID-19 pandemic from April 2 till date. The division geared up its entire network to operate the parcel trains during the national crisis. A total of 603 trips of time-tabled parcel express trains carrying essential commodities like food items, groceries, medicines, medical equipment, fish, fruits, vegetables and other daily needs were transported, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. The Division carried 6,344 tonnes of parcels to different places in the country and received more than 2,760 tonnes of parcels from different parts of the country. The essential commodities that were transported from the division include: 4,346 tonnes of mangoes, 15 tonnesof medicine and medical equipment, 98 tonnes of fruits and vegetables, 885 tonnes of fish and fish feed, 94.3 tonnes of milk and dairy products and 904.5 tonnes of miscellaneous products. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava complimented the commitment of the staff and officers in continuing the uninterrupted supply chain during the pandemic. The Division was also interacting with cargo movers to improve loading and unloading, he added.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) opposes proposal of govt. to revise property tax||The CPI(M) has opposed the proposal of the State government to fix property tax on the basis of property value in Andhra Pradesh and not on the basis of rental value as is being done now. CPI(M) City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao alleged that the YSRCP government has accepted the conditions of the Centre in this regard. The Centre was planning reforms in property tax collection to bring a uniform tax structure across the country. “The objective of the government is to hike property tax exorbitantly every year. The property tax is being fixed, so far, based on the rental value and the size of the property. But now, the plan is to calculate the tax based on each square foot for individual houses, flats and commercial properties. The rental value would be fixed at 2% to 4% of the cost,” Mr. Ganga Rao said. Mr. Ganga Rao said that if a person owns a house on a 100-square yard site, and if the square yard cost is Rs. 25,000, the land cost would be Rs. 25 lakh. And if a house is built at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh, the total value would be Rs. 35 lakh. If house tax is fixed at 2%, the tax for six months would be Rs. 7,000. The property tax would be hiked every year. As of now, the property tax is being revised after every five to seven years. He said that this would be abolished. There are 4.5 lakh assessments in the GVMC limits. The new tax system would result in an additional burden of Rs. 700 crore as house tax in Visakhapatnam city. Subsequently, water tax and garbage tax would also be hiked, Mr. Ganga Rao alleged and demanded immediate withdrawal of the change in the method of property tax fixation.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven held for spree of crimes||The city police arrested seven persons and took two juveniles into their custody, for allegedly being involved in several crimes under One Town, PM Palem and Bheemili police station limits, on Thursday. Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha said that in one case, the police arrested two youth and took a 16-year old juvenile into custody for a series of offences including the theft of a motorcyle. The accused were identified as E. Vinay Kumar (23), and P. Nihar Reddy (20). On November 4, the accused allegedly along with the juvenile stole a motorcycle and a mobile phone near Poorna Market. In Madhurawada, the trio robbed a boy of his mobile phone at knifepoint and later assaulted a woman and robbed her mobile phone too. In another case, five persons D Sai (20), Koyya Manoj, V Mohan Kumar (19), P Vamsi (19), E Satish were arrested and one juvenile was taken into custody, for allegedly threatening group of persons from Vizianagaram district at knife-point from Vizianagaram at Sanghivalasa junction and robbing their cell phones, and a few others properties, all worth Rs 40,000. Stolen properties were partially recovered. “Anybody who commits crimes will be dealt with very seriously under the law. If rowdy-sheeters are found involved in crimes, we will invoke the PD Act also,” the CP said.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to mobilise support of housing beneficiaries||The TDP, as part of its ‘Naa Illu - Naa Sontham’ programme, is gearing itself up to meet the beneficiaries of TIDCO houses to mobilise their support and mount pressure on the government to hand them over the completed units without further delay, according to party State president K. Atchannaidu. Stating that the housing beneficiaries should fight for their right, Mr. Atchannaidu told the media here on Thursday that the party leaders, along with the beneficiaries, would visit the completed houses and stage protests to highlight the failure of the government. “The TDP will make the beneficiaries occupy the completed houses if the government fails to hand over the units to them by Sankranti,” he warned.  Referring to the local body elections, he said the YSRCP government was opposed to conducting them as it was afraid of defeat. The TDP leader found fault with the demolition of the compound walls and structures at GITAM University and at the residence of party leader Sabbam Hari citing violations.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGH gets new mini-bus||A 25-seater bus, sanctioned to King George Hospital (KGH) by Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana from his MPLADS funds, was received by the hospital on Thursday. The mini-bus was promised by the MP on the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on June 26, this year. The bus, costing Rs. 25 lakh, was launched at KGH by Mr. Satyanarayana. MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar, KGH Superintendent P. Mythili, AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar, former Superintendent G. Arjuna, Deputy Superintendent P. Ashok Kumar, DCS RMO K. Anji Babu, ARMOs M. Vijay Sankar and P. Bindu Madhavi, Assistant Professor of Geneal Medicine S. Narasinga Rao and Nursing Superintendent Karuna Jyothi were among those who participated in the launch.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on ‘advances in cancer biology’ begins||Cancer, the second leading cause of death globally, remains a significant challenge for societies, healthcare systems, and affected individuals worldwide said Dean (Sciences) A. Subrahmanyam of GITAM Deemed to be University here on Thursday. At the inaugural of the three-day international webinar on ‘Advances in Cancer Biology and Therapeutics’, organised by GITAM Biochemistry and Bioinformatics Department, Prof. Subrahmanyam briefed about the scientific breakthroughs in controlling cancer, and highlighted how the research on cancer brought the world onto a single platform and the global approach in fighting it. He hoped that the combined research efforts would help the international community in the coming years. In his keynote address, former Director of Tata Cancer Hospital HBCH and RC (Visakhapatnam) Digumarthi Raghunadha Rao, highlighted the milestones in cancer discovery immune therapeutics, and underscored the importance of engineered T-cell for cancer therapy, and the challenges of CAR-T cell-mediated cancer therapy. He said that immunotherapy was a type of cancer treatment that helps the immune system detect and destroy abnormal cells and prevents or curbs the growth of many cancers in the body. Webinar convener Rama Rao Malla spoke on the impact of patient-driven cancer research and precision medicine. He said top scientists from India, the U.S., the UK and researchers would deliver lectures on related topics in the next two days.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 teaching, non-teaching staff affected by COVID-19||Around 50 teaching and non-teaching staff from various schools in the district have tested positive for COVID-19 in Visakhapatnam. According to District Education Officer (DEO), B Lingeswara Reddy, when the schools were re-opened on Monday, they began conducting COVID-19 tests. All these cases were reported from various schools across various mandals, he said. The DEO also said that the staff who tested positive have been asked to quarantine themselves strictly and are under treatment. Meanwhile, officials expect that this would have an impact on attendance in the coming days. It may be remembered that from November 2, students of Classes IX, X, XI and XII (Inter first and second year) were asked to attend classes. Students of Classes VI, VII and VIII will start from November 23, while classes for primary students (Classes I to V) will commence on December 14. Students will attend half-day school on alternate days.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PLCF receives 55 complaints in a day||The three-member Pre-Litigation Counselling Forum (PLCF), formed to address grievances and complaints of people with regard to civil disputes, received 55 complaints on Wednesday. Commissioner of Police Maneesh Kumar Sinha said the forum has received 60 complaints till now. In seven cases, both parties attended while in 10 cases, only the complainants attended. He said the forum was set up to address civil disputes and counsel the litigants to find a solution. The forum is functioning from Room 15 at Swarna Bharathi Stadium. He said the highest number of complaints were received from Pendurthi with 11 complaints. The number of cases received from other places are Three Town (5 cases), One Town (4), Dwaraka police station (4), MVP Colony (4), PM Palem (4), Kancharapalem (4), Malkapuram (4), Airport PS (4), and Bimili PS (4).
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food Safety Dept. raids restaurant||Officials from the Food Safety department conducted raids on a popular restaurant near AIR Junction in Visakhapatnam on Thursday to check its hygiene and implementation of COVID-19 safety protocols. Officials reportedly seized around 20 kg of stale meat, including chicken, mutton, chicken joints and fish. The restaurant management had allegedly cooked the meat on Wednesday, and were about to serve it to the customers on Thursday, Food Safety Officer G.V. Apparao, who was part of the inspection team, said. The samples of the food were also collected and are being sent to a laboratory in Hyderabad. “After COVID-19, restaurants were mandated to follow a number of protocols. We are checking how the pantry is being maintained, whether any employees have fallen sick, the condition of the raw material stock in the kitchen and other aspects,” he said. The officer said that based on the reports, action will be taken against the restaurant management.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 colleges de-affiliated||A.P. State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE) has de-affiliated 12 colleges in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts affiliated to Andhra University. According to dean Prof. Panduranga Reddy, 10 of the colleges were in Visakhapatnam and two in Vizianagaram. The colleges for the last four years did not have a single admission and also not applied for online admission, he said.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag girl to represent India in chess||Chess prodigy from Visakhapatnam M. Sahithi Varshini is going to represent India in the under-14 girls’ category in the FIDE online World Cadet and Rapid Chess Championship 2020, from Dec. 11 to 23. Sahithi is currently at 2070 FIDE rating.
06 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor fire at steel plant||A minor fire accident took place at the Power Plant-II of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) at around 4.45 a.m. on Thursday. No one was injured in the accident. Production in VSP was not affected. Leakage of oil from the lubrication system in the turbine area of the plant was said to be the reason behind the accident. The CISF and fire services personnel brought the fire under control immediately. The damage was being assessed and efforts were on to bring the plant back to its operational level at the earliest.
06 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers to help conserve groundwater in Vizianagaram||The Groundwater Department is planning to form groundwater users’ associations involving farmers to protect small water bodies and enhance water use efficiency in the agriculture sector in Vizianagaram district, its Deputy Director K.S. Shastry has said. The department is laying focus on promotion of ‘More crop per drop’ concept which aims at improving small-scale community based irrigation for tapping the underused potential of tank irrigation system. In sync with the Central government’s policy, the concept also encourages farmers to use water conservation technologies as part of the Andhra Pradesh Integrated Irrigation and Agriculture Transformation Project (APIIATP) project, Mr. Shastry said during a farmers’ awareness programme at Budatanapalli in Gantyada mandal on Thursday. “The concept will be a reality in Vizianagaram when farmers will be able to concentrate on optimum utilisation of groundwater and tank based irrigation system,” he said. Citing the example of Israel, Mr. Shastry said such intervention has brought big success in the farm sector, despite scanty rainfall. “Proper maintenance of old tanks can assure farmers of irrigation water with the continuous recharge of groundwater, a common resource for all. We are planning to form groundwater users’ associations so that all would reap the benefits with various schemes including the recently launched Jalakala programme,” said Mr. Shastry. Tank irrigation Groundwater Department Assistant Director urged the residents to protect the old tanks such as Padmanabharaju tank, saying that it could assure irrigation for three crops in a year. Horticulture Assistant Director Vijayalakshmi urged the farmers to adopt the latest technology and water management techniques to generate more income. Speaking on the occasion, Integrated Rural People Welfare Association (IRPWA) Director P.K. Prakasha Rao said farmers mostly depend on groundwater with limited irrigation sources from the rivers. There are 39,605 borewells which ensures irrigation facility to 99,015 acres. Describing the APIIATP scheme as a boon to farmers, Mr. Prakash Rao urged farmers to protect the old tanks and watershed projects, saying that it would immensely augment the groundwater. Encroachment issues AIIATP project managers B.Veera Swamy, S. Ramarao, P. Satyanarayana clarified doubts of farmers. Some farmers expressed concern over the encroachment of tanks in their villages. The officials suggested them to bring the issues to the notice of the revenue and irrigation officials. Resource person A. Devudu, District Agriculture Committee member A. Devudu, IRPWA member Sridhar and others were present in the meeting.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apex court issues notice||On June 26 last year, the government issued a notification constituting a Cabinet Sub-Committee to review major policies, projects, programmes, institutions established and the key administrative actions taken by the TDP government following the bifurcation of the State of Andhra. The first report of the committee on December 27, 2019 pointed out “several procedural, legal and financial irregularities and fraudulent transactions concerned with various projects were highlighted, including in the Capital Region Development Authority region”. On February 21, 2020, the government issued another notification setting up a special investigation team (SIT) to “inquire, register, investigate and conclude the investigation” into the findings of the report. Both notifications were stayed by the High Court indefinitely in September last. “The entire process was extremely fair. The State was proceeding in a very, very cautious manner. The committee report suggested major manipulations. The SIT was constituted to look into financial irregularities... It was impossible for the High Court to interfere at a investigation stage... How could it interfere on the petitions of busybodies?”, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the government, submitted. ‘CBI probe sought’ Countering the High Court’s apprehensions of bias against it, the government said the State had suo motu sought a CBI investigation. Mr. Dave, along with senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, said a premature stay order from the High Court would only demoralise the investigation. “The High Court is not some extraordinary power, it is bound by law”, Mr. Dave submitted. The government petition said the two notifications were “necessitated in view of complaints relating to large scale improprieties/acts of corruption on part of the erstwhile government”. Mr. Dave said it was erroneous on the part of the High Court to believe that rule of law did not permit the incumbent to overturn the decision of the previous government.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New sand policy cleared||The Cabinet felt that facilities should be in place in such a way that users could directly go to the reaches and transport sand using their own vehicles without any additional cost. The government would fix the prices for buying at the reach and for door delivery based on the distance, while sand could be booked on both online and offline, he said, adding the contractor should make 20 vehicles available in case the customer asked for the vehicle to transport the sand. The sand reaches in scheduled areas would be handed over to tribal institutions as per PESA rules 2011. Likewise, the firms that were permitted to sand mining had to collect the sand from boatsmen societies in desiltation areas. The sale price would be frozen at sand reaches. The sand should not be sold above the fixed price. With this, both customer and the government would benefit, Mr. Kannababu added. The State government last month had reviewed the sand policy and decided to make changes to maintain more transparency. After facing criticism, the government constituted the cabinet sub committee to study the sand policies in the neighbouring States. Earlier, the government decided to set up the Andhra Pradesh Sand Corporation to implement the sand policy.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No room for complacency||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trying luck||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perfect perch||
06 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Assumes charge as Sub-Collector||The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, Project Officer, P Gowtham, on Thursday assumed full additional charge as Sub-Collector of Bhadrachalam. Later, he conducted a review meeting with the officials of the District Medical and Health Department on the implementation of measures for prompt diagnosis and prevention of COVID-19 in the Agency mandals. Mr Gowtham wanted the officials to make effective use of the mobile labs to ensure prompt diagnostic services to the needy in the far-flung areas of the Agency mandals.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS government set to promote ‘Walk to Work’ concept||The Telangana government has come up with an elaborate policy for development of integrated, self-contained townships outside the Outer Ring Road providing office, residential, institutional and commercial facilities at one place, along with all the infrastructural amenities. Rules and guidelines for the policy — The Telangana Comprehensive Integrated Township Policy Rules - 2020 — based on ‘Walk to Work’ concept, stipulate that the townships should be developed in a minimum 100 acres, at least five kilometres away from the nearest outer boundary of the Outer Ring Road. The area identified should have an access road of minimum 30 metres width for area below 300 acres, and 36 metres if above. In case it is not available, the developer should undertake to provide the access from the nearest 30-metre road. A minimum of 25 % and up to 50 % of the net area of the township, after provision of facilities such as roads, green spaces and open spaces, should be utilised for setting up a Work Centre — an all inclusive term for offices, commercial spaces, market, industry, transportation, and recreation spaces. Of the remaining portion, not less than 50 % of the net area should be set apart for residential purposes. The township should also provide educational and healthcare facilities, public utilities, and public transport. The norm for 10 % area for parks/gardens/playgrounds should be adhered to, and any allocation beyond will be exempted from the Change of Land Use charges. Design efficiency should aim at eco-friendly building concepts, energy conservation, zero waste, and better management of stormwater. Of the total plotted area, a maximum of 50 % would be allowed to be sold as open plots.  All income groups A minimum 10 % of the total dwelling units should be in the category of EWS and LIG. For all townships, there should be a Township Residents and Users Association (TRUA) to ensure maintenance and upkeep. A range of concessions are on the platter for the developers, including partial/complete waivers of development fee and property tax. Exemption will be 90 % on development charges on land, 100 % on built up area for EWS and LIG housing, 75 % for MIG, and 50 % for HIG dwelling units. Cent percent rebate on property tax is applicable for common facilities, and 50 % for all other properties, for five years. Five-year deferment is allowed on impact fee, while 100 % exemption is given on capitalisation charges. Automatic conversion of land use will be done once the necessary charges are paid. Inclusion of government/assigned land up to 10 % of the township is allowed with a cap of 10 acres, if the developer is willing to allocate the same extent at the end of his site. Proposals for the township projects to HMDA will be processed under TS-bPASS, and cleared within 60 days. Timeframe for preliminary approval is 21 days, and for final approval of DPR, 30 days.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||WFH may be in, but IT campuses to stay||IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Thursday said that work from home (WFH) may be in vogue now in the information technology industry, but campuses and workplaces are here to stay in the long run. Addressing the 28th annual summit of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA), the Minister listed measures the government was taking to disperse growth of the IT industry to the northern and eastern parts of the city. Commending resilience displayed by the IT industry amid pandemic, substantial donations it raised for COVID-relief and measures the government initiated to address challenges, including constitution of an SME advisory committee, to ensure a good portion of the government software work goes to the IT SMEs and setting up of Layoff Redressal Committee, Mr. Rao said, “We are also empathetic to the cause of the IT developers.” Given that real estate industry is the second largest employer, “We are working to address their challenges. Even though work from home is in vogue now, we believe that campuses and workplaces are there to stay in the long run,” he said. Underscoring need to reduce pressure building up on infrastructure in western Hyderabad, a preferred location of IT industry, he urged the industry to consider other locations such as Uppal, Pocharam, and Kompally. The Minister said that a new cluster in Kollur, in the north west, and a new tower in Kompally for the SMEs is to be opened. A policy in place to encourage IT firms setting up facilities in the GRID (Growth in Dispersion) regions or the eastern and northern parts of Hyderabad offered a slew of benefits, including 30% rental rebate for the SMEs. A company that brings in more than 500 employees to the GRID regions will get a customised incentive package, he pointed out. The annual summit titled HYSEA Innovation Summit 2020 with ‘Surge Ahead: Win the New Normal’ as its theme featured a conference, addressed by industry leaders, a product expo and presentation of annual industry awards. Delivering the opening keynote, Infosys COO U.B. Pravin Rao said that the pandemic has been one of the biggest business challenges ever posed, but it also acted as a catalyst for changes both technological and societal. Some of the business models adopted during the pandemic were unlikely to be reversed. Building resilience is critical for enterprise, he said, adding that future work will be hybrid model where people will have ability to work from anywhere. “From a workplace perspective, gone are the days of large campuses and thousands of people commuting. We will probably see smaller hubs,” he said. The HYSEA Lifetime Achievement Award was presented to former IAS officer J. Satyanarayana, who is presently advisor to the World Economic Forum, for his decades of contribution to the IT industry. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar was felicitated for his services to the IT industry as COVID nodal officer. A white paper, brought out by HYSEA in collaboration with KPMG and CBRE, on “Post-COVID imperatives for Hyderabad IT/ITeS industry” was released by the Minister. The Hindu was the media partner for the event.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth demands inquiry into flood relief distribution||Malkajgiri Member of Parliament and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president A. Revanth Reddy has demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao order for a vigilance and ACB inquiry into the distribution of money for flood victims claiming that nearly Rs. 200 crore has been siphoned off by the leaders of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). Mr. Reddy, who submitted a representation to the Additional Commissioner at LB Nagar after failing to reach the Zonal Commissioner, said that as per official claims Rs. 400 crore have been distributed so far and of this Rs. 200 crore were siphoned off by the TRS MLAs and the corporators. This is being done with all the knowledge of the government, he alleged and asked why the government was distributing cash instead of depositing it in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Bank transfer The government had deposited Rs. 1500 as relief during the first three months of lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and this time it chose to distribute cash to the extent of Rs. 500 crore, he noted. “This itself is an indication that TRS party doesn’t want the money to go to the people who lost everything in the floods but only to their leaders and near and dear ones,” the Congress working president claimed. Citing an example the Congress MP said in a small house 9 people were shown as having received the benefit despite the fact that most of them don’t even stay there. “TRS leaders collected Aadhaar cards and took the money,” he claimed and said he was ready to provide evidence in several such cases across the city.  TRS distribution He said when the Zonal Commissioner was asked about TRS leaders distributing money, he agreed it shouldn’t have been done. “He expressed his helplessness stating that nothing was in his hands,” Mr. Reddy claimed and asked people to realise how the money meant for them was being looted. “When I questioned why I was not invited despite being the local Parliamentarian the Zonal Commissioner feigned ignorance,” the MP said. Mr. Reddy claimed he was omitted from the distribution programme fearing he would question the loot. “Inquiry should be done based on house number and Aadhar number of each beneficiary and the truth would come out,” he said.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Win-win for health freaks, farmers and environment||There are more consumers of chemical-free food today than there were a few years ago. Beyond the organic labels, nudging consumers to think about sustainable practices that are good for farmers, soil health and the ecosystem, is Beyond Organic. A collaborative initiative by Disha Collective and Deccan Development Society (DDS), Beyond Organic (confarm.mystrikingly.com) connects 100 urban consumers with nearly 100 farmers in Zaheerabad, Sangareddy district. The initiative began in 2017. Each year, consumers invest Rs. 12,500 to Rs. 25,000, which works as an interest-free loan for the farmers. In return, consumers get grains and pulses. “Most farmers own not more than one or two acres,” says Tejaswi Dantuluri, co-founder and managing director of Disha Collective. DDS guides the farmers, mostly women, in natural farming methods. The emphasis is on biodiversity, with farmers cultivating 15 varieties of grains and pulses — jowar, bajra, ragi and other millets, horse gram, green moong, toor, urad, sesame, lobia and more. The consumer connect has guaranteed farmers an assured market. “About 98 farmers from Arjun Naik Thanda of Zaheerabad no longer depend on loans with interest. They also don’t depend on outside markets to sell their produce. As for consumers, they could get uninterrupted supply of healthy grains even during lockdown,” says Tejaswi. Beyond Organic also encourages urban consumers to visit the farms during festivals or partake in harvesting. The quantity of grains and pulses that consumers get to take home is decided based on yield and size of each grain cultivation, explains Tejaswi: “If a farm has 50% millets, 30% pulses and 20% vegetables, the consumer basket is in that proportion approximately.” Tejaswi’s interest in food and health stemmed from her father Satyanarayana Raju, who has been an avid enthusiast of holistic wellness practices. Years ago, when the family lived in Pune and lost a close relative in his 20s due to a health condition, it got them thinking seriously about health. “Gradually, our home became a place for deeper discussions on wellness; my father formed a study circle called Disha to discuss health, environment, stress factors and related topics,” says Tejaswi. Once Mr.Raju moved to Hyderabad after retirement, the interest in agroecology and health became a mainstay. Meanwhile, Tejaswi had taken up graduation in physics and enrolled into NCC’s air wing, wanting to be a pilot. In a year, she experienced what it meant to fly. When she thought she was working her way towards being a pilot, an accident grounded her. “I was bedridden for a couple of months,” she recalls. However, that too became a turning point. The family’s focus on food, health and ecology had a bearing on her. “From wanting to fly, I got more interested in soil health and people dependent on it,” she says. After completing her master’s course in communications, she began interacting with farmers when she took up a communications posting with the DDS. Looking ahead, Tejaswi says Beyond Organic is keen to have more urban consumers on board to help more farmers take up traditional biodiverse farming: “We have nearly 500 farmers ready to be supported but we don’t have enough consumers on board. We are looking at organisations, schools and IT companies who can partner with farmers.”  About 98 farmers from Arjun Naik Thanda of Zaheerabad no longer depend on loans with interest. They also don’t depend on outside markets to sell their produce. As for consumers, they could get uninterrupted supply of healthy grains even during lockdown Tejaswi Dantuluri, co-founder and managing director of Disha Collective
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State adds 1,539 COVID cases, five succumb||Telangana recorded 1,539 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 2,45,682. While 44,327 people were examined, results of 555 were awaited. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The new 1,539 cases include 285 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 123 from Rangareddy, 102 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 86 from Karimnagar, 82 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, and 69 from Nalgonda. The lowest of one case was recorded in Narayanpet, and four in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. The cases in Bhadradri Kothagudem, which spiked on Monday and Tuesday, dropped to below 100 that was usually recorded on other days. Of the 44,327 people who got tested, 41,377 opted government health facilities and 2,950 were examined at private labs. From March 2 to November 4, a total of 44,84,183 samples were examined and 2,45,682 were found with coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 18,656 are active cases, 2,25,664 have recovered, and 1,362 have died. In the 61 State government hospitals, 4,622 oxygen beds and 1,370 ICU beds were available on Wednesday. And in the 225 private hospitals, 2,881 oxygen beds and 2,283 ICU beds were vacant.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Focus on safety of women travelling alone in trains||South Central Railway (SCR) on Thursday launched “Meri Saheli”, an initiative to ensure security of women, especially those who are travelling alone. About eight important trains have been identified for the campaign, where a team of young woman Railway Protection Force (RPF) sub-inspectors or staff will interact with women passengers at the originating station. Passengers are told about the precautions to be taken during the journey and are advised to dial ‘182’ in case of any emergency. The RPF team collects the seat numbers of the women passengers and conveys to them about the stoppages en-route. The platform duty RPF personnel at the stations en-route will keep an unobtrusive watch over the coaches and berths concerned and if need arises, interact with the passengers. Onboard RPF/RPSF escort will also cover the coaches/identified berths during their duty period. RPF teams will also collect feedback from identified women passengers at the destination stations. If some distress call comes from any woman passenger, the disposal of the call is monitored at the level of senior officers. The following trains are covered under the initiative: 07201 Golconda Express — Guntur–Secunderabad, 07202 Golconda Express — Secunderabad–Guntur, 02778 Godavari Express — Hyderabad–Visakhapatnam, 02793 Rayalaseema Express — Tirupati–Nizamabad, 02715 Sachkand Express — H.S. Nanded–Amritsar, 01142 Nandigram Express — Kinwat–CSMT, 07225 Amaravati Express — Vijayawada–Hubbali and 02785 Mysore Express — Kacheguda–Mysore.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC draft electoral rolls to be published tomorrow||The State Election Commission has directed the officials concerned to complete preparation of draft electors’ lists for the forthcoming elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation by November 7. Notification for preparation of voters’ list was issued on October 31 and the draft voter lists would be published on November 7 while the final voters’ lists after corrections will be published on November 13. Eligible voters who did not register their votes before the deadline could apply online or personally to the deputy commissioners concerned before the notification for the election is issued. State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathy has directed the Commissioner GHMC to coordinate with collectors and other senior officials of the neighbouring districts in ensuring that elections were held in free and fair manner. Participating in a review meeting attended by the GHMC Commissioner and collectors of Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts on Thursday, he said the term of the present body of the GHMC would end on February 10 next year and arrangements should be made accordingly to complete elections for the corporation before that. He said the additional collectors (local bodies) would be designated as deputy election authorities in the respective districts and orders to this effect would be issued immediately. In the light of COVID-19 pandemic, the officials concerned should take steps to ensure that polling stations were located in spacious buildings. Steps should be taken to ensure that a maximum of 1,000 voters are listed under one polling station and each such polling station should have a presiding officer assisted by three polling personnel. In case of polling stations where there were more than 1,000 voters, an additional polling officer should be deployed on duty. The SEC said reservation of wards for SCs, STs, BCs and women made in 2016 would continue for the next election too and officials concerned should take steps to constitute mobile, static surveillance and flying squads with the help of the police. Steps should be taken to set up distribution, reception and counting centres in line with the COVID-19 norms and focus should be on enforcing election expenditure norms.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Decide on extending graduate MLC voter enrolment dates’||The Telangana High Court on Thursday sought to know from the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the State Election Commission (SEC) if they can extend the time for enrolment of voters for the two Graduate MLC constituencies for which elections are to be held. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the ECI and the SEC to inform the court by today (Friday) about their decision on extension of dates for enrolment of voters. Earlier, the ECI had issued a notification announcing November 6 (today) as the last day for enrolment of voters for the two Graduate MLC constituencies of 1) Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Mahbubnagar and Medak and 2) Nalgonda, Khammam and Warangal. A lawyer from Ramanthapur, Hyderabad, T.V. Ramesh, filed a writ petition seeking a direction to the ECI and the SEC to extend the time for enrolment of voters till December 7. The petitioner contended that adequate publicity was not given for enrolment of voters as the authorities were engaged in relief works following the devastation caused in Hyderabad due to recent floods. In this backdrop, it is not fair to go ahead with the earlier announced timings for enrolment of voters and would be against principles of natural justice, the petitioner’s lawyer Chikkudu Prabhakar contended. He informed the court that the petitioner had made this appeal to the election authorities but the latter did not respond. ECI’s standing counsel Avinash Desai told the court that the time schedule announced by the authorities was a statutory one. He sought time to secure instructions on the matter. “Those dates announced by the ECI may be relevant in normal circumstances. During the present circumstances of COVID-19 pandemic, torrential rains, not only the State but the entire country was affected,” the bench observed. The bench wondered if the ECI would continue to stick to its election schedule if an enemy country attacked the country. It said that ECI should take a call on the matter keeping in view the situation prevailing across the country. “The dates decided by ECI and the SEC are mere directives, not mandatory,” the bench noted. It instructed the ECI and the SEC to inform the court about their decision on the issues raised by the petitioner today (Friday).
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Control room set up to address technical issues of Dharani||As the operations of Dharani, the integrated land record management system portal, are stabilizing fast, the State government has opened a full-fledged control room in BRKR Bhavan, the temporary Secretariat complex for monitoring the processes and addressing complaints in real time. A 100-member team of professionals has been exclusively created to address the technical issues while Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar himself is personally monitoring the functioning of the portal from time to time. The website registered 5.48 lakh views so far and 2,622 registrations, involving payment of fee of Rs. 7.7 crore were carried out in the first three days. The Chief Secretary, accompanied by the officials of the Registration and Stamps Department, visited the control room to monitor the proceedings. He expressed satisfaction that the system had been stabilised. So far, 5,971 persons booked their slots while 6,239 persons made payment required for slot booking. Mr. Somesh Kumar, who conducted a teleconference with District Collectors during the day, asked them to ensure that proceedings related to slots booked by the persons were completed the same day without fail. They were directed to take steps to utilise the Dharani portal effectively for conducting registrations/mutations in transparent and simple manner. There should be no scope for discretion to anyone and serious action would be initiated against those found negligent in discharging their duty, he said.  Serious action will be initiated against those found negligent in discharging their duty. Somesh Kumar, Chief Secretary.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||16 CSIR-IICT scientists make it to Stanford University study||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) tops among all CSIR labs as per Stanford University study with 16 scientists from the institute figuring among top 2% of world researchers in different areas of research. The study titled “Updated science-wide author databases of standardised citation indicators” was recently published in ‘PLOS BIOLOGY’ where the authors provided updated analyses. The rankings are based on publications, and citations, among others. Scientists listed are Dr. S. Venkata Mohan in Biotechnology, Dr. Darshan Ranganathan in General Chemistry, Dr. S. V. Manorama in Materials, Dr. Ahmed Kamal, Dr. C. Ganesh Kumar, Dr. Ashok Kumar Tiwari, Dr. J. V. Rao in Medicinal & Biomolecular Chemistry, Dr. J. S. Yadav (dormer director), Dr. G. Sabitha, Dr. Biswanath Das, Dr. Srivari Chandrasekhar (Director), Dr. H. M. Meshram, Dr. B. V. Subba Reddy in organic chemistry, Dr. B. M. Reddy in physical chemistry, Dr. S. Palaniappan in polymers, Dr. Chittaranjan Patra in nanoscience and nanotechnology Apart from the above 16 scientists who made it, former director Dr. M. Lakshmi Kantham (now in ICT Mumbai), former deputy director Dr. B. M. Choudhary (Tezpur University) and former deputy director Dr. T. K. Chakraborty (now in IISc) are also listed in the area of organic chemistry. IICT director S. Chandrasekhar congratulated the scientists.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIIT-H develops unique lip-sync method||A team of researchers from the International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H) have developed a method to sync-lip movements of speakers in out-of-sync videos. The artificial intelligence and machine learning powered solution, researchers say, has an array of applications, such as in gaming that involve three dimensional virtual avatars, which ‘talk’ to each other, and also in tackling problems posed by deep fake videos. The IIIT-H’s Centre for Visual Information Technology researchers Rudrabha Mukhopadhyay and Prajwal K.R., along with professors C.V. Jawahar and Vinay Namboodiri embarked on the Wav2Lip project around February this year. Mr. Prajwal said that the team first began working with a Face-to-Face Translation project, which led to the subsequent development of Wav2Lip, an improvement over LipGAN module. “In augmented reality games, you have 3D avatars that interact with each other. If a player wants his or her character in the game to interact with another player’s character, and if he or she speaks into the mic, then the lip movements can be synced on to the face of that character. This is a possible application,” Mr. Prajwal said. He gave an example of a video of a speech that was live-translated. The lip movements were usually not in sync with the translation. Wav2Lip can change all that. “The goal is to train a lip-sync model that will take an audio and generate new lip movements,” he said, adding that a large dataset of around 1,000 identities, or persons, are taken along with several thousand video clips of them speaking. After this, the model, he said, learns to generate lip movements. “This can also be used by those who are engaged in deep fake video detection,” he says. Another important application is in the field of education. Several lecture videos can be translated in several languages and lip-synced for students to watch and learn. Speakers’ lips in press conferences can be synced in translations, in films and in case video signals are lost during video calls. Mr. Prajwal added that as of now, the code and project are open-sourced for researchers to use. A demo has also been released.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for rape, murder of missing woman||Three persons were arrested by the Ramachandrapuram police of Cyberabad on Thursday in connection with the gangrape and murder of a woman who was reported to be missing. Police said that on Tuesday night, the 30-year-old victim was allegedly kidnapped by the accused — Madhu, K. Kutumba Rao (27) and Chindam Nandu Yadav (28) — from Miyapur. The victim, a widow, was a resident of Kollur and had gone to her mother’s house in Miyapur. “They took her inside a shed in an agricultural field between Kollur and Nagarkal, where the trio plied her with alcohol and sexually assaulted her,” Madhapur in-charge DCP M. Venkateswarlu said. He said that the woman lost consciousness and died on the spot. Later on Wednesday morning, when she did not return home and her phone was not reachable, her mother lodged a woman missing complaint with Miyapur police. In the meantime, villagers found the victim’s body in the shed and alerted police. “Based on the information, a team of Miyapur police went to Kollur and confirmed that she was the missing woman,” Mr. Venkateswarlu said.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, CSIR-CCMB to focus on plant forensics||CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) is expanding its research efforts in plant forensics in addition to the advances made in animal forensics using cutting edge DNA based technology, said director Rakesh Mishra on Thursday. ‘Boost to bio-economy’ “Both together will be very helpful in a tighter quality control, build effective regulations, and give a boost to our bio-economy,” he said, at the three-day international e-conference “Recent Advances and Status of Wildlife Forensics” by the Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species (LaCONES). It is the dedicated lab for wildlife research and conservation in India. The meeting brought together nearly 700 wildlife biologists, veterinarians, scientists, students and conservationists from across the world. The conference was inaugurated by CSIR director-general Shekhar Mande and Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change Prakash Javadekar also addressed the meeting. Mr. Javadekar underscored the need for wildlife forensics as the country takes up several major conservation efforts for big cats to marine life. But he also alluded to an increasing threat from wildlife criminals to these protected species. “To nip these criminals in their buds, we need to present irrefutable evidences in the court of law, which can come from forensic sciences,” he pointed out. Dr. Mande commended LaCONES for their long-standing efforts in developing tools in wildlife forensics and called for various stakeholders to come together for conservation. CCMB scientists Ajay Gaur and Anuradha Reddy were convenors of this conference organised to discuss global status of wildlife crime, molecular technologies available to tackle the same, and their applications for law enforcement. Participants were addressed by renowned wildlife experts and included leaders from various government and non-government organisations in wildlife conservation and sustainable development such as TRAFFIC International, USA, TRACE Wildlife Forensic Network, UK, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, India, Global Tiger Forum and Lawyers’ Initiative for Forest and Environment. They shared their views on legal applications of wildlife DNA forensics and law enforcement. A panel discussion was also conducted on possible measures to counter tiger poaching and illegal trade, a release said.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three arrested for online trading racket||The sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (West Zone) raided Sureka Associates in Abids, Hyderabad and apprehended three persons who were accused of carrying out a high profile campaign and luring gullible people with false promises to make them rich overnight through money circulation schemes. They had floated one ‘HYPENEXT’ firm. Police seized a laptop, three mobile phones and other material from their possession. The accused are 46-year-old Hadman Lal Kumavath from New Delhi, 44-year-old Milan Gopal from Kutch in Gujrat and 48-year-old Narpat Jain from Troop Bazar. Task Force DCP (OSD) P. Radha Kishan Rao said, the accused used to do online trading and did not return money to customers.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for house burglaries||Two youngsters were arrested by the Hyderabad city police in connection with eight house burglary cases. The police recovered 35 tola gold ornaments worth Rs. 17.5 lakh and Rs. 1.25 lakh in cash from the accused 25-year-old car driver Nenavath Vinod Kumar from Mallapur and 25-year-old auto driver Katravath Rajesh from Saidabad. They were apprehended by the East Zone task force team. “Between 2014 and 2019, Kumar was involved in as many as 42 cases and was arrested by police of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda Commissionerate,” Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. He was detained under PD Act three times in 2015, 2017 and 2019.  “After being released from jail in January 2020, he did not change,” he said.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Many municipal commissioners shifted||In a reshuffle in the Municipal Administration Department, several municipal commissioners were transferred and given new postings. In the process, new deputy commissioners were appointed to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation while some officers who were waiting posting were given postings. Boduppal municipal commissioner N. Shanker has been transferred and posted as deputy commissioner of GHMC, and he will be replaced by Karimnagar additional commissioner Bhongir Srinivas. B. Vamsi Krishna and Thumkunta municipal commissioner B. Surender Reddy have also been posted as GHMC deputy commissioners. Narsinghi municipal commissioner G. Srinivas Reddy had been posted as Tandur municipal commissioner and he will be replaced by Satya Babu. Zaheerabad municipal commissioner G. Vikrama Simha Reddy had been posted as municipal commissioner of Kollapur replacing Venkataiah who had been posted as Devarakonda municipal commissioner in place of M. Poorna Chander Rao. Mr. Poorna Chander Rao had been posted as Bhongir municipal commissioner. Jangaon municipal commissioner N. Ravinder has been posted as Mahbubabad municipal commissioner and he will be replaced by S. Sammaiah, who is waiting for posting. Kodad municipal commissioner Dhandu Srinivas had been posted as municipal commissioner Thirmalgiri and V. Gopaiah is posted as municipal commissioner of Neredcharla.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. signature campaign against farm bills||Demanding the repeal of the farm bills passed in Parliament, the Telangana Congress continued its signature campaign on Thursday at several places in Vikarabad and Chevella where the AICC in-charge Manickam Tagore participated. Mr. Tagore said the Congress party would stand with the farmers and would ensure that the new farm bills do not harm the farmers who, according to him, will lose access to market yards and corporate companies will play havoc with the farming sector. He said the market committees and the minimum support price were the weapons given to the farmers by the Congress governments in the past and the BJP wants to take away that power from them.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dr. Raghuram conferred honorary fellowship||President of the Association of Surgeons of India Dr. P. Raghuram was conferred the honorary fellowship of the College of Surgeons of Sri Lanka at a virtual inaugural ceremony of the 49th Annual Sri Lanka Surgical Congress held on Thursday. Dr. Raghu Ram, who is also the director of KIMS-Usha Lakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases, delivered a keynote address on “The Art and Science of Oncoplastic Breast Conserving Surgery”.
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||24x7 speed post counter inaugurated||The Department of Posts on Thursday inaugurated a 24x7 speed post counter at the Parcel Processing Centre in Auto Nagar. Colonel Sagar Hanuman Singh, Postmaster General, Hyderabad headquarters, inaugurated the counter at the PPC, which deals exclusively with parcel business. The mechanised PPC caters to customers who book business and speed post parcels in bulk. The inaugural function was attended by S.V. Rao, DPS, Hyderabad, Headquarters region, T.A.V. Sharma, SSRM, Hyderabad sorting Dn, and C. Pawan Kumar, Joint Manager, Parcel Processing Centre, Hyderabad.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man succumbs to burns||Srinivas, 25, a cable operator from L.B. Nagar, who set himself ablaze on Nov. 1 in front of BJP State party office at Nampally, succumbed to burns on Thursday. He suffered 80% burns and was undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital in Secunderabad. He set himself on fire protesting the recent arrest of BJP State president Bandi Sanjay at Siddipet. Passers-by rescued him, doused flames with water and rushed him to Osmania General Hospital, from there he was shifted to the corporate hospital. He was yelling ‘Jai Sanjay anna, Jai Raghunandan anna, Jai BJP’ after setting himself ablaze. “Sanjay anna's arrest is illegal. On that day I was down with fever so I couldn’t go there. I am ready to do anything for my party, Sanjay anna, Aravind anna (Nizamabad MP) and Raghunandan anna,” he said after he was rescued by passers-by. (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.)
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Odisha sets an example in tsunami-ready status’||Coastal states should take Odisha as an example for achieving the “Tsunami ready” status as it had done to two villages - Venkatraipur and Noliasahi recently - becoming the first among all the Indian Ocean rim countries, suggested National Disaster Management Agency (NDMA) member secretary G.V.S. Sharma on Thursday. Participating in a webinar conducted by the India National Centre for Oceanic Information System (INCOIS) on the occasion of ‘World Tsunami Awarness Day ’as designated by United Nations, Mr. Sharma said, “we cannot control the occurrence of an earthquake even with state-of-arts technologies. However, we can definitely mitigate the possible disaster by taking adequate measures by improving community awareness and preparedness, like people must be aware how to respond to them, either natural warning signs or official.” INCOIS has been organizing many national and international workshops.
06 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two youngsters consume pesticide, die||A 22-year-old youth and his teenage ‘girlfriend’ died after consuming pesticide in the former’s agricultural field at Malreddypally village in Tandur mandal of Vikarabad district. The victims, Balraj and the girl aged 16 years, were in a relationship for the last six months and on Tuesday night around 10.30 p.m. they resorted to the extreme step after their family members reportedly refused to get them married since she was still a minor, Tandur Deputy Superintendent of Police A Laxmi Narayana told The Hindu. After their parents came to know about the act, they rushed to the spot and shifted them to Government Hospital, Tandur, he said As the girl’s condition started deteriorating, she was shifted to a private hospital in Vikarabad on Wednesday morning around 8 a.m. From there she was rushed to another private hospital in Hyderabad, where doctors declared her brought dead. Case registered Meanwhile Balraj’s condition too became worse and he was taken to a private hospital in Chevella and from there to another hospital at Langer Houz in Hyderabad. As per the advice of the doctors there, Balraj’s parents shifted him to Osmania General Hospital, where he died while undergoing treatment on Wednesday night, Mr. Laxmi Narayana said. A case was registered and investigation was in progress, said the police.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)
06 November 2020||M. RajeevHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt speeds up formalities to hand over Secretariat site||As the tenders for construction of the integrated Secretariat complex are being finalised, the government has initiated steps to complete the formalities for commencing the construction works at the earliest. Infrastructure development company Shapoorji Pallonji bagged the contract for the construction of the new Secretariat complex after emerging as the lowest bidder quoting 4 per cent excess over the estimated value. The State government on its part had sanctioned Rs. 617 crore for the construction of the new integrated complex. The construction cost has been increased by more than Rs. 100 crore as more components were added. The contracting firm had already handed over the letter of acceptance after the bids were evaluated by the Commissionerate of Tenders. This will be followed by signing of agreement with the Roads & Buildings department within two weeks after submitting bank guarantees. The 12-month deadline for completing the construction process in all respects kicks in from the day of signing of agreement between the contracting firm and the R&B department, senior officials said. “ It (the contracting firm) has to submit performance security, establish concrete batching plant and put up labour camps. Simultaneously, steps should be taken to mobilise construction materials like cement, steel and sand in the required quantities,” a senior official told The Hindu . Works pertaining to marking of the area for main building, other buildings and the boundary wall had started and the site would be handed over to the firm once they are completed. Officials were, however, tight-lipped when asked about the exact date of commencement of construction, whether it would be before Diwali or after the festival. “We can’t exactly say when the work will start. But it will certainly start this month,” the official said.
06 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Food processing unit launched||For the first time in Telangana, tribal women have started a food processing unit. This was inaugurated at Untnoor. This food processing unit is part of a successful collaboration between the Tribal Cooperative Finance Corporation Limited (TRICOR), Tribal Welfare Department of Telangana, Government of India’s Ministry of Tribal Affairs and ICRISAT’s Agribusiness and Innovation Platform (AIP). This collaboration aims to localise production and address malnutrition, besides improving economic conditions of tribal communities. Allola Indrakaran Reddy, Minister for Endowment, Law, Forest and Environment, Telangana, inaugurated the tribal women-run food processing unit in Utnoor on Monday. The Komaram Bheem Peanut Chikki Industries is wholly owned by first generation tribal entrepreneurs. The unit will supply to government nutrition programmes and anganwadis in the tribal region. The ICRISAT-led project transforms tribal women into first generation entrepreneurs by helping them produce healthy, nutritious foods from dryland crops. “I am delighted to inaugurate the Komaram Bheem Peanut Chikki Industries in Utnoor. This unit is a testament to Telangana government’s commitment to development and welfare of tribal populations in the State. That the unit is owned and run by women is another reason for celebration,” the Minister said. The food processing unit is designed and equipped with machinery as per Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) guidelines. It will ensure production of nutritious food products meeting national and international market standards. ICRISAT has trained 80 tribal women farmers from Utnoor, Eturnagaram and Bhadrachalam in Telangana to manage food processing units that are being set up in these blocks. The training covered food safety management systems, machine operations and maintenance, and quality control. The women will produce hygienically packed, safe and nutritious foods for their communities. ICRISAT has enabled women to form Joint Liability Groups (JLGs) to manage the food processing units. “This is a great example of the values that form the basis of ICRISAT’s work - empowering women and the less privileged. Such success is only possible through partnership, and working with the Department of Tribal Welfare has been a wonderful opportunity and their leadership is greatly appreciated,” said Dr Jacqueline d’Arros Hughes, Director General, ICRISAT. “ICRISAT will continue to support the project towards sustainably scaling up this unique initiative to promote economic independence of tribal women and ensuring the nutritional security of their communities,” said Dr Kiran K Sharma, Deputy Director General-Research, ICRISAT. The project trains tribal women to be “Nutrition Entrepreneurs” and is critical to ensure evolution of local value chains around local food production and consumption to make vulnerable tribal communities sustainable, especially post COVID-19. This initiative will empower tribal communities.
06 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Trident Sugars told to pay arrears soon||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao warned the management of Trident Sugars located in Zaheerabad to pay arrears of Rs. 12.74 crore to farmers before November 18 or face action under the Revenue Recovery Act (RR Act). In a meeting held with farmers, officials and management representatives at MCR HRD in Hyderabad on Thursday, Mr. Rao said that government can not be a mute spectator if injustice is meted out to farmers. “We are creating industry-friendly environment and at this juncture farmers being neglected by industry will not be tolerated. Interests of about 9,000 farmers is at stake. The factory management lost farmers trust and its the responsibility of the company to create confidence among them. Release arrears of Rs. 5 crore on November 11 and Rs. 8 crore on November 18. Any violation will be dealt with firmly and action will be initiated under the RR Act,” the Minister said in the meeting.
06 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Land disputes will be a thing of the past’||Collector Bharathi Hollikeri said that farmers should use Dharani facility for hassle-free transactions. Ms. Bharathi visited Mulugu Mandal Revenue Office (MRO) and examined the process of Dharani. MRO P. Yadagiri explained the process being followed while issuing pattadar pass books and informed that so far 16 registrations were processed from the office. He said that there is good response to the facility. “Disputes in land dealings will be addressed permanently. There is no chance for corruption. Anyone can book online slot by paying Rs. 200 for registration and this can be done even with smart phone,” Ms. Bharathi said.
06 November 2020||FARIDABAD,||Chargesheet in Nikita Tomar case today||The Faridabad police are set to file a chargesheet in the sensational Nikita Tomar murder case on Friday. Faridabad Police Commissioner O.P. Singh told The Hindu that the chargesheet had been vetted by the District Attorney and forwarded to the court. The police sources said that document had around 600 pages and named 60 prosecution witnesses. Home Minister Anil Vij had announced to set up a fast track court for day-to-day hearing in the case. Nikita, 20, was shot point-blank allegedly by her former classmate Tausif outside Aggarwal college on Oct. 26. She died during treatment.
06 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram to allow crackers only for two hours this Deepavali||The bursting of firecrackers would be allowed for only two hours on Deepavali night at eight designated places across the district here. The orders to this effect were passed by the Gurugram District Magistrate on Thursday under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The eight places designated for community celebration and bursting of firecrackers are: Sector 29, HUDA Ground; Beri Wala Bagh near mini-secretariat; Sector 5, HUDA Ground; Sector 47, City Centre near Bhaktawar Chowk; Devi Lal Stadium, Sohna; Sector 1, HUDA, Pataudi; Open space near Aggarwal Dharamshala, Haily Mandi and Purana Ramleela Ground, Farrukh Nagar. Cracker bursting will be allowed only from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on November 14. Gurugram District Magistrate Amit Khatri said the orders were issued in view of the safety of the people due to emergent pollution in the district. SHO will be liable As per the orders, Station House Officer of the police station concerned will be held personally liable for any violation of the directions and this would amount to committing contempt of the court and the officer would proceeded against accordingly.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi’s air quality slips to ‘severe’ category; worst since Dec. 2019||The Capital’s air quality deteriorated on Thursday and settled in the “severe” category with an average 24-hour score on the Air Quality Index (AQI) of 450, the highest since December 30, 2019, when it was 446. Air quality monitoring agencies said that 42% of the city’s pollution was caused due to farm fires, which was the maximum so far this season. Smog clears On Wednesday, thick smog engulfed the city and the AQI was in the “very poor” category at 343. It slowly rose to the “severe” category as conditions were unfavourable for the dispersal of smoke from the farm fires. The smog, however, cleared on Thursday. Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram and Noida also recorded ‘severe’ air pollution according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said that the air quality suddenly deteriorated from around 12 p.m. on Wednesday as the wind direction from stubble burning side led to the trapping of intruded fire-related and local pollutants to a layer very close to the surface. “The AQI is likely to improve to the lower end of the “severe” to higher end of the “very poor” category for the next two days as accumulated load is very high,” SAFAR said. It added that the SAFAR-synergised stubble fire counts over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and neighbouring areas increased significantly and stood at 4,135 on Wednesday, the highest of the season and the stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi's air is estimated at 42% for Thursday. “Better dispersion condition and not-so-low day-time boundary layer height is forecast for the next two days is likely to improve air quality unless more than estimated fire-related emission take place,” the bulletin added.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. orders ban on crackers||The Delhi government on Thursday put a complete ban on the sales, purchase, and use of all firecrackers in Delhi between November 7 and November 30. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also appealed to the residents to celebrate Deepavali by performing Lakshmi Puja at their homes instead of bursting crackers. The ban came on a day when the air quality in the Capital turned “severe” and Delhiites in many areas burst crackers on the occasion of Karva Chauth on Wednesday. A government official said that the cracker ban included “green crackers” that had been permitted for use by the Supreme Court. The apex court in 2018 had banned the use of conventional firecrackers in Delhi and had permitted the use of “green crackers” during a two-hour window on Deepavali between 8 p.m and 10 p.m. Event to be livestreamed Mr. Kejriwal said that he will be performing Lakshmi Puja on Deepavali, along with other Cabinet Ministers, which will be livestreamed by some TV channels and requested everybody to join in. “If we burn crackers, we will be playing with the health of our children and our family,” he said.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Determine penalty on thermal plants: tribunal||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Central Pollution Control Board to determine the amount of compensation to be levied on thermal power plants that are not utilising the fly ash causing pollution. The Union Environment Ministry and the CPCB were also directed to file further status reports on the same. A Bench observed, “Non-utilisation and improper disposal of fly ash leads to increase in air pollution and causes severe health problems.”
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT reserves order on cracker ban||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday reserved its order on a plea seeking remedial action against pollution caused due to firecrackers. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel is expected to pass orders on November 9. On Wednesday, the tribunal had said, “With respect to non-attainment cities, where air quality as per record maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board [CPCB] is beyond norms, which are 122 in number, the tribunal may have to consider direction to prohibit use of firecrackers during the period air quality is beyond a threshold to protect the health of vulnerable groups.”
06 November 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. BJP serves notice on three party leaders||The Madhya Pradesh BJP has served notice on three leaders for “anti-party activities” during the by-election, indicating resentment among experienced party workers on the seats where supporters of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia were fielded. The notice was served on Wednesday on former Minister Gaurishankar Shejwar, his son Mudit and former MLA Gajraj Singh Sikarwar. It sought a clarification from them before State BJP president V.D. Sharma within seven days or face disciplinary action. “You have continuously undertaken anti-party activities against the official candidate,” the notice said. “Complaints of this action have reached the State leadership, owing to which the party’s image has been tarnished. This action of yours comes under grave indiscipline.” Mr. Shejwar, a seven-time MLA, has been accused of anti-party activities against Prabhuram Choudhary, party candidate from Sanchi, from where Mr. Mudit lost to Dr. Choudhary, then a Congressman, in the 2018 Vidhan Sabha election. The candidate, the Public Health and Family Welfare Minister, was among the 19 Congress MLAs who along with Mr. Scindia switched over to the BJP in March. ‘A regular process’ “Whenever there is a complaint against someone, it’s a regular process that a reply is sought from them. I will say the allegations against me are false,” Mr. Shejwar told The Hindu . “No one was upset with the new candidate. There is no rebellion. Most workers have supported him.” On Sunday, the party expelled former MLA Satyapal Singh Sikarwar, son of Mr. Gajraj, for anti-party activities.
06 November 2020||Guwahati,||Process to kill blowout well begins||Oil India Limited (OIL) has begun the process of setting up a snubbing unit to “go for the kill” at the blowout well in eastern Assam’s Baghjan. OIL officials said 60 tonnes of equipment flown in from Canada’s Calgary by an Antonov An-24 reached the blowout well site late on Wednesday. The equipment was shipped by road from Kolkata airport, where the flight had touched down a fortnight ago. The equipment largely comprises a snubbing truck mounted with a snubbing unit for killing the blowout well before abandoning it. Killing entails injecting artificial mud into the well at very high pressure to fill up the well and stop the gas from coming out. “The process to kill the blowout well has begun, but it will take four to five days for the snubbing unit to be ready to start the operation,” spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||HC tells I&B Ministry to investigate disclosure of RTI applicants’ details||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (I&B) to conduct an inquiry into how personal details of more than 4,000 Right to Information (RTI) applicants, including Saket Gokhale, were made public on its official website. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav directed the secretary of the I&B Ministry to inquire into this issue within three months failing which Mr. Gokhale has the liberty to approach this court again. The Bench also directed the ministry to pay Mr. Gokhale Rs. 25,000 towards litigation costs. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Gokhale stating that he had filed an RTI application seeking details on the government of India’s “Bharat Ki Laxmi” campaign with the Ministry of Youth and Sports Affairs, in October 2019. In November, the RTI application was uploaded on the I&B website along with his contact details. They also became available on search engines like Google. In July, 2020, after he filed a petition before the Allahabad High Court seeking a stay on the inauguration of Ram Janambhoomi amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, he started receiving several calls and messages, “threatening, harassing, abusing, and intimidating him”. Mr. Gokhale thus sought Rs. 50 lakh as compensation from the I&B Ministry for displaying his details on its website. While disposing of the plea, the court granted Mr. Gokhale the liberty to approach the court again if the inquiry was not initiated by the ministry. Advocate Rui Rodrigues, representing the I&B Ministry, told the court that disciplinary action had already been initiated. To this, the Bench said that such action was initiated “on November 3 after the court reserved its order (on the plea)”. In the last hearing, Mr. Rodrigues had said, “Petitioner’s details were disclosed on the website in compliance with an office memorandum of 2014 wherein proactive disclosure of details of RTI applications, appeals etc. was mandated.” He had also submitted that after receiving Mr. Gokhale’s letter protesting the move to upload personal details alleging harassment as a result, the ministry of 2016 memorandum was followed. “But, until then, it was too late and details of 4,474 applicants had already been uploaded on the official website. The same was removed on August 1, 2020,” Mr. Rodrigues had said.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||TRP case: HC issues notice to CBI||The Bombay High Court on Thursday issued notice to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after ARG Outlier Media Limited Group that owns Republic  TV sought a stay on the investigation in the alleged Television Ratings Points (TRP) manipulation scam. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a plea filed by the group that also owns Hindi news channel, Republic Bharat, and the owner of the group and editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. The plea sought the probe to be transferred to the CBI and to quash the FIR filed against them by the Kandivali police on October 6. The Bench directed the Mumbai Police to submit details of their probe in a sealed cover on November 25 when it will hear the matter. Senior advocate Milind Sathe, representing the petitioners, said the fresh application had been filed by amending the main petition to seek a stay to the ongoing probe and make the CBI a party.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||CM: govt. to consider rent waiver for drama theatres||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said that his government would positively consider the demand of drama producers to waive rent of theatres which reopened after eight-month novel coronavirus-induced shutdown. Interacting virtually with producers of Marathi plays, Mr. Thackeray said the government was aware of the losses faced by producers since the lockdown as they lost money with which they had booked theatres. Most of the drama theatres in the State are managed by government-run entities. In further easing of restrictions, the State government has allowed reopening of cinema halls, drama theatres, yoga institutes, multiplexes and swimming pools located outside containment zones from November 5. Mr. Thackeray said the producers would have to get artists and crew members checked frequently on health parameters and ensure physical distancing on stage if face masks needed to be removed during plays. Cleanliness and hygiene inside drama theatres should also get priority, the CM said. “They (drama producers) should also check if food stalls outside theatres are clean or not,” he said. The CM asked the producers to keep in mind that the threat of COVID-19 still persists. “Start work but take care of your artists and audiences,” he said.
06 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two killed, 6 hurt in chemical factory explosion in Khopoli||Two people including a woman were killed and six others were injured in an explosion at a chemical factory in Khopoli in Raigad district on Thursday. The incident occurred at 2.55 a.m. at Jashnova Pharmaceuticals and Specialists Private Limited located in Sajgaon industrial area. According to the police, prima facie the reason behind the blast was a breakdown in reactor. The impact of the explosion could be felt within a radius of around two km. “The watchman’s shed collapsed in the impact of the blast, killing his wife, and injuring him and their three children. Watchman of a neighbouring company was also killed after his shed too came crashing down,” senior police inspector Dhanaji Kshirsagar, Khopoli police station, said. Around 12 fire tankers doused the blaze in four hours. The six injured, including the three children, have been taken to a civic-run hospital in Khopoli and are said to be stable. The deceased have been identified as Bishnavi Krishna Nevpani (40) from Nepal and Anwar Raza Khan (48) from Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. The injured are Krishnaprasad Nevpani (40) from Nepal and his children Aarti (12), Ashish (9), and one-and--a-half-year-old Akruti, and two labourers of the company identified as Sagar Ramesh Kondilkar (23) from Karjat and Nathu Pawar (30) from Roha.
06 November 2020||Pune,||Congress kicks off tractor protest against farm Bills||Intensifying its agitation against the Centre’s contentious agrarian reform legislation, the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) on Thursday launched a massive tractor agitation across the State. Big rallies were organised in Kolhapur in western Maharashtra, which saw the participation of MPCC chief Balasaheb Thorat, the Congress in-charge for Maharashtra, H.K. Patil, and District Guardian Minister Satej Patil, and in Amravati district in which State minister Yashomati Thakur took part. “The Congress will not rest until it repeals these unjust laws that are ruining the lives of farmers. This wave of agitation will finish off the Modi-led Central government,” Mr. Thorat said. Former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan said that the Centre had just steamrolled the Bills instead of announcing a minimum support price for farmers in a legitimate manner. “About 86% farmers in the State are extremely small land holders. They cannot fight big industrialists. These Bills advocating contract farming are anti-farmer in spirit. Hence, we are opposing them,” Mr. Chavan said. Remarking on the hasty manner in which the Bills were passed, Mr. Thorat highlighted how Opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha. “These laws have been made for the benefit of a handful of traders, stockists, profiteers and capitalists. Thus armed, traders will stockpile farmers’ goods cheaply and sell them at high prices. The law does not provide for a base price,” he said. A campaign to gather two crore signatures to oppose the Bills was under way in which 50 lakh farmers from Maharashtra alone had given their signatures, Mr. Thorat said. He further said that the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government had come into being with a view to keeping bigoted forces (read the Bharatiya Janata Party) at bay. Another big tractor rally will be held in Sangli district on Friday.
06 November 2020||Pune,||Woman suffers critical eye injuries while warding off alleged molester||A woman sustained critical injuries to both her eyes while trying to resist an alleged molestation attempt in a village in Pune’s Shirur tehsil. According to the Pune Rural police, the incident occurred on Tuesday night after the woman, who works as a labourer, had stepped out to answer nature’s call. She was allegedly assaulted while resisting her attacker and had lost the use of one of her eyes while the other was severely damaged, officials said. The Shirur police have registered an FIR against an unknown person and the search for the attacker is on. “The woman, a resident of Nhavare village, was attacked by an unidentified person on Tuesday night when she stepped out of her house. She was critically injured and was admitted to Sassoon General Hospital. We are probing the case and will soon nab the accused,” Abhinav Deshmukh, Superintendent of Police, Pune Rural, said. The incident was strongly condemned by Nationalist Congress Party MPs Supriya Sule and Amol Kolhe — the elected representatives of Baramati and Shirur Lok Sabha constituencies respectively. Stating that such a crime was intolerable, both Ms. Sule and Mr. Kolhe have urged authorities to nab the attacker as soon as possible.
06 November 2020||Washington,||Trump backers stage protests in key States||Dozens of angry supporters of President Donald Trump converged on vote-counting centres in Detroit and Phoenix as the returns went against him on Wednesday in the two key States, while thousands of anti-Trump protesters demanding a complete tally of the ballots in the still-undecided election took to the streets in cities across the U.S. “Stop the count!” the Trump supporters chanted in Detroit. “Stop the steal!” they said in Phoenix. Republicans file suits  The protests came as the President insisted without evidence that there were major problems with the voting and the ballot counting, especially with mail-in votes, and as Republicans filed suit in various States over the election. Phoenix protesters filled much of the parking lot at the Maricopa County election centre, and members of the crowd chanted, “Fox News sucks!” in anger over the network declaring Joe Biden the winner in Arizona. Representative Paul Gosar, an Arizona Republican and Trump supporter, joined the crowd, declaring: “We’re not going to let this election be stolen. Period.” Sheriff’s deputies blocked the entrance to the building. And the vote-counting went on into the night, Maricopa County Elections Department spokeswoman Megan Gilbertson said. Two top county officials — one a Democrat, the other a Republican — issued a statement expressing concern about how misinformation had spread about the integrity of the election process. “Everyone should want all the votes to be counted, whether they were mailed or cast in person,” said the statement signed by Clint Hickman, the GOP chair of the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors, and Democratic Supervisor Steve Gallardo. “An accurate vote takes time... This is evidence of democracy, not fraud.” Meanwhile, from New York City to Seattle, thousands of demonstrators turned out to demand that every vote be tallied. In Portland, Oregon, which has been a scene of regular protests for months, Governor Kate Brown called out the National Guard as demonstrators engaged in what authorities said was widespread violence downtown. In New York, hundreds of people paraded past boarded-up luxury stores on Manhattan’s Fifth Avenue, and in Chicago, demonstrators marched through downtown and along a street across the river from Trump Tower. Protests — sometimes about the election, sometimes about racial inequality — took place in at least a half-dozen cities, including Los Angeles, Houston, Pittsburgh, Minneapolis and San Diego. The confrontation in Detroit started shortly before the declaration that Mr. Biden had won Michigan.
06 November 2020||Washington,||Win or lose, Trump will remain a powerful and disruptive force||If President Donald Trump loses his bid for re-election, it would be the first defeat of an incumbent President in 28 years. But one thing seemed certain: Win or lose, he will not go quietly away. Trailing former Vice President Joe Biden, Mr. Trump spent Wednesday trying to discredit the election based on invented fraud claims, hoping either to hang onto power or explain away a loss. He could find a narrow path to re-election among States still counting, but he has made clear that he would not shrink from the scene should he lose. At the very least, he has 76 days left in office to use his power as he sees fit and to seek revenge on some of his perceived adversaries. Angry at a defeat, he may fire or sideline a variety of senior officials who failed to carry out his wishes as he saw it, including Christopher Wray, the FBI director, and Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious diseases specialist in the middle of a pandemic. More resilient And if he is forced to vacate the White House on January 20, Mr. Trump is likely to prove more resilient than expected and almost surely will remain a powerful and disruptive force in American life. He received at least 68 million votes, or 5 million more votes than he did in 2016 and commanded about 48% of the popular vote, meaning he retained the support of nearly half of the public despite four years of scandal, setbacks, impeachment and the brutal coronavirus outbreak that has killed more than 2,33,000 Americans. That gives him a power base to play a role that other defeated one-term Presidents like Jimmy Carter and George Bush have not played. Mr. Trump has long toyed with starting his own television network to compete with Fox News, and in private lately he has broached the idea of running again in 2024, although he would be 78 by then. Even if his own days as a candidate are over, his 88-million-strong Twitter following gives him a bullhorn to be an influential voice on the right, potentially making him a kingmaker among rising Republicans. “If anything is clear from the election results, it is that the President has a huge following, and he doesn’t intend to exit the stage any time soon,” said former Sen. Jeff Flake of Arizona, one of the few Republican officeholders to break with Trump over the past four years. That following may yet enable Mr. Trump to eke out a second term and four years to try to rebuild the economy and reshape the Republican Party in his image. But even from out of office, he could try to pressure Republican Senators who preserved their majority to resist Mr. Biden at every turn, forcing them to choose between conciliation or crossing his political base. Party leader Until a new generation of Republicans steps forward, Mr. Trump could position himself as the de facto leader of the party, wielding an extraordinary database of information about his supporters that future candidates would love to rent or otherwise access. Allies imagined other Republicans making a pilgrimage to his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, seeking his blessing. “It isn’t like his Twitter account or his ability to control a news cycle will stop,” said Brad Parscale, the President’s first campaign manager in this election cycle. “President Trump also has the largest amount of data ever collected by a politician. This will impact races and policies for years to come.” Exit polls showed that regardless of prominent Republican defectors like Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah and the Never Trumpers of the Lincoln Project, Mr. Trump enjoyed strong support within his own party, winning 93% of Republican voters. He also did somewhat better with Black voters (12%) and Hispanic voters (32%) than he did four years ago despite his often racist rhetoric. And after his high-energy blitz across battleground States, late-deciding voters broke his way. Despite the coronavirus pandemic and the related economic toll, 41% of voters said they were doing better than when he took office, compared with only 20% who described themselves as worse off.NY Times
06 November 2020||Washington,||Court challenges prolong uncertainty over results||The counting and court challenges set the stage for days if not weeks of uncertainty before December 8, the deadline to resolve U.S. election disputes. The new President is sworn into office on January 20, 2021. As the Democratic nominee Joe Biden has an edge in the electoral votes, President Donald Trump has mounted legal challenges in battleground States. “The litigation looks more like an effort to allow [Donald] Trump to continue rhetorically attempting to delegitimatise an electoral loss,” said Joshua Geltzer, executive director of Georgetown Law’s Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection. Mr. Biden, a 77-year-old former Vice-President, predicted victory on Wednesday and launched a website to begin the transition to a Democratic-controlled White House. Mr. Trump, 74, is seeking a second four years in office after a tumultuous first term. Mr. Trump’s campaign called for a recount in Wisconsin, where Mr. Biden led by roughly 21,000 votes out of 3.3 million cast, a margin slim enough to entitle him to a recount. However, elections experts said a recount in Wisconsin was seen as unlikely to unlikely to alter the result. His campaign also filed lawsuits in Michigan and Pennsylvania to stop vote counting. Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson, in charge of elections, called the Trump team’s lawsuit “frivolous”. Mr. Trump’s campaign filed a lawsuit in Georgia to require that Chatham County, which includes the city of Savannah, separate and secure late-arriving ballots to ensure they are not counted. It also asked the U.S. Supreme Court to allow Mr. Trump to join a pending lawsuit filed by Pennsylvania Republicans over whether the battleground State should be permitted to accept late-arriving ballots that were mailed by Election Day. Mr. Trump’s campaign said it planned to make an announcement in Las Vegas later on Thursday. Fox News reported the campaign would announce another lawsuit, this one alleging voter fraud in Nevada. Fraud in balloting ‘rare’ Despite Mr. Trump’s allegations of fraud and an unsubstantiated charge that Democrats are trying to “steal” the election, U.S. election experts say fraud in balloting is rare. Mr. Biden said every vote must be counted. “No one’s going to take our democracy away from us, not now, not ever,” Mr. Biden said on Wednesday in his home state of Delaware. If victorious, Mr. Biden would face a tough battle to govern, with Republicans appearing poised to keep control of the U.S. Senate, which they could use to block large parts of his legislative agenda, including expanding healthcare access and efforts aimed at fighting climate change. Multiple challenges The contentious election aftermath capped a vitriolic campaign that unfolded amid the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 2,33,000 people in the U.S. and left millions more jobless. The country has also grappled with months of unrest involving protests over racism and police brutality. The U.S. set a one-day record for new coronavirus cases on Wednesday with at least 1,02,591 new infections, according to a Reuters tally. By early on Thursday, Mr. Biden had drawn about 3.6 million more votes than Trump nationwide. Mr. Trump defeated Democrat Clinton in 2016 after winning crucial battleground States and securing the Electoral College wine even though she drew about 3 million more votes nationwide.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||China bars travellers from India, U.K.||China on Thursday effectively barred travellers from India, the U.K, Belgium and the Philippines by temporarily suspending valid visas, with measures targeting other countries also expected as Beijing moves to tighten international travel restrictions, citing a rising number of imported COVID-19 cases. The moves have left unclear whether four repatriation flights announced by India for this month will go ahead on schedule. The Indian Embassy in Beijing said a Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) Delhi-Wuhan-Delhi flight set for November 6 will be rescheduled because the Embassy “has not received the required clearances from the Chinese authorities”. Air India had scheduled further VBM flights for November 13, 20, 27 and December 4 to China. On Tuesday, health authorities in Hubei province said 23 passengers on an October 30 Air India flight from New Delhi to Wuhan tested positive, of whom 19 were asymptomatic. Four symptomatic patients, including a couple travelling with a six-year-old, are being treated in hospital. Essential travel Officials sources said the Government of India “is in touch with the Chinese side to facilitate essential travel of Indians to and from China.” “The announcement made by the Chinese Embassy indicates that the measure is a temporary action and that changes can be expected in a timely manner,” the sources said, adding that the action taken is to temporarily suspend existing visas only and future visa applications have not been banned. “The measure is not India specific,” they added. “It is noted that similar measures have been announced in respect of several other countries. The reason behind the measure seems to be Chinese concerns on possible rise in COVID-19 cases globally, aggravated due to the advent of autumn and winter in the Northern Hemisphere.” The announcement to bar travellers was made in separate and near-identical notices issued on Wednesday and Thursday by Chinese missions in India, the U.K., Belgium and the Philippines. The Chinese Embassy in India said it had, because of the pandemic, “decided to temporarily suspend the entry into China by foreign nationals in India holding valid Chinese visas or residence permits” and “the Chinese Embassy/ Consulates in India will not stamp the Health Declaration Forms” that are needed to travel. The notice added those “with emergency or humanitarian needs to visit China” can submit applications, and entry into China “with visas issued after November 3” is not affected. It said the suspension “is a temporary measurement that China has to adopt to deal with the current pandemic”. Imported cases With Beijing broadly controlling the local transmission of cases within the country and China returning to normalcy in recent months following stringent measures, authorities are now emphasising dealing with “imported” cases from international travellers as the current priority. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin in Beijing said the moves were “a temporary response necessitated by the current situation of COVID-19”.
06 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Amid curfew, Sri Lanka reports five COVID-19 deaths||Sri Lanka on Thursday reported five COVID-19 deaths — the highest number reported on a single day so far — a month after a new wave broke out at a garment factory near Colombo. The new wave, spreading rapidly since early October, prompted the government to declare a 10-day curfew in the Western Province, where capital Colombo is located, and the highest concentration of cases have been found. Since last weekend, Colombo and neighbouring districts are under complete lockdown, while authorities have restricted inter-district travel. Further, a total of 84,000 persons across the island, who were found to have come in contact with COVID-19 patients, have been directed to remain in self-quarantine, a statement from the President’s office said. With a sharp rise in cases over the past few weeks, a total of 12,400 positive patients, 6,623 recoveries and 29 deaths have been reported as of Thursday. Government authorities have indicated that the lockdown may not continue, amid President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s instructions to keep the economy running, especially in the interest of daily-waged workers, while strict safety measures are implemented. Second wave Sri Lanka’s second wave, now attributed to two live clusters, came months after health authorities effectively contained the spread of the virus, receiving praise including from the World Health Organization. Meanwhile, thousands of Sri Lankan workers remain stranded abroad, mostly in West Asian nations where they are employed, as the government as suspended repatriation flights after the recent outbreak.
06 November 2020||TALLAHASSEE,||With another Florida loss, Democrats look for answers||Perhaps only in Florida is a loss by fewer than 4 percentage points considered a public drubbing. In a State famous for razor-thin margins, the size of former Vice-President Joe Biden’s loss to President Donald Trump was humiliating for Democrats and sent many searching for answers to how they failed to close the deal with voters — again. Democrats zeroed in on two clear explanations — Mr. Biden didn’t connect with the State’s Latino voters, performing particularly poorly with Cuban voters in South Florida. They also second-guessed the party’s decision to freeze in-person organising during the worst of the pandemic, a decision that set them back in reaching voters. “Clearly, Mr. Biden was not able to capture the imagination of the Florida electorate and create the type of enthusiasm to go out and vote like Mr. Trump did with his base of supporters in the state,” said Fernand Amandi, a Miami-based Democratic pollster. “It’s an unacceptable record of futility. What makes it so vexing is that the problems that need to be fixed are so apparent. But they just don’t get fixed.” Mr. Trump and Republicans called Mr. Biden “socialist” for months. The attacks carried added power with Cuban and Venezuelan Americans, who associate the labels with authoritarian and corrupt Latin American leaders. AP VoteCast, a survey of the Florida electorate, found Mr. Trump won 58% of Cuban American voters Statewide, while voters with South American heritage split evenly between Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump. They survey said Puerto Rican voters backed Mr. Biden by about 2 to 1.
06 November 2020||Washington,||Voter fraud claims baseless: OSCE||A team of international observers has described U.S. President Donald Trump’s claims of voter fraud as “baseless allegations”, asserting that such remarks harm public trust in democratic institutions. The observers from the Organisation for Security and co-operation in Europe (OSCE), of which the United States is a member, said in a preliminary report on Wednesday that the November 3 general elections were competitive and well managed despite legal uncertainties and logistical challenges. The report said uncertainty caused by late legal challenges and evidence-deficient claim about election fraud created confusion and concern among election officials and voters. “Counting and tabulation are ongoing and should continue in accordance with the law and OSCE commitments. Baseless allegations of systematic deficiencies, notably by the incumbent president, including on election night, harm public trust in democratic institutions, the report said. Despite numerous public statements by the incumbent President over the integrity of postal voting, the number and scale of alleged and reported cases of fraud associated with absentee ballots remained negligible, it said. President Trump on Wednesday claimed “fraud” in the counting of votes.
06 November 2020||Washington,||Biden edges closer to victory as Trump mounts legal challenges||When reports last came in, some 7 lakh ballots were yet to be counted. In Philadelphia county alone — which is a Democrat stronghold — some 1,20,000 votes were yet to be counted. Democrats were banking on counties in the southeastern parts of the State as well as Allegheny County in the west (where Pittsburgh is) to boost their numbers. The Trump campaign was hoping that the mailed-in ballots from Trump-dominated counties would help the President maintain his lead. Several news agencies, including the Associated Press, projected that Mr. Biden would win Arizona, a significant flip, that would take the former Vice-President’s tally from 254 to 263 seats. The State, home to the late John McCain, a high-profile Republican, has been a traditional Republican stronghold. It last voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in 1996 (Bill Clinton). Arizona has witnessed a shift in recent years, electing its first Democratic Senator in decades, Krysten Sinema, in 2018. This year’s Democratic Senate candidate, astronaut Mark Kelly, defeated incumbent Martha McSally to claim the U.S. Senate seat left vacant by McCain’s death in 2018. Several media outlets and poll trackers kept Arizona’s result open on Thursday. The Trump campaign went to court in Pennsylvania, Georgia and Michigan to stop counting or to seek greater access for Republican observers to ballot processing centres. In Pennsylvania, it is seeking a U.S. Supreme Court intervention in a case where the State’s highest court had granted permission for counting to go on until the end of Friday. The campaign also said it planned to ask for a recount in Wisconsin, which Mr. Biden has won.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Shortcomings in U.S. election system: Russia||Russia’s Foreign Ministry on Thursday said outdated legislation and a lack of regulation had revealed flaws in the U.S. electoral system, as votes were being tallied to decide the next American president. The knife-edge presidential race was tilted toward Democrat Joe Biden early Thursday, but President Donald Trump claimed he was being cheated and went to court to contest vote counting. Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that both candidates had an equal chance of winning and pointed out “obvious shortcomings in the electoral system.” “This is partly due to the archaic nature of the relevant legislation and a lack of regulation in a number of fundamental points,” she said.
06 November 2020||Addis Ababa,||Ethiopia MPs back Tigray emergency||Ethiopian lawmakers on Thursday endorsed a six-month state of emergency in the northern region of Tigray, a day after Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed ordered military operations there in an escalation of a long-running feud. The move is part of an attempt by Mr. Abiy, winner of last year’s Nobel Peace Prize, to assert federal control over a region whose ruling party has openly defied him for months and brands him as illegitimate. The lower house of Parliament “unanimously approved” the state of emergency in a session Thursday morning. According to the Constitution, the government has “all necessary power to protect the country’s sovereignty” under a state of emergency.
06 November 2020||Pristina,||Pristina, Nov 5, 2020 (AFP) -||Kosovo’s President Hashim Thaci, a guerrilla leader during Kosovo’s war for independence from Serbia in the 1990s, resigned on Thursday and will face charges for war crimes at a special court in The Hague.AP
06 November 2020||Lahore,||Pakistan National Bank’s manager shot dead by security guard over ‘blasphemy’||A manager of the National Bank of Pakistan was killed by the bank’s security guard over an allegation of blasphemy in the country’s Punjab province. The deceased’s family alleged that the guard had committed murder due to a personal grudge, and used ‘blasphemy’ as a cover.PTI
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Do recent indicators hint at a real economic revival?||After India’s economy collapsed in the first quarter of 2020-21 following the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the COVID-19 pandemic, some economic indicators from September and October, from power consumption to GST collections, suggest that things are improving. But is this a sustainable recovery under way, or just an expression of pent-up demand combined with India’s festive-season spending? In a conversation moderated by Vikas Dhoot , Naushad Forbes and M. Govinda Rao throw light on the subject. Edited excerpts:   How has the ground situation changed for industry since March when the lockdown was imposed?   Naushad Forbes:  Well, obviously, things have improved greatly. Our lockdowns were amongst the most stringent in the world, as we not only stopped most movement of people, but also of all logistics. I think we were probably unique in the world in stopping logistics as well as the movement of goods. And then, we also stopped most manufacturing, with the exception of essential supplies. Both those things were relatively unique, and it actually led to huge disruption in April. Companies across sectors saw a virtual stoppage in activity that continued into May. Towards the end of May, things started opening up. But because of the way in which we had done the lockdowns... it took a while to get things back to a relative degree of smoothness. It was only in the middle and end of June that companies really started getting back to some degree of normalcy. And that is the reason for the first quarter numbers of -24% in the GDP. Since then, things have been recovering. If you look at where we are now, a very different picture emerges, depending on which sector you talk of — pharmaceuticals and chemicals, food and beverages, tractors, two-wheelers, consumer durables are all reporting good performance, with many firms reporting growth on last year’s average numbers. At the other end of the scale, you have sectors like travel and tourism, which are still struggling, with capacity utilisation numbers between 10% and 30%. They are a very long way from recovery. Construction and real estate are also struggling, as is retail. In the last month, because of the run-up to Diwali in the festive season, retail has seen some improvement, but that is concentrated in high-street stores, not shopping malls, as people are still afraid to go to shopping malls and wander around. So, we are still seeing these three very employment-intensive sectors — travel and tourism, construction and real estate, and retail — really struggling, probably at levels under half of last year on an average. There is this very differential performance between sectors... We still do not have a complete control on the virus, and until we do, we cannot look at the future with certainty or complete confidence. Because there is always this doubt, for example, with what is going on in Delhi just now with 6,000 to 7,000 cases a day. There is a big question [of] whether they are going to go into some form of lockdown, impose restrictions on movement, etc. And there is no transparency and clarity… that if you have this kind of increase in cases, then this is how you should lock down, and if you have this kind of improvement in the spread of infections, then this is how you open up. It is not difficult to put that together. Many countries around the world have done this … Germany has put this very transparently in place. It provides some certainty and direction to people... How do you view the economic policy response so far? Govinda Rao:The economy had already been slowing down when the lockdown was announced, and investments had been coming down ... Now, you have a huge problem of low investment; banks are not willing to lend as the banking crisis has not been addressed in any satisfactory manner, and, on top of it, you had a lockdown. The lockdown is not completely gone as you have the entire hospitality industry out; travel and tourism is not taking place and labourers are not available for construction. In this situation, it was hoped that the government would come up with a good fiscal package. But that did not happen. The Atma Nirbhar package only provided liquidity to the economy. So, investment continues to be slow, which has long-term implications, and we do have a problem of fiscal space. The entire additional spending, so far, was just about 1.5% of the GDP, and the second stimulus package basically provided white-collar workers, who were already spending, more benefits linked to their Leave Travel Concession. The total impact of this is not going to be large, even on commodities with more than 12% GST [Goods and Services Tax] rate. Now, the GST numbers are showing a rise, not because of the economic revival, or the festival demand, or anything of the sort. My own hunch is that they were able to get some technology platform in place, and e-invoicing has begun for companies with over Rs. 500-crore revenue. They are talking about expanding this to firms above Rs. 100 crore by January 1. So, tax compliance might improve, but it may be too early to say that these increased GST collections because of compliance will continue. And you cannot call it festival demand, because most of October was considered inauspicious. Diwali is coming, and festival demand will come now in November. Most of the construction material — whether it is cement or steel or paint — are all subject to 28% GST, but they are not sin goods. This is the time for the government to come up and really reduce those rates to help the economy, which is picking up after the lockdown. Similarly, with the 28% GST-plus-cess levied on vehicles. You may say that low demand is not due to high tax rates. But reducing the tax rate can increase demand, and this is the time when they can really think of not just additional spending, but also relooking at the GST rates. So, would you say that we would only have a better picture of whether we are really out of the woods after November, when the festive season is behind us? GR:I am not seeing any rosy picture yet because the structural issues need to be addressed quickly. You may have better GST collections, but that actually should open up the opportunity to reform the tax. When revenues are increasing, you can get States around and the GST Council can reduce rates. The second-quarter GDP growth will be substantially negative, maybe something like -9 to -10%, and we will have to see how the third quarter will work out. NF:I think we will have a better idea when we get the December GST data. Because the big question on everyone’s mind is: how much of the good sales of consumer durables and so on, in September and October, is pent-up demand? The answer is that no one knows. And we will only know when we see the first month of sales after the festive season. Is it that people decided that “I haven't bought all this for so long. Let me now go ahead and buy it before Diwali”, or is it that we have indeed seen a good, solid recovery, back to consumption levels that people were more used to last year? Also, it is important [to note] that we came into the COVID-19 [pandemic] with a rapidly slowing economy, with seven quarters of successively lower GDP growth, and very sluggish industrial investment for many years now. The question is: as the effect of COVID-19 goes away, which trajectory are we going to return to? Are we going to return to that earlier slowing trajectory? Or are we going to return to a trajectory that we were more used to in the 2000s and the 1990s, of significantly increasing demand, driving increased investment in more capacity? CMIE data suggests that the unemployment rate rose again in October, while MGNREGA claims also rose in rural India. Can we expect employment to return to normalcy?  NF: Formal sector employment is reasonably stable. There is greater stress, as per CMIE, in the very substantial unemployment rate for salaried employees, not so much in manufacturing, but the retail sector. People who used to work in shops, hotels, restaurants — that is the biggest long-term hitch. We have seen very little in the way of support for stressed sectors by the government. The only thing that we have seen is a programme through the RBI [Reserve Bank of India] for one-time restructuring for stressed firms. But that is not a support programme. That is more about [the question that] if the company is not viable at the current level of operations, how do you restructure it to make it viable. That is not a way to actually enable employment to continue and keep that consumption running. I am more concerned about the stressed sectors and their effects in the longer run on the economy. The government has said it is open to another round of stimulus. What would be your wish list?  NF: There are three things that would trigger more substantive growth in the economy. Firstly, the government should pay its bills — there are large outstanding dues to small and large companies, including from public sector companies and State governments. This includes disputed amounts where awards have been made, and tax refunds. The government keeps saying that we have made all tax refunds up to some value, but by value of total refunds that are due, those refunds are small. So, simply paying its dues is a very direct and immediate way to put liquidity into the economy. Secondly, investment in infrastructure, which will not show up in immediate activity on the ground, but [it] is the most productive thing that we can do to trigger long-term growth. One way this can be spurred is [by] the Union Government paying the States their GST dues upfront, because a lot of infrastructure projects are actually stagnant for want of finance from States. Thirdly, investment in public health systems, which would require working very closely with the States. But [its] benefits will flow to the society in the long run. The costs are not so huge and the receptiveness to doing something in this area is huge just now, because we are all suffering because of this rampant virus.  GR :First of all, when they say they are not averse to more stimulus, I hope they really mean it. There has to be a substantial stimulus, not some pittance. Like Dr. Forbes said, they must clear their own pending bills that Union Minister Nitin Gadkari mentioned are as much as Rs. 5 lakh crore. That is the biggest stimulus they can give. One reason they have not been doing it is to contain the fiscal deficit. I think they have to forget that, and they should really come out with a substantial spending plan, particularly for the stressed sectors. Generate demand through cash transfers, expedite disinvestment, and push infrastructure projects. But the fear of credit rating agencies seems to continue to weigh on policymakers. And the soundbytes that we get from the Finance Ministry are “Oh, everything is fine. There is nothing to worry [about].” And that is most worrying.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Political takeaways from the Bihar campaign||Bihar’s Champaran farmlands served as the brewing fields for Gandhi’s ruminations and eventual journey to a Mahatma more than a century ago. Later, the State was quick to catch the sparks off Gujarat’s student revolt and lend the anti-Emergency movement the fury that was to become a prairie fire which consumed the invincible Indira Gandhi. Bihar is renowned for its intangible political energy, equations and trends that have gone on to shape India’s political firmament. Throwbacks to the past The final election results notwithstanding, not that the voters’ mandate is sacrosanct — consider Goa, Manipur, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh — the election campaign has provided important political takeaways. Like all elections in the last six years, including the municipal polls in the capital in 2017, Narendra Modi has campaigned with admirable energy and dedication in Bihar. The Prime Minister’s campaigning is an opportunity to peep into his vision and priorities for the people of the State and the country. A quick glance at his speeches shows that Mr. Modi’s refrain is Ayodhya’s Ram temple and Article 370 in Kashmir (Darbhanga on October 28  and Champaran on November 1), “Jungle Raj” spoken of often, a reference to the “double Yuvrajs” ostensibly of Tejashwi Yadav and Rahul Gandhi (Chhapra on November 1) struggling to “keep the simhasan /throne”, “BIMARU” Bihar, referring to an outdated acronym for Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh no longer used even in seminars. Almost all of the Prime Minister’s repeated references are jaded throwbacks to the past: Ayodhya’s Babri Masjid was brought down in 1992, ‘jungle raj’, referring to pejoratives for Lalu Yadav and Rabri Devi’s time as Chief Minister is 15 years ago and the last time that either Tejashwi Yadav or Rahul Gandhi’s fathers held public office was several years ago — there is certainly no ‘ simhasan’ for them to defend. It is a negative agenda of a campaign anchored selectively in the past. No vision, invoking fear Nitish Kumar has been in power in the State for the past 15 years, mostly with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and there is little in the achievement columns of his report card for Mr. Modi to seek votes on. Soliciting support for another five years of a jaded government is tough, and thus the argument seems to be that “we are bad but they are worse” — not the most inspiring political pitch. More surprising is the lack of vision for either Bihar or India from the Prime Minister. The selective recall of the 1990s is odd when at 57.2%, Bihar has the highest proportion of those below 25 years of age in the country (https://bit.ly/3eFNiTf). This is like the captain’s proverbial yearning for the safety of the shore when the boat is in choppy waters mid-ocean, when, instead, it needs a vision to navigate ahead. The exponential rise of the BJP, now dominating the political scene with more than half of India’s States under its rule and having 302 Lok Sabha seats (as on October 1, 2020; https://bit.ly/32d2rpK), began by leveraging the upheaval of the 1990s as the polity was challenged by newly opened fissures of caste, religion and economic disparity. Social and cultural issues are an integral part of Indian electoral politics, but to invoke the divisive issues of the past at this time points to a poverty of vision for the future, of the missing destination the ship of governance is aiming for when at sea. Instead of taking matters to a higher level of ‘aspiration’, the country’s top leadership has chosen to invoke not hope but fear. A lost opportunity and why When India has gone from one of the fastest growing three economies in the world to among the slowest, with an unprecedented decline of 23.9% in the first quarter of 2020, the country would have benefited from learning of the Prime Minister’s plan to get the economy back in shape. The novel coronavirus pandemic also offered an opportunity to speak of public health as a sharp arrow in its quiver, and take his party’s campaign to another high level. Quite the contrary happened when a free vaccine was offered as an election sop, hitting another new low for the BJP in 2020. Public health, at a time of a rapidly growing infectious disease, has always been handled centrally and has been universal and free. The smallpox vaccine, BCG or even the tuberculosis programme has been centrally driven and unconnected with electoral cycles. The appeal that proved invincible and lent a deathly blow to the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance in 2014 was a dream that Mr. Modi associated himself with. The ‘Gujarat model’, notwithstanding its merits, was about hope, about vikas , development (if not progress), and overall about improving lives of Indians, a formula that proved unbeatable. The promise, plastered on all available billboards was about ‘two crore jobs’ every year, Rs. 15 lakh in every bank account and the burnishing of an entrepreneurial spirit that would bring welfare and prosperity. Mr. Modi would make India great again and improve the conditions of its millions, who came out and voted for that dream. This appeal was developed on the campaign that Mr. Modi had carefully crafted around ‘Vibrant Gujarat,’ which had shut down his critics. It was Mr. Modi as the doer and the Vikas Purush that won accolades and eventually the seat of power in Delhi. The core Hindutva spirit that he stood for was just the backstory: Mr. Modi in 2014 worked, as he offered himself and much more. The youth connect Turning the tables on this, Tejashwi Yadav’s campaign in Bihar is frustrating the ruling party as it is using that very powerful appeal against a 15-year-old regime by citing the absence of bread and butter issues and taking the campaign out to the State’s youth. His primary emphasis during the election campaign has been on the high rate of unemployment, forming the backbone of his promise of providing 10 lakh new government jobs to the youth of Bihar. The BJP has been forced to play catch-up. After the results come in, there will be much to theorise on how caste politics has changed in north India. Enough has already been said about how this is the last of the Mandal elections (with Nitish Kumar on the backfoot, Lalu Prasad not campaigning and Ram Vilas Paswan no more); but on closer scrutiny, this is more about evolution of the social justice plank than its burial. Tejashwi Yadav in 2020 is doing a Narendra Modi in 2014, by not making it overtly about social justice alone. The Mandal campaign of the 1990s in north India was particularly anxious to underscore that it was not economics but social oppression that rankled and needed urgent redress. By threading economic upliftment seamlessly into the idea of social justice, Tejashwi Yadav has confounded his opponents. He need not even loudly talk about backward caste or utter the phrase social justice, any more than Mr. Modi had to proclaim that he is a proud bearer of Hindutva. In 2015 when Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad struck an alliance, they stumped the BJP by turning it into a ‘forward versus backward’ election. That was a case of political innovation in the face of the BJP juggernaut, at a time when the electoral machine of the BJP, with its freshness, was at its peak. But this time, what has annoyed Nitish Kumar and visibly frustrated the BJP is Tejashwi Yadav coming up from behind and smoothly introducing Social Justice 2.0 into the campaign in his own unique manner. The results of the elections will be known soon but if there is already a winner for political reimagination, it is Tejashwi Yadav against a weary Nitish Kumar and a rear-view mirror-gazing Narendra Modi. Seema Chishti is a journalist based in New Delhi
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The forgotten fact of China-Occupied Kashmir||Following the abrogation of Article 370 and reorganisation of the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), a China-Pakistan tandem has emerged to internationalise the issue, including in the UN Security Council. Pakistan has feigned solidarity with the people of Kashmir and continues to train and fund separatists and terrorists. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the global watchdog that monitors terror financing, has retained Pakistan on its ‘Grey List’ for a good reason. China’s support for Pakistan is motivated by a desire to perpetuate its own territorial grab in the trans-Karakoram Shaksgam Tract of Kashmir. Legitimately India’s China treats the J&K issue as a “bilateral dispute left over from history” to be resolved between India and Pakistan. It has turned a blind eye to the constitutional shenanigans by which Pakistan’s so-called federal Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Gilgit-Baltistan has acquired complete sway over Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK). It ignores Pakistan’s agenda of integrating Gilgit-Baltistan as its fifth province. Yet, China has the temerity to question the establishment of the Union Territory of Ladakh and to term it a ‘unilateral’ attempt to change “the status quo in the Kashmir region”. China has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal affairs since the erstwhile princely State of J&K acceded to India through the Instrument of Accession on October 26, 1947. The Shaksgam valley in the trans-Karakoram tract, part of PoK, was handed over on a platter by a supine Pakistan to China through an illegal border agreement on March 2, 1963. However, the continuing Chinese occupation of Kashmir’s territory does not find adequate mention in the contemporary discourse surrounding this issue. China occupies 5,180 square kilometres in the Shaksgam Valley in addition to approximately 38,000 square kilometres in Aksai Chin. China and Pakistan have colluded to obfuscate these facts, even as they brazenly promote the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) which runs through parts of Indian territory under their respective occupation. History, underhand methods Historically, China played an insidious role in changing the frontiers of Jammu and Kashmir through fictitious claims and unscrupulous alliances with local chieftains. China exploited the ‘Great Game’ between British India and Russia in the late 19th century. It pitched territorial claims far beyond the traditional frontiers of Xinjiang. It gradually crept into areas in the Taghdumbash Pamirs and the Karakorams, well south of its frontier along the Kun Lun mountains. While the British and the Russians were busy creating buffer zones along the frontiers of Xinjiang and Tibet, China was systematically stepping into the void. By the 1890s, China had started asserting its presence in the valleys between the Kun Lun and the main Karakoram range. The British eroded the traditional frontiers of the Maharaja of Kashmir in the region around Shahidullah and also those of his vassal, the Mir of Hunza. After the Mir’s defeat in 1869 at the hands of the joint forces of the Maharaja and the British, the Chinese tried to co-opt him in their scheme while giving him refuge. Till then, the Mir’s authority, ranging in the Taghdumbash Pamirs till Dafdar and eastward in Raskam, had never been contested by the Chinese. The Chinese had started the practice of exchanging annual presents with the Mir of Hunza in recognition of his authority over the unruly nomadic tribes that inhabited these valleys. The tradition of exchanging gifts with the Mir of Hunza was exploited to stake a retrospective claim to Hunza as a tributary of the Qing empire since 1762 AD. This chicanery is contradicted by China’s own historical accounts and maps of the 18th and the 19th centuries which show the south-western frontiers of China extending barely up to the Kun Lun range. By 1891, the Chinese had quietly moved south of the Kun Lun range to consolidate their presence at Shahidullah, which earlier marked the furthest outpost of the princely state of J&K. They then moved further south to Suget, and thereafter, showed up at the Karakoram pass. In 1936, the Mir of Hunza was asked by the British to abandon his rights in the Taghdumbash Pamirs as well as in the Raskam valley, but the Shaksgam valley to the south-west of Raskam and the Aghil range remained with the Mir of Hunza. This remained the traditional frontier of British India until independence, inherited by India following J&K’s accession in 1947. The Pakistan connection It is this border that was blatantly compromised by Pakistan in its so-called agreement with China on March 2, 1963. By giving in to China’s expansionist designs and spurious claims to a boundary along the Karakoram range, Pakistan not only compromised India’s traditional frontier along the Kun Lun range to the north-west of the Karakoram Pass, but also enabled China to extrapolate a claim line eastwards along the Karakoram range in Ladakh. This collusion allowed China to claim the whole of Aksai Chin in which it had no historical presence. After the Partition of the Indian subcontinent, from 1953, Chinese troops actively started transgressing the frontier in eastern Hunza. In October 1959, they rustled some livestock from the area, prompting an angry response from Pakistan that it was determined to defend its frontiers. However, President Ayub Khan, spotting an opportunity in the rapidly deteriorating India-China ties in the late 1950s, decided, instead, to pander to the Chinese. Pakistan deliberately chose to downgrade the historical claims of the Mir of Hunza and eventually signed away the Shaksgam valley to China in 1963. As party to the dispute The provisional nature of the territorial settlement between China and Pakistan is evident in Article 6 of the 1963 agreement, which clearly states that “the two Parties have agreed that after the settlement of the Kashmir dispute between Pakistan and India, the sovereign authority concerned will reopen negotiations with the Government of the People’s Republic of China, on the boundary as described in Article Two of the present Agreement, so as to sign a formal Boundary Treaty to replace the present agreement”. In effect, this agreement has established China as a party to the dispute. It has a vested interest in legitimising its illegitimate gains in the trans-Karakoram tract. The anniversary of the Instrument of Accession, on October 26, is a reminder of China’s illegal territorial occupation. Sujan R. Chinoy, a former Ambassador and China expert, is currently the Director General of the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The crucial expertise of CAPFs||When disaster strikes our country in any manner, be it natural or man-made, the government summons the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) to carry out the task of overcoming the disaster, by not only carrying out rescue and relief operations, but also mitigating the pains and problems arising out of the disaster. Even before the country got to know about the oncoming hydra of COVID-19, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) had already set up its 600-bed quarantine centre in Chawla on the outskirts of New Delhi. Out of the 324 Indian passengers in the first batch that arrived in New Delhi from China’s Wuhan on February 1, 2020, 103 were quarantined at the ITBP Centre, while the rest were confined to an Army facility in Manesar. That the confidence reposed in the ITBP was not misplaced is evident from the fact that the Director-General of ITBP was given just two days to establish the 600-bed quarantine, and it was ready within the given time. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had roped in specialists from the Safdarjung Hospital to coordinate with ITBP officials. Doctors and paramedical personnel of other CAPFs were also roped in. Another 10,000-bed quarantine centre was established in Chhatarpur in New Delhi by the ITBP, where over 10,000 patients have been treated till now, according to ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey. This is the largest quarantine centre in the world, he added.  Relief measures The expertise acquired by ITBP personnel and the Standard Operating Procedure prepared by the ITBP came handy for the States and other police forces in establishing their own quarantine centres and COVID-19 hospitals. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had directed the CAPFs to establish 5,400-bedded quarantine centres with 75 isolation wards, spread over 37 centres across the country. CAPFs comprise the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force, Central Industrial Security Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, Assam Rifles and the ITBP. A sum of Rs. 10 crore was sanctioned for the CRPF by the MHA to carry out relief work for those displaced in the aftermath of the lockdown. Though the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been actively involved in combating the spread of COVID-19, its services have not been adequately mentioned in the media. Mandated to carry out rescue and relief operations in disaster-affected areas, the NDRF has been rendering yeoman’s service not only in carrying out rescue and relief operations, but also in training the State Disaster Response Forces personnel in all States. Immigration officials entrusted with conducting COVID-19 tests of the passengers arriving in New Delhi were trained by the NDRF. Along with its parent body, the National Disaster Management Authority, of which the Prime Minister is the Chairman, the NDRF has trained over 30,000 personnel in disaster management across the country. Far-off corners With 12 battalions of the NDRF— each comprising 1,149 personnel — spread across the country, its experts have the core competency to tackle biological disasters like COVID-19. There is, however, a need to augment the strength of trained personnel. Since NDRF personnel are wholly drawn from the CAPFs, there is a good reserve of trained personnel who go back to their parent force after their stint with this specialised force is over. Such personnel can be deployed at quarantines centres after short-term courses. A proposal mooted by NITI Aayog last year, to conduct a bridge course for dentists to render them eligible for the MBBS degree, could be revived, and such doctors could be on stand-by to help in such emergency crises. It is these CAPF personnel who give a semblance of existence of government administration even in the remotest corners of the country. Their versatile experience can be utilised to the nation’s advantage. M.P. Nathanael retired as Inspector-General of Police, CRPF
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Vienna’s woes||The attack in Vienna that killed four people on Monday night underscores the transnational threat European countries face from Islamist terrorists. The assault follows the beheading of a schoolteacher in a Paris suburb and a knife attack in Nice that took three lives. In Vienna, the suspected gunman, Kujtim Fejzulai, 20, a dual citizen of Austria and North Macedonia and of Albanian origin, opened fire near a synagogue before being shot dead by the police. He had a previous terrorism conviction. In April last year, he was sentenced to 22 months after he tried to travel to Syria to join the Islamic State. He was released in December because of his age. The immediate question the Austrian authorities face would be about the failure in preventing the attack. How did a terrorism convict slip off the security radar and launch an attack in the capital city at a time when Europe was on high alert following the terror assaults in France? Austria will also have to plug the security loopholes as several countries in the continent, including France and the U.K., have raised the threat levels. The larger challenge is how to address the issue of radicalisation among youth and counter attempts to disrupt the social cohesion of the continent. Austria’s conservative Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, known for his fiery anti-immigrant politics, sent the right message when he called for unity in the fight against terrorism. He said the fight is not between Christians and Muslims or Austrians and immigrants, but between “civilisation and barbarity”. Mr. Kurz, who had teamed up with the Islamophobic far-right Freedom Party in 2017 to form the government for the first time, is now in power with the Green Party and has more political leeway to build a stronger national response to terrorism. Jihadists use violence to create social discord. While they unleash violence on the public in the name of Islam, the rising Islamophobic, nationalist parties in Europe seize on such incidents to bolster their fortunes. France’s Marine Le Pen, with an eye on the 2022 presidential election, has called for a ban on immigrants from some Muslim countries and declared “a war” to “evict Islamism by force from our country”. In Austria, the Freedom Party would take cues from her National Rally party. This is a two-front attack on the democratic and secular values Europe stands for — and that is what the terrorists want. Leaders of France, Austria and other terror-hit countries should not allow the jihadists to have their way. They should clamp down on terror networks, isolate and punish the jihadists, counter the ideology of political Islamists and build on the values of pluralism, secularism, democracy and equality, and step up deradicalisation efforts with help from communities. This is a fight they cannot afford to lose.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Arresting Arnab||The arrest of Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic Media Network, is, without doubt, a high-handed action that may contain an element of vendetta. There was really no reason to arrest Mr. Goswami, or any other citizen for that matter, in a case that has been reopened after being formally closed by a competent court in 2019. It might be true that the police then may have, under political influence, unlawfully closed a complaint that Mr. Goswami and two others had abetted the suicide of Anvay Naik, an interior designer in May 2018, and that there may be sufficient cause for it to be investigated afresh. Given the presence of an incriminating suicide note, there may be some substance in the allegation. However, there is no reason to arrest anyone, unless they are likely to evade trial, threaten witnesses or destroy evidence. It would have been more appropriate if the police had investigated the matter thoroughly and filed a charge sheet in a court of law if there was sufficient evidence to believe that the conduct of the accused had driven the victim to suicide. The transactions and agreements involved and the testimony of the family may have been enough to seek a conviction under Section 306 of the IPC, which essentially requires sound evidence of acts that directly or indirectly incited victims to take their own lives. Claims by almost all Union Ministers that Mr. Goswami’s arrest bespeaks an attempt to throttle the media, however, have no substance, as it is obviously a case unrelated to his work as a television anchor. At the same time, the manner in which a matter can be reopened and the accused arrested might have a chilling effect on other journalists with better credentials than Mr. Goswami. There is no love lost between him and the police in Maharashtra, possibly due to the impression that he himself has given about where his loyalties lie. It is conceivable that his arrest may be an unsavoury extension of the continuing acrimony between the Shiv Sena and the BJP. He already has pending FIRs against him for allegedly making inflammatory remarks on air. He is an outspoken critic of the Maharashtra government. Besides running down the police in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death probe, he has been taunting the Mumbai Police Commissioner ever since his channels came under investigation for allegedly fixing TRPs. In this backdrop, the onus was on the State and the police to avoid the impression of resorting to vendetta. Mr. Goswami, as part of his nightly fulminations against assorted enemies of the state, is known to demand the arrest of anyone he denounces — including many who may be innocent — and has been accused of hate-mongering in the name of journalism. However, he should not be held to his own low standards. If pre-trial arrests are not necessary, they should be avoided, especially if they could be seen as politically motivated.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Fast-paced news cycles and the bigger picture||Scrolling through the unceasing updates on the U.S. presidential poll outcome, of a likely winner and an apparent loser in denial, I was transported back to a November morning in 2016. Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump had fought hard and closely for months ahead of that day, and the verdict of their contest was emerging. I was over 14,000 kms away from the White House, but close to another seat of power that morning. I was at the sea-facing Presidential Secretariat in Colombo, interviewing the then President of Sri Lanka, Maithripala Sirisena. He was about to complete two years in office, after his historic win in January 2015, dislodging his former boss Mahinda Rajapaksa. President Sirisena’s government and some of his own efforts — such as reviving the Tamil version of the Sri Lankan national anthem at official events — still inspired hope among many who voted for him, although his government was tainted by a controversial bond auction at the country’s Central Bank in 2015, that caused losses to the tune of millions. In that interview, my first one-on-one with any first citizen, I remember Mr. Sirisena speaking calmly and unambiguously — of his “obligation” to Tamils, of how liberal democracy could come together with social democracy, and about turning a new page in Sri Lanka’s international relations. Wrapping up after nearly an hour, I was just about to leave his room, when I stopped at the door and asked him what he thought of the imminent U.S. poll results. Fast forward five months: current President Gotabaya Rajapaksa addressed a group of Colombo-based foreign correspondents at the Galle Face Hotel. At that time, he was a former Defence Secretary, who had begun mobilising a small group of professionals to discuss ways of taking the country forward on the path of development. His initiative had triggered some buzz about his probable entry into politics, but there was no sure sign then. Mr. Rajapaksa told us he was not sure if he would take that route, since he, unlike his brothers, had never been a politician. But he was quick to remind us that President Trump had come from a business background. “We have to see,” Mr. Rajapaksa told us. In subsequent interviews to the local media, he often invoked the Trump example to emphasise how people were tired of mainstream politicians and their ways. In February 2018, the brand-new party of the Rajapaksas, the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Front), swept the island’s local government elections, paving the way for its biggest political gain in November 2019. Less than three years after Mr. Rajapaksa barely hinted at his foray into politics, he rose to the country’s most powerful office, and soon obtained sweeping powers, following a controversial legislation. In retrospect, Mr. Rajapaksa's Trump reference assumed more significance. It reaffirmed that our news cycles, however fast-paced or consuming they might get, surely drop clues about the bigger story in the making — including those of aspiring politicians-turned-powerful presidents. And sometimes, the story of one could be inspired by that of another, no matter how similar or different they are. As for what Mr. Sirisena told me about the 2016 U.S. poll results, we had agreed it was off the record.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Nehru Award for Menuhin (From an Editorial)||In a world of sovereign national States each competing for its place in the sun, it is not easy to identify persons who promote genuine international understanding in the terms of the Nehru Award. Leaders caught in the toils of politics rarely make the same appeal to men of all nations. It was therefore a good idea to go beyond politics to the world of music and present the Nehru prize to the great violinist, Yehudi Menuhin. He first visited India twenty years ago at the invitation of Jawaharlal Nehru and the two men became firm friends. Menuhin, on his own admission, found both India and its music fascinating and counts some of our leading musicians among his friends. He has worked hard to promote a UNESCO programme to exchange musicians between East and West, and appreciation of Indian music in the West has steadily grown in the past decade with leading musicians teaching in American universities. Mr. Menuhin himself believes that the impact of Indian music on the West has been greater than that of Western music here, but there is no doubt that appreciation of Western classical music has made rapid strides in our country.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||Sensex erases 2020 losses with 724-point leap||Equity benchmarks galloped to near nine month-highs on Thursday following across-the-board buying as global markets ratcheted higher despite uncertainty surrounding the U.S. Presidential election results. Rallying for the fourth straight session, the S&P BSE Sensex surged 724.02 points, or 1.78%, to close at 41,340.16. The benchmark, which closed above the 41,000-level for the first time since mid-February, also wiped off all losses for the 2020 calendar year. It had closed at 41,306.02 on January 1. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty zoomed 211.80 points, or 1.78%, to finish at 12,120.30. All Sensex components closed in the green, led by banking, finance, energy, IT and metal counters. SBI was the top gainer, soaring 5.63%, following robust second-quarter results. Tata Steel, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, HCL Tech, Asian Paints and Titan were the other prominent winners, spurting up to 5.34%. Global stocks rise Global equities marched higher amid indications that Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden may clinch the U.S. presidential polls, even as the Republicans look likely to retain their slim majority in the Senate. Meanwhile, the Trump campaign has moved court over the ballot counting process in battleground states like Pennsylvania and Michigan, raising prospects of protracted legal wrangling over the tightly-contested election. Investors are expecting less confrontational trade policies with China and other countries under a possible Biden presidency, while the Republican-controlled Senate would prevent measures like higher taxes or stricter regulations, analysts said. Eyes on U.S. Fed “Domestic market moved in tandem with the global market and marched to 8 months high, in expectation that the U.S. presidential election is moving in favour of the Democratic Party,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. “Further, investors are expecting new supportive measures from ongoing Fed policy meet while keeping rates unchanged,” he added. “Positive result season and increasing inflows from foreign markets will help the market to maintain its optimism going forward,” he added. Barring realty, all BSE sectoral indices closed higher, led by metal (4.43%), oil and gas (3.19%), basic materials (2.57%), energy (2.39%) and bankex (2.14%). The BSE midcap and smallcap indices jumped up to 1.74%. Asian bourses gain Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. In the forex market, the rupee rebounded 40 paise to close at 74.36 against the U.S. dollar. On Wednesday, the rupee had plunged by 35 paise to its weakest level in more than 10 weeks. The dollar index was trading 0.22% down at 93.20.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pent-up demand to drive auto sales’||Hyundai Motor India, which posted record wholesale numbers last month, expects strong momentum to continue at least till March 2021, driven by pent-up demand from a million prospective customers who delayed their purchases due to COVID-19. After March 2021, the industry, however, may see an adjustment period, a top company official said. “As per our internal estimates, almost one million customers delayed or postponed their purchasing decision due to the pandemic situation,” Hyundai Motor India MD and CEO S.S. Kim said in an interview. “Also, there is new demand from the trend of shift to personal mobility from shared mobility. These factors will continue in the coming quarters as well,” he added. ‘Adjustment period’ Mr. Kim said he expected stable demand in the October-December 2020 and January-March 2021 quarters, followed by an “adjustment period”. He added that demand would be determined by the macroeconomic environment, including GDP growth, employment status and banking-related factors.  “The overall situation needs to be improved in terms of the economic indicators... due to that reason we are already a bit cautious in terms of forecasting future demand... but in the long run we can see a lot of very positive aspects in terms of growth potential in this market as the penetration ratio of the ownership is quite smaller than other countries,” he said. The auto firm on Thursday drove in the all-new version of its premium hatchback i20 pegged in a price range of Rs. 6.79 lakh to Rs. 11.17 lakh (ex-showroom). “The automotive industry is... a crucial one in terms of creating jobs and creating revenue not only for the individual household, but also the government in terms of tax,” Mr. Kim said. “So, whether it is affected by some economic environment... I believe it is OEMs’ responsibility to create new car demand,” the chief executive added. Asked about the demand for used cars, Mr. Kim said that due to income issues a lot of first-time buyers might be thinking about buying a used car, but due to the pandemic, not many existing car owners were willing to sell their cars. Hence, the market was currently not expanding, he noted.
06 November 2020||N. Anand,||CUB to focus on ECLGS, gold loans||Private sector lender City Union Bank Ltd. (CUB) will focus on emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS), gold loans and restructuring of facilities for now to aid borrowers and control slippages. “During second quarter of FY20, we took our leg off the growth pedal as economy was not doing well,” N. Kamakodi, MD & CEO,” said during an analyst call. “Our current growth is coming from disbursal of ECLGS loans and gold loans only,” he added. “To grow other segments would be a little risky now as customers have just come out of the pandemic,” he added. “The focus will be on strengthening the balance sheet rather than profit and loss during FY21. We feel we should come out of the crisis with minimum impact,” Mr. Kamakodi added. As of September, the bank had sanctioned Rs. 1,807 crore under ECLGS and Rs. 4,537 crore gold loans. Gross NPAs stand at 3.44% and net NPAs at 1.81%. “We will review (this decision) in the fourth quarter.” On restructuring, he said the bank would plan timelines according to the regulatory guidelines. CUB’s exposure to stressed sectors such as hotels and tourism is about 8% to 10%. As they have a long gestation period, they would be given additional time. Stating that the ECLGS had boosted the spirits of MSME sector and businesses had started generating surplus, he mentioned the increase in disbursements under ECLGS and gold loans during the first half of FY21 resulted in an improvement of CAR (capital adequacy ratio) to 17.36% from 16.76% in March on account of zero percent risk weight prescription. “We used to have our deposit growth in tune with our growth in advances. We have not pushed for growth because of COVID-19,” he said. The deposit position was kept muted in the first half of FY21,” he said. Bank officials estimate slippage ratio for FY21 at 3% to 3.5%. Most of them will be accounts which had issues even before COVID-19. Private sector lender City Union Bank Ltd. (CUB) will focus on emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS), gold loans and restructuring of facilities for now to aid borrowers and control slippages. “During second quarter of FY20, we took our leg off the growth pedal as economy was not doing well,” N. Kamakodi, MD & CEO,” said during an analyst call. “Our current growth is coming from disbursal of ECLGS loans and gold loans only,” he added. “To grow other segments would be a little risky now as customers have just come out of the pandemic,” he added. “The focus will be on strengthening the balance sheet rather than profit and loss during FY21. We feel we should come out of the crisis with minimum impact,” he added. As of September, the bank sanctioned Rs. 1,807 crore under ECLGS and Rs. 4,537 crore gold loans. Gross NPAs stand at 3.44% and net NPAs at 1.81%. “We will review (this decision) in the fourth quarter.” On restructuring, he said the bank would plan timelines according to the regulatory guidelines. CUB’s exposure to stressed sectors such as hotels and tourism is about 8% to 10%. As they have a long gestation period, they would be given additional time. Pointing out that ECLGS had boosted the spirits of MSMEs and businesses had begun generating surplus, he said the increase in disbursements under ECLGS and gold loans during the first half of FY21 resulted in an improvement of CAR (capital adequacy ratio) to 17.36% from 16.76% in March on account of zero percent risk weight prescription. ‘Kept deposits muted’ “We used to have our deposit growth in tune with our growth in advances. We have not pushed for growth because of COVID-19,” he said. The deposit position was kept muted in the first half of FY21,” he said. Bank officials estimate slippage ratio for FY21 at 3% to 3.5%. Most would be in accounts that had issues before COVID-19.
06 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Saudi Arabia’s PIF to buy 2% stake in RIL retail arm||The Public Investment Fund (PIF), the sovereign wealth fund of Saudi Arabia, has agreed to acquire a 2.04% equity stake in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. (RRVL), a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL), for Rs. 9,555 crore. The investment is in line with PIF’s strategy and mandate to invest ‘globally in innovative and transformative’ businesses that generate long-term commercial returns, RIL said in a statement. The transaction values RRVL at a pre-money equity value of Rs. 4.59 lakh crore (or approximately $62.4 billion). The investment in RRVL follows PIF’s earlier acquisition of a 2.32% stake in Jio Platforms. Mukesh Ambani, CMD, RIL said, “PIF is at the forefront of the economic transformation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I welcome PIF as a valued partner in Reliance Retail and look forward to their sustained support and guidance.”
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||STPI invests Rs. 400 cr. in office, connectivity infra||The Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) is investing up to Rs. 400 crore in setting up office and connectivity infrastructure across several cities, offering small technology firms a ‘plug-and-play’ facility. “This is a first for us in places such as Darbhanga, Bhagalpur, Deoghar, Koraput, Kohima, Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi, while we are expanding existing infrastructure in places such as Bengaluru,” said Omkar Rai, Director-General, STPI. “Each of these locations would host seats covering 10,000-40,000 sq.ft. of IT grade infrastructure,” he added. Other cities in which work on incubation infrastructure was either completed or was in progress included Mohali, Srinagar, Prayagraj, Bengaluru, Vijayawada, Bhubaneshwar, Agartala, Jaipur, Ranchi, Kolkata and Nagpur, Dr. Rai said. Separately, the government arm is also offering grants and incubation opportunities to start-ups as part of its Next Gen Incubation Scheme. In collaboration with the private sector, the agency is also aiming to raise funds to the tune of Rs. 120 crore for the scheme. He added that exports via STPI rose from Rs. 3.75 lakh crore (and 3,924 exporting units) in 2017-18 to Rs. 4.47 lakh crore (and 4,433 units) in 2019-20.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Demand for contractual, gig staff jumps 30%: Quess||The demand for contractual employees and specialised gig workers has increased 30% compared with last year. This is expected to increase further as employers ‘variabilise’ their headcount and focus on outcome-driven programmes, said leading business services provider Quess Corp. The firm unveiled a dedicated platform, QJobs, for blue collar jobs on Thursday. QJobs aims to address the issues of job creation, job discoverability and job-matching by providing a comprehensive solution that allows employers to find the right talent. It will allow job-seekers to showcase their skills and find employment closer to their location, the company said. “Quess is taking the next big step in realising its larger agenda of putting Middle India to work, Ajit Isaac, CMD, Quess Corp, sai,. “In doing so, the company’s mandate is focused on providing dignity and social security to millions of lower income jobs in the country,” he added. To start with, the app will support five languages: Hindi, English, Tamil, Kannada and Telugu.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Pandemic-themed cyberattacks rose in Q2’||Cybercriminals took advantage of COVID-19, adjusting their cybercrime campaigns to lure victims with pandemic-based themes and exploiting people working from home, according to a study. Consequently, the second quarter of calendar year 2020 saw cyberattack detections, mostly pandemic-themed intrusions, rise 605% over the previous quarter, McAfee, a device-to-cloud cybersecurity firm said in its recent cybercriminal activity study. The study was conducted with the help of over a billion sensors in India and in other geographies.“The Q2 of 2020 saw continued developments in innovative threat categories such as PowerShell malware and quick adaptation by cybercriminals to target organisations through employees working from remote environments,” said Raj Samani, a McAfee fellow and chief scientist.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maruti to recall 40,453 units of Eeco||Maruti Suzuki on Thursday said it would recall 40,453 units of its Eeco van for a possible issue relating to ‘standard symbol’ missing on the headlamp. The recall will cover vehicles manufactured between November 4, 2019, and February 25, 2020, as well as a few Eeco vehicles in which headlamp has been replaced in the field, the company added. “Any action, if required, shall be undertaken free of cost. Owners of the suspected vehicles under this recall campaign will be contacted by Maruti Suzuki authorised dealers in due course of time,” the carmaker said in a statement.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||Centre eases compliance for ITES, BPOs||The government on Thursday announced simplified guidelines for business process outsourcing (BPO) and IT-enabled services (ITES) players to reduce the compliance burden for the industry. The new rules for other service providers (OSPs) would create a friendly regime for ‘work from home’ and ‘work from anywhere’, while removing several reporting and other obligations for such companies. OSPs are entities providing applications services, IT-enabled services or any kind of outsourcing services using telecom resources. The new rules are aimed at providing an impetus to the industry and positioning India as one of the most competitive IT jurisdictions, a release said.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||GST: Rajasthan agrees to go with Option-1||Congress-ruled Rajasthan has accepted the Centre’s borrowing proposal to meet GST revenue shortfall and will get more than Rs. 4,600 crore through the special window. “The Government of Rajasthan has communicated its acceptance for Option-1 out of the two options suggested by the Ministry of Finance to meet the shortfall in revenue arising out of GST implementation,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement. With this the State will get Rs. 4,604 crore through the special borrowing window and also permission to raise an additional Rs. 5,462 crore through borrowings, it added.
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||October sees luxury homes sales worth Rs 500 crore in Mumbai||Despite the health crisis and economic uncertainty, localities in South-Central Mumbai viz. Worli, Prabhadevi, Mahalaxmi, Tardeo and Lower Parel witnessed luxury home sales worth Rs. 500 crore in October. This compares with sales worth Rs. 150 crore in the same period last year, representing an increase of up to 230%, as per Anarock Property Consultants’ data.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||Open offers by cos drop 42 pc to Rs 8,500 cr in Apr-Sep||Listed companies made open offers worth close to Rs. 8,500 crore to public shareholders in the first six months of the current fiscal, a decline of 42% from the year-earlier period. According to SEBI’s monthly report, 24 open offers for shares worth Rs. 8,492 crore were made up to September this fiscal. In comparison, 36 offers, for Rs. 14,590 crore, were made a year earlier.PTI
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||Experienced information security incident: Lupin||Pharma major Lupin said it had experienced an information security incident that had affected select internal IT systems but had not impacted the company’s operations. “We have recently experienced an information security incident that has affected select internal IT systems. This has not impacted our core systems and operations,” Lupin said in a filing.PTI
06 November 2020||Mumbai,||NPCI allows WhatsApp to offer payment services; caps individual player’s UPI mkt share at 30%||The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) on Thursday allowed Facebook-owned messaging platform WhatsApp to start its payments service in the country in a ‘graded’ manner. The announcement by NPCI came minutes after it limited a single, third-party like WhatsApp, or its rivals such as Google Pay or PhonePe, to handle only 30% of overall UPI transactions.PTI
06 November 2020||Chennai,||CSK has to rebuild with youth at the heart of it||An iconic side with a charismatic leader that never failed to qualify for the IPL playoffs missed out on this occasion. It was a difficult tournament for Chennai Super Kings (CSK) from the time the side’s game-changing Suresh Raina flew home for personal reasons. And then the experienced and wily Harbhajan Singh, the only off-spinner in the side, withdrew from the competition. To make matters worse, CSK’s most exciting young batsman Ruturaj Gaikwad and swing bowler Deepak Chahar went down with COVID-19 that impacted their preparation. So CSK began the competition on the wrong foot. Ruturaj took quite a while to recover and when he came into the side, was not in his element. It was only towards the end of the competition, when he received a second run, Ruturaj showed his gift of timing, the ability to get to the pitch of the ball, find the gaps. Truth to tell, CSK was nixed by injuries. The side could have defeated Delhi Capitals had not Dwayne Bravo run into fitness concerns before the final over. With his best ‘Death bowler’ missing in action, M.S. Dhoni brought on Ravindra Jadeja with two left-handers Shikhar Dhawan and Axar Patel together. Jadeja went for plenty and CSK lost a game it should have won. In the end there was not much separating the sides. CSK, which later turned a party-pooper, finished with six wins. And two teams, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Sunrisers Hyderabad, progressed to the play-offs with seven victories. Age factor This is, arguably, the most highly competitive IPL ever, and CSK was also hurt by its star cricketers not becoming younger. Dhoni was alert behind the stumps but suffered a slump in front of it with KKR’s Varun Chakravarthy castling him twice in pressure situations in two matches. The Dhoni of old would have revelled in these scenarios. He is still quick between the wickets but if he doesn’t play domestic cricket and other tournaments, it will be very hard for Dhoni to straightaway come and score runs in the demanding IPL. When CSK returned to the IPL after serving a two-year ban, the side opted for experience, not looking at the age of the players. The side triumphed in 2018, and reached the final in 2019, with the same bunch of cricketers affectionately called by many as Dad’s Army. However, in 2020 the age began to show itself on the field of play. There were occasions when the CSK players appeared to be struggling physically. Faf du Plessis was in terrific touch but the same could not be said of many others. And tactically someone like Jadeja, an explosive batsman, could have been promoted in the order with Raina not around. The future of CSK lies in youngsters such as Ruturaj and Sam Curran, who bowled and batted with zest and gusto. CSK has to rebuild with youth at the heart of it all.  Faf du Plessis was in terrific touch but the same could not be said of many others
06 November 2020||Paris,||United, PSG slump to defeats||Lionel Messi scored as Barcelona overcame a depleted Dynamo Kiev 2-1 in the Champions League on Wednesday, while Juventus eased past Ferencvaros and Manchester United slumped to an unexpected defeat in Turkey. Nine-man Paris Saint-Germain lost to RB Leipzig in a repeat of last season’s semifinal and Chelsea proved too strong for Rennes, with Timo Werner twice converting from the penalty spot. Making his 150th appearance in European competition, Messi dispatched an early penalty at Camp Nou after he was fouled in the area and Gerard Pique headed in Ansu Fati’s cross on the hour. Cristiano Ronaldo made his first start for the Italian champion since September, after testing positive for COVID-19, in a 4-1 win at Hungarian side Ferencvaros. However, the Portuguese star was outshone in Budapest by Alvaro Morata, whose two goals put Andrea Pirlo’s team in control. United produced a shambolic first-half defensive display as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side lost 2-1 against Istanbul Basaksehir. Demba Ba collected the ball just inside his own half and raced through to beat goalkeeper Dean Henderson on 13 minutes, with Edin Visca smashing in a second after Juan Mata was stripped of possession. Anthony Martial’s header cut the deficit before half-time but United saw its momentum in Group H halted after wins over PSG and RB Leipzig last month. Emil Forsberg’s penalty earned Leipzig a 2-1 victory as it came from behind to beat a weakened Paris Saint-Germain, dealing a major blow to the Champions League aspirations of last season’s runner-up. Paying the penalty Angel di Maria had given PSG an early lead in Germany but he then crucially missed a penalty for the French champion, which was missing both Neymar and Kylian Mbappe due to injury and ended the contest with nine men.  The results: Group E: Chelsea 3 (Werner 10-pen, 41-pen, Abraham 50) bt Rennes 0; Sevilla 3 (Rakitic 42, En-Nesyri 69, 72) bt Krasnodar 2 (Suleymanov 17, Berg 21-pen).   Group F: Club Brugge 0 lost to Borussia Dortmund 3 (T. Hazard 14, Haaland 18, 32); Zenit St. Petersburg 1 (Erokhin 32) drew with Lazio 1 (Caicedo 82).   Group G: Barcelona 2 (Messi 5-pen, Pique 65) bt Dynamo Kiev 1 (Tsygankov 75); Ferencvaros 1 (Boli 90) lost to Juventus 4 (Morata 7, 60, Dybala 73, Dvali 81-og).   Group H: RB Leipzig 2 (Nkunku 42, Forsberg 57-pen) bt PSG 1 (Di Maria 6); Istanbul Basaksehir 2 (Ba 13, Visca 40) bt Manchester United 1 (Martial 43).
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Ruthless MI batters DC into submission, takes quick route to final||A terrific end-overs heist from Ishan Kishan (55 n.o., 30b, 4x4, 3x6) and Hardik Pandya (37 n.o., 14b, 5x6), followed by a Trent Boult-Jasprit Bumrah bowling masterclass, put Mumbai Indians in the IPL final following a resounding 57-run win over Delhi Capitals at the Dubai International Stadium on Thursday. It didn’t matter that two of MI’s best batsmen, Rohit Sharma and Kieron Pollard, were both out for ducks. Quinton de Kock’s racy 25-ball 40 (5x4, 1x6) and Suryakumar Yadav’s 38-ball 51 (6x4, 2x6) set the tone before Ishan and Hardik combined for a 60-run partnership off just 23 balls to set DC a challenging 201-run target. 0 for 3 Boult and Bumrah then left DC reeling at 0 for 3 after just 1.2 overs. Prithvi Shaw was caught behind and Ajinkya Rahane out leg-before to Boult (2-1-9-2) before Bumrah bowled Shikhar Dhawan with an inch-perfect yorker. When Bumrah had Shreyas Iyer caught at cover with the score at 20, the contest was all but over. Marcus Stoinis resisted with a half-century (65, 46b, 6x4, 3x6), but a double-wicket burst by Bumrah (4-1-14-4) in the 16th over ensured the Australian’s knock was merely academic. DC has one more opportunity to make the final, but it will need to summon all its powers of recovery following a loss of this magnitude. Blistering start After DC chose to bowl, de Kock provided MI with a blistering start, creaming three boundaries in the first over from Daniel Sams. R. Ashwin struck off his second ball, trapping Rohit leg-before, but de Kock chugged along merrily, driving the offie through cover, pulling Kagiso Rabada behind square and then hoisting Axar Patel over long-on. Suryakumar hit Ashwin for a straight six and a punched four to round out the PowerPlay at 63 for one. It was Ashwin who provided the breakthrough again, forcing de Kock to miscue a hoick to long-off in the eighth over. Suryakumar brought up his fourth half-century with a terrific cross-batted whip off Anrich Nortje. The South African, however, soon had him caught at fine-leg off a bouncer. When Pollard fell to a carrom ball from Ashwin, MI had slumped from 78 for one to 101 for four. Shifting gears But 32 runs from the 15th and 16th overs set things up well for MI, with Ishan racing to 33 off 21, after being on 11 from 14 balls at one stage. His humongous six off Rabada over deep square-leg was the stand-out shot. Stoinis conceded just five runs in the 17th over and removed Krunal Pandya. But Hardik smoked Rabada over long-on and mid-wicket before sending Nortje soaring over long-on and long-off. Ishan’s acrobatic maximum over extra-cover brought up his fourth fifty and MI’s 200. It was not long before Boult and Bumrah delivered the knock-out punch.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||SRH enters the Eliminator on the crest of a wave, RCB looks to turn the tide||After being down and nearly out, with just four wins in 11 matches, Sunrisers Hyderabad has scripted an impressive turnaround to reach the playoffs and will start as the favourite against Royal Challengers Bangalore at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Friday. The 2016 IPL champion had to win its final three games, which it did comprehensively to pip RCB and finish third, thanks to a better net run rate. SRH struggled in the first half of the tournament to find the right combination. Since then, a few changes to the line-up have helped with the revival. Jason Holder, who joined the squad after the injury to Mitchell Marsh, has been a revelation with the ball, picking up ten wickets in five matches. Along with T. Natarajan, he has been effective in the death overs. He also played a cameo with the bat against RCB when the team was in trouble. Ploy works Another change that has worked for SRH is the introduction of Wriddhiman Saha at the top of the order. The Indian wicketkeeper, who replaced Jonny Bairstow to accommodate Kane Williamson and balance the side, has slammed 184 runs (87, 39 and 58 n.o.) in the last three games, opening with David Warner. In contrast, RCB comes into the contest on the back of four defeats, losing its early momentum. The team’s batting unit has struggled in the last four matches. Skipper Virat Kohli himself hasn’t scored as many runs as he is accustomed to, with just three half-centuries so far, and is due for a big knock. Fitness concern Another area of concern is the fitness of Chris Morris, who had to leave the field with a hamstring niggle after bowling just two overs in the last league game against Delhi Capitals. RCB has reached the playoffs for the first time since 2016, when it finished runner-up to SRH. But it will need to find the form it showed in the first half of the tournament to extend its stay in the business end.
06 November 2020||Chennai,||INRC set to resume after nine-month break||After a nine-month break, the MRF-MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship (INRC) 2020 resumes in a bio-bubble at the MMRT circuit here on Saturday and behind closed doors necessitated by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. No fans The strict enforcement of government mandated SOPs would mean absence of spectators, guests and the media with entry restricted to competitors with a maximum of two helpers each and officials. After the successful conduct of the National Drag Racing Championship for two-wheelers last month, also in a closed environment, MMSC took the lead to resume motorsports activities in the country following easing of restrictions. Chairman of the meet Vicky Chandhok said, “It has been a tough year for everyone due to the pandemic. “But after the government eased restrictions and allowed resumption of sporting activities, we conducted the National Drag races last month without incident. “This weekend, we go a step further by resuming the four-wheeler championship, again with protocols in place with no compromise on safety and health of all involved by implementing temperature checks, hand sanitisation, wearing of masks and physical distancing. Triple-headers The weekend card includes triple-headers in the popular Indian Touring Cars (ITC), Super Stock and the Indian Junior Touring Cars categories, as also the MRF Saloon Car Championship, featuring Toyota Etios, making its debut in the National Championship, while the Formula LGB 1300, will have four races. Going into the second round, Race Concepts (Bengaluru) drivers, veteran Arjun Balu (Coimbatore) and Rithvik Thomas (Bengaluru) head the ITC and Super Stock classes, respectively. The two have 50 points apiece after a double each in the opener in February. The Formula LGB and the MRF Saloon Car Championship classes will have their first runs of the season this weekend.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Trailblazers brings Velocity crashing down||It didn't take Velocity long to come crashing down to earth after Wednesday’s high. Not even a day in fact, as Mithali Raj's women were bundled out for 47 on their way to a nine-wicket defeat at the hands of Trailblazers at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Thursday. After their thrilling five-wicket win over defending champion Supernovas, another victory would have taken them to the final of the Women's T20 Challenge. But now they have to await the result of Saturday's game between Trailblazers and Supernovas to know their fate. It was a horror show by the Velocity batters. They gave away their wickets too easily, though Supernovas bowled superbly, especially Sophie Ecclestone. The left-arm spinner from England took four for nine from 3.1 overs, showing why she is the ICC's No. 1 bowler in women's T20. She bowled an excellent length and varied her pace cleverly. There were two wickets each for seasoned seamer Jhulan Goswami and left-arm spinner Rajeshwari Gayakwad. It was Jhulan who started it all, cleaning up Shafali Varma. The teenager was undone by her attempt to tap an in-coming ball through the third-man area. Shafali had put on 17 for the first wicket with Danielle Wyatt. That would remain the highest partnership of the innings, as Ecclestone got into the act. She trapped Mithali leg-before and castled Veda Krishnamurthy off successive balls. In her next over, she bowled Sushma Verma, one of the stars on the previous night. Velocity was all out in 15.1 overs. Smriti falls Though Supernovas lost the wicket of captain Smriti Mandhana early, her opening partner Deandra Dottin (29 not out, 28b, 3x4) took the team home with 12.1 overs to spare. The finishing touch was provided by Richa Ghosh, who slog-swept Ekta Bisht for a six.
06 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Chhetri welcomes ATK MB and SC East Bengal to the ISL fold||Bengaluru FC (BFC) star Sunil Chhetri welcomed SC East Bengal and Mohun Bagan (rechristened as ATK Mohun Bagan) to the Indian Super League (ISL), hailing the clubs for their monumental stature. Having played for both Kolkata giants earlier in his career, Chhetri is well aware of the passionate fan following they bring to the table. Huge thing “Mohun Bagan and East Bengal coming in is a huge thing. I have been in Indian football for 19 years. Both clubs are monumental in stature, and synonymous with Indian football. For them to play alongside the top Indian players in the ISL is huge. “It is a shame that their fans will not be there in the stadium, but I am sure that they will make themselves heard on other platforms. The tournament will be very competitive with their entry,” Chhetri said, in a media interaction on Thursday. This season of the ISL, which commences on November 20, will be held in three venues at Goa, robbing BFC of the chance to play in front of their adoring home fans. Chhetri admitted that it will be tough to adjust to the new normal, but added that this was just a small price to pay to get back on the football field. “Yes, there are many challenges this season. We will not be able to play at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru. Our fans, who also travel to watch away matches, will not be there this season. Not having our fans is a big miss. We also have to stay for five months in the bubble, which is not going to be easy. “There were murmurs in our dressing room about the strict bubble, but I told them that it is a very small price to pay to be able to play a big tournament. “Not many people in the world enjoy the benefits that we do. In a country where people are fighting for fundamental things, we are being allowed to play a football tournament and do what we enjoy,” the 36-year-old said. Injury management Chhetri stated that given the long lay-off that players have faced, injury management is crucial. “In just 16 days, we will play our first ISL game. But we’re yet to train properly with the full team. “The only thing I’m skeptical about is players getting injured when we start training with the full team. The chances of getting injuries are really high. We must avoid injuries in order to do well,” Chhetri said.  We also have to stay for five months in the bubble, which is not going to be easy Chhetri
06 November 2020||Paris,||Nadal chalks up 1,000th match win||Becoming only the fourth man to reach 1,000 match wins should have drawn deafening cheers and a standing ovation for tennis great Rafael Nadal. Instead, he reached his milestone amid a cathedral-like silence on Wednesday in a 20,000-seater stadium left completely empty because of the coronavirus pandemic. There was only a fist-bump from Feliciano Lopez, after Nadal beat him 4-6, 7-6(5), 6-4 in a subdued atmosphere more worthy of a library study area than a sports arena. “The real feeling, the personal feeling is completely different,” Nadal said. “It makes a big difference that the court is empty.” The 34-year-old Nadal joins towering company in Jimmy Connors (1,274), Roger Federer (1,242) and Ivan Lendl (1,068) as the only men’s 1,000-club members since the Open era began in 1968. “I know it is a very special number, one thousand,” Nadal said. “Even if it’s not the same to celebrate something like this without a crowd.” It was the second milestone he reached in Paris this year, having won the French Open last month to tie Federer on 20 Majors. But while 1,000 fans cheered him at Roland Garros, none were at the Bercy Arena. The 34-year-old’s first win came in May 2002 at the age of 15, when he beat Paraguayan Ramon Delgado in the first round at Mallorca. A year later, the 16-year-old Nadal stunned the tennis world by beating French Open champion Albert Costa under floodlights in the second round at the Monte Carlo Masters. By the age of 24, he had already reached 500 wins. His career tally also includes 35 Masters titles and 86 tournament victories overall. Lopez won their first meeting back in 2003 and had beaten Nadal four times overall. He had 22 aces and troubled a sluggish Nadal, who failed to convert six break-points in the second set but broke immediately at the start of the third. Nadal, who has never won this tournament, next plays Jordan Thompson of Australia, who upset Croat Borna Coric 2-6, 6-4, 6-2.   The results (second round): Rafael Nadal bt Feliciano Lopez 4-6, 7-6(5), 6-4; Jordan Thompson bt Borna Coric 2-6, 6-4, 6-2; Alexander Zverev bt Miomir Kecmanovic 6-2, 6-2; Adrian Mannarino bt Yoshihito Nishioka 6-3, 6-7(5), 6-3.   Stan Wawrinka bt Tommy Paul 4-6, 7-6(3), 6-2; Andrey Rublev bt Radu Albot 6-1, 6-2; Diego Schwartzman bt Richard Gasquet 7-5, 6-3; Alejandro Davidovich Fokina bt Benjamin Bonzi 6-4, 6-4; Alex de Minaur bt Lorenzo Sonego 6-3, 7-5.   Daniil Medvedev bt Kevin Anderson 6-6 (5/2) retired; Milos Raonic bt Pierre-Hugues Herbert 6-4, 6-4.   The 1000 club Jimmy Connors — 1,274 Roger Federer — 1,242 Ivan Lendl — 1,068 Rafael Nadal — 1,000
06 November 2020||CHENNAI:,||It’s Oscars Thunder versus Priceless Ruler in main event||Oscars Thunder and Priceless Ruler may fight out the finish in the Change Of Luck Plate (1,000m), the main event of the opening day’s races to be held here on Friday (Nov. 6). It will be a closed door racing without spectators.  NOVEMBER PLATE (1,000m), 4-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25, 1-30 p.m.: 1. Break The Silence (2) A.M. Alam 60, 2. Street Cat (6) M. Bhaskar 60, 3. Rhiannon (10) Yash 59.5, 4. Daiyamondo (4) Antony Raj 58, 5. Amazing Kitten (3) Shahar Babu 57.5, 6. Arazinger (11) P. Ajeeth Kumar 57.5, 7. Azeria (7) B. Nikhil 57.5, 8. Jericho (9) Azad Alam 57.5, 9. Shelomi (8) Farhan 56.5, 10. Vibrant Approach (5) S. Shareef 55.5, 11. Oliver Twist (12) Ayaz Khan 54.5 and 12. Gulabi Doll (1) Zervan 51.5.  1. DAIYAMONDO, 2. RHIANNON, 3. VIBRANT APPROACH   EGYPTIANA PLATE (1,000m), rated 20 to 45, 2-00: 1. Perfect Princess (12) Zervan 60, 2. Otus (4) Rajendra Singh 58, 3. Penang (6) P. Ajeeth Kumar 58, 4. Protea (3) Antony Raj 56.5, 5. Oxygen (7) Azfar Syeed 56, 6. Pacific (11) B. Nikhil 56, 7. Rwanda (5) Brisson 56, 8. Desert Force (1) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 9. Incredible Star (8) P. Sai Kumar 55, 10. Steve Mcqueen (10) Azad Alam 55, 11. Majestic Wind (9) Yash 54 and 12. Gallant Star (2) Muzaffar 51.  1. INCREDIBLE STAR, 2. PROTEA, 3. OXYGEN   WELCOME CUP (Div. I) , (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 2-30: 1. Blue Patent (4) Farhan 56, 2. Cavallo Vincente (10) Antony Raj 56, 3. Flash Star (9) Surya 56, 4. Radical Review (3) Jagadeesh 56, 5. Angel Heart (5) M. Bhaskar 54.5, 6. Autumn Shower (2) Rayan Ahmed 54.5, 7. Carnoustie (1) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 8. Embrace (6) Brisson 54.5, 9. Fakhrunisa (11) Yash 54.5, 10. Full Of Surprise (8) Zervan 54.5, 11. Golden Streak (12) A.M. Alam 54.5 and 12. Mayflower (7) S. Shareef 54.5.  1. FAKHRUNISA, 2. EMBRACE, 3. FULL OF SURPRISE   WELCOME CUP (Div. II) , (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-00: 1. Majestic Charmer (9) S. Shareef 56, 2. Moment Of Life (8) P. Ajeeth Kumar 56, 3. Supreme Excelsior (12) Nakhat Singh 56, 4. Divina (2) Yash 54.5, 5. Midsummer (6) Ayaz Khan 54.5, 6. Naomi (3) Jagadeesh 54.5, 7. Romantic Bay (1) Shahar Babu 54.5, 8. Royal Dreams (7) Brisson 54.5, 9. Senora Bianca (5) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 10. Songbird (11) Azad Alam 54.5, 11. Sweet Home (4) B. Nikhil 54.5 and 12. Wakeful (10) Farhan 54.5.  1. NAOMI, 2. MOMENT OF LIFE, 3. ROYAL DREAMS   BELMONT PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 3-30: 1. Gods Plan (2) P. Sai Kumar 60.5, 2. Towns End (6) Azfar Syeed 60, 3. Wise Don (7) Kamigallu 58.5, 4. Lady Rhino (3) Rayan Ahmed 57.5, 5. Star Proof (4) Kiran Naidu 57.5, 6. Country’s Grace (—) (—) 56.5, 7. Dominant (11) A.M. Alam 56, 8. Queen Supreme (5) Muzaffar 55, 9. Cape Cod (1) P. Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 10. Queen Justitia (10) Yash 53.5, 11. Fun Lover (8) S. Shareef 51.5 and 12. Intox (9) B. Nikhil 50.5.  1. GODS PLAN, 2. STAR PROOF, 3. QUEEN JUSTITIA   CHANGE OF LUCK PLATE (Div. I) , (1,000m), rated 60 to 85, 4-00: 1. Kingoftheworld (8) P. Ajeeth Kumar 60, 2. Oscars Thunder (5) Yash 59.5, 3. Bora Bora (9) Brisson 59, 4. Excelerate (7) Shahar Babu 59, 5. Octavian (3) A.M. Alam 59, 6. Sentosa (6) Azfar Syeed 57.5, 7. Hebron (2) Jagadeesh 57, 8. Drei Bruder (1) Farhan 56.5, 9. Priceless Ruler (4) Nakhat Singh 56.5 and 10. Emissary (10) Kiran Naidu 55.  1. OSCARS THUNDER, 2. PRICELESS RULER, 3. BORA BORA   WAR ADMIRAL PLATE (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4-30: 1. Kingston Heath (4) Kamigallu 62, 2. Texas Rose (3) Farhan 62, 3. Breaking Bounds (10) Antony Raj 61, 4. Pinewood (1) Surya 58.5, 5. Queens Hall (2) P. Sai Kumar 56.5, 6. Booms Lang (9) S. Shareef 56, 7. Imperial Empress (11) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 8. Royal Protocal (12) Kiran Naidu 54, 9. Blue Bliss (7) Azfar Syeed 53.5, 10. Lordship (6) C. Brisson 51, 11. Shreya’s Pet (8) Ayaz Khan 51 and 12. Torbert (5) Jagadeesh 50.  1. TORBERT, 2. LORDSHIP, 3. IMPERIAL EMPRESS   CHANGE OF LUCK PLATE (Div. II) , (1,000m), rated 60 to 85, 5-00: 1. Silver Hawk (ex: Striking Grey) (5) Antony Raj 60, 2. Rutbedaar (9) P. Ajeeth Kumar 58, 3. Storm Flag (1) Yash 55.5, 4. Pretty Gal (8) P. Sai Kumar 55, 5. Wonder Blaze (6) S. Shareef 55, 6. Excellent Phoenix (3) Azfar Syeed 54.5, 7. Star Guitar (4) B. Nikhil 54.5, 8. Royal Prestige (2) A.M. Alam 54, 9. Cher Amie (10) Zervan 53 and 10. Glorious Land (7) Farhan 51.5.  1. CHER AMIE, 2. STORM FLAG, 3. EXCELLENT PHOENIX
06 November 2020||Olivos (Argentina),||Maradona’s recovery is excellent: doctor||Doctors treating Argentine football legend Diego Maradona, who had a successful brain surgery to remove a blood clot, are “amazed” at the rate of his recovery, his physician said on Wednesday. Surgeons at a private clinic in Buenos Aires spent 80 minutes removing the clot on Tuesday night. “I just saw him, he’s switched on, in a very good mood. We are amazed at how he's healing,” said the doctor, Leopoldo Luque, who provided an update on the 60-year-old's condition. “But we have to be careful because we are still in the post-operative period,” he cautioned. “It is clear that he has no neurological complications,” said Luque, speaking to reporters through a mask. There are other parameters that we are waiting to evaluate, because it is still very early. But the recovery is excellent.” The comments sparked loud cheering and chanting from fans of Maradona who have hung banners depicting his glory day outside the clinic.  World Cup winner Maradona had been taken to hospital in La Plata on Monday for a series of tests after feeling unwell. A scan revealed the blood clot, and on Tuesday he was transferred to the clinic in a northern neighbourhood of the capital. “We managed to successfully remove the clot. Diego coped well with the surgery,” Luque said in an earlier update. Maradona, who turned 60 on Friday, has suffered ill health before. He has survived two heart attacks, and also contracted hepatitis and undergone gastric bypass surgery. Following this surgery, fellow Argentina football star Lionel Messi sent him a message of support. “Diego, all the strength in the world. My family and I want to see you well as soon as possible,” said the Barcelona forward.  I just saw him, he’s switched on, in a very good mood. We are amazed at how he's healing — Dr. Leopoldo Luque
06 November 2020||PARIS,||Bopanna-Marach duo enters quarterfinals||Rohan Bopanna and Oliver Marach pipped Fabrice Martin and Jean-Julien Rojer 3-6, 6-4, [10-8] to reach the quarterfinals of the Paris Masters on Wednesday. In the ITF men’s event in Egypt, Arjun Kadhe made the doubles semifinals with Vlaydslav Manafov.  Other results:   $100,000 ITF women, Charleston, USA: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ingrid Neel & Caitlin Whoriskey (USA) bt Maria Camila Osorio Serrano (Col) & Ankita Raina 6-7(0), 6-2, [10-5].   $15,000 ITF, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Men: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Oleksii Krutykh (Ukr) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-1, 6-3.   Women: Doubles (quarterfinals): Ksenia Laskutova & Daria Mishina (Rus) bt Michaela Bayerlova (Cze) & Sathwika Sama 7-5, 6-1.   $15,000 ITF men, Quinta Do Lago, Portugal: Singles (first round): Joao Monteiro (Por) bt Terence Das 6-1, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Nicolas Barrientos (Col) & Tsung-Hua Yang (Tpe) bt Daniel Ivanov (Por) & Terence Das 6-4, 6-1 .
06 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Azhar to chair HCA Apex Council meet||Hyderabad Cricket Association president Mohd. Azharuddin will chair the Apex Council meeting convened by secretary R. Vijayanand on November 6 at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium here. Azhar told The Hindu he would attend the meeting despite not being on the same page as the rest of the Council on many issues.  Player safety The former India captain said he was not inclined to resume domestic cricket in a hurry. “I don’t want the players to be put to any risk. As of now nothing is happening in many sports across India. And, it is never easy to have a bio-bubble for 220 teams if the leagues were to be held,” Azhar explained. “I am not saying that we will not start the season till a vaccine is found. “But again, even the BCCI has to formally inform us about how it is going to conduct the Ranji Trophy, which it said would commence in January,” the HCA chief said. “We are confident of getting into preparatory mode at the right time for the Ranji season once it is finalised,” he said. Agenda Vijayanand said the Apex Council agenda was confirmation of the minutes of the seventh Council meeting, points arising out of the minutes of the same meeting, commencement of the 2020-21 season, discussion on completion of accounts for the 2017-18 and 2018-19, fixing the date of the AGM and, with the permission of the chair, discussion on the issue of Ombudsman and CEO/CFO notification.
06 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Archery selection trials from Nov. 24||Selection trials will be conducted at the JRD Tata Sports Complex, Jamshedpur, from November 24 to 26 to pick four men and four women recurve archers for the ongoing National camp. Archers who scored at least 650 points in recurve men and at least 630 in recurve women events in any of the three specified selection trials — one at Sonepat (August 2019) and two at ASI Pune (January 2020) — are eligible to participate in the trials, according to an Archery Association of India (AAI) release on Thursday. The AAI has released a list of 40 men and 18 women archers who are eligible to take part in the trials to be conducted by the Sports Authority of India. Exemption The Core Group of eight men and eight women archers, who were selected before the postponement of the Olympics, would be exempted. The selected archers will join the Core Group at the Olympic preparatory camp in Pune. “Since there was no activity for about a year, the trials would look for young talented archers. “At least they will be part of the bench strength for now. They are future prospects for 2024 Olympics,” said AAI secretary Pramod Chandurkar. The Standard Operating Procedure requires all participants to undergo COVID tests and carry a negative RT-PCR report not more than 48 hours before arriving at Jamshedpur. The entries need to reach AAI by November 15. Archer Himani Malik tested positive for COVID-19 at the National camp. Twenty-three campers were tested after a support staff returned a positive result on Oct. 30.
06 November 2020||DHAKA,||Ban was a blessing in disguise: Shakib||Bangladesh all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan calls it a “blessing in disguise” but says he is also prepared to be doubted by teammates when, in a few days’ time, he returns to cricket after serving a one-year ban for failing to report corrupt approaches. Shakib was handed a two-year ban, one year suspended, by the ICC’s Anti-Corruption Unit on October 29 last year for not reporting multiple corrupt approaches by an Indian bookmaker. “It helped me in many ways and mostly in positive ways. Lot of doors opened for me and I can think about life differently, it’s a blessing in disguise. I don’t regret this one year,” Shakib said in a video posted on his official YouTube channel. “When a man comes back from this situation he is much more matured. Now I think differently than before and it will surely help me in my life.” Fitness test The 33-year-old is among 113 cricketers who will go through a fitness test on Nov. 9 and 10 ahead of the Bangabandhu T20 tournament. Asked if his teammates will doubt him, Shakib said: “It’s a difficult question because I am not sure what is going through anyone’s mind. They can doubt me or have no trust in me and I don’t disapprove it totally. “But as I have spoken with almost everyone I did not feel it that way. I think they will believe me like the way they used to do, but anyone can have doubt over me at some corner of his mind because it is such a thing.” On his comeback, Shakib said he is determined to “reach where I have left“. “I want to repay you back for all the support. The fans were behind me more than my expectations. Whenever I will play, the only thing that will come to my mind is how I can repay them back,” he said.  When a man comes back from this situation he is much more matured
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Draupadi’s surrender||When Yudhishthira pledged Draupadi in the game of chess and lost, the Kauravas saw an opportunity to humiliate the Pandavas. Dushasana arrived to claim Draupadi as the slave of the Kauravas. He dragged her to the court of the Kauravas. He insulted Draupadi, and pulled at her sari, so that she would be left without a garment. This was to be her ultimate shame. Poet Ananta Bhatta wrote that Dushasana looked frightening, like Yama on his buffalo, arriving to take one’s life. Draupadi appealed to the learned men in the court, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Bhishma began to think about the legality of the situation. Yudhishthira was himself a slave. By law, a slave was not allowed to own property. That being the case, how could he pledge anything at all, leave alone Draupadi? This was Bhishma’s line of thought. None of the leaders in the assembly thought about the lack of morality of Dushasana’s act. Regardless of whether Yudhishthira was a slave or a free man, the very act of offering his wife as a stake in a game must have been viewed as unethical, and the result of the game dismissed on this very ground. But this did not happen. Pillai Lokacharya says that her five husbands, who watched silently, were all guilty, and none of them deserved sympathy. Finally, Draupadi cried out to Lord Krishna for help, and how Krishna helped her by sending yards and yards of cloth is well known. There are five prerequisites for saranagati: anukulya sankalpa — doing what pleases Lord; praatikulya varjana — not doing what displeases Him; mahavisvasa — belief that He will save us; goptrtva varna — asking Him for help; kaarpanya — acknowledging one’s helplessness. The Lord heeded Draupadi’s cry for help as she had all 5 angas of saranagati.
06 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Indoor stadium inaugurated||Kerala Sports Minister E.P. Jayarajan inaugurated a new indoor stadium at Chalakkudy on Thursday. The stadium, constructed at a cost of Rs. 9.34 crore, is named in memory of former State football player M.L. Jacob. The facility houses six badminton, two volleyball and one basketball courts. The stadium has an open gallery to seat 5000 spectators, changing rooms, dormitory and a conference hall. Speaking during the occasion, the minister said the government has earmarked Rs. 1000 crore to construct 46 stadiums in the State and the priority was to build one international stadium in each district and improve basic infrastructure in each municipality. He added construction of 26 stadiums was on and they would be soon dedicated to the sportspersons in the State.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 09:33 IST,||Sudoku - November 5, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 09:35 IST,||Sudoku - November 6, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Where are second marriages made?||Minaxi Ravishankar Pandya, 63, and Ramesh Chandulal Shah, 61, are celebrating three months of being married. “ Maine usko guru maan liya hai, to achha chalta hai (I have accepted her as my guru, so it’s good going),” jokes Shah. The couple now lives with his son and daughter-in-law in Vadodara. “We are really enjoying this: we sit together, go out together, sing together. She has a wonderful nature, and she’s a great cook,” he says.  Turning to a pro  Having lost his wife three years ago, the loneliness had begun to get to Shah. For Pandya, a retired school teacher who does not have children and whose husband died five years ago, it was companionship she missed. “I wanted someone who was retired with a pension,” she says. Both had registered with the Anubandh Foundation in Ahmedabad that “helps senior citizens for remarriage/live-in relationship across the world”, as founder Natubhai Patel’s calling card proclaims. The most common way of dissemination of information on prospective brides and grooms, says Patel, is through WhatsApp, but as Shah says, “At this age, you don’t look at a photo and decide to get married.” Instead, the couple spent four months on phone conversations for about five hours daily. Patel, whose agency has existed for 19 years now, says he has helped 163 people find partners, with sammelans (gatherings) in every State of the country, with the most number in Gujarat. “There has been a huge change over the past five years,” he says. “Earlier, the children were not always happy about their parents’ decision to get married, but now children approach us. Girls are always more supportive and proactive than boys.” Most remarriages that take place through his not-for-profit are in the 55 to 65 age group, but what has changed is that where earlier he would have about 100 to 200 registrations per month, there are now 300 to 400. During the lockdown, the 71-year-old saw five weddings.  Going online  New York-based previously single mom Dr Rupam Kaur of Netflix series Indian Matchmaking fame, found her husband on Bumble (having switched on the religion filter) and married in September. Many like her, look online for love, hoping for a wide network. “I had a good experience with an online platform as I trusted my own judgement and assessment over that of a third party (aka an elder or other common third party),” she says. There are a few websites and apps specific to second marriages, like Divorcee Matrimony, secondshaadi.com, and thesecondmarriage.com. Many that cater to marriage at any age and stage in life have sections for those who are looking for ‘rematches’. Shaadi.com, for instance, has 20% of its users looking at remarriage, with a male-female split (70:30) that is similar to those who have never been married before, says Adhish Zaveri, director, Marketing. Aisle is a hybrid that positions itself as “a high-intent dating app,” according to Bengaluru-based founder-CEO Able Joseph. It has 6.24% non-single users, with Ahmedabad seeing the highest numbers, followed by Mumbai, Gurugram, and Bengaluru. Some, like Divorcee Matrimony take a page out of the dating app book. It has a swipe right/left functionality and a facility to detect possible spouses in the vicinity. However, in true ‘matrimonial marketplace’ style you can actually make micro-choices, like choosing amongst 39 categories of just Christians. For added trust, the app has badges, where you can upload an education certificate, salary slip, even driving license and passport. Depsite the fact that trust is seen as a problem with the online mechanism, Arti Baruah*, 54, says there is no other way, because family is rarely interested in helping someone who has been married before, especially if the person is over 35 and has children. Baruah has been on Aisle, but now steers clear because she got a lot of messages for ONS (app-speak for one-night stands). She admits it could be because she is separated and had put that out on the app, which could be construed as nebulous by some.  Matches offline  Several people who have not proactively looked for spouses met them through the course of daily life. Kathakoli Dasgupta met her husband through a running group, while Mishthi Aggarwal* met hers through work. While Dasgupta was previously married and her husband was not, Aggarwal and her husband were, with two children each. The change the latter has seen is in the approach to divorce itself: where 10 years ago it was rare for people to mention it, today, there is less stigma attached to it. Correspondingly attitudes to remarriage too have changed, at least in the cities. Aparna Mathur, 48, feels people need to understand themselves better, and the deeper reasons they have for a commitment. She met her husband Nelson Carvalho, 51, three years ago on a work trip to Bengaluru, when a friend introduced them. They got married this February. Both have been married before. One aspect that brings them together is work: they are leadership coaches who are planning a series of courses for people looking at marriage itself, second marriages being one. In 2016, Hyderabad-based Ekta Viiveck Verma started a by-invite group on Facebook called Invisible Scars, open to all genders, where people who have been in abusive marriages can support each other. She and her husband of nine years, Viiveck Verma, met on Shaadi.com. Both had been married before; she, divorced; he had lost his wife to cancer, and had two adopted daughters. “The first time around, you’re not very sure what you’re getting into. The second time around, you can draw up a list of negotiables and non-negotiables,” she says, adding that of late, people on the group have started showing an interest in looking at the possibility of being with each other. In the end, as Baruah says, “What I found on apps like Aisle was that there are many people in the same boat as I am: lonely and worthy of long-term commitment.” *Name changed to protect identity  Preferences and biases  A second marriage does not mean that people give up on fundamental beliefs, with inherent biases creeping in. If you look at newspaper advertisements for second marriages, a “H’some Punjabi Khatri Boy 36/6’2” who is a Canadian citizen wants a “Qlfd/Unmarried” woman; a “Well settled smart Brahmin boy, MBA” looks for a “b’ful homely educated issueless” woman; while a “38yrs MBA humble fair slim Dvcd I’less Brahmin wrkng girl” is looking for an “adaptive wrkng TT Veg Groom; and a ”Maham BE MS UK / online tutorials at Coimbatore 6l pa” is looking for a “Chettiar broadmined groom”.  Several will mention their own caste and physical attributes, while also saying “caste no bar”. Ads under the “Cosmopolitan”, “Second Marriage”, or “Divorcee” section in newspapers use the same language as those for first marriages with a few ‘demands’ missing.  However, data from Shaadi.com suggests that close to 60% of the members looking to get married again are open to marrying people from outside their community, though it’s pertinent to note that over 50% of its members come from India’s 10 largest cities.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The horrors of silence||Loneliness creeps into the lavish penthouse and circles around Hunter Conrad’s [Haley Bennett] neck like a snake, when she spends days and nights in isolation. She is oft-perceived as a material possession in the eyes of her affluent husband Richie Conrad [Austin Stowell]. Hunter goes through an avalanche of emotion when she discovers she is pregnant. In order to reclaim ownership of her body, she develops an eating disorder called pica, an obsession over consuming non-edible materials. As horrific as it may sound, Swallow was inspired by the story of Carlo Mirabella-Davis’ grandmother, who was a homemaker in an unhappy marriage in the ‘50s. The film explores the horrors his grandmother, and many other women, deal with, when they are trapped in abusive relationships. Over a Zoom call from New York, Mirabella-Davis says he is fortunate that the film has struck a chord with the audience, especially the part about isolation, during the pandemic. Excerpts from the interview:   Your production designer [Erin Magill] said that the overall aesthetics of the film was inspired by Rosemary’s Baby . How much of an influence has Polanski’s film had on you? Erin and I discussed a lot of movies including A Woman Under the Influence [by John Cassavetes], Safe [Todd Haynes] and Rosemary’s Baby [Roman Polanski]. The concept was always to create an environment to make the house into a character itself. She was passionate about the idea that Hunter’s design of the house should reflect what the wealthy family wants her to be. In fact, all the pieces of furniture resemble objects that Hunter might want to consume if they were smaller. That is why you always get a sense of what is going on beneath the surface. When you make a film, especially a genre film, how vital was it for you to stick to the genre tropes?  Yes, the film was inspired by my grandmother who developed various rituals of control. And yes, she was an obsessive hand washer. When I began to write this, I realised hand washing is not very cinematic and felt it wouldn’t translate well on screen. In terms of genre elements, I began researching pica and OCD, and realised they were universal. I wanted the story to allow people to sit and identify with Hunter and say: ‘Well, I might not do that, I understand what she’s feeling.’ That is one of the incredible powers of horror; it is visceral and allows filmmakers to directly to tap into their hidden fears or pain. Though horror might be the genre in broader terms, the underlying theme is patriarchy and the roles of gender...  You are absolutely right. At its core, it is about a woman who is reclaiming her identity from a family that sees her as a possession and a vessel for their legacy. That is why the rebellion comes out in the form of pica, which is dangerous, yes, but also serves a catalyst for her, to have this quiet rebellion. Your grandmother was eventually sent to an institution and subjected to electric shocks. Considering how the film ends, it is tempting to know if you wished your grandmother’s story had a similar conclusion?  I remember at one of the screenings I went to, someone asked if I wrote this story to correct the past. It was inspired by my grandmother’s story, but the film has its own narrative. This was the arc I wanted Hunter to have and that worked for this story. But I also wish my grandmother had not been subjected to the torture she was subjected to. She never had a choice and most of her choices were made by the men in her life. I hope that the movie in some way increases empathy for people with mental illness. What next?  I have taken advantage of the isolation and have been trying to write as much as possible. There is a feminist supernatural horror movie I am working on and a couple of other projects as well. Swallow is currently streaming on Mubi
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The hills are calling||Up by the Himalayas, in the town of Devprayag, rivers Alaknanda, Saraswati and Bhagirathi mix their own shades of blue to become the Ganges. It is here on a cool December morning, that participants of The Wild Warrior Himalayan Adventure Challenge 2020 will start cycling. It has been a quiet year for Wild Warrior Ventures, Chennai’s first outdoor adventure and obstacle course racing outfit. Yet co-founders Somdev Devvarman, Vikram Menon, and Varun Gunaseelan are determined not to let 2020 pass them by without one major race. So for the first time, Wild Warriors will be collaborating with Aquaterra Adventures from Rishikesh, an old face among outdoor adventure companies for their Himalayan adventure challenge from December 11 to 13. The race, comprising mountain biking, hiking or trail running, and river rafting, will be spread across 65 kilometres on land and water. “We started with the Himalayan race for two reasons: one because Uttarakhand Government has opened up for tourism, and secondly, being in the outdoors, social distancing becomes easy,” says Varun. This is Wild Warriors’ second Himalayan event after one in Nepal in 2018. Outside again The 65-kilometre race can be gruelling and is aimed at the experienced, though there are intermediary 30-kilometre and 10-kilometre versions for beginners. Participants will have to come in groups of four. “We will start from Devprayag and ride down with the river partially on road and partially on dirt trail. This will be followed by hiking and then a lunch break. After that, we will regroup with our team and raft,” he says. Rafting is the only sport which will have to be done with the group, the others are solo sports. To further maintain social distancing, the race will be staggered, with participants sent in batches of four per minute. Some of Chennai’s well-known athletic personalities will participate, including actor Regina Cassandra and professional surfers and stand-up paddlers Kutti Rajsekar, Sekar and Anand. Regina, whose 30th birthday coincides with the day of the race, plans to take part in the 30-kilometre challenge, to raise funds for 30 children from low socio-economic backgrounds.  Though it is a one-day race on December 12, the participants will be hosted the day before and after, at the Atali Ganga resort in Rishikesh. “It is located on the banks of the Ganges. People can stay at either the 30 cottages, or the 50 tents (glamping, with beds and bathrooms inside) spread across the property,” says Varun.  It has been a while since the city’s fitness-enthusiasts have taken part in an outdoor race. With pandemic fatigue creeping in, many may not have the same energy levels. To get back on — the literal — track, Varun recommends strength training for the upper and lower body. “It is hard to practise rafting in Chennai, so the best option would be to head to Kovalam and practise watersports such as standup paddling and kayaking, along with strengthening the back muscles,” he says. There will also be a short orientation programme on December 11, for rafting. His own training comprises mostly running, hitting a monthly average of 200 kilometres. “At the race, rafting will take just an hour as it is downstream, and cycling two more hours. It’s the running that will take four hours, and if you do that better, you will shave a lot off your overall timing,” he explains. With the race Varun hopes to convince people of the importance of living in the moment, “We hope to continue races like these in the Indian Himalayas. Rishikesh is an important base but we are also looking at other places in Ladakh and Kashmir.”  Registrations open for the first 200 sign-ups, until December 8, visit wildwarriorrace.com or call 9840581191.   Set your level 1. 65km Zealot – 30km mountain biking + 21km hiking + 14km rafting 2. 30km Open – 16km hiking + 14km rafting 3. 10km Intro – 5km rafting + 5km hiking
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Colours in a box||“Once upon a time, there was a jungle, ruled by a lion,” begins Dwaraka Jangid Prasad, a 68-year-old master craftsman from Bassi, Chittorgarh. As he narrates the story, he unfolds, one by one, the bright panels of the kavad in his hand. The kavad — a portable shrine with multiple doors that fold into themselves — is a Rajasthani folk artform. You can buy ones that tell tales of the Panchatantra , the homecoming of Rama, or stories from Krishnavatar . The Artist Project, helmed by Abhinaya Rangarajan, works with over 45 artisans across India to curate handmade products like these. In collaboration with The Style Salad, they are also bringing out a gift box of blue pottery products by artisans Muthulakshmi from Puducherry and Gopal Lal from Jaipur.  Gift box costs Rs. 2,550, visit thestylesalad.in. For kavad , mailtheartistproject@gmail.com
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A song of one’s own||Nine songs, some reminiscent of lazy beachsides, others heady with simultaneous layers of percussion, string and voices reaching up to the heavens. The Indie100 2019 album has been almost a year in the making. In November last year teams from Chennai-based KM Music Conservatory, Eathsync and Queensland University of Technology, Australia sat together to help a few chosen, up-and-coming indie musicians put together their first recorded tracks in Chennai: the wait has been worth it. Not only for the nine musical acts in question, but also for anyone who cares to give it a listen. From the dreamy ‘Lucid Dream’ by Joint By The Sea to the electric ‘Lost Vegas’ by The SyZyGy and the spiritual-psychedelic dreamscape that is ‘The Rage of Reetigowla’ by The Cosmic Convergence, each track in this album holds its own. Not surprising, since all the artistes have been wowing the city’s indie circuit for a couple of years now. For this album in particular, they had the advantage of professional guidance, an assigned producer for their track, and KM’s on-campus resources including a recording room. Students of KM even lent their voices to the harmonies of some tracks. Bimal Thangachan, frontman of The Owl Monk Collective whose ‘Clarity’ kicks off the album, describes the process as a “roller coaster — not just for us but also for the producer helping us, Mr Deepak Sugadhan. I know that he had two more recording slots in the same day, including one with some heavy instrumentals.” Thankfully, a lot of the work was done beforehand. Each band walked in with a pre-mixed version of their song, so the producer could have a good listen and suggest changes if needed. Even then, each recording session lasted four hours, and some even spilled over. “I recorded by vocals later after the session and sent them to Deepak sir, so he could work on them,” says Bimal. The songs in the album might be slightly different from what these band’s fans are used to hearing online. For instance, Vajahath Ali of Joint By The Sea says, “We had brought along a drum set for the recording, but our producer — after hearing the track — felt it would sound better just as it is, without the drums.” Bimal, too, notices a much greater emphasis on the lyrics of ‘Clarity’ than he had put while performing it live. Besides this, there were a range of workshops — “from understanding copyright laws to recording deals, they covered it all,” says Vajahath. And what about the rights to these particular songs? The smile in Bimal’s voice is almost palpable as he says, “They released the album on Friday, but had sent us the masters ahead, on Monday. So we know they’re ours.”  Indie100 India 2019 can be   streamed on Spotify, Soundcloud and other platforms.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The housewife who taught India how to make pasta||Food was an intricate part of Sanjay Dalal’s life. Son of India’s first celebrity chef, cookbook author and television host Tarla Dalal, he holds memories of his mother close to his heart. “She introduced Mexican, Chinese and Italian food to Indians and transformed non-vegetarian recipes to vegetarian ones; she Indianised exotic dishes, simplified cooking and could rustle up a dish in a jiffy,” he says. Ahead of her seventh death anniversary on November 6, the son says ‘humility’ was his mother’s best quality. A year after completing an MBA from the US in 1987, Sanjay joined his mother and worked with her till she passed away in 2013. Now he is at the helm of managing the website tarladalal.com, the publication of cookery books, culinary classes and social media accounts. Tarla, the teacher Sanjay was inspired by his mother who started her career from scratch. Long before Sanjay joined in, Tarla was a reputed culinary teacher. She transitioned from a ‘housewife who learnt how to cook’ to a passionate, cheerful teacher. What began as a small class with five students in the 1980s in Bombay, burgeoned into a buzzing centre with classes being held for eight months in a year. Tarla Dalal set up a team of chefs, nutritionists and a video editor while curating cookery books. Under her supervision, the team standardised recipes. She wrote 170 books covering a range of subjects such as calcium-rich recipes, breakfast ideas, cooking with one teaspoon of oil, cooking with children, desi food and recipes for people with diabetes. Sanjay hopes to carry forward her legacy. Virtual classes (four to six in a week) have been held during the lockdown with 10 to 30 participants signing up. He signs off with a tribute to his mother. “We always do something to mark her birth and death anniversaries. It’s about remembering her contribution and her remarkable life.”  ‘Lovable grandma’  Teenager Anya Dalal revealed in a recent ‘Thank You post on reaching 500k followers’ on Tarla Dalal’s Instagram page that she manages the account, which now has 16K followers. Currently studying Commerce, Anya says, “I love social media and since I spend so much time on it, my dad [Sanjay] asked if I wanted to pitch in.” Anya also did an online social media marketing course from Northwestern University on Coursera. Anya and her sister Aria try healthy recipes (with support from the website team) and post them. Iced coffee without sugar was the sisters’ first recipe. She enjoys social media interactions but has to face people who take offence when they post recipes that include eggs. “Since my grandmother never used eggs, there is a negative feedback,” she adds. Remembering the night before Tarla Dalal passed away, Anya says, “We had dinner and she was cracking jokes, making us laugh. We loved to sit on the swing in her room and watch TV.” She was 10 when her grandmother passed away, and is only understanding her legacy now. She recalls going to the Kala Ghoda fair in Mumbai with her grandmother and being surprised at the attention. “I was confused about why people wanted to click pictures with my grandma. Now I understand.”
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Reaching for the skies||This Deepavali will be a quiet one at the Suriya household. “The new normal,” laughs Suriya over a telephone call. The actor is gearing up for an unusual festive season. Unlike in previous years when his films would release to much fan frenzy in theatres, his latest movie, Soorarai Potru , will drop directly on OTT platform Amazon Prime next Thursday. Inspired by the life of Captain Gopinath, the film has Suriya playing Maara, a villager who is a ‘rebel with an idea’, as the trailers suggest. Excerpts from an exclusive interview:  Why was the story of Nedumaran Rajangam (Maara), whose character is based on Captain Gopinath, important enough to be told to the world?  He [Captain Gopinath] changed the history of the Indian aviation industry. His dream was to make the common man fly, and he made about 30 lakh people fly with a ticket priced at just Rs. 1. He ensured villages and towns prospered by connecting them with bigger centres. Real India lives in the villages; he made people from there fly and succeed. In fact, he discovered that there was an air strip in Dindigul and many other places. And, he was a school teacher’s son from a simple background, proving that no dream is too big whoever you may be.  So, it’s also a story of hope, essential in the troubled times we now live in...   Absolutely. He said that if you have an iron will and believe in something, God will make it happen irrespective of your social status. I believe in that philosophy, and thought it was important to pass it on.  You worked hard in the garment business before starting out as an actor. Did you recall that phase while portraying this character’s initial struggles?   We all go through this phase once we turn 18, when we start thinking about our future. Questions like who will accept me, and how I will fare in this world start to crop up. I went through that too. I did not want to follow my father’s [Sivakumar] footsteps in the film industry. I got a job in a garment factory, with my first month’s salary being Rs. 736, which I got after 18 hours of work every day. I still remember the weight of the white envelope that had that money. I re-lived all those days during the shoot of Soorarai Potru that charts the struggles of the protagonist. I also feel that somewhere over the last few years, I became satisfied with the place I am in and was not pushing myself enough. I desperately wanted to respect the love fans were giving me by giving them a film like this. After a long time, I felt refreshed at a shooting spot and experienced a new way of filmmaking. Everybody needs to press that refresh button once a while, and that happens only when you get a challenge. Happiness is facing new challenges.  Was there need to add drama for a cinematic representation of this real-life personality?   Yes. The book we have based the film on, Simply Fly , is 670 pages and we cannot do justice to that material in two hours. We have taken four highlight points. With director Sudha Kongara’s vision, we have added characters coming alive around the protagonist and made it a cinematic experience.  Tell us about the physical demands of this project.   Sudha had a 10-minute confrontation sequence that the protagonist undergoes when he is 18. I am 45 now, and there was no way I was going to play that part! I showed her the CGI work done in Hollywood film Gemini Man , and was hoping she would rope in someone who looks like me for that sequence. But she was insistent that I play it myself. In a span of 27 days, I went through an unhealthy crash diet — that I will not recommend at all — to make myself look like a teenager.  You have played army officers and cops previously. Is there a certain majesty that comes with representing the Armed Forces?   Definitely. They look after civilians in a very protective manner, just like how we would take care of our kid or younger sibling. They are very chivalrous in the way they behave with women. I really wish that each of us experiences life in the Army for a couple of years after schooling. I believe that will bring some order to life.  When you work with senior directors, there is respect and when you work with younger filmmakers, there is fun. How was it with Sudha, who you describe as your ‘rakhi sister’?   She assisted Mani Ratnam sir in Aayutha Ezhuthu (2004). There were sequences that Mani sir would okay, but it was hard pleasing her. She made me feel miserable! She was very close to me but I did not want to do a project with her as I don’t like to mix business and friendship. Her strong outing in Irudhi Suttru (2016) made me change that decision.  Your wife, Jyothika’s Ponmagal Vandhal, released directly on an OTT platform earlier this year and now we have yours. Do you see this as a trend or will things change once theatres reopen?   See, we need to adapt and evolve. It is not about one industry dominating another; it is part of evolution. But we human beings, being social animals, will want to see films in theatres. In future, small-budget, niche films will fill the OTT space and creators will be forced to make better, bigger content for the big screen. Soorarai Potru was made for a theatrical experience... every frame, piece of music and performance was done keeping that in mind. Having said that, we have to move forward and see what best can be done considering the current circumstances.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Restarting with hope||The lockdown has affected businesses. But Goa has taken this dreary situation and turned it into a festival: Revival 2020. The event aims at economically supporting local businesses and communities that have been impacted by the lockdown. With bonfires, storytelling sessions, guitars, slow dancing and poetry, Revival 2020 opens up a space of sharing.  Revival, a joint initiative between the City Corporation of   Panjim and Sensible Earth, is on till November 8 in Panjim.   Sessions can be viewed on @Revival.Goa on Instagram.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Where are second marriages made?||Minaxi Ravishankar Pandya, 63, and Ramesh Chandulal Shah, 61, are celebrating three months of being married. “ Maine usko guru maan liya hai, to achha chalta hai (I have accepted her as my guru, so it’s good going),” jokes Shah. The couple now lives with his son and daughter-in-law in Vadodara. “We are really enjoying this: we sit together, go out together, sing together. She has a wonderful nature, and she’s a great cook,” he says.  Turning to a pro  Having lost his wife three years ago, the loneliness had begun to get to Shah. For Pandya, a retired schoolteacher who does not have children and whose husband died five years ago, it was companionship she missed. “I wanted someone who was retired with a pension,” she says. Both had registered with the Anubandh Foundation in Ahmedabad that “helps senior citizens for remarriage/live-in relationship across the world”, as founder Natubhai Patel’s calling card proclaims. The most common way of dissemination of information on prospective brides and grooms, says Patel, is through WhatsApp, but as Shah says, “At this age, you don’t look at a photo and decide to get married.” Instead, the couple spent four months on phone conversations for about five hours daily. Patel, whose agency has existed for 19 years now, says he has helped 163 people find partners, with sammelans (gatherings) in every State of the country, with the most number in Gujarat. “There has been a huge change over the past five years,” he says. “Earlier, the children were not always happy about their parents’ decision to get married, but now children approach us. Girls are always more supportive and proactive than boys.” Most remarriages that take place through his not-for-profit are in the 55 to 65 age group, but what has changed is that where earlier he would have about 100 to 200 registrations per month, there are now 300 to 400. During the lockdown, the 71-year-old saw five weddings.  Going online  New York-based previously single mom Dr. Rupam Kaur of Netflix series Indian Matchmaking fame, found her husband on Bumble (having switched on the religion filter) and married in September. Many like her, look online for love, hoping for a wide network. “I had a good experience with an online platform as I trusted my own judgement and assessment over that of a third party (aka an elder or other common third party),” Dr. Kaur says. There are a few websites and apps specific to second marriages, like Divorcee Matrimony, secondshaadi.com, and thesecondmarriage.com. Many that cater to marriage at any age and stage in life have sections for those who are looking for ‘rematches’. Shaadi.com, for instance, has 20% of its users looking at remarriage, with a male-female split (70:30) that is similar to those who have never been married before, says Adhish Zaveri, director, marketing. Aisle is a hybrid that positions itself as “a high-intent dating app,” according to Bengaluru-based founder-CEO Able Joseph. It has 6.24% non-single users, with Ahmedabad seeing the highest numbers, followed by Mumbai, Gurugram, and Bengaluru. Some, like Divorcee Matrimony take a page out of the dating app book. It has a swipe right/left functionality and a facility to detect possible spouses in the vicinity. However, in true ‘matrimonial marketplace’ style you can actually make micro-choices, like choosing amongst 39 categories of just Christians. For added trust, the app has badges, where you can upload an education certificate, salary slip, even driving license and passport. Depsite the fact that trust is seen as a problem with the online mechanism, Arti Baruah*, 54, says there is no other way, because family is rarely interested in helping someone who has been married before, especially if the person is over 35 and has children. Baruah has been on Aisle, but now steers clear because she got a lot of messages for ONS (app-speak for one-night stands). She admits it could be because she is separated and had put that out on the app, which could be construed as nebulous by some.  Matches offline  Several people who have not proactively looked for spouses met them through the course of daily life. Kathakoli Dasgupta met her husband through a running group, while Mishthi Aggarwal* met hers through work. While Dasgupta was previously married and her husband was not, Aggarwal and her husband were, with two children each. The change the latter has seen is in the approach to divorce itself: where 10 years ago it was rare for people to mention it, today, there is less stigma attached to it. Correspondingly attitudes to remarriage too have changed, at least in the cities. Aparna Mathur, 48, feels people need to understand themselves better, and the deeper reasons they have for a commitment. She met her husband Nelson Carvalho, 51, three years ago on a work trip to Bengaluru, when a friend introduced them. They got married this February. Both have been married before. One aspect that brings them together is work: they are leadership coaches who are planning a series of courses for people looking at marriage itself, second marriages being one. In 2016, Hyderabad-based Ekta Viiveck Verma started a by-invite group on Facebook called Invisible Scars, open to all genders, where people who have been in abusive marriages can support each other. She and her husband of nine years, Viiveck Verma, met on Shaadi.com. Both had been married before; she, divorced; he had lost his wife to cancer, and had two adopted daughters. “The first time around, you’re not very sure what you’re getting into. The second time around, you can draw up a list of negotiables and non-negotiables,” she says, adding that of late, people on the group have started showing an interest in looking at the possibility of being with each other. In the end, as Baruah says, “What I found on apps like Aisle was that there are many people in the same boat as I am: lonely and worthy of long-term commitment.” *Name changed to protect identity  Preferences and biases  A second marriage does not mean that people give up on fundamental beliefs, with inherent biases creeping in. If you look at newspaper advertisements for second marriages, a “H’some Punjabi Khatri Boy 36/6’2” who is a Canadian citizen wants a “Qlfd/Unmarried” woman; a “Well settled smart Brahmin boy, MBA” looks for a “b’ful homely educated issueless” woman; while a “38yrs MBA humble fair slim Dvcd I’less Brahmin wrkng girl” is looking for an “adaptive wrkng TT Veg Groom; and a ”Maham BE MS UK / online tutorials at Coimbatore 6l pa” is looking for a “Chettiar broadmined groom”.  Several will mention their own caste and physical attributes, while also saying “caste no bar”. Ads under the “Cosmopolitan”, “Second Marriage”, or “Divorcee” section in newspapers use the same language as those for first marriages with a few ‘demands’ missing.  However, data from Shaadi.com suggests that close to 60% of the members looking to get married again are open to marrying people from outside their community, though it’s pertinent to note that over 50% of its members come from India’s 10 largest cities.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The housewife who taught India how to make pasta||Food was an intricate part of Sanjay Dalal’s life. Son of India’s first celebrity chef, cookbook author and television host Tarla Dalal, he holds memories of his mother close to his heart. “She introduced Mexican, Chinese and Italian food to Indians and transformed non-vegetarian recipes to vegetarian ones; she Indianised exotic dishes, simplified cooking and could rustle up a dish in a jiffy,” he says. Ahead of her seventh death anniversary on November 6, the son says ‘humility’ was his mother’s best quality. A year after doing an MBA from the U.S. in 1987, Sanjay joined his mother and worked with her till she passed away in 2013. Now he is at the helm of managing the website tarladalal.com, the publication of cookery books, culinary classes and social media accounts. Tarla, the teacher Sanjay was inspired by his mother who started her career from scratch. Long before Sanjay joined in, Tarla was a reputed culinary teacher. She transitioned from a ‘housewife who learnt how to cook’ to a passionate, cheerful teacher. What began as a small class with five students in the 1980s in Bombay, burgeoned into a buzzing centre with classes being held for eight months in a year. Tarla Dalal set up a team of chefs, nutritionists and a video editor while curating cookery books. Under her supervision, the team standardised recipes. She wrote 170 books covering a range of subjects such as calcium-rich recipes, breakfast ideas, cooking with one teaspoon of oil, cooking with children, desi food and recipes for people with diabetes. Sanjay hopes to carry forward her legacy. Virtual classes (four to six in a week) have been held during the lockdown with 10 to 30 participants signing up. He signs off with a tribute to his mother. “We always do something to mark her birth and death anniversaries. It’s about remembering her contribution and her remarkable life.”  ‘Lovable grandma’  Teenager Anya Dalal revealed in a recent ‘Thank You post on reaching 500k followers’ on Tarla Dalal’s Instagram page that she manages the account. Currently studying commerce, Anya says, “I love social media and since I spend so much time on it, my dad [Sanjay] asked if I wanted to pitch in.” Anya also did an online social media marketing course from Northwestern University on Coursera. Anya and her sister Aria try healthy recipes (with support from the website team) and post them. Iced coffee without sugar was the sisters’ first recipe. She enjoys social media interactions but has to face people who take offence when they post recipes that include eggs. “Since my grandmother never used eggs, there is a negative feedback,” she adds. Remembering the night before Tarla Dalal passed away, Anya says, “We had dinner and she was cracking jokes, making us laugh. We loved to sit on the swing in her room and watch TV.” She was 10 when her grandmother passed away, and is only understanding her legacy now. She recalls going to the Kala Ghoda festival in Mumbai with her grandmother and being surprised at the attention. “I was confused about why people wanted to click pictures with my grandma. Now I understand.”
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Starry times||With just two months to go before we bid 2020 adieu, remember that November brings you the best chance to see two reliable meteor showers and longer and clearer night skies to watch the brightest planets and observe fainter galaxies too. What’s more you can also savour the five bright planets. Three of them — Mars, Jupiter and Saturn — pop out first thing at dusk. The other two — Mercury and Venus — are found in the early morning sky. Remember, in their outward order from the sun, the five bright planets are Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn.  Mercury at Greatest Western Elongation: Mercury reaches greatest western elongation of 19.1° from the Sun on November 10. This is the best time to view Mercury since it will be at its highest point above the horizon in the morning sky. Look for it low in the eastern sky just before sunrise.  Northern Taurids Meteor Shower: The Northern Taurids produces only about five to 10 meteors per hour, and is famous for a higher than normal percentage of bright fireballs. This shower is produced by dust grains from Asteroid 2004 TG10 and runs annually from October 20 to December 10. This year, the peak will be on the night of November 11 and morning of November 12. The thin crescent moon will leave the skies dark for a really good show. Best viewing will be just after midnight from a dark location far away from city lights. Meteors will radiate from the constellation, Taurus, but can appear anywhere in the sky.  New Moon: The Moon will located on the same side of the Earth as the Sun and will not be visible in the night sky on November 15. This is the best time to observe faint objects such as galaxies and star clusters because there is no moonlight to interfere.  Leonids Meteor Shower: This average shower produces only around 15 meteors per hour at its peak. What is unique is its cyclonic peak, which occurs around every 33 years and produces hundreds of meteors per hour. This occurred last in 2001. Produced by dust grains from Comet Tempel-Tuttle, which was discovered in 1865, the Leonids runs annually from November 6 to November 30. This year, the peak is on November 16 night and November 17 morning. Meteors will radiate from the constellation, Leo, but can appear anywhere in the sky.  Full Moon: The early Native American tribes called it the Beaver Moon because beaver traps were set at this time before the swamps and rivers froze. It is also known as the Frosty Moon and the Dark Moon and will occur on November 30.  Penumbral Lunar Eclipse: A penumbral lunar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes through the Earth’s partial shadow, or penumbra. The Moon will darken slightly but not completely. The eclipse will be visible throughout most of North America, the Pacific Ocean, and northeastern Asia including Japan and will occur on November 30.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Double trouble||Ever heard of the saying “Between a rock and a hard place”? It means there are dangers or troubles no matter which direction you go in. Perhaps this is what ancient Greek travellers felt like when they were caught between Scylla and Charybdis. Charybdis, the daughter of the sea god Pontus and the earth goddess Gaia, was a deadly whirlpool. Three times a day, Charybdis would pull in and push out water with such force that ships would be sunk. Originally a beautiful girl, Charybdis was changed by the king of gods, Zeus, because she stole the cattle belonging to his son Hercules and helped his brother Poseidon increase the area under his control by flooding the land with water. Scylla, on the other hand, was a monster with six heads filled with sharp teeth and placed on long necks. She was the daughter of Phorycs and Ceto, deities of the sea who were also the parents of the Gorgons (remember Medusa from Perseus’ story?) and Graeae (three sisters who shared one eye and one tooth between them). Monstrous transformation There are two stories of Scylla’s transformation into a monster. One, Poseidon’s wife Amphitrite was jealous of the nymph and poisoned the pool in which she bathed. Two, Glaucus, a sea god, fell in love with her and asked the sorceress Circe for a love potion. But Circe, who was in love with Glaucus herself, gave him a drink that turned Scylla into a monster. Scylla and Charybdis were said to live opposite each other in a strait of water today identified with the Straits of Messina between Sicily and Italy. No ship could pass that stretch without being attacked by either one of them. Interestingly, the movement of water in the Strait of Messina (which is between the Ionian and Tyrrhenian Seas) does cause a whirlpool but cannot damage modern ships. The two feature in many of the stories of Greek mythology. Jason and the Argonauts were the first to face them but, because Jason was favoured by Hera and Athena, the sea nymphs known as Nereids guided them past the dangerous duo. Odysseus, another Greek hero, encounters them on his way back home from the Trojan War. The sorceress Circe — yes, the same one who turned Scylla into a monster — advises him to sail closer to Scylla rather than Charybdis and to get his sailors to row as fast as they can. Odysseus follows her advice and loses six sailors to Scylla but escapes Charybdis.  Scylla and Charybdis lived in a strait of water now identified with the Straits of Messina
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The hide-and- seek house||“What are you sulking about?” asked Mom. Nandita pushed the carton of toys into the shoe cupboard and turned to her mother. “Grandma and Grandpa don’t love me. They sent all my toys back from their house,” she mumbled. “Don’t be silly. There’s some work going on in their flat and they don’t want your toys to get mislaid or broken.” “They told me not to go there…” a tearful Nandita added. Mom laughed. “That’s because they will be spending time here instead!” She wiped the tear off Nandita’s cheek. “Take the carton to your room. I’m sure you’ll find some forgotten old toys in there.” “I can’t!” Nandita whispered. “Suppose Tushar breaks them?” “He is too big for that now!” “What about Sumeet? If it comes in his way, he’ll toss it into the trash. He’s always in our room for his online classes.” Overcrowded Mom didn’t say anything. Everyone was working or studying from home. “Thankfully, my design work is on hold or I would also be struggling,” she thought, as she went into the kitchen, which seemed to be the only quiet room in the house. Dad was working at the dining table and Sumeet was studying in his room or in Nandita’s and Tushar’s room. Luckily, the timings of Tushar’s and Nandita’s classes didn’t clash with Sumeet’s. Nandita barely managed to put away the carton when Grandma and Grandpa brought two more, a few days later. Nandita took one look and hid in the bedroom. She could hear Tushar’s squeals from the drawing room, so she knew Grandma and Grandpa were playing with him. They hadn’t even asked about her. Grandma and Grandpa stayed for dinner. Everyone had a jolly time, except Nandita, who refused to look up from her plate or participate in the conversation. She didn’t even have the extra helping of ice cream that Mom offered her. In the next two months, Nandita barely spoke to her grandparents. She was upset that they didn’t seem to notice that she was not talking to them. Obviously, they didn’t care about her. When Mom said that the flat was done and they were all going there that weekend, Nandita pouted. “I’m not coming!” she said. “You can’t stay home alone!” said Dad. “Fine!” said Sumeet. “We’ll get more to eat! Grandma told me the menu…” Tushar grabbed Nandita’s hand. “Please, Didi, please come!” “No please, no nothing!” snapped Mom. “Just comb your hair and come along!” When she entered the flat, everything looked different. Grandpa said, “Come, I’ll show you around”, and led Nandita and Tushar onto the balcony and along a passage that opened into the bedroom from the back. There was some new furniture, lots of empty spaces and many new doors and window ledges to hide behind and below. Under the ledge Nandita ran back along the passage. “Find me!” she cried. At once, Tushar ran behind her. Nandita curled herself under a new ledge outside the kitchen window. She shooed Tushar away. “Hide behind that door!” she hissed. They could hear Grandpa’s footsteps. “Where have those kids got to?” he said. Nandita tried not to giggle, as she saw his legs pass by, but Tushar couldn’t control himself. Grandpa heard him. “Got you!” he said. From the dining room, Grandma called, “Come to eat!” “Where’s your big sister?” Grandpa asked Tushar. “I can’t see her anywhere!” Nandita reached out and tapped Grandpa’s leg. “I win, you didn’t find me!’ “Oh!” said Grandpa, hugging her. “Here’s our old happy Nandita!” “So, do you think you’d like to come and play in our flat again?” Grandpa asked Nandita after they had eaten. “You could keep your toys under that ledge…” “That ledge stays the way it is,” said Nandita. “And my toys stay where they are! This is a hide-and-seek house now — and I have to find all the hiding places!”  “Grandma and Grandpa don’t love me. They sent all my toys back from their house.”
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Going the extra mile||Guess who has exams? Nope, not me. Not the PB. Not Woody. My dad! Yep, my dad. Now, don’t think my dad is really young, okay? He is super old. Like ancient. But last year, for reasons I cannot figure out, he decided to go back to college. Well, not college-college, but he signed up for what’s called a distance-learning programme. Kind of like online school for people born in the Triassic period. You know, I always knew grownups were weird and all. Proof: when their friends come over, they don’t do anything; they just sit around and talk. How is that fun? They watch really boring movies where people don’t do anything but… talk. When they go downstairs in the evenings, they just walk round and round the building and… you guessed it. Talk. But seriously, why would anyone want to go back to school or college or whatever, when they’ve already done it all once? Eager beaver It isn’t bad enough that my dad went back to college, but he actually seems to be… enjoying it! Guys, my dad is a front bencher. How is that possible? As a life-long member of the last bench association, I am very upset by this discovery. My dad is the first to log into all the online sessions. He does his homework before it’s even been set! He’s always studying and making notes and working out sums. And he’s having fun doing all of this. He’s trying to set up a study circle where we all sit and do our homework together. I said I’d be happy to join if he did my homework for me, but apparently that’s not what he meant. Ugh. I had no choice but to do a study circle with my dad and, while I finished my homework in 10 minutes, he took the entire 45 minutes. Not because he didn’t know the answers, but because he was doing extra research to make his answers even better. As if that wasn’t bad enough, he’s been studying for his exams since April. Who does that? Everyone knows the only way to remember anything in the exam hall is to study right before you go in, otherwise all the information is just going to disappear. But dad’s been at it every day for the last six months. He’s has been trying to get me and the PB to pick up some of these good studying habits from him, but it is NOT going to work. If anything, I think we need to be a good influence on him and teach him to lighten up a bit and chill. They’re only exams, not the IPL final or anything, right? Anyway, I’m still trying to figure out where dad’s over-enthusiastic studying genes have gone in the family. Do you think W the dog inherited them?  My dad is a front bencher! How is that possible?
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Advice or advise?||Probably, all of us have received a great deal of advice . ‘Advice’ is what people tell us we should do in a particular situation. Advice comes from parents, teachers, friends, shopkeepers... just about anyone. Adults are fond of giving advice . When do we use ‘advise’ then? Just think of ‘ advice’ as a thing you give or receive. Like a book or a toy. The coach gave the cricketer some advice . Think of ‘ advise’ as an action or doing something. “The coach advised the cricketer” That means we don’t have words like ‘ advicing’ and ‘ adviced’ . You have to use ‘ advised’ and ‘ advising .’ Let’s follow a discussion in Vivek’s house. Vivek is just back from school and his mother is preparing some snacks for him. “Mummy, the principal gave us some advice .” “What’s the advice he gave you?” “He advised us that we should respect our parents.” “That’s good advice …” “Mummy, can I give you some advice ?” “ You want to give me advice ? What is it?” “Here’s the advice Mummy: Don’t add sugar to the sambar.” “ I never add sugar to the sambar!” “I’m advising you to not do it in the future.” “If you don’t stop acting smart, I have to advise you that you won’t be getting any of these cutlets.” “Sorry Mummy, I’ll take back my advice .” I hope the discussion has helped you understand advice and advise better. Now, let’s see the difference in pronunciation. The ‘ice’ in advice is pronounced like ‘ice’ in ice cream. The ‘ise’ in advise is pronounced like ‘ize’ in prize. Finally, a word of advice . Generally, get advice only from people who really care for you.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||At sea with the manatee||My name: I’m a manatee.I’m also known as a sea cow. My scientific name is Trichechus. Favourite place:I am a swimmer and I love shallow coastal waters and rivers. I power myself with my strong tail and glide along at eight kmph in short bursts. No stress there, of course. Relationships:I enjoy my own company. At times, I swim around with a partner. At even rarer times, five or six other manatees join me on a jaunt. My style:I never leave the water, but I need to come up for air every three or four minutes while I swim. When I am simply floating or relaxing, I can stay underwater for up to 15 minutes. My kind:We have three species, distinguished by where we live. The West Indian manatee ranges along the coast from Florida to Brazil in the Americas. The Amazonian manatee inhabits the Amazon River and the African manatee swims along the west coast and rivers of Africa. First breath:We are born underwater. Our mothers help us to the surface so that we can take our first breath. We can swim on our own an hour after birth. Choicest meal:We love water grasses, weeds, and algae…and lots of them. We can eat a tenth of our own weight in just 24 hours. Impressive, eh? Our closest cousins:We evolved from the same land animals as elephants over 50 million years ago. What we fear:As we are large, slow-moving animals that frequent coastal waters and rivers, we are vulnerable to hunters, who want our hides and bones and make oil from our fat.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The silver bottle A magical encounter||It was the last day of Aniket’s summer holidays. Tomorrow would be the first day of the new month, and of a new academic year. He would be in fifth grade. He wasn’t looking forward to June 1, less than seven hours away. Strolling on the beach, he was so absorbed in his grumpy thoughts that he screamed when a wave swept ashore, wetting his feet and leaving something sparkling on the sand. Aniket ran towards the object. He was startled to see a delicate silver bottle, engraved with the motifs of the zodiac, lying in the sand. Hesitantly, he pulled out the tiny silver stopper. Whoosh!  A puff of smoke escaped and transformed into a merry imp in purple clothes. Round faced, it had box-like ears, large twinkling eyes, a big nose and a mop of bushy black hair that badly needed to befriend a comb. Luck awaits “Aniket, you shouldn’t have pulled out the stopper,” the imp said. “How do you know my name?” asked Aniket. “I know that you are feeling sad that today is the last day of your holiday.” Aniket’s eyes were wide. “You are a mind reader?” “Sort of,” the imp replied. “Now that you have freed me, I’ve to take you to meet Lady Laura Lucklina,” the imp grinned. “Her original title is Dame Luck. She lives in a golden castle on Destiny Island, with her innumerable pets.” “What’s your name?” Aniket asked. “Fortune,” the merry imp grinned. Holding the silver bottle in one hand, Fortune grabbed Aniket’s hand with the other and twirled the bottle. Both of them flew over the sea, like a pair of birds. “Is Lady Luck, I mean Laura Lucklina, scary?” Aniket asked. “She is aloof and a bit intimidating,” Fortune replied. “But once she warms up to you, she is fun and very friendly.” They flew over meadows and rice fields, over orchards and gardens, over cities and villages. As Fortune twirled the bottle again, they started descending. Aniket sighed with relief the moment their feet touched the ground. Still clutching the imp’s hand, he inhaled deeply. A few seconds later, Fortune said, “See that sign over there — it says Lucky Point. Proceed on foot from here. This is the first leg of our journey. Laura Lucklina wants all people who visit her to travel this distance by foot.”  To be continued...   “Aniket, you shouldn’t have pulled out the stopper,” the imp said.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why does iron rust?  When a piece of iron is left out in the open for a while, a reddish-brown substance called rust or iron oxide gets deposited on its surface. This is because the iron interacts with the oxygen in the air. Rusting is faster in areas of high humidity, as the content of moisture in the air is higher, meaning there is more oxygen to react with.  What is déjàvu?  Have you ever been doing something or talking to someone and, suddenly, you get this weird feeling that you’ve seen or heard it before? Even though you know that what you’re seeing or hearing is happening right now for the first time, you still feel like it's familiar and has occurred previously. This weird feeling is déjà vu. It is a French phrase that means “already seen” and is a trick our brain plays on us. How to ask a curious question 1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A classical feast||With no sign of live concerts this season, two Kolkata-based organisers-cum-musicians are offering an excellent example on how to curate paid online concerts. Backed by good sound and video, the series are nominally priced and feature a range of artistes. Arati Music Foundation, founded by sitarist Pt. Kushal Das and his son Kalyanjit, has been streaming monthly concerts since July featuring one senior artiste and one up-and-coming artiste. An access code is sent to all those who purchase the tickets online. The concerts are recorded in auditoriums to ensure a live concert experience, and are available for viewing for 48 hours. The audio quality makes listening a pleasure. Mercifully, there are no sponsor advertisements to interrupt the listening. Kalyanjit Das arranges a small live audience of students and the artiste’s friends to give that vital interactive feel to the musicians. Welcome change This month’s edition began with the young Arshad Ali of the Kirana gharana. A well-known disciple of the erudite Kolkata-based Ustad Mashkoor Ali Khan, Arshad sang an evocative Raga Puriya. With a rich baritone voice, excellent taalim, and long hours of riyaaz, he impressed with his measured and mature approach. The 30-minute vilambit was a welcome and unusual change during these times when concerts are getting shorter. Puriya can be a prayerful raag, and Arshad’s second composition ‘Chalo mayee auliya’, about the pilgrimage of Nizamuddin Auliya, seemed to steer one in that direction. The hour-long presentation concluded with raag Megh. One admired the attempt to retain the gravitas of the concert and not lighten the mood with a thumri or bhajan as has become the norm. The evening concluded with the sarod recital of Pt. Tejendra Narayan Mazumdar. Being Navaratri, Tejendra played raag Durgeshwari, created by Maihar gharana founder, Ustad Allaudin Khan. Pt. Mazumdar was unable to create the blissful mood that he is known for during his aalap, where his presentation was more in the form of an extended auchar , not displaying the dhrupad style that he has been trained in. He came into his own towards the conclusion of the aalap . Pt. Tanmoy Bose accompanied him on the tabla, the camaraderie between the two childhood friends making for a relaxed presentation, with a strikingly sensitive and appropriate sangat on the tabla. The maestro displayed his musical temperament and erudition in the brief Mishra Pilu in Deepchandi taal (14 beats). Four-month event Then, last weekend, Swara Samrat Festival premièred a four-month online music fiesta, with Pt. Tejendra Narayan Mazumdar as the main organiser. Recordings of 36 artistes, including dancers, from five cities are to be streamed to a worldwide audience every weekend till March 2021. The tickets can be purchased online and the concerts viewed at the Swara Samrat website. The opening concert, recorded in Kolkata, was by 17-year-old Anubhab Khamaru, disciple of Pt. Ajoy Chakraborty. Blessed with a lovely voice and an endearing personality, Anubhab impressed in his 30-minute performance of raag Bageshwari. He displayed vocal agility, perfect pitch and laya control, as well as tayyari . A mix of styles The next concert, recorded at the Chowdiah Memorial Hall, Bengaluru, featured vidushi Jayanthi Kumaresh and Pt. Pravin Godkhindi. In the first piece, the tilt towards the Southern tradition was more visible in the choice of the Carnatic raga Hemavathi, as well as in the structure of the composition. The mutual respect that the two artistes have for each other and their art came through as the artistes allowed each other the required space to showcase their virtuosity. As the concerts were presented with expertise, one could not make out that they were performed at two different places — Kolkata and Bengaluru. The same backdrop, same compère, and the same sound and video recording quality ensured a wonderful and seamless experience.  The Delhi-based author    writes on Hindustani music.    As the concerts were presented with expertise, one could not make out that they were performed at two different places
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||When art meets life||The soothing sweet strains of Surati from the finely tuned strings seep deep into one’s soul and you experience an ineffable bliss. This feeling defines vidwan T.N. Krishnan's violin artistry. Carnatic music has seen many a stalwart violinist, and TNK stands tall among them. Spanning a glorious career of more than eight decades, he was not just an excellent performer, he evolved a technique of violin playing that lent it a supreme level of sophistication and perfection. The quality of the tone of his violin is well known. What is less known, however, is how untiringly he strove to achieve that impeccable sound. Even the manner in which he would pick up the violin bow, let alone hold it, is an essential exercise that every student of the instrument should try to emulate. His grip on the bow, the comfortable positioning of his arm, and the free-flowing movement of his wrist, not only aided in producing an incredible tonality, but was also a delight to watch. There was a romance to his elegant long-drawn bowing and the gentle traversing of his fingers on the strings. Whenever he saw a violinist not using the bow in its entirety, he had this amusing question to ask — why should you be miserly and use only a fraction of the lovely 29¼ inches that the manufacturer of the bow has given us? One could never perceive the change of direction in the movement of his bow. It was so seamless that one could revel in the unbroken karvai of a swara or the endless cascade of a raga alapana. He always attributed the distinctive tone of his violin to his bowing technique, and his penchant for using the gut strings. Immaterial of the sruti he played in — be it a C or C sharp for Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar or Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer or Madurai Mani Iyer, or a F for his solos, or a G for Mali, or a G sharp of the lower register for M.D. Ramanathan, his playing blended perfect sruti and dynamic tonality. Casting a spell The highlights of his art were sruti, swara, raga and bhava shuddham. Every swara and anuswara in his playing could cast a spell on listeners. The fingers of his left hand, shaped like the inner filaments of the banana flower, fondly caressed the strings to bring forth such virtuosity. Even a single note such as an antara gandhara could hold you rapt. He strongly believed in the values of simplicity and self-restraint. This did not mean that his music was simplistic. Rather, deriving immense strength from his inner spirit and years of intense practice, his music seemed effortless and deceptively simple. The amalgam of tone, dexterity, purity and tranquillity defined his soundscape. In the Carnatic tradition, the violin is an integral part of a concert and thus, as an accompanying instrument, it is expected to recreate the same contours of gamakas rendered by the vocalist. Krishnan mama’s inimitable playing technique could reproduce these contours exactly; using innovative methods to bring in a gayaka bani to his playing. He had a flair, a gamaka-laden vishranti with which he played prayogas of ragas such as Sahana, Varali, Devagandhari, Yadhukulakamboji, Saramati and Kapi. The ease with which he handled phrases on a single string, especially in ragas like Kalyani, Purvikalyani and Hindolam was amazing. His finesse in playing janta swaras and ‘veral adi’ phrases in ragas such as Thodi and Mohanam, and the madhyama kala and durita kala phrases played with panache in Sankarabharanam, Kamboji and Kharaharapriya were awe-inspiring. The bounce in his bow and the verve in his fingers while playing a Ragamalika tanam or niraval and kalpana swaras and the light and shade effect that he employed in his renditions of Behag, Khamas and Sindhu Bhairavi were unmatched. A majestic life Groomed by the distinguished and friends with the celebrated, Krishnan sir’s journey in music has always been on a majestic path. Never did he compromise on Carnatic music’s core values. He understood that the transcendental joy of music is beyond technique or dictum. It was reflective of his happy and contented soul. One never saw him despondent or without his trademark smile. The positivity and good cheer he exuded translated into his sublime art. The same refinement that distinguished his music percolated into all aspects of his life. Whether it was his love for dosa with chutney and molagapodi , his curiosity for technology, his passion for cars, or his stylish half-sleeved kurtas (he had a dedicated tailor to make them). His people skills too added to his charm. To borrow a phrase from the ‘Narayaneeyam’: Hanta bhagyam jananam (humanity is truly fortunate). One bows to the man and his music with a deep sense of gratitude.  The writer is a well-known   Carnatic violinist.   The highlights of his art were sruti, swara, raga and bhava shuddham. Every swara and anuswara in his playing could cast a spell
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping the rhythm alive||The Pt. Chatur Lal Memorial Society recently organised the annual event ‘Smritiyaan’ to pay tribute to tabla maestro Pt. Chatur Lal on his 55th death anniversary. The event brought together singer Malini Awasthi, who presented thumri and dadras in typical Purab Ang Gayaki while senior Kathak dancer Shovana Narayan interpreted them through movements and expressions. Trained under the legendary Girija Devi, Malini’s rendition was marked by skill and clarity. She took care to give enough space to the dancer to display her prowess. Shovana’s sensitive abhinaya was interspersed with the kavit, tode-tukde, paran, gat-bhava, etc., climaxing the tabla laggi of the thumri-dadra with her crisp footwork. Rich in bhava Opening with a Bol-Banaav ki Thumri, ‘Thade rahiyo ho banke Shyam...’, set to addha theka, Malini elaborated each word with imaginative swara combinations while Shovana conveyed the meaning through facial expressions. She came up with a similar kavit for the sthayi and antara and danced on a lehera (musical refrain) in Khamaj. For instance, after the lyric, ‘Kari aun solaho singar’, she would dance on ‘Lachkat kamar... Chandra-Badan, Kamal-Nayan’ concluding with a tihai of the word Balihari, rendered thrice to arrive on ‘sam’ like a lightning. Malini chose the thumri-dadras in different ragas such as ‘Kaun albele ki naar’ in Mishra Gara, where Shovana showcased five different ways of ghoonghat in Kathak, or ‘Tohe leke sawariya main chali jaibe’ where even the matching parans and chakkardars enhanced the appeal of the brave Nayika, who is ready to take her beloved away from the constraints of the society. The concluding Bhairavi that Malini chose to render was a popular poem by Harishchandra, ‘Mat maro talwaria nayan ki...’, (Don’t pierce me with your sword-like eyes) which was represented through a sword fight between the vocalist and the dancer. The invocation by Sooryagayathri set the tone for the event. The popular Dikshitar kirti in Hamsadhwani, ‘Vatapi Ganapatim’, was prefaced with the Sanskrit verses ‘Vakratunda Mahakaya’ and ‘Guru Brahma…‘ rendered in an alapana style set to the same raga. Tribute to the maestro ‘Tribute from a Grandson to Grandfather’ that came next featured Pranshu Chatur Lal’s solo tabla performance. Trained from early childhood by his illustrious grandfather Pt. Chatur Lal and father Pt. Charanjeet Chatur Lal, Pranshu presented the challenging time cycle of 9¼ beats and played it with the clarity of conception demanded by the difficult tala. His systematic rendering of peshkara, qaayada, rela, and chakkardar tihais were brilliant. They brought forth his effective taalim (training) and riyaaz (practice). Accompanied on the sarangi by Aijaaz Hussain, Pranshu concluded his performance with drut Teentala, which bore the stamp of his gurus.  The author writes on   Hindustani music.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Words and notes||Not all children whose parents are renowned musicians need necessarily become musicians too. Having grown up in an artistic environment, they might find new ways of creative expression. And that’s what Jyothi Ganesh, daughter of Sangita Kala Acharya V. Subramaniam has done. She has chosen to convey her bond with Carnatic music through verse. In the process, she proves how music can both be an art and a deeply personal experience. Her debut book of poetry, Samarpanam , brings forth not only her love for Carnatic music, but also for culture, philosophy and life in general. One look at the content gives a hint of her varied interests. The book begins with exploring the deeper meaning of Garbha Griham (sanctum sanctorum). Likening it to the womb, she writes, ‘Embodying a form, holding myriad promises’.  Poems on ragas Some of the best poems of the collection are those on Carnatic ragas. She presents her perspective of their beauty and features. For instance, in the poem titled ‘Shankarabharanam,’ she summarises the raga’s essence in simple words. “An arrow from the quiver of brave Shankara, of Chathusruti rishabam, The anthara gandharam, and the suddha madhyamam with the micro half notes and gamakas...” The comparison of the gandharam in Thodi to an elephant’s gait draws beautiful imagery of the raga in the mind while in Mukhari Jyothi weaves in a poignant story from the Mahabharata. “Displaying the pathos of Karna, in an emotionally charged moment mired in self-doubt, weighing him down, unable to defend himself, Suddha madhyamam, Sadharana gandharam.” The poem ‘Janmashtami’ is an amalgam of various ragas including Yadhukulakamboji, Sahana, Nattakurunji, Khamas, Kamboji, Kedaragowla, Navarasa Kananda and Surutti. Describing each, the poem talks how the rasa and bhava in them heralds the arrival of Krishna. There are references to the scriptures, the epics, puranas, legends and philosophical connotations as Jyothi explains the notes, sounds and moods of the ragas. Her nuanced interpretation of their structure shows her understanding of Carnatic music. If music is intrinsic to the poetry, the book also reiterates the strong link between spirituality and classical music. Jyothi calls raga Kiravani as the ‘Om of creation’ while Charukesi, for her, denotes Shakti and Shiva. And the lord, says Jyothi in a poem dedicated to him, is representative of the five elements and ragas Kannada, Begada, Bilahari, Nilambari and Navroj. A harmony of thought runs through the verses which gets disturbed with the insertion of poems on completely unrelated subjects such as idli, sauce, generation, trust, isolation, books, the art of writing and more. Both in prose and poetry, there has to be seamlessness in the narrative to make a deeper impact on the reader.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘My special jugalbandi partner’||N. Rajam Violin exponent Death is a reality but you wish some people would remain immortal. One such was my brother and jugalbandi partner. Extremely accommodative on stage and very affectionate off it. When we performed together, he would tell me to continue playing while I always wanted him do so. He was 10 years older than me, so when I was undergoing training, he was already a busy performer. The significant changes he brought about in the violin-playing technique is his biggest contribution to the field of instrumental music. Our father and guru, A. Narayana Iyer, not only instilled musical values in us but also taught crucial life lessons. He was particular about how we conducted ourselves as performers and as people. My brother led a life of discipline and dedication till his last breath. I will miss him.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A thinking musician||Kiran Seth Founder, SPIC MACAY Prof. Krishnan was actively involved in the movement. He travelled across North India performing concerts for SPIC MACAY. He was as comfortable playing in a small setting as he was in a big auditorium. I can never forget an instance when he performed to a small group of post-graduate students at the Mansarovar Hostel of the Delhi University. With a pleasant smile on his face, he would enthusiastically interact with students and had a way of capturing their attention with his steeped-in-tradition music. An iconic violinist apart, he was an introspective musician; someone who did a lot of chintan manan (thinking). This was why his music was more inward-looking. His approach was simple and subtle, he never played to the gallery. A wonderful human being, I always admired how his wife Kamala and he complemented each other. She was his support system. I also worked with him closely when he was the vice-chairman of the Sangeet Natak Akademi.  SPIC MACAY has organised a memorial on November 15 (from 9 p.m.) that will be streamed worldwide.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning experience||Tiruvarur Bhaktavatsalam Mridangam exponent  Having shared the stage with Krishnan sir for more than 30 years, his demise has created a vacuum in both my music and life. I was 23 when I first met him at Tamil Nadu Music College, where he was a professor before becoming the principal. He complimented me after I performed at one of the monthly kutcheris of the college. He encouraged me a lot. It was from him that I learnt how one should build a performance, the time management, discipline, and professionalism required, and how to structure and present a concert. Melody, sruti suddham and clarity in raga delineations made his music linger in the mind. He won over people with his simplicity and warmth. His life was an example of how a vidwan’s should be led.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||New crown for the Lord||The deity in the Sri Parthasarathy temple in Triplicane, Chennai, gets a new crown, the ‘Pandian Kondai.’ Studded with precious stones, it has been designed for the presiding deity of the temple. Donated recently by a philanthropist, the golden crown weighs roughly 2.9 kg.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Honour for dancer||Dancer-guru Pushkala Gopal has been selected for the Order of the Member of the British Empire (MBE) award for her services to South Asian Dance. Her name was announced in the Queen’s Birthday Honours list 2020. The award is given for outstanding service to the community in the dance category. Pushkala is one of the seniormost disciples of the Dhananjayans.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Global online film fest||Indica Pictures will present a four-day global ‘Indic film Utsav,’ from November 12 to 15. The festival will stream some of the best feature films, documentaries, shorts, ultrashorts, wildlife and children’s films. Register at https://bit.ly/2H7mWNj. For more details send a mail to namaste@indicapictures.com
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrating a milestone||Parampara series, the National Festival of Music and Dance, hosted by Natya Tarangini and Raja Radha Reddy in partnership with the UN in India, is being held online through November. It features classical dance and music performances, which can be watched at 8 p.m. every weekend on the YouTube channels of United Nations India and Raja Radha Reddy. This week’s line-up will feature performances by the students of Kathak guru and choreographer Kumudini Lakhia (today), Kishori Amonkar (tomorrow) and Odissi recitals by Kelucharan Mohapatra and Sujata Mohapatra (November 8).
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||For third consecutive day, Delhi records more than 6,000 cases||The Capital recorded 6,715 fresh COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours with 66 deaths and 5,289 recoveries, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. This is the third consecutive day when the number of daily cases has crossed the 6000-mark. The bulletin also said 52,294 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 12.84%. The number of active cases in the city now stands at 38,729. The cumulative figures for the city are 4,16,653 cases, 6,769 deaths and 3,71,155 recoveries. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday held a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation with officials in which it was decided to augment the bed capacity in the government hospitals.  He said the medical infrastructure will be ramped up, with an increase in the oxygen and ICU beds in the government hospitals for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. With regard to reserving beds in private hospitals, Mr. Kejriwal said the government has filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court to lift the stay on the reservation of beds in private hospitals given by the High Court. “The government has also decided to increase targeted testing at crowded places across Delhi. Mobile testing vans will be deployed in markets and crowded places. The testing can be availed free of cost by the people at these places,” the CM said. Check on fatality rate He directed health officials to ensure that all steps are taken to maintain a lower fatality rate in Delhi. He added that the government has taken several measures to ensure that fatality rate does not increase despite an increase in the number of cases. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said: “Delhi is at the 17th position in terms of COVID-19 death per million population with 338 cases whereas Mumbai tops the list of death per million with around 831 cases followed by Chennai which has 518 cases, Kolkata has 503 cases, Bangalore — 408 cases.” The Capital on Wednesday recorded its highest daily jump in new COVID-19 by recording 6,842 cases.
06 November 2020||Lucknow,||Law on ‘love jihad’ can be challenged, says U.P. Law Commission chairman||If the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government brings a “limited scope legislation” restricting marriages between a Hindu and a Muslim in the garb of curbing “love jihad”, it would not stand in law, says Justice (Retired) Aditya Nath Mittal, Chairperson of the State Law Commission. A communal slur, “love jihad” is a term used by the Hindu right wing and members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party to target inter-faith relationships and marriages involving a Muslim male. In November 2019, the U.P. State Law Commission (UPSLC) had submitted a report along with a draft legislation to the State government recommending a new law to regulate conversions and control conversions at the behest of fraud, inducement, allurement, coercion and those done for the sole purpose of marriage. In the context of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announcing at a rally recently that he would bring an “effective law” against “love jihad”, Mr. Mittal says the U.P. Home Department is “examining” his draft and it is “possible they could bring a law [based on it] with minor changes”. However, Mr. Mittal clarifies that his report does not mention “love jihad” nor restricts the scope of conversions to just Hindu-Muslim relationships.  ‘Our report is broad’ “We have not mentioned jihad or love jihad anywhere because our report does not target any particular sect. Our report is broad,” Mr. Mittal told The Hindu . “If a limited scoped legislation is brought [by the government], that can be challenged and certainly that will not stand in law,” he said. While the government is yet to spell out any follow-up on Mr. Adityanath’s announcement, senior lawyer of the Allahabad High Court Ravi Kiran Jain says it is “apparently unconstitutional”. “If a Hindu and Muslim [are getting married], they are calling it love jihad. How can you define love jihad?” asked Mr. Jain. “If you prohibit persons of two religions from marrying, then also it is illegal,” he said.
06 November 2020||Guwahati,||Mizoram occupying 1.5 km of Assam land, says Minister||The Assam government accused Mizoram of occupying Assam’s land near the 164.6 km inter-State border as the economic blockade on the roads leading to the hill State continued for the ninth day on Thursday. Assam’s Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya said the people of Mizoram had occupied up to 1.5 km from the border. He represents the Dholai Assembly constituency in Cachar, one of the three Barak Valley districts bordering Mizoram. “We encourage Mizoram to develop its agriculture but they should do it on their own soil. We have been requesting them to go back,” he told journalists amid the ongoing border row since October 28. Locals in Mizoram, however, claim people in Assam of “doubtful citizenship” have encroached upon up to 10 km of their land from the border. Trouble on the Assam-Mizoram border had flared up on October 17 after 20 houses and shops were burnt and some 50 people from both States were injured. The blockade imposed by Assam-based organisations was lifted on October 22 but was imposed again after Mizoram police personnel, who had allegedly set up camp on Assam land, refused to budge. The situation had threatened to worsen after a 48-year-old man from Assam died under mysterious circumstances in Mizoram on Sunday.  Central forces The Centre, which has held talks with the top officials of both States, is expected to deploy Central forces along the disputed stretches of the border. Central forces have been guarding decades-old disputed areas along Assam’s border with Nagaland.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vardhan meets L-G, Jain to discuss ways to curb virus from spreading||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday held a meeting with Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, Delhi Health Minister Saytendar Jain and other senior officials regarding the surge in COVID-19 cases and the high positivity rate in the city. Mr. Jain requested the Centre to increase the number of ICU beds at AIIMS here and other Central Hospitals to augment the present capacity, which he said has come under strain. Speaking at the meeting, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said effective contact tracing is achieved not only by tracing a large number of contacts but also by completing the exercise within the first 72 hours. He also advised that the Delhi administration should look at shifting patients — requiring critical care — to the Defence Medical Hospital Facility in Dhaula Kuan that has provision for 125 ICU beds. Dr. Vardhan said the recovery rate of India is currently more than 92% while that of Delhi is 89%. Against a national case fatality rate of 1.49%, Delhi continues to have a fatality rate of 1.71%. Testing in Delhi He added that Delhi continues to have a highly skewed Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) to real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) ratio. “ “While 77% of the tests are RAT based, RT-PCR comprises only 23% of total tests,” he said, noting that false-negative results might give way to complacency among the COVID-19 infected patients. “In this case, there should be mandatory testing of all RAT negative persons if they develop ILI/SARI symptoms afterward,” said the Minister. The Union Health Minister also detailed the role of scientists for repurposing drugs for use in COVID-19 and the formation of bio-repository of such drug candidates. He urged the officers to instil COVID-19 appropriate behaviour among the masses and blunt the momentum of the infectious disease by the end of the year so that it loses its potency. Mr. Baijal noted that Delhi administration has been cautioned by experts about possible surges because of ongoing festive season and facilitation of inter-State transport. He expressed hope that the IEC campaigns would be successful in changing public behaviour towards COVID-19. He also informed that the administration is working to inculcate changes in Standard Operating Procedures for more efficient containment of the disease spread. The Delhi government said it is committed to working together with all agencies, including the Centre, in effectively managing the COVID-19 situation. “Delhi is a mega-city and when compared to other cities. Delhi’s ratio of RAT to RT-PCR tests stands at 77% primarily because it has adopted an aggressive testing strategy and is testing more than any city or State in India, and in fact, among the highest in the world. We stand committed to increasing our capacity to conduct more tests,” read a release by the government.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC extends interim bail to over 3,000 undertrial prisoners by 30 more days||The Delhi High Court on Thursday extended the interim bail granted to 3,337 undertrial prisoners (UTPs) by another 30 days to de-congest jails here in view of the ongoing pandemic. To de-congest jail The 3,337 UTPs were released under different criteria laid down by a high-powered committee (HPC), which was constituted on the direction of the Supreme Court Court to decongest jails to prevent the spread of the virus. A Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Talwant Singh gave the direction on a recommendation forwarded by the HPC to extend the interim bail for a further period of 30 days. The HPC, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, had earlier taken note of the fact that if the 3,337 UTPs are asked to surrender, the total population of Delhi Prison is likely to reach around 20,000, much beyond its sanctioned capacity of just over 10,000. The HPC, had in its meeting on October 24, said it would be “highly inconvenient” for the jail authorities to accommodate UTPs and convicts released on “interim bail/emergency parole” under its criteria, alongside those who would be surrendering in terms of the court’s orders. On October 23, the court had directed another 5,500 inmates, who were released on interim bail to decongest the Capital’s jails following the outbreak of the pandemic, to surrender back to the jail. The development came following a decision of the High Court to end its blanket order extending all interim stays and bails granted during the lockdown as the situation has improved. “Now the situation has changed and all courts are functioning through physical mode/videoconferencing mode,” the High Court had said. It had then said there is no spread of COVID-19 in the jails as out of about 16,000 prisoners lodged in the prisons only three were infected, who too have been segregated and are admitted to the hospital.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amrapali Group’s directors arrested in cheating case||Delhi Police’s Economic Offence Wing has arrested Amrapali Group’s directors Anil Kumar Sharma and Shiv Priya, along with others, in 14 cases registered against them, said a senior police officer on Thursday. Joint CP (EOW) O.P. Mishra said that a complainant had alleged that Amrapali Centurian Park Pvt. Ltd., a company of Amrapali Group, had launched its project “Amrapali Centurian Park, Terrace Homes” in Greater Noida. It was claimed that the project was approved by the competent authority. They had proposed two, three and four BHK flats having all modern amenities and facilities. After being influenced by the advertisements in the newspapers of the said project and the directors of the company, he had booked two flats in 2017 and made full payment. The builder-buyer agreement was executed. During the course of inquiry, 168 more complaints with similar allegations were received against the alleged persons. In another FIR registered at Anand Vihar police station, the complainant had alleged that the company had promised possession of the apartment by 2014. Accordingly, the complainant executed the builder-buyer agreement and paid Rs. 17 lakh to the alleged company but no possession given till date. Mr. Mishra said that the company had promised to complete the construction and hand over possession within 36 months. But even after more than 10 years, they haven’t fulfilled the word. The accused are currently in judicial custody in another cases registered against them by Economic Offences Wing. After obtaining permission from the Delhi court, the EOW team interrogated and formally arrested the accused in the FIR registered in Anand Vihar police station, he added.
06 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Woman shot at during robbery attempt dies||A 26-year-old woman, who was shot at during a suspected robbery bid on Golf Course Extension Road here in Sector 65 two days ago, died at Medanta Hospital on Thursday. The woman was shot in the head and was critical. “The woman died in the afternoon during treatment due to the bullet injury. Her family was informed and they had come during the day. The post-mortem will be conducted on Friday,” said Gurugram Police spokesperson Subhash Boken. He, however, added that the culprits are yet to be identified and the police are scanning CCTV footage.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘World-Class Skill Centres to be set up for training’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said that the Skills and Entrepreneurship University, which is being set up by the Delhi government, should aim at developing the capacity of enrolling at least 1.25 lakh students every year. This number, he said, would include short-term, long-term, diploma, degree and Ph.D courses. The Minister said World Class Skill Centres (WCSC) will be set up to provide skill-based training and degrees. It will also cater to the students by identifying future-centric jobs. He also announced that the Tool Engineering College of Delhi, GB Pant Engineering College, ITI and Skill Training Centres will be brought under the ambit of the university. “GB Pant Engineering College will get the status of constituent college of the university and new courses will be introduced in the engineering college as well,” Mr. Sisodia said. He added that Rs. 526 crore will be spent on a modern, sprawling campus for the college and the goal is to enroll at least 1,000 students annually.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Pay outstanding salaries of staffers from students’ fund’||The High Court on Thursday asked 12 Delhi University colleges, which are fully funded by the city government, to respond to a petition challenging a decision asking the institutes to pay outstanding salaries of staffers from the Students Society Fund (SSF). Justice Jyoti Singh gave the direction on a petition by Delhi University Students Union (DUSU), which has challenged the October 16 order of Delhi government asking the institutes to pay the salaries of over 1,500 staff — both teaching and non-teaching — from the students’ fund. The court will hear the case again on November 9. In the meantime, the October 23 interim order of the court — which put a stay on the October 16 decision — will continue till further orders. UGC guidelines The DUSU, in its plea, said as per the UGC guidelines, only 11 heads can be included as income and 34 heads for expenditure. It added that for paying the salaries only those heads which are under “income” head can be used for paying salaries. This does not include the fund collected by students under the society’s head or any amount kept in that corpus fund with regard to the SSF can be utilised for this purpose, the plea said.
06 November 2020||November 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Salary woes||
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five held for duping 27,000 job aspirants||Delhi Police has arrested five members of a gang which allegedly duped over 27,000 job seekers of Rs. 1.09 crore by promising them jobs through a fake website of an entity, police said on Thursday. The police claimed to have recovered Rs. 49 lakh from them. They have also seized seven mobile phones and three laptops. The gang was headed by Vishnu Sharma and Ramdhari, who operated from Hisar in Haryana. Ramdhari, who was one of the key conspirators, was arrested while raids are being conducted to nab Vishnu Sharma, they said. Apart from Ramdhari, the police have arrested other gang members — Surender Singh (50), Sandeep (32) and Joginder Singh (35) — from various parts of Haryana and Delhi. According to the police, the fraudsters created fake website of a fictitious entity, Swastha Avm Jan Kalyan Sansthan (SAJKS) under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and offered over 13,000 fake jobs through the bogus website www.sajks.org . Over 15 lakh SMS with link of the fake website were sent to gullible jobs seekers for registration. The fake website was so convincing that even the mainstream media reported the news of 13,000 job openings.
06 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjar quota stir continues in Rajasthan||The Gujjar community’s agitation for reservation in jobs and education as a most backward class continued in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district for the fifth consecutive day on Thursday. Trains running on the Delhi-Mumbai route were diverted with the Gujjars occupying railway tracks near Bayana. Though Labour Secretary Niraj K. Pawan held several rounds of talks as the State government’s representative with Gujjar supremo Kirori Singh Bainsla, there was no headway on the issues of appointments to backlog posts and the benefit of 5% reservation in the ongoing recruitments.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fire breaks out in residential building||A massive fire broke out in a residential building on GB Road in Central Delhi on Thursday evening. According to Delhi Fire Service, they received a call at 7.04 p.m. regarding a fire on the third floor of a residential building on GB road. Five fire engines were pressed into service. “By 9.30 p.m. the flames were completely doused. But cooling off operation continued for an hour. The occupants in the building were safely rescued. A fireman got injured during the operation, but he is fine,” said a DFS officer. The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained.
06 November 2020||New Delhi,||IIT to celebrate Annual Convocation on Saturday||Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi will be celebrating its Annual Convocation in its Diamond Jubilee year on November 7 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the chief guest, who will address the event via videoconferencing. The institute said the convocation will be conducted in a hybrid mode with a physical in-person ceremony with limited attendance at its Dogra Hall and an online webcast reaching out to all graduating students and other attendees.
06 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep- brief||The Delhi Congress on Thursday organised a protest at Jantar Mantar against assaults and attacks on women and Dalits across India. The party said the government at the Centre was aiding such crimes. Delhi Congress Chief Ch. Anil Kumar said under PM Narendra Modi, the lives of women and Dalits have become most vulnerable. “The PM has been leading the campaign — Beti Padao, Beti Bachao — but unfortunately when murderous assaults were carried out against a Dalit girl of Hathras, the BJP government in U.P., instead of apprehending the culprits, threatened the girl’s family,” Mr. Kumar said.
