06 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. police allege bid to trigger caste violence||Under fire for mishandling the Hathras case, the Uttar Pradesh police on Monday claimed that there was a “conspiracy” by some groups and individuals to instigate caste and communal violence in the State in the aftermath of the alleged gang-rape and subsequent death of a Dalit girl. At least six FIRs have been lodged in Hathras, including one invoking sedition and criminal conspiracy, against persons and parties for allegedly trying to instigate the victim’s family, violating COVID-19 and Cr.P.C. Section 144 norms through illegal assemblies in and around the affected village, and for trying to spread caste discord through misleading statements, the police said. Additionally, 13 FIRs were lodged and five persons were arrested in Bijnor, Hathras, Saharanpur, Bulandshahr, Prayagraj, Ayodhya and Lucknow on charges of posting offensive statements over the incident on social media. The allegations came amid charges of highhandedness levelled against the police by Opposition parties who have faced difficulties in trying to meet the family of the victim over the past week. On Sunday, the police lathi-charged RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary and his colleagues while they were on the way to meet the family. The police also used force against the Samajwadi Party workers and booked members of the Bhim Army. CM’s charge The police narrative that there was a “conspiracy” over the issue came a day after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath claimed, while hinting at the role of Opposition parties, that those who do not like development “want to trigger caste and communal riots in the State as well as in the country”. Mr. Adityanath, without taking names, alleged that his opponents were indulging in “newer conspiracies” to derive political mileage. In an official statement, the police said though the government had recommended a CBI probe into the matter, some groups and individuals wanted to create a frenzy by triggering communal and caste violence to defame the State government. The police, also without specifically naming anyone, claimed groups were circulating misleading and malicious information on social media and violating prohibitory orders through unnecessary assembly near the house and village of the victim.
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,||‘Fill all potholes on NH 75 in a fortnight’||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Monday issued a warning to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) that criminal cases will be filed against it if potholes on National Highway 75 between BC Road and Adda Hole resulted in any death due to vehicular accidents. Speaking at the Karnataka Development Programme Review Committee meeting, Mr. Rajendra, who is also the District Magistrate, said that cases will be filed under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He asked the authority to fill all potholes on the stretch within a fortnight from now. The Deputy Commissioner also instructed Mangaluru City Corporation and the Public Works Department (PWD) to fill potholes on their roads within a fortnight. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojari said that the condition of the highway stretch is such that many vehicles avoided the road between Periyashanti and BC Road on the highway and opted to travel via Dharmasthala, Ujire, Belthangady and BC Road. People have reached the state of losing hopes on the authority as it is not at all serious in filling potholes and is not bothered about the plight of the commuters, the Minister said. In his reply, an official from the NHAI said that the authority has commenced the work to fill potholes as rain has receded. The works will be completed at the earliest, he added. Underpass Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader urged the Minister and the city corporation to hasten the process of getting land for constructing a railway underpass at Mahakalipadpu in the city. As it required 1.5 acres of private land, the government should hold talks with the owners to get the land for the project under the provisions of TDR (transferable development rights) or premium FAR (floor area ratio). A note on the matter tabled in the meeting said that the Chief Secretary has directed that of the Rs. 20 crore required for land acquisition for the project, 50 % should be borne by the government and the balance amount should be allotted by the city corporation. Though the corporation has funds under the head of “premium FAR”, it cannot be diverted for acquiring land and it can be spent only for widening or developing a road. The matter has been placed before the council of the corporation to take an appropriate decision on diverting the fund from “premium FAR” account for acquiring the land for the project which will be taken up under the Smart City Mission.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST Council split on borrowing options||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Monday failed to iron out differences between States ruled by non-NDA parties and the Centre over a plan to get the States to borrow from the market to meet an estimated Rs. 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in compensation cess collections this year. Following a “long-drawn”, fractious seven-hour meeting, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserted that she did not take “anybody for granted” as alleged by some State representatives in the Council during Monday’s discussions. “We will not deny compensation dues to any State... Borrowings have to be done and it has to be decided how much,” Ms. Sitharaman said, dismissing suggestions that the States that don’t pick either of the two borrowing options offered by the Centre could have to wait till next year to get any compensation. The Council did agree to extend the levy of compensation cess under the GST regime beyond the five-year period up to June 2022 as originally envisaged. The cess collections will be used to repay borrowings to be made this year for meeting the compensation shortfall, and will remain “for such period as may be required to meet the revenue gap”.  While the Council will meet again on October 12 to resolve the impasse, the Centre decided to release Rs. 45,000 crore of GST dues to the States by next week to help them meet immediate spending needs amid the pandemic. This includes Rs. 20,000 crore of GST compensation cess collected so far in 2020-21, which Ms. Sitharaman said would be disbursed to the States by late Monday night itself. The balance Rs. 25,000 crore pertains to Integrated GST dues from 2017-18 that had to be reconciled between States that got more than they ought to have and those that got less than their dues at the time. “So the Council cleared that borrowings will have to be done and repaid through the extended cess collection period… 20-21 States had written to us stating they will take the first borrowing option we had given,” Ms. Sitharaman said.
06 October 2020||Mumbai,||In a first, NCP forms LGBTQ cell||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday formed its LGBTQ cell, becoming the first political party in the country to set up an independent wing to work on the issue. Announcing this, Supriya Sule, Lok Sabha MP, said, “We must eliminate the prejudice that we have towards the queer community and be more inclusive towards alternative gender identities and gender expression. Work needs to be done for makingsociety free from prejudice, homophobia and transphobia.” Ms. Sule said NCP is the only party to talk of liberal values and equality in its speeches and practice it in real life. “It was our party president Sharad Pawar who implemented women’s reservation as chief minister of Maharashtra. We were the first to form a special wing for young women and will now cover the LGBTQ community,” she added. Priya Patil, who was appointed as president of the LGBTQ cell, said the formation of this cell as a branch under a political party is a significant step in the fight to claim equal rights. “We will be raising our voices for the welfare and betterment of the community and work to ensure equal rights for them,” she said. Ms. Sule added that the State’s Social Justice department has also set up an LGBTQ welfare board. “I am happy to say our party will work towards solving financial, social or emotional issues faced by the community,” she said. The party’s State unit president and Irrigation minister Jayant Patil said the LGBTQ community is trying to become part of the society and should be extended equal treatment.
06 October 2020||Kolkata,||Visva Bharati University to outsource security||The Visva Bharati University at Santiniketan — where trees and hedges have decided its boundaries for decades — has decided to outsource security for the campus, which will include deployment of armed guards. The institution has invited bids for the same, with the estimated value of the contract about Rs. 7 crore. A notification inviting e-tenders was issued late last month. Bidders are required to have an average gross turnover of Rs. 20 crore per year with at least three contracts of not less than Rs. 1 crore each per year in the last five years. The Rabindranath Tagore-founded institution is looking to deploy close to 300 personnel on a daily basis in the campus, and wants them to have served in the Armed Forces and Central Armed Police Forces. The security will include guards who will be armed with single/double barrel and pump action guns. “Opening fire in any post should be the last option left with the armed guard, after shouting precautionary words and firing should start with blank cartridge only. Live cartridge should be fired initially aiming towards the sky, followed by firing below the knee,” the notice inviting tenders said. The successful bidder will be hired, initially, for a period of one year. The agency, apart from providing round-the-clock security on the premises, will carry out patrolling, control movement of vehicles, keep a check on hawkers and vendors, and prevent ragging and also smoking and consumption of alcohol and “indecent activities” on the campus. Guards will also keep an eye on tourists. The new arrangement is likely to be in place by November this year. While Visva Bharati could do with enhanced security it remains to be seen whether such arrangements go down well with the local population.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Govt. may not go in for salary cut||The government is unlikely to go ahead with the decision to further deduct one month’s salary of government employees and teachers over six months as the State’s financial situation is set to improve with the Centre deciding to release Rs. 45,000 crore of GST dues to States by next week to help them meet their immediate spending needs. The State, which is to get a GST compensation of Rs. 7,000 crore, will benefit from the decision to disburse Rs. 20,000 crore GST compensation collected this year and another Rs. 24,000 crore Integrated GST, which is divided equally between the Centre and States, to those States that receive less due to anomalies. Although the deadlock over GST compensation continues, the decisions announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman after the 42nd GST Council will help Kerala avoid another salary cut as Rs. 1,600 crore is expected to reach the State exchequer by next week. The decision of the GST Council to increase the limit of availing unconditional loan will also come in handy as the State can take a loan of Rs. 9,000 crore.
06 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||As testing dips over weekend, cases too fall||With the weekend lull affecting COVID-19 detection activities, daily testing dipped to 38,696 samples in the State, yielding 5,042 new cases on Monday. However, the test positivity rate, though it has dipped from 14.6 to 13 %, is still significantly high. The number of recoveries reported on Monday was 4,640. The cumulative case burden of the State climbed to 2,34,928 cases, of which, 84,873 are currently being treated in various hospitals in the State. Of these, 563 patients are critically ill and in ICUs, with another 159 on ventilator support. So far, 1,49,111 persons have recovered from their disease. The State’s COVID toll rose to 859, with 23 deaths which occurred in the State in the past few weeks being added on to the official list of COVID deaths. Ernakulam accounted for five deaths, Alappuzha four, three each in Kannur and Thrissur, two each in Kottayam, Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram and one each in Kollam and Kozhikode. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 705 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 700, Kozhikode 641, Malappuram 606, Kollam 458, Thrissur 425, Kottayam 354, Kannur 339, Palakkad 281, Kasaragod 207, Alappuzha 199, Idukki 71, Wayanad 31, and Pathanamthitta 25 cases.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID-19 toll breaches 6,000-mark in State||The State reported 4,256 COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending on Monday morning, the lowest single-day tally in two and a half months. The daily positivity rate too was lowest at 7.58% as 56,145 samples were tested in the past day.The overall tally increased to 7,23,512. Meanwhile, the death toll has crossed the 6,000-mark and reached 6,019 with 38 fatalities. The death rate remained at 0.83%, the lowest among the States with a high incidence of infections. Krishna district continues to report more deaths though the infection count came down drastically. It has the highest mortality rate of 1.60%. Chittoor has the highest toll of 680 and the second-highest mortality rate at 1.04%. In the past one month, 1,672 patients succumbed to the disease in the State. In the past day, 7,558 patients have recovered and the recovery rate has gone up to 92.11% with a total of 6,66,433 recoveries so far. Currently, there are 51,060 patients undergoing treatment. So far 61.50 lakh samples were tested and the overall positivity rate was at 11.76%. The tests per million ratio has increased to 1,115, 175 and the cases per million ratio too increased to 13,549. New cases East Godavari district reported the highest single-day tally of infections and Krishna the highest number of deaths. The new cases and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (853 and 3), Prakasam (666 and 2), West Godavari (513 and 2), Guntur (444 and 2), Nellore (365 and 2), Anantapur (271 and 4), Kadapa (231 and 5), Chittoor (224 and 5), Krishna (179 and 7), Srikakulam (157 and 1), Visakhapatnam (138 and 4), Vizianagaram (129 and 1) and Kurnool (86 and 0). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,01,638), West Godavari (70,646), Chittoor (65,585), Anantapur (59,005), Guntur (57,232), Kurnool (57,158), Nellore (54,629), Prakasam (51,567), Visakhapatnam (51,187), Kadapa (45,687), Srikakulam (40,666), Vizianagaram (36,252) and Krishna (29,365). The recovery rate in Anantapur was the highest at 97.1% and Prakasam’s the lowest at 88.8%. The remaining districts’ recovery rate was between 89% and 96%.
06 October 2020||STOCKHOLM/ BERLIN,||Virus researchers get Nobel for medicine||Two Americans and a Briton won the 2020 Nobel Prize for Medicine on Monday for identifying the Hepatitis C virus, in work spanning decades that has helped to limit the spread of the fatal disease and develop antiviral drugs to cure it. The discoveries by scientists Harvey J. Alter, Charles M. Rice and Briton Michael Houghton meant there was now a chance of eradicating the Hepatitis C virus. The three share the 10 million Swedish crowns ($1.1 million) award for discovering and proving that a blood-borne virus could cause Hepatitis C, which afflicts more than 70 million people and causes about 4,00,000 deaths each year. Nominations for this year’s award preceded the global spread of the new coronavirus pandemic, but the choice of winners recognises the importance of identifying a virus as the first step in winning the battle against a new disease, said Thomas Perlmann, secretary general of the Nobel Assembly. It’s the second Nobel Prize for Medicine for hepatitis research, after Baruch Blumberg won in 1976 for determining that one form of blood-borne hepatitis was caused by a virus that came to be known as Hepatitis B. Three steps The shared prize recognises research dating back to the 1960s when Dr. Alter, working at the U.S. National Institutes of Health, found liver disease could be spread by blood transfusions that weren’t caused by Hepatitis A or B. It was a team led by Dr. Houghton, then working for pharmaceuticals firm Chiron, which was able in the mid-1980s to create a clone of a new virus from fragments found in the blood of an infected chimpanzee. This virus, belonging to the Flavivirus family, was named Hepatitis C. Its identification made it possible to develop tests to screen bloodbank supplies and greatly reduce the spread of the disease, which can cause cirrhosis and liver cancer. The final piece of the jigsaw puzzle came when Dr. Rice, then at Washington University in St. Louis, was able to use genetic engineering to generate a version of the Hepatitis C virus and demonstrate that it alone could cause symptoms in a chimpanzee comparable to an infection in humans.
06 October 2020||STOCKHOLM/ BERLIN,||Virus researchers get Nobel for medicine||Two Americans and a Briton won the 2020 Nobel Prize for Medicine on Monday for identifying the Hepatitis C virus, in work spanning decades that has helped to limit the spread of the fatal disease and develop antiviral drugs to cure it. The discoveries by scientists Harvey J. Alter, Charles M. Rice and Briton Michael Houghton meant there was now a chance of eradicating the Hepatitis C virus. The three share the 10 million Swedish crowns ($1.1 million) award for discovering and proving that a blood-borne virus could cause Hepatitis C, which afflicts more than 70 million people and causes about 4,00,000 deaths each year. Nominations for this year’s award preceded the global spread of the new coronavirus pandemic, but the choice of winners recognises the importance of identifying a virus as the first step in winning the battle against a new disease, said Thomas Perlmann, secretary general of the Nobel Assembly. It’s the second Nobel Prize for Medicine for hepatitis research, after Baruch Blumberg won in 1976 for determining that one form of blood-borne hepatitis was caused by a virus that came to be known as Hepatitis B. Three steps The shared prize recognises research dating back to the 1960s when Dr. Alter, working at the U.S. National Institutes of Health, found liver disease could be spread by blood transfusions that weren’t caused by Hepatitis A or B. It was a team led by Dr. Houghton, then working for pharmaceuticals firm Chiron, which was able in the mid-1980s to create a clone of a new virus from fragments found in the blood of an infected chimpanzee. This virus, belonging to the Flavivirus family, was named Hepatitis C. Its identification made it possible to develop tests to screen bloodbank supplies and greatly reduce the spread of the disease, which can cause cirrhosis and liver cancer. The final piece of the jigsaw puzzle came when Dr. Rice, then at Washington University in St. Louis, was able to use genetic engineering to generate a version of the Hepatitis C virus and demonstrate that it alone could cause symptoms in a chimpanzee comparable to an infection in humans.
06 October 2020||STOCKHOLM/ BERLIN,||Virus researchers get Nobel Prize for medicine||Two Americans and a Briton won the 2020 Nobel Prize for Medicine on Monday for identifying the Hepatitis C virus, in work spanning decades that has helped to limit the spread of the fatal disease and develop antiviral drugs to cure it. The discoveries by scientists Harvey J. Alter, Charles M. Rice and Briton Michael Houghton meant there was now a chance of eradicating the Hepatitis C virus. The three share the 10 million Swedish crowns ($1.1 million) award for discovering and proving that a blood-borne virus could cause Hepatitis C, which afflicts more than 70 million people and causes about 4,00,000 deaths each year. Nominations for this year’s award preceded the global spread of the new coronavirus pandemic, but the choice of winners recognises the importance of identifying a virus as the first step in winning the battle against a new disease, said Thomas Perlmann, secretary general of the Nobel Assembly.  It’s the second Nobel Prize for Medicine for hepatitis research, after Baruch Blumberg won in 1976 for determining that one form of blood-borne hepatitis was caused by a virus that came to be known as Hepatitis B. “Before the discovery of the Hepatitis C virus it was a bit like Russian roulette to get a blood transfusion,” Nobel Committee member Nils-Goran Larsson said, adding that millions could now receive safe transfusions and blood products. Three steps The shared prize recognises research dating back to the 1960s when Dr. Alter, working at the U.S. National Institutes of Health, found liver disease could be spread by blood transfusions that weren’t caused by Hepatitis A or B. It was a team led by Dr. Houghton, then working for pharmaceuticals firm Chiron, which was able in the mid-1980s to create a clone of a new virus from fragments found in the blood of an infected chimpanzee. This virus, belonging to the Flavivirus family, was named Hepatitis C. Its identification made it possible to develop tests to screen bloodbank supplies and greatly reduce the spread of the disease, which can cause cirrhosis and liver cancer. The final piece of the jigsaw puzzle came when Dr. Rice, then at Washington University in St. Louis, was able to use genetic engineering to generate a version of the Hepatitis C virus and demonstrate that it alone could cause symptoms in a chimpanzee comparable to an infection in humans. While the Nobel awards will go ahead as planned this year, they have been overshadowed by the coronavirus pandemic.
06 October 2020||Srinagar,||2 CRPF jawans killed in militant attack||Two Central Reserve Police Force jawans were killed and three others injured as two motorcycle-borne militants opened fire on a patrol team on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the two Lashkar-e-Taiba militants fired indiscriminately at a road opening party of the CRPF at Kandizal, near Pampore. He added that the injured personnel were stable. The deceased jawans were identified as Shailendra Singh and Dhirendra Tripathi, both belonging to the 110 Battalion. Mr. Kumar said one of the attackers had been identified as Saifullah, a Pakistani militant, and the other is a local.
06 October 2020||Srinagar,||Militants kill two CRPF jawans in J&K||Two CRPF jawans were killed and three others injured as two motorcycle-borne militants shot at a patrol team on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday. The deceased were identified as Shailendra Singh and Dhirendra Tripathi of the 110 Battalion. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the two bike-borne Lashkar-e-Taiba militants fired indiscriminately at a road opening party of the CRPF at Kandizal, near Pampore. He added that the injured personnel were stable. Mr. Kumar said one of the attackers had been identified as Saifullah, a Pakistani militant, and the other is a local.
06 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Noida police to probe Priyanka manhandling incident||The Gautam Buddha Nagar police have launched a probe into the alleged manhandling of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra when she, her brother Rahul Gandhi and party workers were stopped from crossing the DND flyover on Saturday afternoon. They were on their way to meet the family of the woman who died after she being allegedly gang-raped in Hathras. In the images of the incident that created outrage on social media, when Ms. Vadra got out of her car and tried to shield a few party workers, a police officer, wearing a helmet, could be seen pushing her and also attempting to hold her by the kurta. ‘Regret incident’ “Noida Police profoundly regrets the incident with Priyanka Gandhi while handling an unruly crowd at the DND. The DCP headquarter has taken suo motu cognisance of it and ordered an inquiry to be conducted by a senior lady officer. Noida Police is committed to ensure safety and dignity of women,” said Noida Police in a statement. The National Commission for Women has also sought an explanation from the U.P. police over the incident. In a tweet, it condemned the alleged manhandling and said “this insensitive behaviour is totally unacceptable”. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma has asked the Director General of U.P. Police to respond at the earliest.
06 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Noida police to probe Priyanka manhandling incident||The Gautam Buddha Nagar police have launched a probe into the alleged manhandling of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra when she, her brother Rahul Gandhi and party workers were stopped from crossing the DND flyover on Saturday afternoon. They were on their way to meet the family of the woman who died after she being allegedly gang-raped in Hathras. In the images of the incident that created outrage on social media, when Ms. Vadra got out of her car and tried to shield a few party workers, a police officer, wearing a helmet, could be seen pushing her and also attempting to hold her by the kurta. ‘Regret incident’ “Noida Police profoundly regrets the incident with Priyanka Gandhi while handling an unruly crowd at the DND. The DCP headquarter has taken suo motu cognisance of it and ordered an inquiry to be conducted by a senior lady officer. Noida Police is committed to ensure safety and dignity of women,” said Noida Police in a statement. The National Commission for Women has also sought an explanation from the U.P. police over the incident. In a tweet, it condemned the alleged manhandling and said “this insensitive behaviour is totally unacceptable”. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma has asked the Director General of U.P. Police to respond at the earliest.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,||CM, three Ministers call on Governor||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and three of his Cabinet colleagues called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan on Monday to discuss the COVID-19 situation, the Bill providing horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified government school students in medical admission and the bifurcation of Anna University. Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy and a few other senior officials were present.  After the pandemic broke out, the Chief Minister has been calling on the Governor at regular intervals to present the status report and the details of the government efforts to combat the disease. According to informed sources, the Chief Minister presented a report on the COVID-19 situation. The Ministers were present to offer their inputs on the issues relating to their portfolios, the sources said. The Assembly passed a Bill to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation to the NEET-qualified students of government schools. The Bill was sent to the Governor for assent. Under another legislation passed by the Assembly at the last session, a new Anna University would be established, and all engineering colleges in the State would be affiliated to the Chennai-headquartered institution. The existing Anna University at Guindy would become a unitary institution under the name of Anna Technological and Research University (ATRU), focusing on research and higher learning. The Bill is with the Governor.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan to take part in Apex Council meet||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reached New Delhi on Monday evening to participate in the Apex Council meeting on utilisation of the Krishna and Godavari river waters on Tuesday. Prior to the meeting, the Chief Minister is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If Mr. Modi gives an audience, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will discuss with him the implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, release of Central funds due to the State, development of the proposed three capitals and reimbursement of the expenditure incurred on Polavaram project among other issues.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Explain action on Kamath panel report’||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India about the steps taken to implement the K.V. Kamath Committee report on recommendations to bail out sectors affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan noted that an additional affidavit filed by the government late last week did not address “several issues” raised in writ petitions highlighting the plight of borrowers, small and big, who were being charged compound interest, post the pandemic moratorium which expired on August 31.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||SC questions RBI on Kamath panel report||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India about the steps taken to implement the K.V. Kamath Committee report on recommendations to bail out sectors affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan noted that an additional affidavit filed by the government late last week did not address “several issues” raised in writ petitions highlighting the plight of borrowers, small and big, who were being charged compound interest, post the pandemic moratorium which expired on August 31.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ex-MLA’s wife chosen as TRS candidate||Ms. Sujata, widow of former Dubbak MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy, has been named as the TRS candidate for the by-election to the constituency caused by the death of her husband. Her name was announced by TRS president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. He said on the occasion that the family members of Ramalinga Reddy were the right choice to contest the election on behalf of the party because the late leader played an active part in separate Telangana movement. He worked hard for the development of the constituency till his last breath. Since the family had wide contacts throughout the constituency, it was decided that its members continue to represent the constituency to take forward the development agenda of Ramalinga Reddy and the programmes of government. His wife was chosen after consulting all leaders in the district.
06 October 2020||Srinagar,||Militants kill two CRPF jawans in J&K||Two Central Reserve Police Force jawans were killed and three others injured as two motorcycle-borne militants opened fire on a patrol team on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the two Lashkar-e-Taiba militants fired indiscriminately at a road opening party of the CRPF at Kandizal, near Pampore. He added that the injured personnel were stable. The deceased jawans were identified as Shailendra Singh and Dhirendra Tripathi, both belonging to the 110 Battalion. Mr. Kumar said one of the attackers had been identified as Saifullah, a Pakistani militant, and the other is a local. The militants were chased by a joint team of the Army and the CRPF after the attack, which took place near the Srinagar-Baramulla highway in the afternoon. However, they managed to escape. Mr. Kumar said militants tend to attack near the highway “because they find it easy to target the security forces”. “Highway is a busy place where hundreds of civilian vehicles pass every day. If we retaliate and fire indiscriminately too, there will be civilian casuality,” he said. This is the second major attack in the area this year. Two policemen were killed in a similar attack on August 13.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Explain action on Kamath panel report’||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) about the steps taken to implement the K.V. Kamath Committee report on recommendations to bail out sectors affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan noted that an additional affidavit filed by the government late last week did not address “several issues” raised in writ petitions highlighting the plight of borrowers, small and big, who were being charged compound interest, post the pandemic moratorium which expired on August 31. During the hearing, the court went on to ask the government whether it had so far issued any circulars, policy decisions and so on, based on the Kamath panel report, which has made suggestions for a loan resolution or restructuring scheme for 26 pandemic-distressed sectors. The court said the government and the RBI had brought nothing on record to show what had been done to implement the Kamath panel report. At one point, Justice Bhushan asked why the report itself had not been placed on record in the court. “We have nothing to hide. We will put it on record. It [report] is available in the public domain,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for both the government and the RBI, replied.
06 October 2020||Kolkata,||covid update||West Bengal on Monday recorded  3,348 COVID-19 cases taking the total to 2,73,679. The State also recorded 61 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the fatalities to 5,255. The number of active cases rose to 27,717 and the discharge rate in the State remained at 87.95 %.
06 October 2020||new Delhi,||Arvind Kejriwal launches anti-pollution campaign||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched anti-pollution campaignYuddh Pradushan Ke Virudhto reduce air pollution levels in Delhi during winter. The campaign will include release of a Green Delhi app, creation of a war room to monitor progress, processing liquid solution for farms in order to curb stubble burning, and hotspot-specific action plans.
06 October 2020||Chandigarh,||China realised PM has weakened India: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Chinese dared to enter India and kill soldiers because the BJP-led Centre had weakened the nation with its ‘anti-national’ policies and actions, of which the agri-culture sector laws were the latest example. “India is going backwards, which the Chinese had seen. Why else would they dare to enter our territory?” he said at a rally in Patiala.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Project deadline: 252 applications pending||Applications of 252 projects seeking extension of deadline are pending with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority - Karnataka (RERA-K), many of them for over a year now. As builders allege red tape at RERA-K, authorities blame the delay on builders not providing adequate documentation.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,||City’s active cases shot up tenfold in 90 days||In 90 days - July 1 to September 30 - active cases in Bengaluru shot up by over ten times from 4,649 to 47,145. During the same period, Chennai reduced active cases from 22,781 to 11,323, Mumbai brought down its active cases from 29,715 to 26,663.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,||CLAT results out, bring disappointment to many||The results of the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 were announced on Monday. But as soon as the results were announced, several candidates took to social media to express their disappointment with their scores.
06 October 2020||new Delhi,||Arvind Kejriwal launches anti-pollution campaign||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched anti-pollution campaign Yuddh Pradushan Ke Virudh to reduce air pollution levels in Delhi during winter. The campaign will include release of a Green Delhi app, creation of a war room to monitor progress, processing liquid solution for farms in order to curb stubble burning, and hotspot-specific action plans.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Court orders adequate security to Umar Khalid||A Delhi court has ordered adequate security for former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid, who has been remanded in 14-day judicial custody — after spending three days in police custody — in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. Through his counsels, Mr. Khalid reiterated that he had not signed any statements while in police custody.
06 October 2020||Mumbai,||Actor Richa Chadha files defamatory suit in HC against Payal Ghosh||Actor Richa Chadha filed a suit before the Bombay High Court on Monday against actor Payal Ghosh for making defamatory statements about her. A single judge Bench of Justice A.K. Menon was hearing the suit filed by Ms. Chadha through advocate Saveena Bedi Sachar seeking damages of Rs. 1.1 crore. On September 19, Ms. Ghosh gave an interview titled, ‘Anurag Kashyap Opened His Zip & Pushed it Inside-Payal Ghosh’ and ‘Sensational Things That Payal Ghosh Told ABN.’
06 October 2020||Pune,||Second nearby||In its lowest case surge in over 45 days, Maharashtra reported just 10,244 new COVID-19 cases on Monday as the State’s total tally reached 14,53,653 of whom 2,52,277 are active. Hearteningly, the State’s recovery rate rose to 80% as recoveries outpaced cases yet again with 12,982 patients being discharged to take the cumulative recoveries to 11,62,585.
06 October 2020||Mysuru,||Minister suggests controlled Dasara fete||Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar on Monday said the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions in Kerala during Onam festival resulted in a surge of cases and such inaccuracies should not happen when Mysuru celebrates Dasara.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,||CLAT results out, bring disappointment to many||The results of the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 were announced on Monday. But as soon as the results were announced, several candidates took to social media to express their disappointment with their scores.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru’s active cases shot up tenfold in 90 days||In 90 days - July 1 to September 30 - active cases in Bengaluru shot up by over ten times from 4,649 to 47,145. During the same period, Chennai reduced active cases from 22,781 to 11,323, Mumbai brought down its active cases from 29,715 to 26,663.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,||State makes its choice for GST compensation||The State government on Monday chose Option 1 of the two options laid out by the Centre for the States to borrow money in lieu of the GST compensation dues. Under this, an artificial distinction was being drawn between the GST implementation-based losses and the COVID-19-induced losses.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,||State makes its choice for GST compensation||The State government on Monday chose the first of the two options laid out by the Centre for the States to borrow money in lieu of the GST compensation dues. Under this, an artificial distinction was being drawn between the GST implementation-based losses and the COVID-19-induced losses.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,||CM meets Ministers, senior AIADMK leaders||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday held consultations with a host of Ministers and senior leaders in the party ahead of the scheduled announcement of the AIADMK’s candidate on Wednesday for the post of Chief Minister for the 2021 Assembly election.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 5,395 new cases, 62 fatalities||The State recorded 5,395 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking its tally to 6,25,391. Sixty-two deaths were recorded, which took the toll to 9,846. Chennai recorded 1,367 fresh cases and 19 deaths.
06 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||With lower testing, Kerala cases dip to 5,042||With the weekend lull, daily testing for COVID-19 in Kerala dipped to 38,696 samples, yielding 5,042 new cases on Monday. The test positivity rate dipped from 14.6% to 13%. There were 84,873 patients in hospitals and 563 were in ICUs, with another 159 on ventilator support. The State’s toll rose with 23 deaths from the past few weeks being added to the official list. Ernakulam accounted for five deaths, Alappuzha four, three each in Kannur and Thrissur, two each in Kottayam, Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram and one each in Kollam and Kozhikode. Kannur reported 35 infections among health-care workers, Ernakulam 19 and Thiruvananthapuram 18. Ernakulam district reported 705 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 700, Kozhikode 641, Malappuram 606, Kollam 458, Thrissur 425, Kottayam 354, Kannur 339, Palakkad 281, Kasaragod 207, Alappuzha 199, Idukki 71, Wayanad 31, and Pathanamthitta 25 cases. Telangana logged two lakh COVID-19 cases 217 days after the first case on March 2. The State reported 1,335 new cases on Sunday. Tests covered 36,348 samples and the results of 695 were awaited. Meanwhile, eight more people died of the virus. The new cases included 262 from Greater Hyderabad, 137 from Rangareddy, 91 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 83 from Karimnagar and 72 from Nalgonda. Andhra Pradesh reported 4,256 infections on Monday, the lowest single-day tally in two-and-a-half months. The daily positivity rate was also the lowest at 7.58% based on 56,145 samples. There were 38 more fatalities. Krishna district continued to report more deaths but reduced infections. It had the highest mortality rate at 1.60% while Chittoor had the highest death toll of 680 and mortality of 1.04%. The daily incidence and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (853 and 3), Prakasam (666 and 2), West Godavari (513 and 2), Guntur (444 and 2), Nellore (365 and 2), Anantapur (271 and 4), Kadapa (231 and 5), Chittoor (224 and 5), Krishna (179 and 7), Srikakulam (157 and 1), Visakhapatnam (138 and 4), Vizianagaram (129 and 1) and Kurnool (86 and 0). The district tallies were: East Godavari (1,01,638), West Godavari (70,646), Chittoor (65,585), Anantapur (59,005), Guntur (57,232), Kurnool (57,158), Nellore (54,629), Prakasam (51,567), Visakhapatnam (51,187), Kadapa (45,687), Srikakulam (40,666), Vizianagaram (36,252)and Krishna (29,365). Tamil Nadu identified 5,395 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday taking the total number of active cases to 45,881. The total number of positive cases in the State as on date is 6,25,391. Monday also saw 62 more deaths. With this, so far 9,846 persons have died in the State due to the infection.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hathras: SC to hear plea today||A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde will on Tuesday hear a writ petition seeking a CBI or Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into the brutal gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh. The petition filed by Delhi-based activist Satyama Dubey, through advocate Sanjeev Malhotra, said the investigation should be monitored by a former Supreme Court or High Court judge. It said the trial of the accused persons should be shifted to Delhi. Ms. Dubey said a fair investigation should encompass the circumstances after the victim’s death at the Safdarjung Hospital, including media reports about the police rushing through a midnight cremation in the absence of her family. The family alleged that they were not allowed to perform her last rites. The case has created a public furore with the National Human Rights Commission issuing notice to the Uttar Pradesh administrative and police establishments. The Delhi Commission for Women chief has already written to the Chief Justice of India to take suo motu cognisance of the case. The State government has set up a fast-track court. “The police authorities had not performed their duties towards the victim and are trying to shield the accused persons for reasons best known to them… The family of the victim was victimised by upper-caste persons and no action has been taken by the authorities or the police,” the petition said.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||New guidelines out for schools||The Union Education Ministry on Monday issued detailed guidelines for the reopening of schools after October 15 in a graded manner, in accordance with the Union Home Ministry’s directions. No student will be forced to attend school without parents’ consent, said Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. “States/UTs [Union Territories] should take the consent of parents/guardians before their child/ward begins attending schools. Students willing to study from home with the consent of the parents may be allowed to do so,” say the guidelines. The Ministry has ordered thorough cleaning and disinfecting of all areas, furniture and equipment on the campus, and ensuring air flow in the indoor spaces. Schools have to form task teams for emergency care support and response, commodity support, hygiene inspection and allied responsibilities. “Schools may be encouraged to make their own SOPs [standard operating procedures] based on the guidelines issued by States/UTs for the following, keeping in view the safety and physical/social distancing norms, and ensuring that notices/posters/messages/communication to parents are prominently displayed/ disseminated.” The schools will ensure physical distancing while planning seating arrangements and staggered time tables, besides entry and exit timings and points. Functions and events have to be avoided. All the students and staff will be required to wear face cover/mask. Students, parents, teachers, community members and the hostel staff have to be sensitised to the pandemic-related challenges, based on the guidelines issued by the Ministries of Education, Health and Home. The schools have to plan the academic calendar changes for all classes, particularly in relation to breaks and exams and ensure that all students have access to prescribed textbooks before the school reopens. They have to ensure availability of a full-time trained health care attendant, nurse or doctor and counsellor to take care of the physical and mental health of students. Regular health check-up of students and teachers has to be organised. The schools have to adopt a flexible attendance and sick leave policies and encourage the students and staff to stay at home when sick. The schools should focus on the most vulnerable students, including those with special needs and those directly affected by death or hospitalisation due to COVID-19 in their family. Directives have been given to ensure nutritional requirements of children. The schools will ensure smooth transition of students from home-based schooling during lockdown to formal schooling.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,||CBI raids properties linked to Shivakumar||In fresh trouble for Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a disproportionate assets (DA) case against him and conducted simultaneous raids on 14 premises linked to him and his brother D.K. Suresh, Bengaluru Rural MP, on Monday. Raids were conducted on nine premises in the State, four in Delhi, and one in Mumbai. In a statement, the CBI said the case pertains to “allegations of possession of DA to the tune of Rs. 74.93 crore in his name and in the name of his family members”. Searches have led to the recovery of cash of approximately Rs. 57 lakh and several incriminating documents, the CBI said. However, Mr. Shivakumar said the CBI had only found Rs. 1.77 lakh from his house and he was not answerable to recoveries made elsewhere. Emerging out after a 11-hour-long raid on his residence, Mr. Shivakumar termed it “political vendetta” in the run-up to the bypolls. “I’m not the one to be terrified of these tactics, or bow down to pressure. Let us work hard for the bypolls and give a fitting reply to the Bharatiya Janata Party,” he told party workers outside his house. I-T raids in 2017 Trouble for Mr. Shivakumar began with the Income Tax raids in August 2017, when he was herding Gujarat Congress MLAs in the run-up to a Rajya Sabha election in that State. Recoveries made during the searches — Rs. 8.59 crore unaccounted cash — at his Delhi residence led to a money laundering probe by the Enforcement Directorate, in which he spent over 50 days in custody in 2019. The ED that had uncovered more suspect transactions and assets had written to the CBI recommending a probe under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. On the request of the CBI, the Government of Karnataka had given its consent for a CBI probe on September 25, 2019. “The CBI had taken up a preliminary inquiry in March 2020 and filed a DA case on October 3, and conducted raids on Monday,” CBI sources said. Several Congress leaders alleged political vendetta and misuse of agencies by the BJP “in another attempt to derail the party’s preparation for the bypolls”, as Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah put it. Sporadic protests were reported across the State, including in front of Mr. Shivakumar’s residence. Congress workers even tried to gherao CBI officials’ car as they left his residence. However, the BJP was quick to distance itself from the raids. BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel said the CBI action was only a natural outcome of investigations against Mr. Shivakumar since 2017 and the party did not have anything to do with it. He condemned the Congress protests against CBI action. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has curiously remained silent on the issue.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||With LJP’s solo act, BJP likely to gain in Bihar||These are strange days in Bihar politics — the BJP is fighting the Assembly election in an alliance with the Janata Dal(U) and is openly committed to getting a Chief Minister from its ally back in the chair, while its another National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partner, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), is going it alone in the polls, to ensure that the BJP can occupy that post. This extraordinary turn of events has happened because of LJP leader Chirag Paswan’s decision that his party will contest the polls on its own, but at the same time vowing only to put up candidates in seats where the JD(U) is the NDA party in the fray, while not doing so in BJP seats. Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar and the BJP have maintained silence since Sunday, when the decision was announced by Mr. Paswan, but analysts say it clearly points to the BJP’s firm bid, for the first time since 1995, to capture the Big Brother status in Bihar in the NDA. The BJP had traditionally deferred to Mr. Kumar and the JD(U) in the past when it came to the Assembly polls, in terms of seats fought and the claim over the top job. This despite many leaders within the BJP consistently having questioned the party’s deference to the JD(U) despite the BJP having a better strike rate in all the polls, and being dominant in the Lok Sabha numbers. Coalition dharma was however observed, some would say more than sincerely. Then came the breach between the BJP and the JD(U) in 2013, when Mr. Nitish Kumar walked out of the NDA refusing to accept the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He forged a seemingly impossible alliance with the Lalu Prasad-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) sweeping the 2015 Assembly polls and forming a government. The BJP has learnt many lessons from the 2015 defeat: one, that people vote differently in State and national elections, even if a leader has immense popularity, and two, in a polity run by caste arithmetic, the JD(U) can be an important ally to help undercut a total polarisation of the forward and backward castes. The return of the JD(U) in 2017 to the NDA fold was therefore eagerly sought for, and the BJP and the JD(U) went to the Lok Sabha polls as equal partners. The BJP wanted this new equality in Bihar NDA to extend to Assembly seats. This was resisted by the JD(U), but the party gave in, agreeing to fight 122 seats to the BJP’s 121, with the understanding that the LJP would be accommodated by the BJP from its share of seats. This is when things got interesting. Several surveys and the BJP’s own assessment through the COVID-19 lockdown period with its exodus of migrants from other States returning home to Bihar, in many cases on foot, as well as the handling of other governance-related issues made it plain to the BJP that Mr. Kumar was at the nadir of his popularity, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi retained his appeal. But the lessons of 2015 were also clear that nothing must be done to make it seem as though the BJP was an upper caste outfit unable to keep a partner who could bring in backward caste votes. Mr. Chirag Paswan’s move to fight separately, and only put up candidates against the JD(U) may help BJP, now fighting more seats than ever before in Bihar, emerge as the single largest party and lay claim to the Chief Minister’s chair. A consequence that encourages the feeling that Mr. Paswan is doing all this at the behest of the BJP. The BJP has had, even in the elections it lost in Bihar, an excellent strike rate on seats. And even if the LJP does not win many seats, but manages to make sure the JD(U) loses some, Mr. Paswan’s key result area will be delivered. How this rather forked-tongue policy and campaign will play out among the State’s politically astute voters is another matter. For now though, what till two months ago looked like a one-sided poll is split wide open.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quad will discuss vaccine, 5G||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will meet his counterparts in the Australia-India-Japan-United States Quadrilateral or Quad in Tokyo on Tuesday, which is seen as a significant turning point for the grouping, led by growing concerns over China in the region. Officials aware of the agenda say that cooperation on 5G connectivity, cybersecurity, a supply chain initiative for manufacturing, maritime cooperation and infrastructure and connectivity, as well as distribution plans for the COVID-19 vaccine are all areas where alternatives to Chinese initiatives will be discussed. Beijing has already criticised the meeting as an “exclusive clique”, “an anti-China frontline” and even a “mini-NATO” led by the U.S.’s “Cold War mentality”, making it clear it will watch the outcomes closely, even as its tensions with each of the Quad countries grows. The meeting on Tuesday will begin with a “regional assessment”, including developments in the South and East China Sea, the six-month stand-off at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Hong Kong and Taiwan, where China’s aggressive moves have been most marked. The four Ministers will also discuss the issue of including Australia in the next edition of the Malabar naval exercises, scheduled to be held in November. However, there is still no clarity on the final decision. Any announcement on Malabar would be made by the Ministry of Defence, a government official said. Building trade ties is also on the agenda, as Japan is keen to push a plan for a trilateral “Supply Chain Resilience Initiative (SCRI)” with India and Australia to reduce dependence on Chinese manufacturing, especially as India has refused to be a part of the ASEAN-led Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). India will also discuss how other Quad countries can help with building “East-West” connectivity from India to ASEAN countries, to counter the “North-South connectivity” from China, as well as joint funding for infrastructure and connectivity projects in the Indo-Pacific region. A U.S. plan for a “Blue Dot Network” to rate infrastructure projects for funding, announced in January, is likely to be discussed as well. Bilateral meetings Mr. Jaishankar will also hold bilateral meetings with Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi and his Australian and U.S. counterparts Marise Payne and Mike Pompeo separately during his two-day Tokyo visit, where bilateral defence cooperation will be a common theme. Each of the foreign ministers had made a special effort to attend this meeting, said diplomatic sources, indicating that the Trump administration was particularly keen to hold the meeting before U.S. elections next month so that a common understanding on China, as well as the road map for the future year could be reached. Secretary of State Mr. Pompeo is travelling despite health concerns over President Donald Trump, who is in hospital with COVID-19. Mr. Pompeo has cancelled trips to Seoul and Ulan Bator scheduled this week.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Dalit girl set afire, battling for life||Tension prevailed at the private hospital as dozens of women activists squatted on the main road demanding harsh punishment to the accused at the earliest and also action against the private hospital management for allegedly failing to inform the matter to the authorities concerned. Khammam Police Commissioner Tafseeq Iqbal and others visited the hospital.   A magistrate recorded the statement of the victim.  When contacted, Khammam Assistant Commissioner of Police B Anjaneyulu said a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act and the relevant sections of the Indian Pecal Code was registered against Maraiah. Intensive efforts are on to arrest him, Mr. Anjaneyulu said.
06 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Restart talks at ‘PM level’ without conditions: Muivah||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN(IM), wants the peace talks to be restarted at the level of the Prime Minister without any precondition and in a third country. These were the conditions the outfit, which now prefers to be called the National Socialist Council of Nagalim, had set before declaring a ceasefire with the armed forces in mid-1997. The first few rounds of talks were held abroad. Thuingaleng Muivah, general secretary of the NSCN(IM) and a key negotiator in the peace process, had acquainted Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the outfit’s desire in a letter seven months ago. His group released the letter to the media on Monday for the sake of “accountability to the Nagas” and to inform them about the delay because of the lack of response from the office of the “Indian Prime Minister”. Mr. Muivah is the Ato Kilonser , meaning Prime Minister, in the “government” run by the NSCN(IM). A PM-level dialogue means talks between him and Mr. Modi. “On the official invitation of the GoI [government of India], we first arrived in India in 2002 and after our subsequent visits, we have since 2010 patiently stayed in India to conclude an acceptable and honourable political settlement. As mentioned, several rounds of talks with the Prime Ministers of India and the representatives of the GoI have already been completed and the unique outcome was the signing of the Framework Agreement (FA) on August 3, 2015... “However, in the given circumstances and to save the political dialogue, the talks should resume at the PM level without pre-condition and outside India. And if our stay in India is no more welcome, all necessary arrangements must be made for us to leave India and the political talks be resumed in a third country,” the letter said. Flag, constitution Stating that most of the important issues, except for the Naga flag and constitution, have been resolved, Mr. Muivah brought to Mr. Modi’s notice “some matters of serious concern” regarding the activities of the Union Home Ministry, the National Investigation Agency and the Assam Rifles. “As you are well aware, 22 years of political negotiation had started at the PM’s level without pre-condition and outside India. We had come to India on the invitation of the Gol. However, we are totally shocked and surprised that even after more than two decades of political negotiation, the Home Ministry and its agencies have become obnoxious,” Mr. Muivah wrote. He said it was “shocking and surprising” that the Centre has started branding the NSCN(IM) members as ‘terrorists’ with impunity and arresting them through its agencies. “The activities of the Home Ministry are deliberate and calculated policies of the GoI to downgrade the political negotiation to India’s internal law and order issue. The Nagas are observing a repeat of the militarisation and a consciously carried out state terrorism in the Naga areas and against the Naga people through a show of force, arrest and allegation against NSCN members for terror funding, imposing check gates, frequent raids. The design and intent of the Home Ministry and its agencies are unjustifiable and a serious provocation that goes against the principle and spirit of the political negotiation and the FA.” The NSCN(IM) leader was critical of the “activities” of the PMO’s representative and Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi, consciously functioning within the law and order purview of the Constitution of India in “deliberate deviation” from his appointment as the Centre’s interlocutor in the Naga talks.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks Vijay Mallya to come clean on proceedings in U.K.||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered the lawyers for businessman Vijay Mallya to come clean about the nature of “confidential” proceedings going on after the rejection of his appeal against extradition in the U.K. Supreme Court. At the start of the hearing, the government informed a Special Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan that Mr. Mallya’s extradition case in the U.K. was over, but some ‘secret’ proceedings was on. “Extradition was ordered by the highest court of the U.K. But it [extradition] is not happening. Instead, some ‘secret’ proceedings are happening. We have not been made aware of these proceedings. We are not a party. They [Mr. Mallya’s side] have not served us with anything,” Rajat Nair, advocate appearing for the government, submitted. Justice Lalit turned to Mr. Mallya’s counsel, and asked him to explain the nature of this confidential proceedings. But the lawyer said he would have to first take instructions on this issue. “We want to know what is going on? What is pending there now,” Justice Lalit asked the lawyer. The court ordered Mr. Mallya’s side to clarify by November 2 the nature of this confidential proceedings, when it will end and by when the businessman will appear before it to accept his sentence for contempt. On August 30, the apex court had dismissed Mr. Mallya’s review petition against a May 9, 2017, verdict of contempt. The court had found no merit in his three-year-old review plea against his conviction. The court had in May 2017 found Mr. Mallya guilty of contempt for wilful disobedience of its order to come clean about his assets and not disclosing $40 million (Rs. 600 crore) he received from British liquor major Diageo Plc following his resignation as chairman of United Spirits Ltd. in February 2016. In his original arguments before the court in 2017, Mr. Mallya had informed it that the $40 million was one among “thousands of transactions” he did and could not be counted as an asset. He said he had no control over that money now as he had already disbursed it among his three adult children, who are U.S. citizens. The court had ordered him to provide the banks with a list of his assets so that they could recover Rs. 9,200 crore due to them.
06 October 2020||Thrissur,||CPI(M) worker hacked to death; search on for gang||P.U. Sanoop, 26, CPI(M) branch secretary of Puthussery Colony at Chovvannur grama panchayat here, was hacked to death on Sunday night. He was attacked at 11.30 p.m. at Chittilangode, near Eyyal. Three other CPI(M) workers, Vipin, Jithu, and Abhijit, who were critically injured in the attack have been admitted to hospital. The police found an abandoned car near Kunnamkulam, which, they believe, was used by those involved in the attack. The CPI(M) alleged that an armed gang of Sangh Parivar workers attacked their activists. The police said they had received clear indications about the killers from the injured CPI(M) activists. Local Self-Governments Minister A.C. Moideen said it was a planned political murder. “There is indication that the murderers have RSS-Bajrang Dal connection. They have a criminal background,” Minister said. Denying the role of the BJP and the Sangh Parivar in the attack, BJP State secretary A. Nagesh demanded an impartial investigation into the killing. The Sangh Parivar was being targeted as part of a political game, he said. Sanoop and his friends were attacked while they returning after arranging food for distribution at Government Thrissur Medical College Hospital as part of a DYFI initiative. A hartal was observed in Chovvannur panchayat to mourn the death of Sanoop. BJP activist hacked Staff Reporter writes from Kannur: A 55-year-old BJP activist was hacked reportedly by an eight-member gang at Olavilam within the Chokli police station limits in Kannur on Sunday night. According to the police, Preman, a resident of Olavilam, was hacked by the assailants when he was walking to his house. The incident occurred at 9.45 p.m.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘IAF fully prepared for two-front war’||Chief of the Air Staff R.K.S. Bhadauria on Monday asserted that India was fully prepared for a two-front war. “We are ready and very well positioned to take on China and there is no scenario where they can get the better of us,” the Air Chief Marshal (ACM) said at the annual press conference ahead of the 88th Air Force Day. “The next three months will depend on how the talks progress. The current progress is slow; what we see is an effort to dig in for the winter... We are taking action accordingly. Our further action will depend on the ground realities,” he said. The Indian Air Force (IAF) had the capability to “shoot first and strike deep and hard” as it was “very well positioned”, he stated. Mr. Bhadauria, however, noted that the Air Force was not underestimating the adversary. “Their [China] strength lies in surface-to-air systems they have put up in the area. They have long missile systems. We cater to those in our matrix... We can take on that threat,” he said. Deployment along LAC On deployment in Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with the stand-off going on for five months now, the Air Force chief said Ladakh was a small part of the Air Force’s deployment. “We have deployed to all relevant areas. We are firmly and strongly deployed to take on any scenarios.” He said the IAF realised what the Chinese were doing in May. “It is not correct to say we were surprised. It showed our ability to respond and there was no delay.” On Chinese air activity along the LAC, he stated that there was no step-up in deployments after the initial developments. “It has remained largely the same.” Talking of the collusive threat on the northern and western borders, he pointed to full preparations to meet all contingencies, including a simultaneous two-front war with China and Pakistan. “We are aware they are cooperating closely. There is significant threat. But so far, there is no such indication that they are colluding for a two-front war,” he observed.  The next three months will depend on how the talks progress R.K.S. Bhadauria Chief of Air Staff
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fresh show-cause notice issued to Sudarshan TV, SC told||The Union government informed the Supreme Court that a fresh show-cause notice had been issued to Sudarshan TV on Monday with regard to the content of its controversial show, Bindas Bol , which accuses Muslims of “infiltrating” the civil services with the help of funding from terror-linked organisations abroad. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said an inter-ministerial committee had watched the episodes of the show. The proceedings on the basis of the notice would be held on October 6. The court agreed to adjourn the hearing till October 26. First notice In the previous hearing, the government told the court about the first notice issued on September 23 to Sudarshan TV under the Cable TV Network Act with regard to the show content. The court had stayed the further telecast of the programme episodes on September 15. Four episodes had been telecast by the time it issued the injunction. “Had the court not intervened, the programme would have been over by now,” Justice Chandrachud had told Mr. Mehta. The government had taken up the matter while the Bench had been examining questions of hate speech and offensive speech in the media. The Bench was looking into the exact point when free speech in the media crossed the Rubicon to breach the dignity of a community. Advocate Shadan Farasat, for one of the parties, said the questions on hate speech and offensive speech in media should be examined by the court irrespective of what the government decided with regard to the Sudarshan TV issue. ‘Hurtful portrayal’ The court is also examining the larger aspect of strengthening the self-regulatory mechanism for electronic media. It had observed that the manner of portrayal of the Muslim community in ‘ Bindas Bol ’ was “plainly hurtful”.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Techie turns serial chain snatcher to make a fast buck||Investigation into a chain-snatching complaint by an elderly woman has led the police to arrest a software engineer-turned-serial chain snatcher allegedly involved in over 30 cases. It all started when the accused, Jayakumar, 39, robbed a 60-gram gold chain from an elderly woman while she was on her way to attend a family function on August 13 near Indira circle in Peenya. The accused intercepted her while on the bike and snatched the chain and sped away. In the impact, the victim fell on the ground and sustained severe injuries. She was admitted to a private hospital where she recovered later. Considering the seriousness of the crime, the Peenya police collected the CCTV camera footage from in and around the areas and managed to identify Jayakumar and arrested him on Monday. The police said Jayakumar, a native of Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu and a resident of Banashankari, is an engineering graduate and was the team manager with a major IT company till 2012. Mudduraj Y., Inspector, Peenya police station, said that Jayakumar was addicted to alcohol and other vices and his salary was not enough to sustain his habits. Unable to attend to work regularly and not getting enough money to meet his expenses, Jayakumar quit the job and joined a gang of notorious habitual offender Karthik and Arun to earn quick money. The police said the accused has been involved in 22 chain-snatching cases here and 12 in various parts of Tamil Nadu. In 2019, the Kempegowda Nagar police arrested Jayakumar and remanded him in judicial custody. However, he got out on bail in October 2019 and was absconding since then without attending court hearing. The police have recovered 15 SIM cards from the accused, which he had borrowed from his relatives to use them to hoodwink the police. The accused would change his hideout frequently to avoid the police, Mr. Mudduraj said. The police tracked him for one month before arresting him.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,||Come up with ‘good case’, court tells NIA||The special judge of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here trying the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case against the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case on Monday wanted the agency to come up with a “good case” to substantiate its findings against the second line of accused in the case. It was while considering the bail applications of six accused that the court issued the directive to the agency. If the agency fails to present a convincing case on Tuesday, the judge said he would be inclined to favourably consider the bail applications of the accused. The court wanted the investigation agency to delineate the charges against the front-line accused and others. The agency invoked the Act against a few accused who had allegedly invested money for purchasing the gold which was to be smuggled to India and those who had purchased the smuggled gold. The court also instructed the agency to produce the case diary before it on Tuesday. If the allegations are not marked out against the accused and substantiated, the court would assess it and take a decision on the bail application, said P. Krishnakumar, special judge.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Dalit girl battling for life||The traumatised girl reportedly told the officials, who visited the hospital following the outrage, that Maraiah poured petrol on her before setting her ablaze, while his mother and wife were away, on September 18. “He caught my hand when I was about to start household chores at their house,” she recalled the harrowing moments. “He tried to whisk me away to his room even as I repeatedly pleaded with him to leave me. I managed to rush towards the main entrance of the house, he came to me a short while later carrying a petrol can. He suddenly poured petrol and set me on fire,” she recounted the horrific scene. Wreathing in pain from burn injuries, the girl lying on the hospital bed said, “I ran towards Maraiah’s father, screaming unable to bear the pain. He immediately tore apart my burnt clothes and wrapped me in a wet cloth,” she said with fear writ large on her face. Tension prevailed at the private hospital as dozens of women activists squatted on the main road demanding harsh punishment to the accused.
06 October 2020||Kozhikode,||NIT, IIT admission process from today||The registration and online choice filling for admissions to the first year BTech/BArch/BE programmes of the Indian Institutes of Technology (llTs), National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Information Technology (lllTs) and other government-funded technical institutes (GFTls) for eligible candidates of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE Main and JEE Advanced), 2020 will begin from 10 a.m. on Tuesday to 5 p.m. to October 15. Eligible candidates can register through https://josaa.nic.in., the website of the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA), constituted by the Ministry of Education, Sunil Jacob John, Chairman, UG Admissions and Centre In-Charge, CSAB Verification Centre, National Institute of Technology Calicut, said in a press release here on Monday. All candidates who have secured a rank in the JEE (Main) are eligible to register for seat allocation in the NIT+ system except (IITs). The candidates who are declared qualified in the JEE (Advanced) are eligible to register for seat allocation in all participating institutes. Candidates seeking admission through JoSAA have been advised to visit the website regularly for updates, the release said. The first round of seat allocation will be published on the JoSAA website on October 17.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Centre told to take loan for GST compensation||Kerala led nine other States in rejecting the two options for Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation mooted by the Union government at the 42nd GST Council on Monday. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, who represented the State, said Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, Puducherry, Jharkhand, and West Bengal, supported Kerala’s stance and was of the view that the Centre should take loan for the payment of the GST compensation. Dr. Isaac said 20 States favoured the first option mooted by the Centre at the last GST council. The first option is to provide a special borrowing window to States in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India to provide Rs. 97,000 crore at a reasonable interest rate. The other option is to meet the entire GST compensation gap of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore this year itself after consulting the Central Bank. In Monday’s deliberations, 10 States rejected the proposals mooted by the Centre to extend the compensation cess beyond 2022. The Finance Minister said the Centre and the States that supported the options of the Centre were not ready for discussions on who would borrow in what proportion, what amount would be borrowed, and what amount would be deferred. Instead, as in the last GST Council, after extending the meeting to 6.30 p.m., it was announced that the States that opposed the Centre’s suggestions should intimate their stance once more, Dr. Isaac said. ‘Decide through vote’ “Kerala opposed it and said it was not the GST Council’s decision. The Centre is a member of the GST Council and hence decisions should be taken through voting. The legal provisions for Dispute Resolution Mechanism should be activated. Nine States supported us. Without going for a vote after eight hours of deliberations, it was announced that the GST Council will take a call on the compensation at the next meeting on October 12,” he said.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ballot papers to be used for civic elections||The State Election Commission has resolved to conduct the forthcoming elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and other left-over urban local bodies with ballot boxes and ballot paper. The decision was reportedly taken in view of the prevailing COVID pandemic after eliciting views from political parties. The SEC, after a meeting with the GHMC commissioner on the conduct of the elections, sought opinion of political parties on the issue and a majority of the parties favoured the conduct of the elections through ballot boxes. The SEC said of the 50 political parties, including the 11 recognised parties, 16 favoured ballot boxes and three suggested use of Electronic Voting Machines while seven other parties did not give a definite opinion on the matter. Moreover, the use of EVMs involves several stages before their installation in the polling stations. The EVMs should undergo first-level and second-level checks, randomisation and commissioning. At all these stages, huge number of engineers deputed by manufacturers, representatives of political parties and election staff would be involved. In addition, huge number of unskilled labour would be deployed for cleaning, unpacking and packing of the EVMs and VVPATs in a closed environment. This could in turn involve high risk of community spread of COVID as compared with the use of ballot boxes. The State Election Commission on its part requested the ECIL and the BEL to send quotations for procurement of VVPATs. These companies informed that they would require the permission of the Election Commission of India for manufacturing VVPATs. A letter had accordingly been addressed to the ECI seeking its permission and a reply is awaited. The SEC recalled that the elections to gram panchayats and MPTC/ZPTC polls last year, as well as elections to the ULBs, were conducted through ballot boxes.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,||Court grants bail to Swapna in Customs case||Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, was on Monday granted bail in the case booked by the Cochin Customs. The accused was given statutory bail by the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, as the Customs could not file the final complaint within 60 days of arresting the accused. Swapna had been in prison for 75 days. The court asked Swapna to furnish a bail bond of Rs. 2 lakh and two sureties for the same amount. Though she secured bail in the case, Swapna will have to remain in the jail as the cases booked by the NIA and the Enforcement Directorate are pending in courts.
06 October 2020||KHAMMAM,||Dalit girl in Khammam set on fire, battling for life||A minor dalit girl, aged around 13 years, is battling for life after she was set on fire allegedly by a 28-year-old married youth for resisting his rape attempt at his house in the town over a fortnight ago. The horrific incident took place on September 18 at the accused’s house at Mustafanagar here, where the girl was working as a domestic help, sources said. The ghastly incident sparked widespread outrage as activists of various women's organisations staged a dharna here on Monday in protest against the “rising tide of violence” against young girls. It came to light belatedly after the failure of alleged attempts by the accused to hush up the matter by intimidating the parents of the girl through some community elders as both the accused and the victim hails from the same community, the sources said. The minor girl, who suffered 70% burn injuries, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, where the accused reportedly admitted her by projecting the burn wounds as accidental on September 18. ‘Poured petrol’  The traumatised girl reportedly told the officials, who visited the hospital following the outrage, that Maraiah poured petrol on her before setting her ablaze, while his mother and wife were away, on September 18. “He caught my hand when I was about to start household chores at their house,” she recalled the harrowing moments. “He tried to whisk me away to his room even as I repeatedly pleaded with him to leave me. I managed to rush towards the main entrance of the house, he came to me a short while later carrying a petrol can. He suddenly poured petrol all over my body and set me on fire,” she recounted the horrific scene. Wreathing in pain from burn injuries, the girl lying on the hospital bed said, “I ran towards Maraiah’s father, screaming unable to bear the pain. He immediately tore apart my burnt clothes and wrapped me in a wet cloth,” she said with fear writ large on her face. Tension prevailed at the private hospital as dozens of women activists squatted on the main road demanding harsh punishment to the accused. Tension prevailed at the private hospital as dozens of women activists squatted on the main road demanding harsh punishment to the accused at the earliest and also action against the private hospital management for allegedly failing to inform the matter to the authorities concerned. Khammam Police Commissioner Tafseeq Iqbal and others visited the hospital. A magistrate recorded the statement of the victim. When contacted, Khammam Assistant Commissioner of Police B Anjaneyulu said a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act and the relevant sections of the IPC was registered against Maraiah. Intensive efforts are on to arrest him, he said.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. police allege bid to trigger caste violence||The main FIR lodged at Chandrapa police station alleged that “some anti-social elements” tried to instigate the family of the victim, pressurised them to give wrong statements and even tried to offer them an inducement of Rs. 50 lakh as part of a “criminal conspiracy” to spoil peace in the State and spread caste discord. ADG Law and Order Prashant Kumar said an investigation had been launched into the conspiracy and arrests would be made. When asked by a reporter about an international website being linked by the police with the case, Mr. Kumar said, “It will be proper to comment on this after gathering of evidence.“
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||GST Council split on borrowing options||The balance Rs. 25,000 crore pertains to Integrated GST dues from 2017-18 that had to be reconciled between States that got more than they ought to have and those that got less than their dues at the time. “So the Council cleared that borrowings will have to be done and repaid through the extended cess collection period… 20-21 States had written to us stating they will take the first borrowing option we had given. One State has proposed a third option to the Prime Minister. From among those who have not chosen any option, the argument is that the Centre should borrow instead of the States,” Ms. Sitharaman said. While compensation cess collections this year are expected to be just around Rs. 65,000 crore, recompense due to States is around Rs. 3 lakh crore. The Centre had argued that Rs. 97,000 crore shortfall arises due to GST implementation itself, while the remaining Rs. 1.38 lakh crore is due to the impact of COVID-19. At Monday’s meeting, this calculation was revised with the Centre submitting that Rs. 1.10 lakh crore of the shortfall is due to GST implementation and the balance due to the pandemic. The FM said interest repayments on Rs. 1.10 lakh crore borrowings would get the first charge on cess collected beyond June 2022. Of the rest, half would be used to repay the same loans’ principal and half will be used to repay the loans taken for cess shortfalls arising from the COVID-19 pandemic impact. “Nobody anticipated COVID-19, not the lawmakers, not the GST Council. It is not as if the Centre is sitting on money and denying it to the States,” Ms. Sitharaman said, indicating that a few States called for a vote on the issue during the Council’s discussions. Next meeting on Oct. 12 There were some suggestions that States like Goa, Karnataka and Assam, which have agreed to the first borrowing option be allowed to go ahead, said the Minister. However, after Bihar Finance Minister Sushil Kumar Modi suggested that further discussions must be held with dissenting States, the Council decided to meet again on October 12. “10 States demand that full compensation should be paid to the States during the current year as per clauses in the law and Centre should borrow,” Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said after the meeting. High prices For consumers, the extension of the compensation cess levy period would entail persistently high prices on such goods that attract the cess, said EY tax partner Abhishek Jain. “While an ad-hoc release of funds and an increased tenure should provide some comfort to States, the modus operandi on borrowings still remains a huge bone of contention without any consensus building up,” he added. On the procedural front, the Council approved some changes so that the number of returns to be filed by smaller businesses are reduced from 24 to 8, starting January 1, 2021. Based on investigations of cases where taxpayers disappeared after claiming GST refunds, the Council has decided to restrict refunds to bank accounts validated by Aadhaar, while making Aadhaar authentication mandatory for all refund applications.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Militants kill two CRPF jawans in J&K||The militants were chased by a joint team of the Army and the CRPF after the attack, which took place near the Srinagar-Baramulla highway in the afternoon. However, they managed to escape. “A hunt is on to track them down. I am hopeful they will be neutralised soon,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar said militants tend to attack near the highway “because they find it easy to target the security forces”. “Highway is a busy place where hundreds of civilian vehicles pass every day. If we retaliate and fire indiscriminately too, there will be civilian casuality,” he said. This is the second major attack in the area this year. Two policemen were killed in a similar attack on August 13.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. demands judicial probe into Hathras rape||The Congress on Monday demanded a judicial inquiry into the Hathras gang rape and the immediate removal of the District Magistrate (DM) Praveen Kumar Laxkar, whom the victim’s family has accused of misbehaviour. “First of all Yogi Adityanath ji’s government must immediately dismiss the DM, who is on record on a video threatening the family. He should not be given any other posting till it is thoroughly investigated at whose behest the DM went to the family and threatened them in the manner that he did,” All India Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said at a press conference. “Secondly, the family of the victim is also demanding a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court,” Ms. Dev said. The party also released a nine-minute video “Hathras: fight for justice” on the visit by Congress leaders to the victim’s family on Mr. Gandhi’s Facebook page and YouTube channel. In the video, Mr. Gandhi is seen assuring family members that “none can remove [you]... because it is your house, your land. If they try to do so, I will be here”.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRDO successfully tests ASW missile system||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Monday successfully test-fired the missile-assisted release of a lightweight anti-submarine torpedo system for anti-submarine warfare (ASW), Missile Assisted Release of Torpedo (SMART). “All the mission objectives including missile flight up to the range and altitude, separation of the nose cone, release of torpedo and deployment of velocity reduction mechanism have been met perfectly,” the DRDO said in a statement. The test was conducted at 11.45 a.m. from Wheeler Island off the coast of Odisha. “SMART is a game changer technology demonstration in ASW,” said G. Satheesh Reddy, Chairman, DRDO. SMART gives capability for ASW operations far beyond torpedo range.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Witch-hunt, says Congress||The Congress on Monday termed the CBI raids on D.K. Shivakumar a ‘witch-hunt’ and asked why the agency was not acting on alleged corruption charges against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his family. Congress general secretary in charge of Karnataka, Randeep Surjewala, tweeted, “The insidious game of intimid-ation and machinations of Modi-Yediyurappa duo being executed by a puppet CBI won’t deter us.” Senior leader Sushmita Dev linked the raids to the coming bypolls in the State.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Explain action on Kamath panel report’||During the hearing, the court asked the government whether it had so far issued any circulars, policy decisions and so on, based on the Kamath panel report, which has made suggestions for a loan resolution or restructuring scheme for 26 pandemic-distressed sectors. ‘Nothing to hide’ The court said the government and the RBI had brought nothing on record to show what had been done to implement the report. At one point, Justice Bhushan asked why the report itself had not been placed on record in the court. “We have nothing to hide. We will put it on record. It [report] is available in the public domain,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for both the government and the RBI, replied. Senior advocate V. Giri, also for the RBI, said the government was deliberating on further improvements in the loan resolution plans. Charging of compound interest post moratorium had hit hard the ordinary person, he acknowledged. He assured the court that the report would be placed on record. The court said it was not just about placing the report on record, but implementing it. The RBI and the government should issue circulars so that people knew what benefits had been extended to them. “It will be done,” the government and RBI sides responded. “When will it be done... This has been going on for long. There is need for a proper restructuring scheme,” Justice M.R. Shah, on the Bench, said. The court found there was no resolution or policy decision by individual banks on steps to implement the decisions taken by the Centre and the RBI. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for the Indian Banks’ Association, sought time to place on record the individual policy decisions of each bank. “Whatever the relief, the weight of it will fall on the banks,” he said. Justice Shah observed, “We are trying to strike a balance here”. The court allowed the parties to file their replies to the additional affidavit in a week. The Centre has to place on record the Kamath panel report along with circulars, policy decisions, if any, on the issue. The court scheduled the next hearing on October 13.
06 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Ink thrown at AAP MP||Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh came under an “ink attack” on Monday outside Boolagarhi village in Hathras when he, along with a party delegation, was returning after meeting the relatives of the victim who died after a brutal assault on September 29. Mr. Singh and party MLA Rakhi Birlan were addressing the media when a youth identified as Deepak Sharma sprayed ink on them shouting, “Brokers of PFI, go back”. Mr. Sharma is believed to be a member of the Rashtriya Swabhiman Dal. Demanding justice for the family, Mr. Singh said the government seemed to be protecting the perpetrators of the crime.
06 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Minister, MLA attend funeral, face complaint||A Puri-based outfit on Monday lodged a complaint against Odisha School and Mass Education Minister Samir Ranjan Dash and BJD MLA Umakant Samantray for allegedly participating in a funeral procession at Puri despite testing positive for COVID-19. Mr. Dash and Mr. Samantray were among BJD leaders who attended the last rites of former Minister Pradeep Maharathy who died on Sunday.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,||TS engg. and pharmacy admissions from Oct. 9||Engineering and Pharmacy admissions will kick off from October 9 and the process will end on November 5. The first phase of admissions will start from October 9 and seat allotment will be done on October 22. The online filing of basic information, payment of processing fee, slot booking for selection of helpline centres, date and time to attend for certificate verification will be held from October 9 to 17. Certificate verification for candidates who book the slots will be done from October 12 to 18. Options can be exercised after certificate verification between October 12 and 20 and the last date for freezing of options will also be October 20. Provisional allotment of seats will be done on October 22 and payment of tuition fee and self reporting through website would have to done between October 22 and 27. Final phase from Oct. 29 The final phase of the process will begin again on October 29 and certificate verification will be done on October 30. Candidates will have the chance to exercise the options on October 30 and 31. Seats will be allotted on November 2. Allotted candidates have to pay the fee and report at the college from November 2 to 5.  Spot admissions Spot admission guidelines for private unaided engineering and B.Pharmacy colleges will be given on November 4. Details of the admission process will be made available on https://tseamcet.nic.in from October 7 onwards, according to Navin Mittal, Commissioner of Technical Education and Convenor, TSEAMCET-2020 Admissions.
06 October 2020||Patna,||Chirag pens an open letter||A day after the Lok Janshakti Party announced that it will contest the Assembly poll outside the NDA while maintaining alliance with the BJP, party president Chirag Paswan wrote an open letter to the people of Bihar on Monday saying “even a single vote to JD(U) candidate will force your child to migrate from the State”. “I know am standing against powerful people, but at no cost will I allow ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ thought of the party to diminish and will not accept defeat in any situation,” Mr. Paswan wrote in his one-page open letter.
06 October 2020||Patna,||Tejashwi faces murder case||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, his brother Tej Pratap Yadav and four others were on Sunday booked over the killing of a Dalit leader in Purnia town of Bihar. Mallik, former RJD State secretary of SC/ST cell, was gunned down on October 4 at his residence and a country-made pistol and an empty cartridge were seized from his room. Khushboo Devi, the wife of the deceased, has lodged the FIR, said Purnia police.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. clears 46 names||The Central Election Committee of the Congress on Monday is learnt to have cleared 46 names for the forthcoming Bihar Assembly polls. Party chief Sonia Gandhi presided over the videoconference.
06 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. police book Bhim Army chief||A day after Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad visited the family of the woman who died after being allegedly assaulted and gang-raped by four men, the Uttar Pradesh police on Monday lodged an FIR against Mr. Azad for violating Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which prohibits large gatherings. An FIR has also been registered against Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The police had lathi-charged RLD workers on Sunday after they tried to break a barricade at Boolagarhi village. Around 400 workers of the RLD and the Bhim Army have also been booked.
06 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Inquiry into manhandling of Priyanka||The police in Gautam Buddh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, have launched a probe into the manhandling of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra when she and her party workers were stopped on their way to Hathras on Saturday. In images of the incident that created an outrage on social media, a police officer could be seen pushing her and grabbing Ms. Vadra’s kurta when she got out of her car. “Noida Police profoundly regrets the incident with Priyanka Gandhi while handling an unruly crowd,” said a police statement.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Centre says UN statement ‘unwarranted’||The government reacted sharply to a statement by the UN resident coordinator in India Renata Lok-Dessallien, who had expressed concern over the cases of alleged rapes of young girls in Hathras and Balrampur, calling the statement ‘unwarranted’. “The U.N. Resident Coordinator in India should be aware that these cases have been taken extremely seriously by the government. Since the investigation process is still under way, any unnecessary comments by an external agency are best avoided,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The statement had that it was essential that authorities ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice speedily.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian lab in vaccine test network||The Translational Health Science And Technology Institute (THSTI), an autonomous institute of the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), has been chosen by an international non-profit, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), as one of the global network of laboratories for centralised assessment of COVID-19 vaccines. The CEPI network will initially involve six labs, one each in Canada, Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Bangladesh and India. All the labs would use the same reagents and follow a common set of protocols to measure the immune response of multiple vaccine candidates under development and trial. “This will greatly harmonise the vaccine trial process and allow different vaccine candidates to be compared and speed up the selection of the most effective candidate,” the DBT said in a statement on Monday, Translational lab The Ind-CEPI mission for the establishment of BSL-3 (Bio-safety level 3) facility is a translational laboratory for platform technologies and a bioassay laboratory for development of assays to measure clinical immunogenicity. The mandate of the bioassay laboratory at the THSTI is to provide validated assays for vaccine development on a par with global standards. Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT, said in a statement: “The DBT has been supporting efforts for COVID-19 vaccine development and testing. More than 30 vaccines are at different stages of development with three in human trials and nearly four in advanced stages of preclinical testing.”
06 October 2020||Kolkata,||Protests in WB after murder of BJP leader||The murder of BJP councilor Manish Shukla in Barrackpore sub-division of North 24 Parganas late on Sunday triggered protests on Monday. Mr. Shukla was shot dead by unidentified men on a motorbike near the Titagarh police station. A 12-hour bandh call by BJP in Barrackpore saw clashes with the police, leading to baton charges and tear gas firing, Kolkata saw protests and confrontation through the day. At the State-run Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College in Kolkata where Shukla’s body was brought for post mortem, scuffles broke out between the police and BJP workers as several leaders including Kaliash Vijayvargiya, and MPs Arjun Singh and Locket Chatterjee arrived.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,||page 3 SHE Teams inspector booked for trespassing||A criminal trespass case has been registered against Madhapur SHE Teams inspector on Monday over a land dispute at Guttala Begumpet in Madhapur. Based on the complaint lodged by one Hariprasad, a case under Sections 447 and 427 of the IPC has been registered against inspector Sunitha. “Both the victim and the inspector claim that they purchased land measuring around 490 sq yards from the same person, and since 2008 she was in possession of the land,” police said.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Minister exhorts States to ensure teaching in mother language||Union Minister of Education and Central Board of Hindi Education chairman Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has exhorted the governments of the States to take steps to ensure that teaching in mother tongue formed the basis of academic curriculum across the country. The Centre was actively considering setting up Indian Language University so that people in different regions could learn languages of different States. “It is important to see that people of the north learn the languages of the south and those in the south know about languages of the north,” he said. The Minister was speaking after virtually inaugurating the new campus of the Hyderabad regional centre of Central Institute of Hindi. The new building, constructed on a 1,000 sq.yds plot in the heart of the city with an estimated Rs. 5.67 crore, has library, conference hall and classrooms equipped with state-of-the-art equipment. He said the new education policy announced by the Central government would be a corner stone in developing the Indian languages and the States should cooperate in ensuring that the goals envisaged in the new education policy were achieved. Steps were taken to strengthen and empower all the 22 languages listed in the eighth schedule of the Constitution and Hindi owed the important responsibility of connecting all these languages. In this context, he recalled how several developed and developing countries including Germany, France, Japan, Israel and others, where education was imparted in the mother tongue, made tremendous progress in the field of research and technology. “We should know foreign languages, but not at the expense of our roots,” he averred. Minister Ch. Malla Reddy, Central Hindi Institute director Bina Sharma and scholars from across the country participated.
06 October 2020||KOCHI/ KOTTAYAM,||Mediation in Church row fails again||An attempt by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to mediate between the warring Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Church failed once again on Monday with both sticking to their stances. While the Orthodox faction stood firm on settling the issue within the framework of the Supreme Court judgment, the Jacobite faction held that it wanted to part ways with the Orthodox group and exist as a separate Church. ‘Must part ways’ According to the Jacobite faction, there is no scope for reconciliation between the groups. “We must part ways, there is no alternative. The government must end the takeover of churches for the Orthodox group,” said a spokesman after discussions with the State government in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday. He said the government promised to continue the discussions. ‘Meaningful attempt’ Addressing media after the discussions, the Orthodox faction termed the mediation a meaningful attempt as this was for the first time that both groups came together after the discussions held in 1995. “The Jacobite faction appears hell-bent on settling the issue by bypassing the court orders as well as the Constitution of India. The State government, however, has acknowledged its responsibility to abide by the court order,” they said. According to the Orthodox faction, both groups have agreed to sit together and deliberate the issue once again in the presence of the Chief Minister. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta also attended the discussions held in the capital.
06 October 2020||Kozhikode,||Tunnel road project launched||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced the project launch of the proposed Anakkampoyil-Meppadi tunnel road through videoconferencing on Monday. The road connects Wayanad and Kozhikode districts. Mr. Vijayan said the project, estimated to cost Rs. 900 crore, would be the third longest such undertaking in the country. It would be completed by complying with environmental regulations. The Chief Minister said the subterranean road to be constructed by Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. would reduce traffic congestion on the risky Thamarassery Ghat road. “It would also boost the domestic tourism sector and the trade and commerce between Karnataka and the Malabar region.” On eco concerns Referring to the environmental concerns raised about the seven-km-long tunnel, Mr. Vijayan said the Left Democratic Front government was in favour of taking a decision which could address the environmental concerns and bolster local development. “We are not ready to succumb to unwanted controversies,” he said. In three years Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran, who presided over the event online, said the project could be completed in three years. “The State government will sanction any additional amount required for the timely completion of the project,” he said. It was in 2014 that the government did a feasibility study of the proposal to realise an alternative road to Wayanad district. In 2016, it was officially approved for further proceedings and survey works. Initial estimate A few months ago, the State government accorded sanction to the preliminary estimate of Rs. 658 crore for implementation under the Kerala State Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. Officials who prepared the preliminary estimate said the cost of completing a 1-km stretch of the road, comprising a 70-metre-long bridge at Kundanthodu, would itself come to Rs. 150 crore.
06 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||41 arrested on child pornography charges||A month-long covert online surveillance operation, code-named P-Hunt_20.2 has culminated in the arrest of 41 people from across Kerala on the charge of ‘seeking, collecting, browsing and downloading’ child pornography, according to the State police. The police have also found vast caches of videos and pictures of minors stored on mobile phones, pen drives, hard discs, tablets and laptop computers seized from the suspects. Manoj Abraham, Additional Director General of Police and head of the Countering Child Sexual Exploitation (CCSE) team, told The Hindu on Monday that the confiscated content included videos and images captured furtively, mostly on mobile phones, in domestic environs during the COVID-19 period in Kerala. From security cameras The police found child sexual abuse material (CSAM) content sourced from security cameras at homes and in flats and images and videos of children harvested from webcams. Another officer said the cases detected was merely the tip of the iceberg. Child abuse could go unreported since children have little contact with their classmates or teachers due to the restrictions on in-person schooling. Investigators said the stay-at-home circumstances had resulted in increased Internet usage. There was a worrying surge in Internet search engine queries related to child pornography. Investigators at the Kerala Police Cyberdome identified persons who obsessively downloaded, disseminated or traded child CSAM over social media platforms. They used a mix of surveillance software, social engineering techniques and deceptive social media identities to insinuate themselves into the clandestine child porn sharing circles. ‘Specialised’ groups The darknet was the platform of choice for posting, harvesting and disseminating CSAM. The police also stumbled upon WhatsApp and Instagram groups, with names such as Corona Life and Gold Garden, that specialised in sharing images and videos of children. State Police Chief Loknath Behera supervised the covert operation code-named P-Hunt_20.2. Inspector General (IG) of Police, Crime Branch, S. Sreejith; IG, South Zone, Harshita Attaluri; and IG, North Zone, Ashok Yadav, coordinated the arrests and seizures.
06 October 2020||Kochi,||Kickbacks in LIFE Mission project: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) submitted before the High Court on Monday that the LIFE Mission would come under the purview of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) and that kickbacks were involved in the deal for the construction of houses under the LIFE Mission project at Wadakanchery. The court, however, asked the CBI to inform it whether the funds received by Unitac Builders Private Ltd. as part of the LIFE Mission project would come under the definition of foreign contribution and whether the mission and the company had been exempted from the FCRA. Justice V.G. Arun passed the directive while hearing arguments on a writ petition filed by Santhosh Eapen of Unitac Builders seeking to quash a First Information Report (FIR) registered against him in connection with the construction of houses under the LIFE Mission project. Petitioner’s contention The petitioner had said he had handed over crores of rupees to several persons at the instructions of Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. A foreign contribution received should not be diverted for any other purposes. In fact, an investigation had to be carried out to find out whether the money had been transferred to officials of the LIFE Mission or not. The petitioner had himself pointed out that money had been given to the economic head of the UAE consulate, CBI counsel said. The petitioner said it was the UAE consulate which had awarded the contract to the petitioner for constructing residential apartments and a hospital in Wadakanchery under of the LIFE Mission project.  The FIR had alleged commission of offences under Sections 3 and 35 of the FCRA against the petitioner and LIFE Mission officials. The company pointed out that the construction was undertaken following an agreement executed between the company and the UAE based on an agreement between the State government and the UAE Red Crescent. The petitioner pointed out that the contribution received towards the cost of goods/services rendered could not be considered foreign contribution as per the 3rd explanation of Section 2[h] of the Act.
06 October 2020||Srinagar,||“My son framed to save those behind civilian killings in Shopian”||The family of one of the two persons arrested in the Shopian ‘fake’ encounter on Monday claimed their son “was being framed by the security forces and the family was made to sign on blank pages”. “The Army picked up my son, Tabish Nazir, on August 12. Later, at the District Police Line, Shopian, a DSP, Wajahat Ahmed, tore our missing complaint. Instead I was asked to sign on a blank paper,” Nazir Ahmed Malik, father of Nazir, said. He said the police officer warned that if they had not signed the paper, his son would have been branded as a militant.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Usha Martin, its MD arraigned in graft case against ex-CBI SP||Usha Martin Limited and its managing director, Rajeev Jhawar, have also been arraigned in the case in which the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested its retired Superintendent of Police, N.M.P. Sinha, on a graft charge. The FIR alleges that Mr. Sinha conspired with the other accused persons to receive bribe in lieu of the favours extended to them in another case registered against Usha Martin in 2016, which pertained to an iron ore mining lease.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||U.P. Congress leader dies of COVID-19||Naseeb Pathan, Uttar Pradesh Congress leader and two-time member of the U.P. Legislative Council, died of COVID-19 in Lucknow on Sunday. Expressing grief, party president Sonia Gandhi on Monday termed Pathan’s death an irreparable loss to the party. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted Pathan’s last video from the hospital room where he slammed the Yogi Adityanath government.
06 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||At ‘tractor rally’, Rahul says China has realised Modi has weakened India||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Chinese had dared to enter India and kill soldiers because the BJP-led Union government had weakened the nation with its ‘anti-national’ policies and actions, of which the agriculture sector laws were the latest example. “China had realised that Modi had weakened India, and had taken advantage of this to take control of 1,200 km of our land,” Mr. Gandhi told a gathering at Samana in Patiala, on the second day of his three-day ‘tractor rally’ — Kheti Bachao Yatra — in Punjab.
06 October 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||MLA’s mother laid to rest||The mortal remains of Rajamani Thangapandian, wife of former Aruppukottai MLA V. Thangapandian, and mother of MLA Thangam Thennarasu and MP Tamizhachi Thangapandian, were laid to rest at their native village Mallankinaru near here on Monday. She passed away here on Sunday after a brief illness. Hundreds of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam cadre and functionaries took part in the funeral. Among those who paid their last respects were former Union Minister M.K. Alagiri, MPs B. Manickam Tagore, Su. Venkatesan and P. Raveendranath Kumar, Communist Party of India State secretary R. Mutharasan, and functionaries from Bharatiya Janata Party and Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 has helped the internet economy’||Fundamentally, COVID-19 has been the biggest blessing that the internet economy could get in India, according to Deep Kalra, founder and group executive chairman, MakeMyTrip. “At the end of COVID, we would have jumped from 110 million to 200 million buyers online because there is no other way to order or pay,” he said, addressing over 1,000 delegates at TiECON Chennai 2020, an event that was held virtually for the entrepreneurial community. Mr. Kalra also spoke about the travel and hospitality industry. “It is going to take time for the travel industry in India to open up. There is a silver bullet, but we don’t know when it is going to come.” He said the future of the travel industry in the short-term was going to be tough. “But I am a firm believer that once we see this through, we are going to see revenge travel. I am very optimistic about the long term; there are no questions about travel being replaced by anything because it is experiential,” he said. This year, TiECON, organised by The Indus Entrepreneurs, will have sessions in Tamil, too. C.K. Ranganathan, president, TiE Chennai, and chairman and managing director of Cavinkare, said entrepreneurs from across Tamil Nadu would hugely benefit from the sessions. Day one saw a panel discussion on ‘Local to Global: The Chennai Startup path’. The conversation touched upon the need for research and development and innovation, particularly in science and technology, the ability to cater to local as well as global markets, and the role of a supportive ecosystem. This year, TiE Sandhai (marketplace), a platform that caters to the needs of the local entrepreneurial community, has gone virtual. TiECON is the world’s largest conference for entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs with participation from top technology companies, leading venture capital firms and global service providers.  It is going to take time for the travel industry in India to open up. There is a silver bullet, but we don’t know when it is going to come Deep Kalra Founder and Group Executive Chairman, MakeMyTrip
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,395 new cases take tally past 6.25 lakh||The State recorded 5,395 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking its tally to 6,25,391. The number of active cases rose to 45,881. As many as 5,572 persons were discharged, taking the total figure to 5,69,664. Sixty-two deaths were recorded. With this, 9,846 persons have died of the infection in the State so far. 19 deaths in Chennai Chennai district recorded 1,367 fresh cases and 19 deaths on Monday. While 1,074 persons have been discharged from various facilities, as many as 12,560 persons are undergoing treatment, including those under home quarantine, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. A total of 1,74,143 persons have tested positive for the infection in the district, which also accounts for 3,293 deaths. Coimbatore recorded 468 cases. The district also reported seven deaths, next only to Chennai. A total of 4,890 persons are currently undergoing treatment in the district. Chengalpattu district recorded 373 more cases and Salem 337. As many as 257 persons tested positive in Thanjavur district, which also recorded two deaths. Three of those whose deaths were recorded as having occurred due to the infection, but who had no chronic ailments, were in the age group of 53 to 63. The 59 others had pre-existing conditions, which resulted in complications leading to death. Break-up of fatalities Thirty deaths had occurred in private hospitals and the rest in government facilities. A 90-year-old man from Chennai, who had tested positive for COVID 19 on September 19 and had hypertension, was admitted on the same day to a private hospital in the city. He had complained of fever and cough for two days. He died on Sunday night due to COVID-19 pneumonia, health officials said. An 89-year-old man from Coimbatore, who had coronary artery heart disease and was admitted on September 29 to Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital, tested positive for the infection on the same day. He died on Saturday evening due to COVID-19 pneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome.  Coimbatore recorded 468 cases. The district also reported seven deaths, next only to Chennai
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS meets Ministers, leaders||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday held consultations with a host of Ministers and senior leaders in the party ahead of the scheduled announcement of the AIADMK’s candidate on Wednesday for the post of Chief Minister during 2021 Assembly election. In the morning, at the Secretariat, the Chief Minister met Ministers including P. Thangamani, S.P. Velumani, C.Ve. Shanmugam, Dindigul C. Sreenivasan, R.B.Udhayakumar and O.S. Manian. In the afternoon, deputy coordinators of the party, K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam, met Mr. Palaniswami together. The discussions were preceded by a tweet of Deputy Chief Minister and the party coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, which created a flutter in the political circles. What transpired at the meetings was not fully known but the two camps led by the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister were understood to have studied, in the last few days, different options on running the affairs of the party. While Mr. Panneerselvam is firm on the formation of an 11-member “all-powerful” panel, the other camp is for constituting different committees for different purposes such as seat sharing and election propaganda, which has been the norm of the party at the time of Assembly elections. Though there appears to be no point of convergence, senior leaders and Ministers are confident that the issue will be blown over. Mr. Panneerselvam’s tweeted: “All my decisions have been in the interests of people of Tamil Nadu and workers of the AIADMK. They will remain so hereafter too.” Mr.Panneerselvam also quoted a popular saying: “Whatever happened, happened for good! Whatever happens, happens well! Whatever will happen, will happen well!” Political overtone Mr. Panneerselvam’s tweet assumed political significance as it was for the first time that he went on record with a message of political overtone, after the stormy meeting of the AIADMK’s executive committee exactly a week ago. At the end of the executive committee meeting, it was announced that the party’s nominee for the Chief Minister would be declared on October 7. In the afternoon, Mr.Panneerselvam, who reached his home district of Theni on Friday night, left for Chennai, after interacting with a number of his supporters in the last few days. On Sunday, he, along with Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar and a few other MLAs, visited Usilampatti town to take a look at the site where it had been decided to install the statue of P.K. Mookiah Thevar, a prominent follower of Forward Bloc leader Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar, and who was instrumental in establishing a number of educational institutions in the area. Mr. Panneerselvam’s message was also being viewed in the political circles as one that forewarns the party workers “to await a crucial decision”. But, a key member of the Deputy Chief Minister’s camp said Mr.Panneerselvam had always been keen on ensuring “unity” within the party and this had been “illustrated” by the tweet too.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scripture Union suspends preacher||Following allegations that surfaced on social media about a preacher who sent inappropriate messages, including those of a sexual nature, to school girls, Scripture Union has suspended him and initiated an investigation into him and three other staff members. In a thread, Twitter user Joel Giftson alleged that Samuel Jaisunder, who was in charge of Scripture Union’s English publications, had been visiting schools and then sending inappropriate messages to the girls he met there. A 17-year-old student from a school in Vellore said he had been coming to her school for “SU Week” every year, since she was in kindergarten. The Scripture Union team would hold a morning assembly for all students and then hold classes with different age groups. They would then be available for counselling sessions held one-on-one, she said. She described how he coaxed her into sharing her phone number with him and alleged that during a counselling session, he made her feel uncomfortable by hugging her. On WhatsApp, Mr. Jaisunder repeatedly asked her for pictures of herself. Wide network It was only over the last month or so, after a complaint brought the issue under discussion among students and alumni of her school, that she realised how wide his net had been cast. “There are at least 25-30 students from eight schools in different States who have now come forward,” she says. “I thought it was just me.” In other complaints, received from across the State, the offences date back several years. Jaisunder and the staff from Scripture Union regularly visited schools across the State to conduct programmes for students. Screenshots shared on Twitter, of alleged conversations he had with students of the schools he used to visit, showed him commenting on their clothes and persistently asking for their photos. Another woman, who studied in a private school in Chennai, also alleged that he had begun to send her lewd messages after he visited their school for a yearly retreat when she was in Class 9. She recalled how he had constantly broached a conversation about sexual abuse with her, despite she making it clear that she felt uncomfortable. Internal inquiry Scripture Union has suspended Mr. Jaisunder with effect from Monday, following a Sunday meeting of the board, and is conducting an internal inquiry against him. Three other staff members named in the allegations, including one woman who has been accused of ignoring complaints from students, are under investigation, according to an official statement. However, Scripture Union national director J. Joshua Kirubaraj admitted that he had received an oral complaint earlier. “I knew about this only the day before yesterday. But having said that, two months ago, there was a complaint which was not written, it was over the phone. So I spoke with the parents and the girl, and we had to reprimand Sam. And because it was all oral, I reprimanded Sam orally, that he will not be involved with children for the next two years,” he told The Hindu . “Suddenly, in a spurt, all these things started coming from the day before yesterday. Because we couldn’t control all these things, yesterday, we called the board meeting and we took a decision that Sam has to be immediately suspended.” He said that no other complaint had come to his desk. Mr. Kirubaraj added that the organisation is working on a child protection policy which all Scripture Union staff and volunteers will have to sign. It will include norms to prevent counselling of girls by male staff. “We are also very clearly stating that we will stand with the child,” he said.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marina beach out of bounds till Oct. 31, civic body tells HC||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Monday told the Madras High Court that Marina beach would remain out of bounds for the general public till October 31 since the State government had extended the limited lockdown till then. The Second Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh was informed by Additional Advocate General (AAG) S.R. Rajagopal that the government had banned public access to select places, such as beaches and shopping malls, during the ongoing lockdown. The submission was made during the hearing of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition, in which the court had taken upon itself the task of ensuring that the beach was maintained neat and clean by the Corporation, besides regulating vendors as well as fishermen. No bidders Though the Corporation had come up with a plan to procure and distribute colourful stainless steel pushcarts to about 900 vendors on the beach, the AAG told the Bench that there were no bidders for supplying the carts, despite the Corporation having called for tenders twice. Stating that it had decided to call the tenders for the third time now, the AAG was confident that at least three firms would definitely participate in the tenders to be opened in November. He urged the court to grant time till then for the Corporation to report the developments. Explaining the reason for no one having participated in the previous tenders, he said it might be because manufacturing of pushcarts was a labour-intensive work and labourers were not available at all during the complete lockdown since March this year. In so far as constructing a fish market on 2 acres of land for accommodating the fishermen on the loop road of Marina was concerned, Mr. Rajagopal said the proposal had to be approved at different levels, beginning from the Corporation to the State Cabinet. He also stated that a report was under preparation for constructing a foot overbridge across the loop road so that the fishermen could carry their catch from the beach to the market using the bridge without having to obstruct motor traffic on the road. On the plan to connect the loop road from Foreshore Estate with Besant Nagar by repairing a damaged bridge and laying a new road, the AAG said he had no instructions at all. After recording the submissions, the judges adjourned the case to November 11.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Years of preparation and hard work helped, say JEE (Advanced) toppers||Jai Murhekar, who ranked 49th in the Common Merit List of the Joint Engineering Examination (Advanced) and is the State topper in the exam, the results of which were released on Monday, wants to pursue CSE or Electrical Engineering in either the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras or in IIT-Bombay. A resident of the city for the past 14 years, he said, “I took a lot of mock tests. I have been preparing for around four years”. His father is with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and his mother is an oncologist at the Cancer Institute. Ashwin Ramachandran, ranked 56 in the CRL, prefers CSE (Computer Science and Engineering) at IIT-B. His mother is a schoolteacher and his father, an electrical engineer. His inspiration is his uncle who was ranked 49th in the JEE merit list in 1993 and now owns a start up in California. He said he referred to books that his faculty recommended. He familiarised himself with problems from the books which helped him prepare better. “In that way, I was able to attend most of the questions,” he said. C. Aditya, ranked 75th, began preparing four years ago. He took the mock exams regularly. His father is an IT software professional and his mother is a homemaker. Although the integrated programme and the preparation for Class 12 was hectic initially, “as the course went on, it became fun,” he said. ‘Sound grounding’ For A. Balakrishnan, too, it is CSE at IIT-Madras. He believes that a sound grounding in the basics is important before launching into specialisations. His parents are both chemical engineers. Kruthic Vignesh M., ranked 126, also wants to take up CSE at IIT-Madras. His father is a professor in a polytechnic college. It was maintaining a regular habit of studying that helped him ace the exam, he says. All these students took up the integrated coaching offered by FIIT JEE. Sooraj Srinivasan, who is ranked 158, would also like to pursue CSE at IIT-Madras. A student of Aakash’s Classroom programme, he began preparing from Class 9. The rage for artificial intelligence (AI), data science and machine learning, subjects that have caught the imagination of engineering aspirants, is absent in these toppers, all of whom believe a strong foundation is a must before moving to a specialisation.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GST compensation dues: T.N. chooses option 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday chose Option 1 of the two options laid out by the Centre for the States to borrow money in lieu of the GST compensation dues, in the hope that the Centre would rework it to reflect a higher proportion of the actual loss in revenue of States. The AIADMK government exercised the first option at the 42nd meeting of the GST Council held through video-conference. In August, the Centre offered two options to the States because it could not give the GST compensation on account of inadequate cess collections. But the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister had earlier rejected both options and insisted that the Centre borrow money and compensate the States, a stand that was not accepted by the Centre. “Option 2 has been worked out to be completely unattractive and unacceptable to almost all States. In such circumstances and given the very limited options available, Tamil Nadu chooses Option 1 in the hope that it will be reworked to reflect a higher proportion of the actual loss in revenue of States,” Minister D. Jayakumar, deputed to handle GST issues, said at the meeting. Since the State governments had pointed out at the last meeting chaired by the Union Finance Secretary that the assumption of 10% normal growth in Option 1 was “highly unrealistic and unwarranted”, Mr. Jayakumar said: “Hence, instead, revenue gap of States must be assessed based on an appropriate proportion of the total anticipated loss this financial year under Option 1.” Even for the current fiscal, the partial release of compensation might be a compulsion but this should not be justified based on the presumptive loss solely on account of the introduction of the GST. “It is a fait accompli that given the fiscal situation, the States have to remain content with receiving only a portion of the compensation,” he said. Under Option 1, an artificial distinction was being drawn between the GST implementation-based losses and the COVID-19-induced losses, in an effort to limit the total amount of borrowings in 2020-21. “Any attempt to carve out losses solely on account of the GST vitiates the delicately balanced pact between the Centre and the States that this Council has held so dear since the introduction of the GST regime,” Mr. Jayakumar noted. However, he said, the clear and explicit statement in the note (circulated earlier) that under the operative sections of the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, compensation was payable for the entire shortfall in revenue collection, even if it was not on account of the GST implementation, was heartening. The position was clarified by the Attorney-General and accepted by the Central government. “It has also been stated that the balance shortfall will be made good in subsequent years. It is important that this position is explicitly reiterated in a formal communication to the States,” the Minister said. ‘Grave Urgency’ During 2020-21, for the period up to July 2020, a GST compensation of Rs. 12,258.94 crore was due to Tamil Nadu. “It is a matter of grave urgency that the GST compensation payments are made immediately to enable us to continue to battle against COVID-19,” he said. The Minister underlined that it had been Tamil Nadu’s consistent stand that the Centre had a moral and legal obligation to pay the compensation for the shortfall in GST collections. He also recalled Tamil Nadu’s stand at the 41st GST Council meeting that the Centre could mobilise resources and lend the funds required to the GST Compensation Fund. “The loan could then be serviced through an extension of the GST Cess for a few years beyond 2021-22. This was a very reasonable and practical suggestion and was agreed to by almost all States,” he said. The Group of Ministers (GoM), constituted for examining the issue of the IGST settlement for 2017-18, has finalised its report, which acknowledged that Rs. 4,321 crore was due to Tamil Nadu towards the IGST settlement. “I look forward to an immediate release of the dues of Tamil Nadu in one instalment as recommended by the GoM. This will bring succour to the State at this time of grave financial difficulty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. I urge the Centre to accept the recommendation of the GoM and implement it immediately,” he said.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Containment zones re-appear||The Greater Chennai Corporation has re-introduced the COVID-19 containment zones in the city. The civic body, which recently discontinued barricading of streets and houses, declared 10 streets on October 3 as containment zones in the southern parts of the city. The number of containment streets has now risen to 36, mainly because of spurt in the number of cases in Ambattur zone. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the containment strategy was revised mainly depending on the location and need of the place to prevent the community spread. A senior official of the civic body said of the 36 streets that had been barricaded, 16 were in Ambattur zone and in areas such as Padi, Korattur, Thirumangalam, Anna Nagar West Extension and Mogappair East. The official said with the public not cooperating as patients removed banners put up outside their houses and moved about freely, the civic body was forced to resort to barricading of streets. The official said the number of COVID-19 cases had remained below the 12,500-mark with Kodambakkam and Anna Nagar accounting for the highest number of cases among the 15 zones. He said there was a steady increase in the positive cases in Ambattur, Alandur and Perungudi. The number of cases in September last week was well below 11,500, but if there was no cooperation from patients and their families, the society could suffer, the official added.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for harassing woman||The police on Monday arrested a 28-year-old man on charges of blackmailing a woman and extortion by threatening to upload her photographs and videos online. A first information report was filed by the police after the woman’s husband lodged a complaint at the All Women Police Station, Thirumangalam. According to police, the victim is a 32-year-old entrepreneur, whose husband is a businessman in Mogappair. The couple married nine years ago and have two children. She runs an independent business and the suspect, Rathinakumar, 28, was working in her office. Both became friends and she used to discuss her marital and premarital relationships with him. Using a video of her, he frequently demanded sexual favours and money from her. At one point, she was frustrated and expressed her inability to give money. He threatened to upload her photos and videos online unless she paid him. Evidence in phone Noticing abnormality in her behaviour, her husband checked her mobile phone and found that the storage had been erased. Using a software, he recovered the storage and found obscene videos stored on the mobile. The woman confessed to her husband that she was being blackmailed by Rathinakumar. Based on a complaint, the police arrested Rathinakumar and interrogated him.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to quash summons to dentist||The Madras High Court has refused to quash summons issued by a metropolitan magistrate court in Chennai to oral and maxillofacial surgeon S.M. Balaji for allegedly sending an e-mail with malicious content against another surgeon R. Gunaseelan to the members of the International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons (IAOMS) in 2013. Justice P.N. Prakash passed a stinging order directing Dr. Balaji and his hospital employee R. Jeyapragash to appear before the magistrate on November 2. ‘Invisible hand’ The single judge Bench expressed surprise over the way in which a police officer and a judicial officer had handled the case and said: “This clearly shows that some invisible hand had worked behind the screen.”
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Road relaying work will begin soon||Heeding to the long-time demand of residents of the remote Erumaivettipalayam in Tiruvallur district, the Highways Department will soon commence work to re-lay the 7.3 km-long road that connects the village to the Karanodai junction on the Kolkata Highway. The 5,000-odd residents of new and old Erumaivettipalayam villages have to take this road that runs through a reserve forest area for 2 km to reach the main road to get to schools and hospitals. This road is the link since they have Kosasthalaiyar river on the other side with no bridge to cross over. “That stretch of road inside the forest is nothing but a mud pathway and our vehicles get stuck in the slush during the rain. There are no lights either, and our children have to go to higher secondary school and college only by that way. There are snakes and other animals, making it even more dangerous to ride at night. We have no other access,” said G. Anburaj, a resident. Sarathy, a priest at the local Kothandaramar temple, said that access to the neighbouring villages of Pudhukuppam, Ayilacheri and Poochettipedu was also only through mud roads. “Not even two-wheelers can take those routes. When someone falls sick, the nearest PHC is at Padianallur, which is 14 km away and we have to travel through the forest,” he said. Residents have been clamouring for a proper road for over 10 years now. “It is a necessary connectivity for residents in the area and the work will be carried out at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore,” said a Highways official.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M part of winning team that designed desalination unit||The design of a wave energy-based desalination system designed by IIT Madras along with two foreign institutions has won the first two stages of the competition for the ‘Waves to Water Prize’ organised by the U.S. Department of Energy. While the competition mainly focussed on designing a system that could be used for supplying potable water in disaster-relief scenarios and to remote coastal locations, the team from IIT-M said they designed it in such a way that it could be scaled up to tackle water shortage in countries such as India. The team Nalu e Wai (Hawaiian for ‘waves into fresh water’), which created the design, was a collaboration between from IIT-M, University of Hawaii in Honolulu and Uppsala University in Sweden, a statement from IIT-M said. The team was among 17 to win the design stage, which is the second of the four-stage competition, with total prize money of around $3.3 million, that saw participation from over 100 teams. Abdus Samad, Professor, Department of Ocean Engineering, IIT-M, said, “The idea is new for portable small-scale wave-powered desalination devices. The application is of particular interest to the places like Chennai, where water scarcity is fast reaching critical levels,” he added.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Highways dept. covers drains under construction with steel decks||the Highways Department has started using steel sheets on city’s arterial roads during construction of stormwater drains to allow unhindered traffic movement. Motorists using the East Coast Road (ECR) and Poonamallee High Road have benefited from this move. “Though the idea is not new, we do not want to delay work due to the lack of permission for diverting traffic. We are behind schedule due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We can finish the work this monsoon season instead of waiting for the rains to stop,” said an official. The department is carrying out the work in at least 20 spots in and around the city and these steel decks are being used at three spots. Another official said that during the time meant for curing of cement concrete, the steel decks will remain in place and traffic will be allowed on these stretches. At a fast pace “With these decks, we are able to work at night just by removing them. We need traffic diversion only at night when the sheets are removed,” said an engineer. Around 75% of the work on drains have been completed so far.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Advisory to close slaughterhouses was issued ‘hastily’, AWBI tells Madras HC||The Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) on Monday told the Madras High Court that it had issued an advisory “hastily” to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories on August 23, 2019, asking them to close down slaughterhouses across the country during the Jain festival of Paryushan Parva. It told a Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and M.S. Ramesh that following the 2019 circular, one of the members of the AWBI, Girish B. Shah, made a request through WhatsApp for issuing a similar circular this year too. He cited a judgment passed by the Supreme Court on March 14, 2008, to back his plea for closing slaughterhouses. Pursuant to his request, a note was put up before the AWBI Secretary Sujit Kumar Dutta by attaching the 2019 circular issued by his predecessor. He ordered issuance of a similar circular to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories on August 6 this year too, Additional-Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan told the court. However, after the issuance of the circular this year, the AWBI Secretary was bombarded with representations from organisations to order the closure of slaughterhouses for a period of 18 days since the Shwetambar sect in the Jain community celebrates Paryushan Parva for the first eight days and the Digambar sect for the next 10 days. It was only after being confronted with multiple representations that the AWBI Secretary examined the 2008 Supreme Court judgment and found that it applied to the Municipal Corporation of Ahmedabad and not to the whole country. “It became clear beyond any reason of doubt that in 2019, the AWBI was deliberately misguided and persuaded to issue such an advisory, after a gap of almost 11 years of the Supreme Court judgment, by a specific sect of people,” the AWBI’s counter affidavit read. The AWBI wrote to the Chief Secretaries again on August 11 this year, informing them about the withdrawal of the August 6 circular. The counter was filed in response to a writ petition filed by the Madurai North Indian Welfare Association for closing slaughter shops in Tamil Nadu during Paryushan Parva. The Bench led by Justice Kothari had called for an explanation from the AWBI. After perusing the counter on Monday, the judge felt such circulars appeared to have been issued even before 2019. He directed the board to submit all original files related to the issue by October 15.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I-T Dept. opposes Karti Chidambaram’s plea||The Income Tax Department has opposed a plea by Sivaganga Member of Parliament Karti P. Chidambaram and his wife Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram to discharge them from prosecution initiated in 2018 for having allegedly evaded capital gains tax in the assessment year 2014-15. Justice N. Sathish Kumar on Monday decided to commence, in the first week of November, the hearing of arguments on criminal revision petitions filed by the couple against a special court’s refusal to discharge them from the case on the ground that there were materials for trial. Though the pleadings on the revision petitions had been complete with the I-T Department having filed its counter affidavits through Special Public Prosecutors M. Sheela and N. Baskaran, the petitioners sought time for the appearance of senior counsel Kapil Sibal and P.S. Raman. In its counter, the Department stated that the couple had made the plea for discharge at a time when the special court, for hearing cases against legislators, was about to frame charges against them on the basis of the complaint lodged for violation of the Income Tax Act of 1961. It stated that the special court had rightly dismissed the discharge petitions after finding that the Department had made out a prima facie case against the couple for having suppressed the actual sale consideration of their property in Muttukadu and not disclosing the cash part of it. The Department also told the court that the alleged offence came to light following a hard disk recovered by the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) in a joint search operation conducted by it along with the I-T Department in December 2015 in premises connected to the petitioners. The ED had handed over cloned copies of the hard disk to the Income Tax Investigation Wing by following due process of law and a perusal of the hard disk revealed that there were indications of the actual sale amount of the Muttukadu property having been concealed. In 2018, searches conducted at the premises of Agni Estate and Foundations Private Limited, purchasers of the Muttukadu property, led to discovery of corroborative materials and hence the Department had chosen to launch criminal prosecution after examination of six witnesses. The Department also claimed that there was no limitation for criminal prosecution in the light of the provisions of the Economic Offences Act of 1974. It further stated that the genuineness of the contents of the hard disk could be decided only during the course of trial and not before that.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation turns dump into mini-forest||The Greater Chennai Corporation has transformed a dump, which had remained an eyesore for the public, into a green zone located near the Kotturpuram railway station. The civic officials of the Adyar zone have raised a mini-forest on the land located along the Canal Bank Road on the eastern side of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) railway station at Kotturpuram. A resident of Kotturpuram said the building debris was dumped on the land leading to the underground car park. Over the years, the residents along the Canal Bank Road started putting all the garbage on the land. Moreover, customers of the liquor shops relieve themselves on the land. The residents petitioned the civic officials to take steps to prevent dumping of waste. Alby John Varghese, Regional Deputy Commissioner (South) of the Corporation, said a number of complaints had been received from the residents about the land becoming an eyesore. “After a visit to the site, the civic body tried to prevent dumping of waste by putting a warning notice board. Then we conceived the idea to turn the vacant land into a green zone using Miyawaki method. First, the vacant land was ring fenced and the construction debris was removed and replaced by more than four feet of fresh earth.” The greening project, which was inaugurated by Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash in February this year. The civic body plans to throw open the green zone for the public once the saplings were well grown.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State lauded for AI, cybersecurity policies||Union Minister for Communications and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday appreciated Tamil Nadu for its work in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and cybersecurity. He spoke at ‘Responsible AI for Social Empowerment’, a virtual summit organised by the government in partnership with industry and academia. Inaugurated by PM The event was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Prasad praised Tamil Nadu for its AI and cybersecurity policies and appreciated its commitment to the use of AI for social good. A tweet from the handle of Mr. Prasad’s office @OfficeOfRSP reads: “Tamil Nadu has become the first Indian State to develop its own AI, blockchain and cybersecurity policies. The State aims to harness the power of Artificial Intelligence (AI) for public good.”
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Puthiya Tamilagam’s demand for exclusion from SC list may need reality check||Puthiya Tamilagam founder Dr. K. Krishnasamy called for a one-day hunger strike on October 6 to push for change in name of 7 communities — Pallar, Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaalaadi, Kadayar, Devendrakulatar and Vadhiriyaar — and their removal from the list of Scheduled Castes. Several organisations, including Devendrar Samooga Padhukappu Koottamaippu and Bahujan Dravida Katchi, said they would oppose these demands as it would hurt the interests of the community. Dr. Krishnasamy has announced a protest in over 10,000 places across Tamil Nadu to urge the State and Central governments to act positively on the demands. ‘Not an election issue’ “We are not taking this up for the elections but for a generation. Whether it becomes an election issue, we will know in time. But nobody can bypass or ignore this demand. In fact, I think leaving the SC list is [similar] to how Dr. Ambedkar embraced Buddhism…we want to leave the SC list. When BC communities are able to avail reservations and claim their identity, why not us,” said Dr. Krishnasamy in a chat with The Hindu. Almost all mainstream political parties in Tamil Nadu have supported the ‘change in name’, he claimed. These demands, however, have been met with stiff resistance and criticism by members of the communities. Many who oppose these demands said the organisations were influenced by Hindu right wing groups and that they have little support, both in terms of historical evidence or among the people. Arguing that the community would lose the required number of MPs and MLAs and a chance to become panchayat presidents and ward councillors, M. Oorkavalan, co-ordinator, Devendrar Samudhaya Padhugappu Koottamaippu, said, “The name Devendrakula Vellalar has been around for a long time and we do not oppose change in name. However, removing the community from the SC list, though it is still a long way to go in achieving education and financial advancement, compared to other non-SC communities, will result in an enormous setback for the community and we will stand to lose the right to reservations and a number of scholarships and financial assistance provided by the government. We will not be able to compete with non-SC communities as a result.” Mr. Oorkavalan said they were mulling over taking a legal recourse and planning to talk to people about the dangers of moving out of the list. Writer and publisher of Dalit Murasu Punitha Pandian dismissed the demands as impractical and against the people and Constitution. ‘No truth or logic’ “If people simply tear their caste certificates, they have left the SC list. First, he should come forward and tear up his caste certificate as a symbolic gesture before campaigning that the really poor people in his community should give up their Constitutional rights,” said Mr. Pandian. “For an issue to become a political issue, it should either have precedence, logic or truth behind it. These demands have nothing,” he added. Many like retired IAS officer Christudas Gandhi, who are involved in societal matters, feel that continuing in the SC list will be beneficial for the Pallar community in the future.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin promises special courts for cases of violence against women||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday promised to set up special courts to hear cases related to violence against women in the State, ‘when the DMK comes to power next year”. Flagging off the candle-light march of the party’s women’s wing, led by MP Kanimozhi at Little Mount towards the Raj Bhavan on Monday evening against the alleged gang-rape of a girl in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Stalin said that Tamil Nadu, too, had seen a rise in crimes against women under the AIADMK government. “Uttar Pradesh is number one in violence against women. But Tamil Nadu is in second place. Under this AIADMK government, sexual assaults happened in Pollachi. Have any of the women got any justice? No. That is because those involved are related to people in the ruling party. What happened was that the police arrested a woman for giving a complaint. That is the sad state of affairs here,” Mr. Stalin charged. Kanimozhi slams BJP Slamming the BJP, Ms. Kanimozhi said following the Nirbhaya gang-rape case, several laws had been passed to protect women, but the police had failed to act as per these laws. “After the BJP came to power, violence against women, dalit women, children have increased in the country. A CM [Yogi Adityanath] who is keen on saving cows is not protecting women, girl children,” she charged. She said the BJP was making false claims that there was no rape, no caste-based violence in the case and were instead casting aspersions on the victim. “This is what the BJP, RSS is doing to women in the country. This anti-women, anti-people BJP government must be thrown out. The Edappadi Palaniswami government here which supports the BJP will soon be thrown out,” she said. When the rally began, police personnel prevented them proceeding towards Raj Bhavan and detained them near the Saidapet Court complex. When the police whisked them in a police bus, the cadres squatted on the road and prevented the bus from being moved. Ms. Kanimozhi descended from the bus and asked the cadre to disperse. Later, the police took her and the protesters and detained them in a community hall. Traffic was completely affected on Anna Salai from Nandanam to Guindy due to the protest. The Congress too held protests across the State. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri led the protest at Kattumannarkoil while other leaders and Congress national spokesperson Khushbu took out rallies in different places in Chennai.   Court-monitored probe  Mr. Stalin said he was not sure whether the CBI will carry out a fair probe in the Hathras case and demanded that a probe be conducted under the supervision of the court.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for cheating several people||The Neelankarai police on Monday arrested a 52-year-old man for allegedly cheating several after receiving money on the pretext of investing in film productions. The police said complainant Shanaz Begam, 52, of Palavakkam alleged that her acquaintance Nizhamuddin, alias Ravikumar, 52, sought financial assistance five years ago. He claimed that he was into film production under the banner Mother Green Land Movie Makers. As he promised high returns on investment into film production, she gave him 26 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 7 lakh. During interrogation, Nizhamuddin reportedly revealed that he had cheated more than 15 persons.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister unveils new buildings, infrastructure||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday unveiled new buildings and infrastructure for the Higher Education, Agriculture and Police Departments across the State through video conference. These buildings and other infrastructure for colleges have been constructed at a cost of Rs. 58.2 crore. The Chief Minister also laid the foundation stone for new buildings, including classrooms and students’ hostel for Thiruvalluvar University in Vellore to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 25.25 crore. Farm equipment The buildings for the Agriculture Department were constructed at a cost of Rs. 47.36 crore. He handed over keys of 23 tractors and other farm equipment to the department for renting them out to farmers. A warehouse in Madurai district with a capacity of 2,000 metric tonnes was inaugurated. The Chief Minister also unveiled buildings for the Tamil Nadu Police and Fire and Rescue Services Departments constructed at a cost of Rs. 28.9 crore. He unveiled the buildings for employees' quarters, police stations and fire stations. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, Food Minister R. Kamaraj, Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani, Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy and senior officials were present.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Nearly 29 lakh completed home quarantine’||Nearly 29 lakh residents have completed home quarantine till now, which accounts for nearly 35% of the city’s population, officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation said. At present, 1.79 lakh people are still in home quarantine, including those who had tested positive, their contacts, those in fever clinics and those who travelled to the city. So far, 5.14 lakh people coming from other States or districts have finished quarantine, while nearly 71,000 are still undergoing it. Nearly 3,300 volunteers were pressed into service and they went across the city’s 15 zones to ensure that the people under home quarantine complied with the norms, an official said. As relaxations are put in place around the city, there are some emerging challenges to ensure people do not let their guard down.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||653 g of gold seized at airport||Gold estimated at Rs. 34.2 lakh was seized by Chennai Air Customs, and one passenger was arrested in connection with this. On Sunday, three passengers — Ajmeer Khan Syed Ali, Rasikali Mohamed Musthafa and Mansoor Alikhan, who came from Dubai — were detained as officials suspected them to be hiding gold. Subsequently, they recovered 653 g of gold in bundles concealed in their rectum. Rasikali Mohammed Musthafa was arrested owing to a previous offence already pending in his name.
06 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Lawyers for e-pass-based entry into HC||Lawyers practising in the Madras High Court and a number of trial courts located within its campus have demanded issuance of e-passes for entry into the campus to avoid violation of physical distancing norms. They found that the norms went for a toss on Monday when almost all courts located on the campus began hearing more number of cases through physical hearing.The lawyers had to compulsorily sanitize their hands and undergo thermal check before entering. They also had to sign declaration forms stating that they were did not suffer from any symptoms of COVID-19 or had any comorbidities. Despite judges being physically present, most lawyers chose to participate virtually. Senior counsel C. Manishankar stated that most lawyers had gotten accustomed to virtual courts and they appeared to be the best way of conducting cases without any hassle.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Khushbu scotches rumours of joining BJP||Actor-politician and Congress party’s national spokesperson Khushbu rubbished speculation that she was joining the BJP and said she was not going away from the Congress. BJP circles were agog with speculation that Ms. Khushbu was likely to join the BJP. She told The Hindu that she was not going to respond to baseless rumours. “Every few months, rumours are spread that I am going to join one political party or the other. This rumour that I am joining the BJP has been doing the rounds on and off since 2014,” she said. On Monday, Ms. Khushbu took part in a TNCC rally to condemn the gang-rape in Uttar Pradesh. “If I was planning to join the BJP, why would I go on a protest rally to condemn the BJP?” she asked.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman inspector, husband booked||Madipakkam police have booked a case against a woman inspector and her husband for allegedly cheating on the promise of getting a job. Police sources said the complainant Sheik Musthafa, a businessman in Madipakkam, was introduced to Arulkumar who claimed that he was working in HR&CE Department and that his wife Kavitha was an inspector of police in Tiruvannamalai. Arulkumar promised to get a Deputy Superintendent of Police job for Mr. Mustafa’s brother who was preparing for Group-I exams. He collected Rs. 10 lakh from him for getting the job. Even after receiving the money, the couple did not get the job as promised and failed to return the amount. Initially, the businessman lodged a complaint with Madipakkam police and other higher officials. Since there was no response on his complaint, he moved the Madras High Court for direction. Court order The court had directed the police to register a FIR if a case was made out after conducting a thorough inquiry. On the direction of the court, Madipakkam police registered a case against Kavitha and her husband on charges of cheating.
06 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation to reopen retail vegetable market||In all likelihood the Coimbatore Corporation will reopen sometime this week the Anna Retail Vegetable Market on Mettupalayam Road. The Corporation’s move to reopen the market, closed more than two months ago during the initial days of the COVID-19 pandemic, comes in the wake of Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian’s visit earlier last week. After closing down the market, the Corporation had relocated the traders to the T.A. Ramalingam Chettiar Hr. Sec. School ground and from there to the Government College of Technology ground on Thadagam Road. Following the Commissioner’s visit, Assistant Commissioner, West Zone, A.J. Sentil Arasan, ward engineer G. Kamalakannan and Zonal Sanitary Officer R. Gunasekaran visited the market last week. Sources familiar with the developments, said the officials had asked the traders to rearrange their shops in such a way that maintenance of physical distance could be easily practised. They also discussed with the traders the possibility of opening the shops once in two or three days on rotation basis so as to give every trader an opportunity to do business. After the last week’s visit, the officials again visited the Market on Monday to take stock of the repair work the traders had carried out. S. Suresh, president, Mettupalayam Road Anna Market Anaithu Vyaparigal Podhu Nala Sangam ( a traders’ association) said the traders had rearranged their shop to ensure maintenance of physical distance. They had also agreed to the Corporation’s suggestion to only every third shop or so to ensure physical distance. And, the traders along with the civic body had also widened the pathway for easy movement of customers. As per the agreement, the 480 traders would be divided into three groups to open shop on rotation basis. After the Corporation officials approved of their rearrangement, they would open the market and which could be as early as Wednesday, he added.
06 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Class XI admissions at tribal school likely in 2021||With the recent upgrade of Government Tribal Residential High School at Anaikatti to a higher secondary school, the admission for Class XI is likely commence in the academic year 2021-22. Sources at the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department said on Monday that the new staff members are yet to be recruited for Classes XI and XII. The recruitment process could not be fast-tracked as the school remains closed due to the pandemic. Moreover, the Class X students who passed out of the school in 2019-20 have already enrolled in other schools and institutes such as the Industrial Training Institute, hence bringing them back for Class XI admissions in 2020-21 will not be possible, according to the sources. The school was upgraded as a high school in 1995. Regarding the reason behind the 25-year-long delay in the upgrading process, the sources said that the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department upgrades only one or two schools every year. The upgrade was a result of sustained efforts by the district administration and legislators from the district, sources said. This will be beneficial for students from tribal communities to complete their school studies, particularly the girl students as their parents tend to discontinue their studies after Class X to avoid sending them to schools that are far away. As of Monday, the Government Tribal Residential High School has seen 213 fresh admissions for academic year 2020-21, which is expected to improve in 2021-22 once admissions for Class XI commences.
06 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district registers slight decline in positivity rate||Coimbatore district has recorded a slight decline in the positivity rate of COVID-19 according to the Health Department. Officials said that the district’s positivity rate stood between 9 and 9.5 in the last three days. This meant that only nine out of every 100 swab samples subjected to COVID-19 test turned positive. “Corresponding to the slight decrease in the test positivity rate, the number of daily cases has also reduced. The daily new cases were below 500 in the last three days,” said a health official and added that the department was expecting further slow decline in daily new cases in the coming days. The district’s positivity rate was between 10 and 11 % in the first week of September which reduced towards the end of the month and till Monday. The department attributed the decrease in the number of new cases and positivity rate as results of stringent containment activities that are being done street-wise. According to the official, the case load in the district was distributed at 70:30 ratio in urban limits and rural limits. “As of Monday, there were 223 containment zones in the district. Of these, 176 were in urban limits and 47 were in rural limits,” the official said. The department has sought the cooperation of the public to register further decline in the new COVID-19 cases in the district. Health workers found that many persons who go for COVID-19 test interacted with several people and visited multiple places like banks and grocery stores after giving swab sample. It was found that many of them resorted to such activities to ensure that they completed certain works and responsibilities, fearing that they might test positive and get hospitalised. According to Health Department, people who give swab samples for test, their close contacts and family members should remain in quarantine till the result comes. If a person tests positive, the family members and close contacts should remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days, even if their test results return negative, officials say. The department has also warned family members of COVID-19 patients against making attempts to visit them in hospitals.
06 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. speeds up process for approving building plan||Coimbatore Corporation has put in place a mechanism to speed up the process of approving building plan. The new arrangement the civic body implemented four days ago will ensure that applicants seeking approval for building plan for houses measuring less than 2,000 sq.ft. will get it within three days. The Corporation will send the approval by post to the applicants’ home as it did not want them to visit its office, says a source. For those seeking approval for houses over 2,000 sq.ft., the Corporation will send the approval within seven to 10 days. The Corporation has reversed the decision it took more than a month ago to decentralise the plan approval process by delegating powers to zonal assistant commissioners and assistant town planning officers by empowering them to approve plans for residential buildings measuring up to 2,000 sq.ft. Henceforth, all the approval process will be only at the main office in Town Hall, says the source. The reversal comes even as the Corporation effected a change in the town planning section by transferring executive engineer R. Sasipriya as the town planning officer. The Corporation decision comes in the wake of complaints that a few persons acted as touts for getting plan approval and that the applicants were forced to pay in excess of what the Corporation charged. After the complaints, the Corporation had also removed a few contract workers in the town planning wing in all the five zones. As an extension of the effort to streamline the building plan approval process, the Corporation had also asked the service provider who developed the ‘auto DCR’ software to deliver the updated version in the next 10 days. And, the Corporation will also issue certificates to those engineers who had applied to be registered engineers for drawing plans – a process that has been pending for around two years, the source adds.
06 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Availability of beds in hospitals made public||Coimbatore Corporation has made public the availability of beds at COVID-19 care centres at government and private hospitals providing COVID-19 treatment in the city. Software A press release from Commissioner P. Kumarave Pandian says member of the public can learn about bed availability by visiting www.kovaicare-ccmc .com as the civic body has put in place a hospital bed monitoring system software.
06 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Act against illegal liquor outlets’||The Coimbatore Boarding and Lodging Association has urged the district administration to initiate action against illegal liquor outlets allegedly functioning in the city outskirts. In a letter to Collector K. Rajamani, the association alleged that over 30 illegal outlets or dhabas are selling liquor throughout the day in violation of the COVID-19 guidelines issued by the State government. “This has affected the food and beverages industry and forcing customers out of the licensed outlets,” the letter said. The letter also alleged that the outlets are abetting “nefarious activities” such as sale of illegal drugs, wildlife meat and contraband liquor and are even advertising on social media platforms. The boarding and lodging industry was “severely affected” due to the lockdown, it said.
06 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Man held under POCSO Act||A 28-year-old man was arrested under Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act here. Periasamy, a flower seller in Pidamaneri had sexually assaulted the 11-year-old daughter of his former house owner, while she was alone at home.
06 October 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration by ex-servicemen||Accusing the Central and State governments of not taking due care of the covid-19 patients, members of the ex-servicemen staged a demonstration here on Monday. Tamil Nadu Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association (Dindigul unit) president Raju said that 32 ex-servicemen in the district had tested positive to covid-19. They said when they approached the hospital here, the doctors turned them to get admitted to private hospitals, where the patients were directed to pay Rs. 1.50 lakh to as high as Rs. 14.50 lakh. When the ex-servicemen were remitting their contributions towards medical assistance annually, it was the responsibility of the government to give medical attention. Directing the members to private hospitals was condemnable, he said and demanded the government to take action.
06 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||500 swab samples collected in Erode Corpn. limits every day||Setting up of five swab collection centres in the Corporation limits helped collect 450 to 500 samples every day, making it easy for early identification of COVID-19 cases and treatment, said Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan. As on Monday, the district reported 7,395 positive cases, 6,189 discharges, 1,113 active cases and 93 deaths. Of the total cases, over 55% was reported in the Corporation limits. As a move to detect cases at the earlier stage, the swab collection centres were established at the urban primary health centres functioning on Gandhiji Road, Surampatti Valasu, B.P. Agraharam, Karungalpalayam and Periyasemoor. In August, on an average 60 to 75 cases were reported every day in the civic body limits that had come down to 27 to 40 cases every day in October. Mr. Elangovan said intensified testing, conduct of more screening camps in slum areas and thickly populated areas helped in early identification of positive persons. “People voluntarily give samples at these centres,” he said and added that samples were sent to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai for testing. Positive cases were taken to the screening camp at the Corporation Mandapam, near the bus stand, and five tests were done to study the impact of SARA-CoV-2 virus. If the patient suffered from other complications, he or she was shifted to Perundurai hospital while others were allowed to be in home quarantine and undergo treatment. Currently, 345 persons were in home quarantine in the Corporation limits and were monitored continuously, he added.
06 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Protest over poor water supply in Gobichettipalayam||Members of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and its allies in the Secular Progressive Alliance staged a demonstration at the Gobichettipalayam bus stand here on Monday, demanding the Gobichettipalayam municipality to ensure regular drinking water supply and also removal of garbage. Garbage removal The protesters alleged that drinking water was supplied only once in a week and the people were not in a position to buy water. They urged the municipality to ensure water supply once in two days. They also wanted the garbage dumped along the roads and in bins cleared regularly. Development works Accusing the municipal officials of poor execution of works, they said roads that were dug for development works were not re-laid even many months after completion of works. The protesters threatened to picket the municipality office, if the officials did not act on the issue immediately.
06 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose selling of vegetables only to public||As the farmers at the Uzhavar Sandhai in Sampath Nagar here were told not to sell vegetables to traders, they staged a sit-in protest at the shandy on Monday. The shandy with 630 registered farmers is run by the Department of Agricultural Marketing where farmers from across the district used to bring their produce every day. Due to COVID-19 pandemic and absence of public transportation, the arrival of farmers and produce had dropped significantly in the past six months. Against the usual 135 shops, less than 60 shops function now from 5.30 a.m. to 8 a.m. Many people complained to officials that the farmers were selling vegetables to traders in the early hours and they did not get vegetables even at 6 a.m. Hence, the officials asked the farmers to sell vegetables to the public first and to traders after 8 a.m. Also, the traders were asked to purchase vegetables from the wholesale market. On Monday, the arrival of vegetables was very less and the farmers sold most of their produce to the traders and the public returned without vegetables. When the officials questioned the farmers, they protested at the two entrances. They said the officials were acting against the welfare of farmers. The farmers said they could not wait for the public to purchase and hence they were selling it to traders. The officials told them that as per norms they could sell vegetables only to people who come there. Later, the farmers withdrew the protest and left with their produce without selling in the shandy. A senior official told The Hindu the traders purchased the vegetables from the farmers and sold it with profit outside the shandy. Despite warning, they continued to do so. “When we questioned the farmers, they staged protest,” the official added.
06 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||One killed, 15 injured in accident||One person was killed and 15 others were injured when a pick-up van in which they were travelling hit a roadside wall and fell on its side at Gobichettipalayam here on Monday. The van with 10 women, three children and two men, all native of Vellaiparaimedu, were on their way to Nambiyur to work in the agriculture field. Police said the accident occurred when the van driver Thangaraj of Vengamedu was negotiating a turn at Chinna Gowravam Palayam. He lost control of the vehicle and it hit the roadside wall and fell on its side. In the impact, all suffered injuries. Villagers rescued them and shifted them to Government Hospital in Gobichettipalayam in ambulances. But, a woman worker Jeyamani died at the hospital. Three others who suffered serious injuries were shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Others continue to be under treatment at the hospital. Siruvalur police registered a case and are investigating.
06 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘3,635 beds ready for COVID-19 patients in Erode dt.’||A total of 3,635 beds are kept ready to treat COVID-19 patients in the district, said Kakarla Usha, Principal Secretary, Chairperson and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO), who is the monitoring officer for the district to prevent spread of COVID-19. Chairing a meeting with officials at the Collectorate presided by Collector C. Kathiravan here on Monday, she said a total of 1,78,056 swab samples were taken in the district, of which 59,357 were lifted from August 31 to October 4. A total of 550 beds were available at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, while 284 beds were available at all the government hospitals and 575 beds in private hospitals. Besides, special centres were functioning at colleges, schools and primary health centres to treat patients. She said that 9,364 PCR kits were available while 11,98,018 reusable masks were distributed through fair price shops to family cardholders so far. Regarding the number of cases registered for violating Section 144 during COVID-19 pandemic, she said 32,286 cases were registered while 42,283 cases were registered for not wearing masks and spitting in public places. A total of Rs. 27,98,550 was collected as fine, she added. Ms. Usha said the district had received 313.30 mm rainfall during the North East monsoon from October to December last year against the district’s average of 333.4 mm. She asked the disaster management team to be ready to face any challenges and also asked officials to monitor flood prone areas. Relief camps, relief materials, and all the essential materials needed during monsoon should be ready, she said and asked them to take precautionary measures. The officer also inspected the low-lying areas along River Cauvery at Karungalpalayam and the desilting works by the Corporation at canals at Kollampalayam. District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, Project Director of DRDA M. Balaganesh, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and other heads of departments were present.
06 October 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Enforce safety norms strictly as train services resume’||The Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption has made a representation to the Lt. Governor of Puducherry seeking strict enforcement of quarantine in the wake of resumption of train services to Kerala via Tamil Nadu. Citing research studies, president of Karaikal unit of IAC S. Anandkumar said 15 minutes of exposure was enough for an infected person to transmit COVID-19 virus to others. A carrier of COVID-19 virus could transmit the disease to 23 other co-passengers. Long-distance trains set to arrive from Kerala via Tamil Nadu would cause spread of the disease in Karaikal. Strict enforcement of quarantine norms should be carried out by the district administration after getting passenger information from the railways. Prolonged exposure of passengers during long distance travel had fair likelihood of spread of the epidemic, he pointed out. It would not be proper for district authorities to blame people for failing to enforce quarantine rules. Free movement of people did not mean flouting quarantine norms. Penalty sought Like in the case of wearing masks, social distancing and sanitation, penalties must be enforced on those who failed to fall in line. Mr. Anandkumar urged the Puducherry Governor to take up the issue with the Collectors of Puducherry and Karaikal.  Long-distance trains set to arrive from Kerala via Tamil Nadu would cause spread of the disease in Karaikal  S. AnandkumarIAC, Karaikal
06 October 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||FDP on electric vehicles commences at NITPY||National Institute of Technology Puducherry (NITPY), Karaikal, on Monday initiated a Faculty Development Programme on electric vehicles, in the backdrop of policies formulated by the government to promote technologies involving premier institutions and industries for establishing research centres. The FDP, NITPY Director K. Sankaranarayanasamy said, deals with challenges and opportunities in electric vehicle technology, and promoting it as a solution for carbon dioxide pollution. In his inaugural address, Prof. Sankaranarayasamy outlined the emerging technologies worldwide and the policies of governments for research activities. Automation in transportation was a key factor for economic growth, Registrar In-Charge G. Aghila said. Sponsored by AICTE Teaching and Learning (ATAL) Academy which is one of the missions of AICTE to empower the faculty to achieve goals of higher education, the FDP deals with modelling, design of components, charging technologies, grid-tied PV system, power converters in electric vehicles and smart electric vehicle, S. Thangavel, FDP Convenor, said. The ATAL Academy suggested nine thrust areas and 108 emerging areas to conduct FDPs. Electric vehicle was one of the emerging areas, A. Venkadesan, HoD, EEE, NITPY, said. About 185 participants from 21 States are participating in the FDP, he said.
06 October 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Thirukkural couplets adorn Karur Collectorate||Placards carrying couplets from Thirukkural now adorn the roundabout in front of the Collector’s Office here, thanks to the initiative of Collector T.Anbalagan. With the Collector’s Office being refurbished and repaired, the roundabout is also being spruced up and beautified. In an attempt to spread the message of Thiruvallavur, Mr. Anbalagan has ordered the installation of placards carrying couplets from Thirukkural with short annotations. He inaugurated the fixing of the placards on Monday. The placards are being installed with the support of Dr. Ramesh of Aarthy Eye Hospital in the town, an official release said. Under Mr.Anbalagan’s directive, a Thirukkural couplet is read out at the weekly grievances meet held every Monday, the release added.
06 October 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||1.5 tonnes of banned tobacco products seized in Karur||In a joint operation, officials of the Organised Crime Intelligence Unit (OCIU) and the local police seized about one-and-a-half tonnes of the banned tobacco product gutkha, and around 600 kg of country-made crackers in Tharagampatti village in Karur district on Monday. Acting on specific inputs, the OCIU personnel carried out the operation, lasting over two hours in the morning and seized the banned substances and country-made crackers that were illegally stocked in a godown belonging to Subramanian, a wholesale dealer involved in selling snacks. Some of the substances were also confiscated from the wholesale outlet run by Subramanian in Tharagampatti village, said police sources. Sold with snacks The sources said the gutkha packets were stocked in about 40 to 50 gunny bags and were reportedly being sold along with snacks. Subramanian, 58, and his son S. Lokesh, 27, were detained in connection with the seizure and handed over to the Chinthamanipatti police. The tobacco products were valued at Rs. 10 lakh. Further investigation is on.  The tobacco products were valued at Rs. 10 lakh
06 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri town police station gets new building||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated a new building for the town police station here through video conference on Monday. The new station has been built at Rs. 95.49 lakh over an area of 3,957 sq.ft. within the Department of Highways campus near the All Women’s Police Station in Krishnagiri. The police station was earlier located at the taluk office complex. It had to make way for a new taluk office building and was shifted to a private rental property on Nethaji Road six years ago. When the proposal for new urban police station buildings across the State announced in 2017, Krishnagiri town station too found itself on the list. Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar, Additional Superintendent of Police Shaktivel, Deputy Superintendent of Police Kannan were present at the event.
06 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Self-immolation attempt foiled||A man’s bid to immolate self was foiled by the police at the Collectorate on Monday. Devamanickam of Sennachandiram in Hosur came with a petition over a dispute with neighbour. He said he and his family, living on a two-cent plot, were facing trouble from the neighbour. He alleged that he already lodged a complaint with the Hosur police, but no action was taken. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
06 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to retrieve jewellery stolen from pawn shop||A section of residents of Narimedu in Madurai urged the Collector to take steps to retrieve around 1,500 sovereigns of gold jewellery, pledged by about 950 residents in a pawn shop on Kattabomman Street in their area, which was reportedly stolen in February 2019. The residents, who had given a petition to the Collector in this regard last week, came to the Collectorate on Monday to follow up on it. C. Jothi, one of the petitioners, said that for many decades the residents had been regularly pledging their jewellery in the pawn shop to meet their emergency financial needs. “Since most of us are daily wage earners, we pawn our jewellery and other valuables in the shop to pay school fee of our children or to meet emergency financial requirements,” he said. Around 1,500 sovereigns of gold jewellery were looted from the shop in February 2019, said A. Meenakshi Sundaram, an auto-rickshaw driver. “There were no CCTV cameras in the shop and the owners had not taken other safety precautions,” he said. Though investigations have been continuing for nearly a year-and-a-half, there had not been any progress, said R. Selvi, another resident. “Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many of the residents have lost their jobs and are financially struggling. So we request the officials to expedite the investigation and recover the stolen jewellery at the earliest,” she added. If the stolen jewellery is not retrievable, the officials must at least compensate the residents with cash that is equivalent to the worth of the jewellery, said K. Lakshmi, another resident.
06 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Driver killed, six passengers injured as bus rams truck||A driver of a State Express Transport Corporation bus, Sankar, was killed and six passengers, including three women, were injured when the bus rammed into a stationary truck on the Tiruchi-Madurai Highway in Melur in the early hours of Monday. Police said the driver of the bus, proceeding to Tirunelveli from Chennai, did not notice the parked truck on the four-lane highway. The bus hit it from behind at around 2 a.m. The driver was killed on the spot. In the impact of the collision, the front portion of the bus was completely damaged and got entangled with the truck. Firemen from Melur, led by Station Fire Officer P. Suresh Chandrakanth, struggled for nearly two hours to pull out the body. Only after pressing into service a crane could the vehicles be separated. The driver’s body has been kept at Government Hospital in Melur. The injured have been taken to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Melur police are investigating.
06 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court stays licence given for transporting water||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has stayed the licence granted for laying pipelines and transporting water from the ayacut lands of Cumbum valley in Theni district to non-ayacut lands. Justice G.R. Swaminathan stayed the licence after a Theni-based farmers’ association representative, T. Vijay Rajan, filed a petition with a complaint of water theft in the region. In his petition, he said the Cumbum valley had a long history of paddy cultivation. But, water, a precious resource was being monetised by unscrupulous persons, thus affecting supply of water for irrigation. Due to water theft, the livelihood of ayacut farmers of Cumbum valley had been affected. They had been denied a second crop in three of the last seven years, despite good rainfall and sufficient water being released from Periyar dam. Many officials either directly or by refusing to act against the water theft have contributed to the sufferings of the farmers and there was a deliberate mismanagement of water. Though several representations had been sent to the government to act against the culprits, the theft of water and illegal pumping of groundwater were continuing, affecting cultivation in the region. Water cartels had evolved due to the mismanagement. So the authorities must be directed to restrain the laying of pipelines in the Cumbum valley, the petitioner said.
06 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Introspection needed to improve financial status, HC tells TNSTC||Surprised over the fact that a retired Managing Director of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (Madurai Region) had to move the High Court for the settlement of pending surrender leave salary, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the government and the transport corporation had to introspect with respect to improving the financial situation of the corporation. Justice R. Suresh Kumar observed that there was a need for introspection as the High Court on almost every day witnessed such petitions being filed, and despite the fact that several orders had been passed by the court in this regard, the situation remained unchanged. The court was hearing the petition filed by S.V. Subbiah, who sought a direction to the TNSTC to settle the dues in the salary pending from 2009 to 2013 and also the Social Security Scheme benefits along with interest at the rate of 18%. He had retired from service in 2015. The court said today a former MD had made a request to the present MD for his service benefits. Tomorrow, the MD, who was to decide on the request now, might have to face the same plight. This pathetic situation had continued in the transport corporation for several years. A large number of retired employees had come to the streets to hold agitation, and it was only at that juncture, the government and the transport corporation would come forward to give solace as an interim measure to subside the agitating mood of the employees. Then, they would conveniently forget the situation. Introspection was required to try to improve the financial status of the corporation so that the pathetic situation did not continue. A policy decision could be taken by the State government in this regard so that the employees were not driven to the court for relief. After the State submitted that the surrender leave salary and the Social Security Scheme benefits of the former Managing Director would be calculated and disbursed within three months, the court disposed of the petition.
06 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Submit report on water harvesting scheme’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought a status report on implementation of percolation ponds (pannai kuttai) water harvesting in Tenkasi district after a public interest litigation petition alleged misuse of the scheme A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought the report in a PIL petition filed by L. Seenivasakan from Tiruvengadam in Tenkasi district who alleged that the funds allotted for the scheme was being misused. The petitioner, an agriculturist, said a stream in Naranapuram village passed through two survey numbers and ended in Nirpidikulam kanmoi and people in the region used water from the stream for irrigation. Under these circumstances, private parties had colluded with an Assistant Executive Engineer and obtained loan for setting up a water harvesting pond. This pond was set up by encroaching the stream, thereby affecting the flow of water to the kanmoi. The scheme was misused and the funds wasted. A representation was sent to the authorities concerned to remove the encroachments, but till date no action had been taken, the petitioner said. The Division Bench has directed the District Legal Services Authority to inspect the stream and the implementation of the water harvesting scheme.
06 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 129.25 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 533 cusecs and a discharge of 1,400 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 60.60 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 913 cusecs and a discharge of 2,022 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,639 mcft. No rainfall There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday.
06 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||House burgled in Namakkal||Unidentified persons broke into the house of a businessman in Namakkal on Monday and allegedly decamped with Rs. 20 lakh. According to police, Porko, a tyre store owner, resides with his family at Indira Nagar here. The burglary took place when Porko and his family were out of station. On their return home on Monday, they found the door broken open and the cash kept in the cupboard missing. Namakkal police have registered a case and are investigating.
06 October 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Fertilizer dealers in Perambalur warned||District Collector V.Santha has warned of stern action against fertilizer dealers selling fertilizers over and above the prices stipulated by the government and those violating the provisions of the Fertilizer Control Order 1985. In a press release, Ms. Santha said fertilizer should be sold only to farmers producing Aadhaar card copies. Their fingerprints should be affixed at the point of sale devices. Farmers should not be issued fertilizers more than their requirements. Licences of the dealers will be cancelled if large quantities of fertilizers are sold to a single customer. Complaints of over pricing can be lodged with the offices of the assistant agriculture officers. Fertilizer dealers should not move in fertilizers from other districts or sell their stocks in other districts, she said.
06 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. govt. increases shooting fee to shore up its revenues||In a bid to shore up revenue, the government has imposed a substantial hike in fee collected for shooting films, television serials and advertisements in prime locations in the Union Territory. With the intent to cash in on Puducherry becoming a favourite shooting location, the government has hiked the fee for shooting television serials/advertisements from Rs. 1,500 per day to Rs. 11, 500 per day and for shooting films from Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 23,000 per day/per location. The last revision was done more than 13 years ago. The Puducherry Municipality, under which most of the prime locations fall, had collected Rs. 2,86,000 in the financial year 2018-19 and Rs. 2,37,000 in the last fiscal, a senior official told The Hindu . “On any given month, around 10 to 15 shootings happen here and most of them are in locations within the Puducherry Municipality limits. Shooting of films happen even in private places, Chunnambar boat house and in other locations. So, we expect a substantial increase in revenue collection,” the official said. Ever since Oscar winning Life of Pi was shot in Puducherry, the region has gained momentum in becoming an ideal location owing to its landscape, beautiful beach promenade, perpendicular streets and heritage structures. In the last 10 years, several popular Tamil, Malayalam and Telugu films were filmed in Puducherry, said G. S Ravichandran, actor-cum-production manager, adding that one must wait for a few months to see whether the hike would really be beneficial or if it would boomerang. Waiting on results “After the hike, we will have to see if production houses from other States will still pick Puducherry as a location for shooting because the cost will be high. For example, why should someone from Chennai come to Puducherry when the shooting fee is much less there. If we are going to shoot a film in five locations, we will have to spend more than a lakh per day,” he pointed out. However, a senior official said shooting films or television serials in Chennai was difficult during day time because of traffic issues. “If the hike is really going to cost us, we will certainly re-work. But the earlier fee was meagre and had not been revised for over a decade,” the official said.
06 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Fresh virus cases drop below 200||Fresh COVID-19 cases dropped to below 200 in the Union Territory of Puducherry for the first time in several weeks, with 194 persons testing positive on Monday. The Union Territory also reported four deaths in the last 24 hours. While Puducherry accounted for three deaths, one patient died at the Karaikal government hospital. The patients, including three women, were in the age group of 36-81. Over 80% recovery rate The fresh cases were confirmed from the 3,391 samples tested. The infection rate was 5.72%, the case fatality rate 1.85% and the recovery rate 82.73%. Puducherry accounted for 171 of the fresh cases, followed by Karaikal, 16, and Yanam,7. No fresh case was reported in Mahe. The death toll aggregate for Puducherry was 543, followed by Karaikal, 46, and Yanam, 42. The tally in the Union Territory was 543 deaths, 4,513 active cases, a cumulative total of 29,277 cases and 24,221 patients recovered, including 458 patients discharged in the last 24 hours. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said that though the incidence appeared to be coming down, people could not afford to be complacent in adhering to masking, physical distancing and frequent sanitising of hands. The Health Department has so far tested 2,06,509 samples, and 1,73,957 were negative. Cuddalore’s tally As many as 129 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday. The total number of cases in the district now stands at 20,869. The official death toll stood at 237. Out of 20,869 cases, 19,255 have recovered while 1,124 were active. A total of 80 persons tested positive in Villupuram district, taking the total to 12,129. Kallakurichi district reported 57 cases, taking the district’s tally to 9,420.
06 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Preparatory works apace in schools||Schools in Puducherry and Karaikal regions have started preparatory works on Monday for the resumption of educational activities in a phased manner for higher classes from October 8. The Union Territory had decided to permit students in both the regions studying in Standards IX to XII in all schools to visit their institutions on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers, to get doubts clarified, for counselling and other related works in areas outside the containment zones. “On Monday we have started cleaning the premises, supplying gloves, sanitisers, thermal scanners and other essentials needed to maintain personal hygiene and social distancing norms. In the next two days, meetings will be held in the schools to sensitise teachers and members of parent teachers’ associations. From Thursday, academic activity will resume,” Director of School Education P. T. Rudra Goud told The Hindu . The classes would begin for Standards X and XII and thereafter for Standards IX and XI on October 12. To begin with, for these classes the schools would function on alternate days. The schools would work only during forenoon and function for six days instead of five days, he added. The schedule for class-wise functioning would be Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays for Standard IX, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays for Standard X, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays for Standard XI and Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays for Standard XII, the Director informed. The schools authorities have started marking boxes on the ground floor to ensure physical distancing norms, he said and added attendance of students should be purely on parental consent.The school authorities are free to hold interaction with students in open places ensuring personal distancing norms. Wearing masks is mandatory for students and teachers. “We have given clear instructions to heads of institutions to follow all the mandatory norms while resuming academic activities. Teams will conduct inspection on day-to-day basis to ensure that all guidelines are strictly followed,” the Director said.
06 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLAs want Waqf Board set up in U.T.||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam legislators on Monday sought the intervention of Lt. Governor in setting up a Waqf Board in the Union Territory. In a memorandum submitted to the Lt. Governor, legislators A. Anbalagan, A. Bhaskar, K.A.U. Asana and Vaiyapuri Manikantan said the board was defunct for the last five years. The lethargic attitude of the government and officials had led to the delay in setting up the Waqf Board. The board was the only link between the government and the minority community, the memorandum said. Intervention sought “Unless the L-G intervenes in the matter, nothing will materialise and the dignity and rights of Muslim minorities will not be restored. Muslims are not bargaining anything out of the way,” the memorandum said. Before submitting the memorandum, the legislators staged a protest in front of the Legislative Assembly to condemn the government for the delay in constituting the board.
06 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry University launches portal||Pondicherry University has launched a user-friendly and comprehensive web portal for students and online visitors. The portal — designed to be secure, device responsive and accessible — provides links to all the social media accounts of the University and mandatory links to the University Grants Commission (UGC), the Ministry of Education, other Govt. of India bodies/establishments, etc., a press note from the University said. Launching the portal, Vice-Chancellor Gurmeet Singh said a good web portal, as the face of an institution, should reflect its progress and vision. It was also imperative that the information on the web portal was promptly and regularly updated so as to serve the stakeholders of the University and also the public. S. Balakrishnan, Director of Studies, Educational Innovations & Rural Reconstruction, outlined the salient features of the new portal and also the contribution made by the University’s Centre for Bioinformatics and the Computer Centre. Rajeev Jain, Director of Culture and Cultural Relations, and the faculty of other departments also participated in the launch. The portal was created by the technical team from the Centre for Bioinformatics and will be managed by a team from the Computer Centre of the University. All modern-day features required for higher educational institutions have been incorporated in the new web portal.
06 October 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced under POCSO Act||The Mahila Court here on Monday sentenced a 32-year-old man to undergo imprisonment for sexually assaulting a mentally ill minor girl in October 2018. The offence was committed near Aranthangi and a case booked against the accused Karuppaiah alias Thangaraj. Prosecution sources said the court sentenced Karuppaiah to undergo 10 year imprisonment each under sections 5 (l) and 5 (k) of the POCSO Act. The sentences would run concurrently. The court slapped a total fine amount of Rs. 10,000 on Karuppaiah and ordered the government to pay compensation of Rs. 2 lakh to the victim.
06 October 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Subsidy to be provided for Fall Armyworm control measures||Ahead of the northeast monsoon season that would intensify sowing of maize in Rajapalayam taluk, officials of Department of Agriculture have begun an awareness programme on the ways to control Fall Armyworm attack on the crop. The district had faced crop loss after over 30,000 farmers cultivated maize on over 25,000 hectares in 2018. The attack by the invasive pest was found in many districts across the State. “With the recent rain reported in these parts of the district, farmers in various villages in the taluk have started sowing maize. So far, sowing had been taken up on some 300 hectares. We expect the sowing to go in full swing soon after the northeast monsoon sets in,” Agricultural Officer G. Dhanalakshmi said. Maize coverage in the taluk is expected to be around 1,700 hectares in Rajapalayam taluk. “We want to create awareness of the various ways of controlling the pest,” she said. Joint Director (Agriculture) Uthandaraman and Assistant Director T. Subbiah (Rajapalayam) were present during the flagging off of an awareness vehicle. The vehicle would go around the Maize-production villages like Melarajakularaman, S. Ramalingapuram, Solapuram, Gopalapuram, Vadakarai, Thenkarai, Korukkampatti and Nathampatti. Ms. Dhanalakshmi said that the State Government would give Rs. -2,000 subsidy for every hectare for controlling Fall Armyworm in Maize. The farmers would be given treated seeds and were advised to raise sunflower and gingelly as border crop and black gram and green gram as inter crop to control the pest. Besides, after 20 days of raising the plants, the farmers have been advised to spray neem oil. They should also spray Metarhizium after 40 days. The farmers need to spend on the pesticide and 50% subsidy for the pesticide would be deposited to their account. The officials demonstrated these pest control measures to the farmers.
06 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration staged by differently abled persons||Members of the Differently Abled Welfare Association staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Monday. District president Kalyanasundaram said that they had demanded compensation to the family of one Muniasami, a differently-abled person, whose daughter Satya, after appearing for the NEET examination in 2019, died while returning home. The government should give Rs. 20 lakh as compensation and a job to a member of the family. Even after several reminders, there had not been any word from the administration and they hoped the family would get justice.
06 October 2020||Ranipet,TAMIL NADU||Ranipet police personnel will get body cameras today||The Ranipet district police, including law and order officers, will be provided with body cameras on Tuesday in the presence of P. Nagaraj, IG, North Zone. There are 24 police stations in Ranipet and this includes traffic and All-Women police stations. There are a total of 60 beat officers in the district. As of now 56 of them will be given the body cameras. Each camera has a storage capacity of 32 GB with HD video recording, and the police officers can use them during both day and night patrols. They will be wearing it on the shoulder flap and upon returning from duty they can transfer important footage on to a hard disk. “This can be used to record protests or important arrests. This can be used to verify allegations against a police officer. The police personnel will also behave responsibly as they know every word and action of theirs is on record,” a senior police officer said. In Chennai, body cameras have been provided mainly to the traffic police officers. “Here we are also giving it to law and order officers as they interact more with the public during regular patrols. The footage will aid in investigations,” a police officer said. Dashboard cameras will also be installed in 12 inspector vehicles. “This will be used to cover and livestream protests in the districts. They can be monitored by the district SP from the headquarters. The vehicle position can also be traced,” the officer added. Around 1,150 CCTV cameras have been installed across the district. “Body cameras can prevent arguments. Public or police will not argue with each other. Neither of them can even discuss bribes,” a police officer said.
06 October 2020||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested on murder charge||A 37-year-old man allegedly murdered his father after an argument broke out between them at V.C. Mottur near Walajahpet in Ranipet district on Sunday. According to the police, Janakiraman, 37, a mechanic, lives with his parents at V.C. Mottur as his wife abandoned him due to his alcohol addiction. On Sunday, he came home drunk and his father Sampath, 60, shouted at him. The argument escalated into a fist fight and in a fit of rage, Janakiraman allegedly hit his father on the head with a log. Neighbours rushed him to a nearby hospital, but he died. The Walajahpet police registered a case and arrested Janakiraman.
06 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||ATMA staff demand cancellation of transfers||Members of Tamil Nadu Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA)Officers Association submitted a memorandum to Joint Agriculture Director demanding withdrawal of transfer orders. They said the department recently ordered the transfer of block level technology managers and assistant technology managers, who were working on contract basis, to other blocks within respective districts. The petitioners complained that the officers had been transferred to offices at least 50 km away and unlike regular staff, they were not provided with any allowances for house rent or other incentives. They also said women officers with newborns at home would face difficulties due to the transfer.
06 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||NECC suggests egg price at Rs. 5.25||The suggested sale price of eggs in the poultry hub of the State crossed over Rs. 5 for third day. According to officials at Namakkal zone of National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC), the suggested price for 100 eggs fixed by Namakkal zone was Rs. 525 on Monday. The price has remained the same from Saturday and according to officials, this has been the highest price suggested in recent times. According to authorities, last time a higher price for egg was quoted was in November 2017 at Rs. 516 for 100 eggs. P. Selvaraj, Chairman of the Namakkal zone, said that demand from places outside Tamil Nadu has led to this increase. Mr. Selvaraj said, “Usually during the month of Puratasi the price of eggs drops since consumption of non-vegetarian food is less during the month due to cultural reasons in the State. However, demand from Northern States such as Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh has contributed to the price increase. Also, the production has reduced.” Mr. Selvaraj said that while consumption within Tamil Nadu is less, the demand from Mumbai, Uttar Pradesh has increased after prices of vegetables increased in those areas following rain. He said that around 30-40 lakhs eggs are being sent to the Northern regions each day. He said that the production of eggs has also decreased due to COVID-19 crisis as many poultry farmers did not rear chicks. He said that the price is expected to normalise once production increases and at present, three crore eggs are being produced in the State while it was 3.5 crore earlier.
06 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DK protest condemning Hathras incident||Members of the women’s wing of Dravida Kazhagam staged a protest in front of Periyar statue here condemning the alleged rape and murder of a woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. They condemned the UP government for its handling of the incident. The protesters raised slogans against UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and demanded that he should resign. They demanded that the Central and State governments should prevent violence against women.
06 October 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco products seized||Sivakasi Town police have seized banned tobacco products worth Rs. 2.89 lakh and arrested two persons on Monday. Acting on a tip-off, a team of police personnel, led by Sub-Inspector of Police, P. Pandian, raided a godown in Viswanatham here on Monday morning. The police found around 2,000 packets of two different types of tobacco products illegally stocked there. The police arrested M. Ayyadurai (48) of Viswanatham, who had allegedly supplied the contraband to local shops. A petty shop owner, S. Murugesan (65) of Samypuram Colony, who had bought it for retail sale was also arrested. The police are on the lookout for another individual, Mani of Nenmeni near Sattur, who is said to have supplied the stocks to Ayyadurai. The arrested have been remanded in judicial custody, police said.
06 October 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||SP, wife hand over relief to tribal families||When the residents of Kalaimaan Nagar, situated near Karuppanadhi Dam deep inside the jungles of the Western Ghats beyond Chokkampatti saw a couple of police vehicles entering their colony on Monday, they were bewildered as nothing happened untoward there. The residents, all Paliyar Scheduled Tribes, could not understand the reason behind the sudden entry of police into their hamlet. When they saw Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh and his wife Dhanalakshmi getting down from the vehicle with a friendly smile, they were relieved. “We have come to meet you, especially your children,” Mr. Singh told the residents of Kalaimaan Nagar, housing 22 tribal families with 137 members comprising 74 men, 63 women including four pregnant women. The purpose behind the top cop’s visit to the jungles along with his wife was to meet the tribal people living deep inside the forest and help them with the contributions mobilised by the IPS Officers Wives’ Association (IPSOWA) – Tamil Nadu and Tenkasi District Police. On seeing the friendly policemen, the men and women started gathering at a point and Ms. Dhanalakshmi handed over bedsheets and other essential commodities, jointly sponsored by IPSOWA – Tamil Nadu and Tenkasi District Police. “On behalf of the IPSOWA, we gave the tribal people blanket and grocery. If this small contribution of IPSOWA may bring them happiness, it is the happiest moment for all of us,” Ms. Dhanalakshmi said. When the officials went to Kalaimaan Nagar, connected by badly damaged road, to distribute relief material after COVID-19 outbreak, none could be seen in their houses as the tribes had already shifted their families to the deepest parts of the forest fearing the pandemic. After a lot of hesitation, they returned to Kalaimaan Nagar where they were housed in Public Works Department building as their houses were under construction. After Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan saw their pathetic condition, he ordered construction of 22 green houses for them after removing the dilapidated structures in which they were living.
06 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Grill installed around Periyar statue||A section of cadre belonging to the Dravidar Kazhagam expressed their opposition on Sunday night to the district administration's move to establish a metal grill around the statue of Periyar situated near the Old Bus Stand in Thanjavur Town. Police sources said the grill was installed a couple of days ago to protect the statue amid instances of statues of leaders being defaced or desecrated. The grill was installed jointly by the Revenue, Police and Corporation authorities. The sources said a group of Dravidar Kazhagam men assembled at the spot and opposed installation of the grill and sought its removal. Police held talks with them following which the members dispersed.
06 October 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||OPS opens ‘Amma’ mobile ration shops in Theni district||Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam inaugurated 75 ‘Amma’ mobile ration shops in Theni district on Monday. Mobile ration shops were launched in Tamil Nadu recently by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who had announced that 3,501 mobile ration shops would benefit 5.37 lakh family cardholders. The objective of the new facility is that wherever the residents had to travel long distances to fetch their essential commodities, the mobile ration shops would come in handy. The mobile ration shops would visit hamlets once a month. Card holders who are unable to procure rations at that time, are free to visit the designated ration shops, officials said. In Theni district, 75 mobile shops would be functioning in various parts of the district as follows and 13,555 card holders would benefit: Theni: 11, Bodinayakannur: 7, Uthamapalayam: 8, Periakulam: 16 and Andipatti: 33 shops. Presently, the district has 517 permanent ration shops through which 4.10 lakh card holders procure essential commodities including rice, wheat and sugar. At the function, presided over by Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, officials from the Department of Cooperation said that farm loans to the tune of Rs. 85.51 crore advanced to 12,488 members in Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies until March 2016 have been waived. Those who were repaying the loans now shall also remit the principal alone, as the 7 % interest on the loans would be paid by the State government to the societies. The Deputy CM gave away financial assistance to 178 beneficiaries including self-help-groups to the tune of Rs. 3.88 crore. Theni MP O.P. Raveendranath Kumar, Cumbum MLA S.T.K. Jakkayan, Cooperative Department Joint Registrar M. Ekambaram, District Central Cooperative Bank Joint Registrar A. Jeeva and DRO K. Ramesh were among those who participated. After the inaugural function was over, when media persons approached Mr. Panneerselvam, he acknowledged them with folded hands and left the venue. Though the questions were about the functioning of the ‘Amma’ mobile ration shops, he refused to speak. Surrounded by his loyalists, he moved away to his convoy. A party functionary claimed that Mr. Panneerselvam was proceeding to Chennai and hence did not interact with journalists.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Authorities expect number of cases to dip in the coming days||The Tiruchi district authorities expect the number of COVID-19 cases to drop over the next few weeks. Among the patients undergoing treatment, one-third are asymptomatic and mild cases and are under home quarantine, they said. While the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and other empanelled private hospitals are fully equipped to handle COVID-19 patients, most of the new cases are asymptomatic, and patients opt for home quarantine, S. Sivarasu, District Collector told The Hindu . As on Sunday, a total of 463 patients were undergoing treatment at hospitals. While other 137 patients were in home quarantine,150 were in post-treatment home quarantine. “Earlier, most patients opted to undergo treatment at hospitals, or at the COVID Care Centre. But over the past few weeks, at least 60 to 70% of the patients were asymptomatic and are home quarantined. Most of them were detected through door-to-door testing and fever camps,” the Collector said. The patients are provided with kabasura kudineer and multivitamin tablets, along with instructions on maintaining personal distance and dietary restrictions before being quarantined by health officers. Block Medical Officers continue to monitor the patients and have instructed them to call the ‘1077’ COVID-19 helpline in case of any health complications or emergency. The district administration has pulled out all stops to contain the spread of the viral infection, and in Tiruchi the number of cases did not increase after easing of the lockdown norms on September 1, he said. “Nearly 99% of the patients who enter Tiruchi through the Tiruchi International Airport arrive with COVID-19 test reports. Only two or three patients are reported positive per day,” he said. Tracking the trend in cases, Mr. Sivarasu said that within a week, the number of cases reported per day would reduce to 50. However, an additional COVID Care Centre and additional beds at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital are ready if necessary, he added.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||An integrated bus stand remains a distant dream||While consensus eludes the choice of a suitable location for an integrated bus stand in the city, leaving the more than 25-year old proposal in limbo, former AIADMK Member of Parliament of Tiruchi, P. Kumar, has suggested that the terminus be established at Navalpattu, adding to the already long list of sites discussed for setting up the facility. Navalpattu, where the ELCOT’s IT Park is situated, is about 15 km from the city off the Tiruchi- Pudukottai Highway. Mr. Kumar, who aired the suggestion initially at an internal party meeting, told The Hindu that Navalpattu would be an ideal choice. “Once the (semi) ring road is ready, Navalpattu will be connected to almost all major highways. The place offers good scope for future development,” Mr. Kumar said and added that he intended to submit a written representation on this to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswam soon. Mr. Kumar’s suggestion comes in the wake of the continued failure of the district authorities and the State government to give a push to the project. Down the years, successive governments have looked at various sites - Devadhanam off the Tiruchi-Chennai Bypass Road, the Ariyamangalam compost yard on the Tiruchi-Thanjavur road, Ramji Nagar on the Tiruchi-Dindigul national highway, Pirattiyur, Panchapur and finally Kottapattu on the Pudukottai national highway. In October 2017, Mr. Palaniswami, during a visit to the city, announced that the bus stand would be established at Kottapattu. But the site was subsequently rejected. Later, the Corporation said that it would push for establishing a Bus Port with the support of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. But this too has failed to take off. Meanwhile, not many civic activists are enthused over Mr. Kumar’s suggestion. While underlining the need for establishing the bus stand at the earliest, M. Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations, and member of District Road Safety Council, observed that Navalpattu was too far away from the city and may not find wide acceptance among the public. “If pursued, it may turn out to become another Kallikudi (where an integrated market is struggling to become fully functional). The Panchapur site is much closer,” Mr. Sekaran said pointing out that even smaller cities in the State have a much better bus stand than Tiruchi. N. Ramakrishnan, a civic activist, alleged that the issue was being “needlessly distorted” and the project was getting delayed endlessly. For long, he had proposing the establishment of the bus stand on piece of land held by the Defence Ministry at Mannarpuram in the city. “We can get the site from the Ministry if only the matter is pursued properly,” he maintained. Tiruchi MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar , while indicating that he was open to suggestions, said that he had raised the issue at two meetings held to discuss the Smart City Mission and even suggested that the project could be taken up under the Centre’s flagship programme. “I requested the Collector to identify a suitable site. He too has promised to do so soon. Once a site is identified and found suitable by officials, we will take the proposal forward and give shape to it,” he said and added that he will also take up the issue at the District Monitoring Committee to be held soon.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur continues to see large number of positive cases||The central districts on Monday saw 663 patients testing positive for COVID-19. There was a drop in the number of deaths in the region- two in Thanjavur and one each in Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts. A 70-year-old man with a history of diabetes, and a 45-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to the viral infection in Thanjavur. A 53-year-old woman with a history of chronic kidney disease from Ariyalur and a 57-year-old man with a history of hyponatremia and acute respiratory failure from Pudukottai died of COVID-19. Thanjavur continued to record the highest number of COVID-19 cases among the central districts with 251 patients testing positive for the viral infection on Monday. Among them was a policeman at the Thanjavur sub-jail, 22 beneficiaries of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, a supervisor at the Thanjavur Medical College, a staff nurse of the Government Raja Mirasudhar Hospital, six staff nurses at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and a doctor of the Kumbakonam Government Hospital. In Tiruvarur, 98 patients tested positive for the viral infection, while in Nagapattinam, samples from 85 persons returned positive. Patients in both districts were primary contacts, patients with a history of respiratory illnesses and local index cases with no travel or contact history. In Tiruchi, 77 fresh cases were reported. Most patients tested positive from existing containment zones, senior officials said. While many were patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses, some were also primary contacts. In Pudukottai, antenatal mothers, local index cases, patients with symptoms of Influenza Like-Illnesses, and primary contacts were among the 75 who tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. A total of 34 people tested positive for the infection in Ariyalur. 15 of the 34 hailed from Ariyalur urban and Ariyalur blocks, while one each hailed from Thirumanur and T. Palur, two from Sendurai, three from Andimadam and 11 from Jayankondam blocks. One patient who travelled from another district also tested positive. Meanwhile, 970 new throat swabs were lifted from patients from containment zones, people with contact or travel history and from patients with symptoms of the infection. In Karur, 33 fresh cases were recorded. Among the patients who tested positive were residents of Kulithalai, Vengamedu and Rayanur among other localities. Inter-district travellers who had visited the district from Tiruchi and Tiruppur too tested positive. Perambalur recorded 10 new cases of COVID-19 among which were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and local cases.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Another butterfly species recorded at conservatory||Yet another butterfly species has been sighted at the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Srirangam here taking the total number of species recorded inside the conservatory so far to 116. The latest butterfly species that was recorded on Friday was the Dark Palm Dart, said a Forest Department official. The species could be commonly found in plains. To attract butterfly species, about 300 species of host and nectar plants have been raised inside the 27-acre conservatory. The host plants raised inside the conservatory include lemon, False Ashoka, custard apple and curry leaf, while the nectar plants include Bauhinia purpurea, Zinnia peruvian and Ixora coccenia. “During the North-East monsoon season, the conservatory with its green environment can be expected to attract more butterfly species,” said V. Muthukrishnan, a Junior Research Fellow working under the Forest Department at the conservatory. The lush green environment inside the conservatory has also attracted various bird species since it was thrown open to visitors in late 2015. The Forest Department official said the 93rd bird species was recently recorded at the conservatory. The latest to be recorded was the Scaly breasted munia. The conservatory which was attracting visitors in good numbers from Tiruchi and elsewhere in the State has remained shut for visitors since late March owing to COVID-19 pandemic.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Give us house site pattas, say Narikkuravars||Members belonging to the Narikkuravar community petitioned the District Collector on Monday demanding house site pattas for the land given to them in the 1960s. The protesters claimed that in 1992, the then Collector handed over around 120 acres of land to the community to set up a colony in Devarayaneri. However, they are yet to be handed over the land documents for it, they said. Seeking the Collector's intervention, they submitted a petition to him on Monday at the grievances day meeting, requesting the documents. “We have asked for the documents several times but in vain. This time at least, we hope something comes of it,” they said. K. Devaraj, a Narikkuravar said that when they occupied the colony in 1966, they were told that each family would get one house and some land to take up agriculture. “The government gave us these facilities but the people in the surrounding areas have not been friendly,” he said. “They threaten to chase us out of the colony”, he claimed. “If we have the land in our name, then we will not be chased from our colony. We are living in fear every day,” he said. The colony currently has 1500 Narikkuravars in 240 houses, he added.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fire destroys 16 dwellings||A fire that broke out at MGR Nagar in Sangiliandapuram in the city early on Monday, destroyed 16 thatched and tin-roofed dwellings. All the occupants escaped unhurt. A senior Fire and Rescue Services Department official said the Tiruchi fire station received a call at around 2.45 a.m. alerting them about a fire in MGR Nagar, where there were a row of dwellings. Three fire tenders from the Tiruchi station and one each from Srirangam and Navalpat fire stations were pressed into service for the fire-fighting operation. A couple of water lorries were also engaged through the Tiruchi Corporation to douse the raging flames. The occupants of the dwellings rushed out of their homes and escaped. Over 30 fire-fighters battled for over two hours before putting out the flames. The cause of the fire is being ascertained. The Palakarai police are investigating.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Shifting of TASMAC outlet sought||A group of around 30 members of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam staged a protest here on Monday demanding the shifting of a TASMAC outlet functioning on the Manalvarithurai road near Palakkarai. The demonstration was led by the Palakarai East branch secretary Shajahan. The protesters said the liquor outlet was causing problems for the locals
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Plan to recruit guest lecturers in government colleges dropped||The State Government has reportedly abandoned a proposal to conduct a special drive to recruit eligible candidates from amongst guest lecturers in government colleges, to a certain number of regular vacancies. The guest lecturers of government colleges and constituent units of State universities with requisite qualifications have, for long, been seeking preference in appointment to regular vacancies. The move for special recruitment is understood to have been dropped amidst apprehensions raised by the academic fraternity about the perceived opaqueness in the process. The idea of a written exam has not been accepted as a robust mechanism.During August, 2019, the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) had issued a notification inviting applications for direct recruitment from eligible candidates for the post of Assistant Professors in Tamil Nadu Collegiate Educational Service for filling 2,340 vacancies in Government Arts and Science Colleges and Colleges of Education. A maximum of 15 marks are awarded to candidates for teaching experience, nine marks for Ph.D. in the subject concerned, six marks for M.Phil with NET/SLET, five marks for PG with NET/SLET, and 10 marks for interview. Since the TRB could not proceed with the recruitment process this year due to the COVID lockdown since March, the Ministry of Higher Education had subsequently contemplated apportioning a certain number of vacancies for conduct of a special drive for recruiting candidates from amongst guest lecturers, and the Ministry had been pushing for issue of a government order to this effect, sources said. The idea was eventually dropped, sources said. According to P. David Livingston, Tiruchi Zone Secretary of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association, guest lecturers who have been in teaching service in government colleges for more than 10 years do deserve priority in the recruitment process. But, the idea of special recruitment drive does not make sense, he said.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Additional seats created to increase number of female candidates in NIT-T||Fifteen additional supernumerary seats have been created to increase enrolment of female candidates in National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T), under the centralised seat allocation procedure. In order to ensure increase female enrolment in B.Tech. programmes of NITs for maintaining 20% strength, the intake of female students has been increased by creation of the supernumerary seats in the academic year 2020-21. Of the 1,036 seats to be filled in B.Tech/B.Arch programmes, 827 are gender neutral and 209 female only seats, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. Till last year, verification of documents was conducted at the reporting centres. Due to COVID-19 pandemic this year, physical reporting at the centres has been eliminated. Instead, all the participating institutes have been made into verification centres. All the allotted candidates of the participating institute will be verified by the officials of those institutes, S. T. Ramesh, Chairman, UG Admissions Committee, NIT-T said. Based on the JEE (main) rank, admission of candidates will be made to first year of engineering / technology and architecture / planning programmes in 31 NITs, IIEST Shibpur, 26 IIITs and 30 government funded technical institutes through a transparent process, under JoSAA (Joint Seat Allocation for Academic Programs)/ Central Seat Allocation Board (CSAB). As physical reporting has been eliminated to maintain social distancing, a radical change has been inducted in business rules in terms of online reporting, online document verification and online admission, prioritising safety of the aspirants and stakeholders. As per the JoSAA business rules, the candidate registration / choice filling for academic programmes starts on October 6, 2020 and ends on October 15, 2020. There will be two Mock Seat Allocation-1 and 2, based on the choices filled in by candidates, on October 11 and 13, Prof. Ramesh said.
06 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. to hold painting contest for students||The Tiruchi Forest Division has planned to conduct a painting competition for school and college students in connection with Wildlife Week Celebration 2020. The theme for the contest is Respect Wildlife for a healthy future. The contest will be held for students from LKG to those in college who would be split into different groups. Group A is for students from LKG to standard one; Group B for those from Standards II to V; Group C from VI to VIII; Group D from IX to XII and Group E for college students. Group F is a special category for students with disabilities. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, students can draw the painting at home and send the photo to the mail IDwlwctrichy2020@gmail. comor the web form. Students should mention their name, standard, school / college name, phone number in the drawing sheet. The photos should be sent before October 7. Prizes and e-certificates would be issued to the winners by the Forest Department. More information could be obtained from Forest Ranger Murugesan: 94425-19469 and Gunasekaran, Ranger 94421-69866, a Forest Department release said.
06 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates hostel buildings at university||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday inaugurated, through video conferencing, new hostel buildings of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University on its main campus at Abhishekapatti in Tirunelveli. At a simple function held at the university, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish lighted the traditional lamp to mark the opening of the buildings, constructed at an outlay of Rs. 5.65 crore, in the presence of Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani. Following administrative sanction given by MSU administration in May 2017, the men’s hostel was constructed in 3,122.65 sq m comprising the ground floor (1,055.05 sq m), first floor (1,033.80 sq m) and second floor (1,033.80 sq m). The ground floor would have hostel office, security room and rooms 1 to 20, kitchen, dining hall and store room. The first and second floors would have rooms from 21 to 54. The second floor would also have 10 VIP rooms. Physically challenged students would stay in ground floor, with ramps created for the purpose. Specially designed toilets had also been built for them. The Chief Minister also inaugurated new buildings for MSU constituent colleges at Thisaiyanvilai and Panagudi, each constructed at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. When the MSU administration was searching for land for constructing the building for its constituent college at Thisaiyanvilai, the then Radhapuram MLA, S. Michael Rayappan, donated land worth Rs. 5 crore for the purpose. The two constituent colleges had 13 classrooms and other facilities.
06 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Murdered youth’s family seeks fair probe||Family and relatives of a youth, who was murdered allegedly by his friends, submitted a petition in the Collector’s office here on Monday seeking comprehensive and unbiased probe into the crime. They alleged that the murder was orchestrated because of enmity caused by the victim’s love with a girl from another community. The body of Satish Kumar, 25, of Nallur near Alangulam was found in an isolated area near Naduvaikurichi under Palayamkottai Taluk Police Station limits on September 30. Even as a probe into the murder was on, the victim’s friends, Sudalai, Sudalaimuthu, Muthukumar and Chinnadurai, surrendered before the police and were subsequently arrested. Police said an altercation, which broke out among the friends as they were consuming liquor, led to Satish Kumar’s murder. His family and relatives, however, accused the police of hiding the truth and came to the Collectorate to submit a petition seeking comprehensive probe into the murder.  ‘Planned murder’ They said Satish Kumar, who was working in Mumbai, returned to his native place after the pandemic. When he was in Mumbai, he loved a girl from Tirunelveli district. Since she belonged to another caste, her parents opposed it. Satish spoke to her over the phone after he returned to Nallur. Even as he was at Nallur, a group of youth, all belonging to the girl’s caste, befriended him and took him to their village under the pretext of hosting a dinner for him. When Satish went there, he was murdered by them on instructions from the girl’s family and relatives. “It was a well-planned murder and not an attack unleashed on Satish following altercation among inebriated friends,” said the victim’s maternal uncle, Nityanandan.
06 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tally goes up by 98 in Kanniyakumari||Kanniyakumari reported 98 new COVID-19 cases on Monday to have a tally of 13,227. After 158 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 741 active cases. With two fresh fatalities, Kanniyakumari’s death toll rose to 227. The total number of positive cases in Tirunelveli increased to 13,101 with the addition of 81 cases. With 80 people having been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 817. Madurai recorded 78 new cases, which took its total case count to 16,970. A total of 103 people were discharged and there are 660 active cases in the district. There was one death, which took the district’s toll to 394. Theni reported 63 fresh cases, with which its tally rose to 15,236. There were 76 discharges from hospitals. Thoothukudi registered 55 new cases to have a tally of 13,753, and 56 discharges. The number of actives cases in the district is 543. Dindigul’s tally moved up to 9,062 with the addition of 55 cases. Hospitals in the district discharged 43 people. Virudhunagar registered the death of a 57-year-old patient at a private hospital on Sunday. With this, the district’s death toll went up to 213. Forty-five people tested positive, raising the tally to 14,618. With the discharge of 37 people from different hospitals on Monday, the district has 235 active cases. While losing two more lives to the viral infection to mark a death toll of 123, Tenkasi reported 38 fresh cases, which pushed its total case count to 7,523. A total of 63 people were discharged. Sivaganga recorded 32 new cases to mark a tally of 5,336. Thirty-six people were discharged from hospitals. Twenty people tested positive in Ramanathapuram, which reported a tally of 5,629. There were 17 discharges from hospitals.
06 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Market for Kangeyam cattle resumes||The market for Kangeyam cattle, organised by the Palayakottai Pattagar Cattle Farm and Research Centre (PPCFRC), resumed on Sunday at the Palayakottai village panchayat. It had remained suspended for over six months due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19. The market resumed operations after the government allowed weekly markets to be reopen from October 1. PPCFRC trustee V. Sivakumar said the weekly market was held at Palayakottai mattuthavani with precautionary measures in place. As many as 27 heads of cattle were brought, and 13 of them were sold. Around 300 people visited the market. A team of eight volunteers measured their temperature with a thermal scanner and ensured that they wore masks. “No children or senior citizens were allowed,” Mr. Sivakumar said. A public address system was installed to announce the precautionary measures to be followed. Before the lockdown, the market used to witness around 150 heads of cattle every week, Mr. Sivakumar said. The announcement on the resumption was made on social media at short notice, so the turnout was low on Sunday. With a higher turnout expected on next Sunday, more volunteers would be drafted to ensure compliance with precautionary measures, he said. Visitors who don’t adhere to the guidelines will be fined.  As many as 27 heads of cattle were brought, and 13 of them were sold. Around 300 people visited the market
06 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Self-immolation bid foiled||Police personnel intervened to stop self-immolation attempt by a mother - daughter duo at the Collectorate on Monday. The 38-year-old woman and her 17-year-old daughter from Avinashipalayam arrived at the Collectorate with a petition alleging forced eviction from their residence, the police said. Even as they approached the Collectorate, the woman took the kerosene can from a plastic cover and poured it on herself. Police personnel at the spot rushed towards her and restrained both of them. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s helpline 044-24640050.
06 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Special squads formed to ensure SOPs being followed in the Nilgiris||Special squads have been formed to monitor businesses, banks and private firms to ensure that they are following COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Increase in cases The move follows the steep increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district over the last few weeks, with District Collector J. Innocent Divya announcing that there would be extensive monitoring being carried out by the squads over the next couple of weeks in an effort to bring down the rate of infection in the Nilgiris. The Collector said that the squads will monitor businesses throughout the district to check whether established SOPs were being followed. She said that any businesses, banks or private firms found to breach procedures would be fined and also would face the prospect of having their premises sealed. Fine imposed on bank The firms have also been tasked with having a nodal officer, who is aware of the SOPs, and also with ensuring that the SOPs are enforced. Recently, a bank in Udhagamandalam was fined Rs. 5,000 for not ensuring personal distancing and for failing to prevent over-crowding on their premises. Ms. Divya said that the district administration planned to ramp up testing, with more than 2,000 tests being carried out each day. The increase in the number of cases recorded in the district was a source of concern and it was primarily not because of the district being opened up for tourism, but local residents who are travelling outside the Nilgiris and taking part in social gatherings without taking adequate precautions. 70% of buses operational The Collector also said that contact tracing of many people who tested positive has revealed that many could have picked up the infection while travelling in government buses. To prevent overcrowding, 178 intra-district buses or more than 70% of the fleet were functioning. Transport Division officials here have been instructed to prevent overcrowding in the buses and to disinfect the vehicles regularly to prevent disease transmission.
06 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Sand smugglers detained under Goondas Act||Collector A. Annadurai has ordered the detention of Arun alias Arun Prasath, Rajesh and Vishwa of Vadavampalayam, under the Goondas Act, for illegal sand mining and threatening a public servant. The trio were arrested on September 30, while lifting sand from a waterbody in Valavanur. When a policeman tried to intercept their vehicle, they tried to kill him by running over. On the recommendations of Superintendent of Police S. Radhakrishnan, the Collector ordered their detention under the Goondas Act.
06 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||Virudhunagar district administration has invited applications from eligible organisations and agents for providing one plumber and one electrician for taking up repair works in hostels run by Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department. A statement said the plumber and electricians will have to take up repair works in the Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Denotified Community hostels in the district. The organisations and agents who can provide the workers through the outsourced mode can send their quotations mentioning the monthly/annual wages for the two workers to the Collector.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region now pins hope on NE monsoon||The Southwest monsoon that had just existed saw eight revenue districts - Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Salem, Namakkal, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore and the Nilgiris - recording above average rainfall. With the predictions showing a positive sign, the region pins hopes on a good bountiful Northeast monsoon. In the past there had been years, when the region received below average rainfall. Though Pilloor reservoir, that caters to drinking water needs had surplussed more than once, the same could not be witnessed in Siruvani despite rain, as Kerala was maintaining the storage below the Full Reservoir Level (FRL). For the second consecutive year, Coimbatore received excess rainfall during the Southwest monsoon season from June to September. The district this year has thus far received 269 mm as against the season’s average of 195 mm. And, most of the 269 mm has come in September, says S.P. Ramanathan, Prof. and Head, Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The district has received over 115mm this September as against the months’ average of 70.7mm. Last year, the district received 308.1mm. And, August 2019 alone brought in 221.3mm and that too in seven rainy days, he says. A day with over 2.5 mm precipitation is accounted for as a rainy day. The Northeast monsoon prediction for Coimbatore is again good in that the Centre has said that there may be 318mm rainfall from October to December as against the average of 343.8mm. According to the District Agro-Meteorology unit under the Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Salem, an average rainfall of 351 mm is expected during the Northeast monsoon in the district. During Southwest monsoon, an average rainfall of 386.5 mm was recorded till September 24. In Namakkal, according to studies conducted by Gramin Krishi Mausam Seva under the department of livestock production management under Veterinary College and Research Institute, Namakkal, the district has received 49 mm excess of average rainfall expected during Southwest monsoon. However, in Krishnagiri district this year, the Southweest monsoon brought in 420.38mm of rainfall, as compared to the last year’s rainfall of 345.49mm. The Southwest monsoon brought in copious amount of rainfall way above the annual average. For the second consecutive year, the Southwest monsoon in the Nilgiris brought intense showers to the Nilgiris. Scientists from the Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation (ICAR-IISWC) in Udhagamandalam, said that there had been “deficient” rainfall during the month of July in both 2019 and 2020. They said that the quantity of rainfall the district received in the same month over the last two years was between 40-60 % lesser than the average. They added that these relatively drier months were followed up by higher quantities of rain over shorter spells of time over the last two years, increasing the chances of landslips and flooding. The dams in the district are almost at full capacity due to the rain in the district during August and September of this year. According to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), most of the dams are above 90 % of their total storage capacity. Southwest monsoon in Erode district during July and September was normal as most of the areas received rainfall this year. Officials at the Meteorological Department said that so far the district received 217 mm. Due to rain in the catchment areas, the major reservoir in the district, Bhavani Sagar, received copious water in the past two weeks. On Monday, the water level at the reservoir stood at 101.14 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet. The storage at the reservoir stood at 29.627 tmc. ( With inputs from Karthik Madhavan in Coimbatore, Rohan Premkumar in Udhagamandalam, S.P. Saravanan in Erode, Vignesh Vijayakumar in Salem and P.V. Srividya in Krishnagiri)
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western districts witness 1,501 cases||Coimbatore district on Monday reported 468 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 4,890 patients from Coimbatore were undergoing treatment for the disease as of Monday. According to the Department, seven patients from the district succumbed to the disease on Monday, taking the death toll to 469. As many as 460 persons returned to their homes after recovering from COVID-19 on Monday. Tiruppur district reported three COVID-19 deaths and 132 fresh cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 8,989 cases. A 60-year-old woman and a 56-year-old man died at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Sunday and a 60-year-old man from the district died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday while undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Out of the 8,989 cases, 7,459 have recovered and 1,383 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 147 deaths in total. On Monday, 152 patients from the district were discharged from various hospitals upon recovery from COVID-19. As many as 337 cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, among them, 333 cases were indigenous, including 210 in corporation limits. Four patients have returned from Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri. Two patients affected with COVID-19 died here. A 56-year-old man from Salem, and a 67-year-old man from Namakkal, who were undergoing treatment at private hospitals died on Sunday. In Namakkal, 147 cases were reported. Health officials said 10 patients have returned from other districts like Chennai, Erode, Tiruppur, Nilgiris, Coimbatore and Salem. In the Nilgiris, 169 people tested positive for COVID-19. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 4,746. The death toll in the district stands at 28 with 852 people undergoing treatment. Erode district reported 92 new cases taking the tally to 7,488. While 117 persons were discharged, 1,087 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the death toll to 95 in the district. In Krishnagiri, 72 persons tested positive and in Dharmapuri, 83 tested positive. Three persons of a family succumbed to the disease in Krishnagiri on Monday. The victims belonged to Sathur village in Pochampalli and were undergoing treatment at Krishnagiri government hospital.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ association extends support to Palaniswami’s candidature to CM post||Even as the weekly grievance redressal meet was under way at the Collectorate on Monday, a group of farmers affiliated to Vijayanarayanam Irrigation Tank Farmers’ Association staged demonstration in support of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s candidature for the same post for next Assembly elections. Led by association president R. Murugan, they raised slogans in support of Mr. Palaniswami. They said the Chief Minister, who was executing kudimaramaththu works for desilting irrigation tanks and supply channels for the past three years, had revived farming operations in areas that remained uncultivable for several decades due to want of water. The desilted tanks and supply channels, with increased storage of water, had expanded the area of cultivation. “It has led to increase in farmers’ income. Hence, Mr. Palaniswami should be the next Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu,” said Mr. Murugan. A petition submitted submitted by a group of people from Thiruvalluvar Nagar in Pettai appealed to the Collector to allow them to use a common path in their area. They said residents, who were living in Thiruvalluvar Nagar since 1972, were using a common path adjacent to the Government Industrial Training Institute for the past 48 years. Even after they constructed a temple in their colony in 1982, a section of residents used the common path to reach the place of worship without any resistance from any individual or an organization. “Of late, the ITI administration claimed ownership of this common path after a compound wall was built around the institute. When the matter was challenged in court, we lost the legal battle. Hence, we appeal to the Collector to allow us to use the common path,” said P. Ramalakshmi, a signatory.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Take action in custodial torture cases: forum||Members of Joint Action Committee Against Custodial Torture staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate on Monday demanding action against officials involved in the recent custodial deaths in the State. T. Dileepan Senthil, the district coordinator of the committee, said the Committee members staged protests in all the districts on Monday to highlight the rising custodial deaths in the State. The protesters said that along with the Sattankulam case, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court must monitor all the other custodial tortures taken place in the region. “There are many custodial torture cases that never come to the public attention.If a person commits a crime, the police can file a case against him and take legal action. But they cannot resort to custodial torture,” Mr. Senthil said.  There are many custodial torture cases that never come to the public attention  T. Dileepan Senthil District coordinator, Joint Action Committee Against Custodial Torture
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hairdressers, visually challenged seek free house sites, green houses||Seeking free house sites/green houses, hairdressers and the visually challenged on Monday submitted petitions to Collector Sandeep Nanduri during the weekly grievance redress meet held in the district. In their petition, the visually challenged people said the pandemic had rendered them jobless. Hence, they were living in poverty and were unable to pay house rent. Most of them had been driven out of their homes by property owners and lived on pavements, bus shelters and bus stands. Hence, the district administration should grant either free house sites or green houses being built for the rural poor by the government. The office-bearers of a hairdressers’ association, led by district president Esakkimuthu, submitted a petition seeking free house sites for members as most of them lived in cramped rented houses. After the pandemic outbreak that led to lockdown, most of the hairdressers lost their livelihood and could not pay rent for their houses. Hence, the district administration should sanction free house sites. Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam functionaries, led by Thoothukudi district secretary Hasan, submitted a petition seeking stern action against staff manning Vagaikulam toll plaza as they ill-treated vehicle owners instead of responding to their genuine queries. Since it could lead to serious law and order problem, the Collector should take appropriate measures to ensure orderliness. On behalf of Thamizhar Viduthalai Kalam, a petition was submitted seeking action against a wind turbine generator installation company that had allegedly destroyed a wild stream watercourse at Savarimangalam near Ottapidaaram. The company had also caused serious damage to a protective wall at a few places that would cause flooding in their villages during monsoon.  Violence against women The office-bearers of Thamizh Puligal submitted a petition seeking appropriate direction to all police stations in the district to take immediate and stern action against those unleashing violence on women and children as mandated by the Supreme Court. On behalf of Puthiya Makkal Thamizh Desam and Hindu Makkal Katchi, petitions were submitted seeking permission to hold Dussehra celebrations at Mutharamman Temple in Kulasekarapattinam.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM, Ministers call on Governor, discuss COVID-19 situation in State||After the pandemic broke out, the Chief Minister has been calling on the Governor at regular intervals to present the status report and the details of the government’s efforts to combat the disease. According to informed sources, the Chief Minister presented a report on the COVID-19 situation. The Ministers were present to offer their inputs on issues relating to their portfolios, the sources said. The Assembly passed a Bill to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation to NEET-qualified students of government schools. The Bill was then sent to the Governor for assent. Following another legislation passed by the Assembly at the last session, a new Anna University would be established, and all engineering colleges in the State would be affiliated to the Chennai-headquartered institution. The existing Anna University at Guindy would become a unitary institution under the name of Anna Technological and Research University (ATRU), focusing on research and higher learning. The Bill is with the Governor.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Waiting for a catch||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Commuting amid COVID-19||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Desperate measures||
06 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Imbibe nationalism to become future leaders’||Governor and Chancellor of universities Vajubhai Vala presented honorary doctorates to Sri Niranjana Jagadguru Rajayogindra Swami of Mooru Savir Mutt and sports administrator K. Govindaraj during the eighth convocation of Rani Channamma University in Belagavi on Monday. The Chancellor and other guests handed over gold medals and certificates to 33 students who were present at the ceremony in the Suvarna Soudha. Another 33,000 students received their degrees in-absentia. As many as 79 Ph.Ds were awarded in various subjects. Director of NAAC S.C. Sharma delivered his convocation lecture online during the event. He reiterated the Vedic maxim, “Knowledge is power”, and said that students should realise that their learning did not stop at passing out of the university. They should be learning new skills everyday to face the challenges of the future, he added. He quoted from various scriptures to argue that nationalism and nationalistic thinking was an important factor in nation building. Young graduates are the wheels of progress. They should imbibe a sense of nationalism and emerge as future leaders, he said. Vice-Chancellor M. Ramachandra Gowda said that the State government’s grant of 127 acres of land in Hire Bagewadi would lead to the university growing exponentially. As many as 31,262 students have passed graduate courses with 77 getting ranks. Of these, 11 were given certificates in person.
06 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Contract para-medical staff take out protest rally in Belagavi||Members of the Association of Contract and Outsourced Workers in the departments of Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education took out a protest rally in Belagavi seeking regularisation, wage hike, among fulfilment of other demands. The association is affiliated to the Bharatiya Majdoor Sangh, that is backed by the Sangh Parivar. Its members include doctors, nurses and other para medical staff employed on contract and outsourcing basis by the two government departments related to healthcare. They sat in silence in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office holding placards and banners that said: “We need wages, not claps’’ and “Corona warriors need justice’’. They said that they had been engaging in a dialogue with the government seeking higher wages on the basis of equal pay for equal work. “While regular employees get all benefits, we are left to sustain with a meagre salary. While regular employees get more than Rs. 50,000 monthly salary, we get only around Rs. 10,000. We have submitted a list of 14 demands to the successive governments, but we have only received assurances,” they lamented. “None of the leaders are willing to solve our problems,” they told journalists. Their demands include social security based on a comprehensive human resource policy, pension and other benefits, provident fund, higher salaries and better working conditions and regularisation of work based on experience. They submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner and then dispersed.
06 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Youth Congress protests in Belagavi||Youth Congress members staged a protest against the CBI raids on KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, calling them politically motivated, in Belagavi on Monday. Youth Congress leader Mrunal Hebbalkar and others staged the protest near the Rani Channamma Circle. They said that the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government was targeting powerful leaders in the Opposition to stop them working for the Congress in the Assembly bypolls. Earlier, KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi released a video message describing the CBI raids as politically motivated. “The BJP is doing this to disturb us. They are taking all steps to see that we are silenced and we give up the fight for the two Assembly seats,” he said. MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar also found political motive behind these raids. She, however, felt that Mr. Shivakumar was strong enough to emerge victorious out of such conspiracies. She urged the people of the State to realise the politics behind such raids.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will CBI raids impact bypolls?||The State’s political circles are waiting to see if the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) raids on Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar and his brother D.K. Suresh, MP from Bengaluru Rural, will impact the outcome of the bypolls in Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar. In both constituencies, which have a sizeable Vokkaliga population, the CBI action and its timing could become a factor during polling, believe Congress leaders. The Congress has been seeing an opportunity to win the Sira seat as the Janata Dal (S), which held the seat till the death of its legislator B. Satyanarayana, is grappling with too many aspirants, which can upset its chances. The Congress leaders in Tumakuru have also closed ranks, giving hopes of a victory for the party. The party is also working on a strategy to win the R.R. Nagar seat, where the BJP is dealing with two strong contenders for candidature. “Though the politically motivated searches will not affect party’s election preparations, they might have an impact on the results. We are confident about both seats. That way we see today’s searches as a diversion from the protests over Hathras. This is also a message to leaders from an autocratic government,” said KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre. Party sources said that Sira and R.R. Nagar have 60,000 and 72,000 Vokkaliga votes each, and the timing of the CBI searches could end up in a consolidation of Vokkaliga votes, besides the traditional Congress votes. It may be recalled that Vokkaligas had taken out a mega protest rally in the city following Mr. Shivakumar’s arrest in a money laundering case by the Enforcement Directorate in September 2019. That only worked for Mr. Shivakumar, as the Congress rallied behind him and he was appointed president of the KPCC in March 2020. The recent CBI raids in the run-up to bypolls might again lead to Vokkaliga consolidation in his favour, the Congress hopes and some sections in the BJP fear. The saffron party being jittery over the raids assuming caste colour was evident in how the party fielded Vokkaliga leaders to distance itself from the CBI action. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Ministers C.T. Ravi (who is also a BJP national general secretary) and K. Sudhakar aggressively distanced the party from the raids. Party strategists close to the Chief Minister said that the raids would definitely impact on the caste equations in the two constituencies and that they were working on ways to counter a consolidation of Vokkaligas in favour of the Congress. “D.K. Shivakumar is not the only Vokkaliga leader in the State. But he is prone to claim victimhood every time there is action against him by various agencies. We are aware that we need to counter this narrative that he puts forth,” a BJP strategist said.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court poser to civic body on public toilets in Bengaluru||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to inform whether any exercise had been undertaken to know how many privies (public toilets) had to be set up in Bengaluru city. The court also directed the BBMP to inform whether any exercise had been carried out to know the number of toilets required for women, and steps taken to keep all public toilets clean and safe for use. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on a PIL petition filed by city-based Letzkit Foundation. The petitioner organisation complained about the failure of the BBMP in setting up the required number of public toilets and maintaining the existing toilets in a clean and proper manner as per Section 245 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act. Meanwhile, the court directed the BBMP on what action it had taken under Section 248 and 249 of the KMC Act, which empowers the Commissioner to ensure providing sufficient toilets at workplaces having more than 20 labourers and at markets, cart stands, cattle stand, choultry, theatres, railway stations or other place of public resort. ULBs across State Observing that the issues raised in the petition were of public importance, the Bench noted that these issued required to be addressed not only by the BBMP but other urban local bodies (ULBs) in the State. The Bench directed the State government to issue necessary circulars to all ULBs on the issues raised in the petition. Swachh Bharat Mission The petitioner pointed out that as per the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) guidelines, there needed to be one water closet for every 100 males up to 400 persons; and two water closets for every 100 females up to 200 persons to cater to the floating population. Also, one urinal was required to be set up for every 50 male as per SBM, apart from providing one ablution tap for every water closet. It was pointed out in the petition that Bengaluru city has only 473 public toilet complexes with 2,838 toilets, which was not even 50% of what that prescribed in the SBM. Also, the petitioner said that migrants, labourers and other persons belonging to weaker sections, particularly women, would not be able to use many toilet/urinal complexes across the city as they collect Rs. 5 for use of toilets by men or women, and Rs. 1 for urinals for men.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||252 applications for project extension pending with RERA-K||Applications of as many as 252 projects seeking extension of deadline are pending with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority - Karnataka (RERA-K), many of them for over a year now. As builders allege red tape at RERA-K, authorities blame the delay on builders not providing adequate documentation to make their case and lack of response to their queries. While builders and RERA-K blame each other, it is home buyers who are paying a steep price. “Given the market situation, most projects that have applied for extension are in need of funds they plan to raise from the market or avail new loans from banks. However, with the expiry of the deadline as registered with RERA-K and no extension given, builders are not able to raise funds bringing work on most of these projects to a grinding halt for nearly a year now,” said R. Ramesh who represents a property consultant firm. This time is mostly lost in the project cycle. “As work on the project comes to a halt while an application is pending with the Authority, it is the hapless homebuyer who pays a steep price. The delivery of their homes is delayed, which forces them to continue paying both rent and home loans for this additional period for no fault of theirs,” rued M.S. Shankar, Forum for People’s Collective Efforts, which represents homebuyers. Builders allege red tape and lack of rationale in clearing applications, including absence of a queue system, at RERA-K. “Not just extension applications, even trivial applications like change of address, bank account details have been pending at RERA for many months. While some recently made applications are cleared, many made several months ago are pending,” said a developer. RERA-K authorities blame builders for the delay. “Most of the applications have been pending for a long time as builders have given incomplete information and have not bothered to respond to our repeated queries. Two weeks ago, we began hearing of each application online over video conferencing due to COVID-19,” said K.S. Latha Kumari, Secretary, RERA-K. Forum for People’s Collective Efforts recently wrote to the Housing Department of the State government seeking their intervention. “As per RERA-K website, deadlines of 618 projects have expired and they have not even applied for an extension. What action has RERA-K taken against these projects? Also, RERA has to grant extension only if the Authority is convinced that there are compelling reasons for the developer to not be able to complete the project within the deadline, on a case-by-case basis. Deadlines for 182 projects have been extended by a year. But there is no transparency on the grounds for grant of extension,” Mr. Shankar, who wrote the letter, said. The letter seeks a review meeting of RERA-K by the State government.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to come out with cyber security policy: Deputy CM||The State government has announced that it will come out with a cyber security policy soon. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also the minister for IT&BT, made the announcement on Monday after inaugurating the celebration of October as Cyber Security month. Bengaluru had recorded the maximum number of cyber crime cases – 10,668 in 2019 – among all the metros in India. The Minister said that digital transactions are expanding and cyber security has become a subject of paramount importance. He said that the cyber security policy would address the needs of citizens, industry, students as well as the State government. The Minister said that the country stands in the third position in the world among the Top 20 countries in internet-related crimes. “The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) has issued an advisory on coronavirus pandemic-based cyber attacks. The majority of the attacks are done via phishing emails, malicious advertisements on websites, and third-party apps and programs. Attacks on computers, routers, and unprotected home networks are also on the rise,” the Minister said. He added that Bengaluru, being the IT hub, is a target for cyber criminals. “With the objective of sensitising citizens and employees of an organization to cyber risks, October is observed globally as cyber security awareness month,” he said.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru-based candidates fare well in JEE (Advanced)||Many city-based students secured good ranks in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) – the results of which were announced on Monday. A press release by the organising chairman of the examination said that a total of 1,50,838 candidates appeared for both papers 1 and 2 in JEE (Advanced) 2020 and a total of 43,204 candidates qualified JEE (Advanced) 2020. The test is a gateway to get into 23 Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) across the country. Many candidates said that the lockdown gave them extra time to prepare for the examination and sharpened their skills. ‘Lockdown gave time’ Pranava Singhal, from National Public School, HSR Layout, secured an All India Rank of 103 and said that it was his childhood dream to get into an IIT. “The unique teaching methodology by my coaching class has helped me with preparations of JEE Advanced. When the exam was nearing, I focussed on self study and solved previous year’s papers,” he said. “The lockdown gave me time for preparation and I was eager to finish the exam quickly,” he said, adding that he aspires to get into IIT Bombay and work in computer science or the electronics sector in the future. Chathurvedhi Talapaneni of Narayana E-techno School, Vidyaranyapura, bagged the All India rank 149 and aspires to get into IIT Madras. He said that for four years, he ensured that he rigorously concentrated on studies. “For two years in Classes 11 and 12, I studied for 12 hours each day,” he said. He said the pandemic helped him stay at home and study in a peaceful environment. He added that he tried to solve as many papers as possible and made short notes for Chemistry that helped him during revision. Shubhan R. of Sri Chaitanya e-techno School, Bengaluru, who got the 175th rank, said that he managed to get a few extra months to prepare for the examination due to the pandemic. “I found it relaxing to study during the lockdown. I made extensive notes that helped me immensely,” he said. Shubhan, who also secured the second rank in the Common Entrance Test 2020, aspires for a seat in IIT Bombay or IIT Madras. He wants to work in the field of artificial intelligence.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru’s active cases shot up tenfold in 90 days||In 90 days - July 1 to September 30 - active cases in Bengaluru shot up by over ten times from 4,649 to 47,145. During the same period, Chennai reduced active cases from 22,781 to 11,323, Mumbai brought down its active cases from 29,715 to 26,663. The six mega cities in India - Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata - collectively had 89,695 active cases on July 1. While Bengaluru contributed 5.2% of this, Mumbai’s share was the largest with 33.1% followed by Delhi with 30.1% and Chennai 25.4%. Ahmedabad and Kolkata contributed 4% and 2.2% respectively. Cities that have a population of over one million are classified as mega cities. Ninety days later on September 30, all the six mega cities collectively had 1,21,500 active cases, a rise by 26.2%. Active cases in Bengaluru that shot up to 47,145 accounted for 38.8% of the total active cases amongst six mega cities (as on September 30). Mumbai’s active cases share dropped from 33.1% to 21.9% and Chennai’s 25.4% to 9.3%, according to an analysis by Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership that is analyzing COVID-19 trends across the country. Surge in mortality Another area of grave concern is Bengaluru’s increased share of mortality in the mega cities group. On June 30, Bengaluru had recorded 95 COVID-19 fatalities, which was 0.9% of total 10,098 COVID-19 deaths among the six mega cities. Whereas, on September 30, Bengaluru’s fatalities increased to 2,936, 12.3% of total COVID-19 23,955 deaths in six mega cities, according to the analysis. While the rise in active cases and deaths in Bengaluru may sound alarming, one good thing is that the test positivity rate (TPR) of Bengaluru fell from 19% to 14% from July 1 to September 30. Aggressive testing Mysore Sanjeev, convenor of Jeevan Raksha, said aggressive ramp-up of testing and an accelerated unlocking process are the two key reasons for a surge in the cases in all mega cities including Bengaluru. Stating that Bengaluru’s Testing Per Million (TPM) population increased from 30,828 to 1,07,086 since August, he said, “This resulted in an increase in active cases. Since Unlock 1.0 to the current Unlock 5.0, efforts have been on to move towards normalcy by adhering to social distancing protocols. Unfortunately, a majority of people continue to lead their life in accordance with the pre-COVID-19 period flouting all norms of social distancing and mask-wearing.” Giridhar R. Babu, member, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said cities that saw a surge much earlier compared to Bengaluru managed to drop their active caseload to some extent in the last two months. “With the case surge starting late in Bengaluru. It is only natural that the burden is higher here. Also, the city is increasing tests progressively. The case count is not of worry as long as the health system can handle it,” he said. “Also, an increase in active cases indicates that people in newer outlying areas are getting infected. In the absence of a vaccine, the virus always finds uninfected prey in new areas,” he added.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 7,051 cases, 84 deaths||The State on Monday reported 7,051 new cases taking the total number of cases to 6,47,712. With 84 new deaths, the toll rose to 9,370.This is apart from 19 non-COVID deaths. Recoveries in a day As many as 7,064 persons were discharged on Monday taking the total number of recoveries to 5,22,846. Active cases continued to remain over lakh with 1,15,477. Of these, 841 patients are being monitored in the Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,189 cases taking the tally to 2,52,229. With 34 of the 84 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,101. As many as 67,303 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours including 25,770 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 53,27,463.  Numbers so far Total cases: 6,47,712  Discharges: 5,22,846  Active cases: 1,15,477  COVID-19 deaths: 9,370  Deaths of COVID-19 patients due to other causes: 19
06 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘They have come again before polls’||Blaming the B.S. Yediyurappa government in the State for allowing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to search his residence, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Monday said he has been targeted by Central agencies before elections. “Now that there are bypolls, they have returned. Till the end of elections, these kind of inconveniences will be there. The Income Tax Department searched my premises ahead of the Gujarat Rajya Sabha elections in 2017; the Enforcement Directorate put me in jail before the bypolls in 2019; and now the CBI has come to search me before another bypolls,” he told party workers gathered outside his house. “We will have to reply to this in the polls. Go back to the booth level and work for the party.” He said that when the CBI wrote to the State government seeking permission for a probe, the Advocate General had opined that the case may be handed over to the Anti-Corruption Bureau. “So far, no disproportionate assets case against any legislator has been handed over to the CBI. The Chief Minister could have given the case to the ACB. I do not know what was the pressure on Mr. Yediyurappa,” Mr. Shivakumar said. Later, addressing presspersons, he said, “You [the CM] gave permission to the CBI. Tell me if there has been any inquiry, judicial commission established against me in the last 30 years of my political life, until the I-T raids, which are anyway politically motivated.” He also said that he would not succumb to any pressure tactics or be silenced, and that he was capable of answering the investigating agencies. “I don’t blame the CBI officials. They have only done their duty, as instructed by their political masters. I will reply to every question they ask and will cooperate. Ultimately, there are the courts,” he said.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmikas to protest for Hathras victim||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Pourakarmika Sangha will be holding a black band protest on Tuesday to express solidarity with the family of the 20-year-old girl from Hathras who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered. In a press release on Monday, the Sangha said the protest was against the manner in which the Uttar Pradesh government and police have been handling the case. Nirmala, Sangha president, has said the case was another reminder of the “structural caste-based violence, sexual, physical and mental torture” that Dalits, especially women, are subjected to across the country. Dalit pourakarmikas in Karnataka continue to struggle for basic rights, starting from minimum wages to regularisation of services, apart from lack of access to drinking water and toilets. They face physical, sexual and verbal abuse at the hands of contractors, their henchmen, and supervisors of urban local bodies, Ms. Nirmala alleged. Demanding the resignation of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the Sangha has also demanded immediate suspension of the District Magistrate, Superintendent of Police, and punishment to the perpetrators of the Hathras atrocity, including the accused, police and government officials.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (Bescom) has announced power shutdown on October 7, 8 and 9 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. due to shifting of utilities by Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) for road widening work in Jigani. A Bescom release said areas serviced by Jigani and Bannerghatta MUSS will be affected. There will be power supply interruption from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 7 and 8 in areas coming under the HSR MUSS for line clearance taken up by Bescom to carry out work of conversion of 11KV OH line to UG cable, LT OH line by LT UG/AB cable and laying of OFC. Consumers can dial 1912 to lodge complaints.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to set up rendering plant for meat waste||Disposal of meat waste is becoming a problem for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) with hundreds of shops operating without proper authorisation. The civic body has found that the waste from these unauthorised meat shops are being discarded indiscriminately by the side of roads, in drains, in vacant sites or being burnt illegally. To put an end to this, the BBMP’s Animal Husbandry Department is undertaking a survey to identify authorised and unauthorised meat shops in the city. Once identified, all the shops will be geo-tagged as well, apart from punitive action being initiated against those operating illegally. BBMP’s Joint Director (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan told The Hindu that the disposal of meat waste was not being done effectively, mainly because of the mushrooming of unauthorised meat shops. To scientifically dispose of the waste, the BBMP is opting for deep burial in trenches. However, Mr. Khan noted that there was a need for a rendering plant. The civic body had floated an expression of interest for the setting up of a rendering plant. Explaining the process, he said animal waste from meat shops and slaughterhouses is converted into protein meal that is used as feed for hogs and in poultry farms. “There are a couple of private rendering plants in the city. We have sought their expertise and have floated the EoI,” said Mr. Khan. The Department of Animal Husbandry officials have been directed to work with counterparts in the SWM Department to work out the waste output from all these outlets.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||They beat all odds and now have their eyes on top law university||While several candidates, who want to pursue law at the leading law universities, decided to take a year off to pursue the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), here is a story of two candidates who managed to overcome several odds and still managed to bag a top rank in the test without taking a gap year. Eighteen-year-old Yashwant Kumar, who hails from Masaurhi in Patna district, said there was a festive atmosphere in his house ever since he checked his results. With an All India Rank of 48, Yashwant is eager to join the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru. Son of a mechanic and a homemaker, he said he would be the first person in his family to pursue a graduation course. He said he was fortunate enough to be an Increasing Diversity by Increasing Access to Legal Education (IDIA) trainee. IDIA is a nonprofit that selects and trains students from underprivileged backgrounds (IDIA Trainees) to crack top law entrance examinations in India. Once they are admitted they also provide a scholarship to these students (IDIA Scholars) which includes financial support, training, and mentorship. Secret to success Talking about the secret to success, Yashwant said he was determined to crack the test. “I did not even think of second option,” he said. He also added that he was following the political debates in the country, and he picked law as he felt he would be able to make a difference in the society through this field. He said IDIA helped him access his online classes during the lockdown. “When I saw people do so much for me, I knew that I had a responsibility to fulfil by doing well in the test,” he said. Top scorer Another IDIA trainee, Jai Singh Rathor, obtained the All India Rank 3 in CLAT 2020. Jai also hails from Patna and managed to overcome financial constraints to emerge as a topper. His father runs a small grocery shop and his mother is a homemaker.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Health workers engaged in COVID-19 duty prohibited from going on strike||The Karnataka government on Monday prohibited strikes, non-cooperation and any other form of disobedience by public servants and health workers engaged in providing health services related to COVID-19. In the wake of repeated instances of doctors, paramedics and health workers working for the government or hired on contractual basis going on strike and threatening to stop work, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on Monday issued an order prohibiting strikes. “In my capacity as chairman of the State Executive Committee, I hereby prohibit strikes, non-cooperation, disobeying or refusal to work related to health services; non-submission of reports, non-compliance to the orders issued by the higher authorities by any public servant, health personnel, regular, contractual and outsourced employees of the Health Department, ” the Chief Secretary said in the Order. Noting that the State government has declared COVID-19 as an epidemic under Section 3 of the Karnataka Epidemic Disease Ordinance, 2020, the Order said: “Disobeying or refusal of the work will amount to contravention of the provisions of the said Acts, Rules or Orders and will attract penal provisions specified in the Acts.”  Disobeying or refusal of the work will amount to contravention of the provisions of the said Acts, Rules or Orders and will attract penal provisions specified in the Acts. The Order
06 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Earlier raids on DKS also coincided with polls||Over the past three years, Congress strongman and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar’s brushes with the Central investigating agencies have come just before crucial elections. If the Income Tax Department searches in August 2017 were ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls from Gujarat where Ahmed Patel, a confidante of the Gandhi family, was seeking re-election, in 2019 Mr. Shivakumar’s arrest by the Enforcement Directorate and the subsequent 50 days he spent in Tihar Jail came before the crucial bypolls to 13 Assembly constituencies. The timing of the early-morning searches on Monday at 14 locations, including the Congress leader’s residence, by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths is being interpreted by the Congress as another attempt to distract Mr. Shivakumar before the byelections to the Assembly constituencies of Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar, scheduled for November 3.  Sources close to the Vokkaliga leader said they believe that the searches follow reports of unfavourable poll results in the Assembly constituencies as Mr. Shivakumar and his brother D.K. Suresh, MP from Bengaluru Rural, were putting in “their best efforts” to secure the Congress’ victory. “Mr. Shivakumar has shown his capacity as a strategist when he has ensured bypoll victories for the Congress in Gundlupet and Kundgol Assembly constituency, and in Ballari Lok Sabha constituency in the past where he was in charge. This is his first election as KPCC president,” a source said. However, the Vokkaliga Ministers in the B.S. Yediyurappa Cabinet distanced the party from the CBI raids. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who is believed to be not in good terms with Mr. Shivakumar, asked, “What would happen to the BJP government even if hypothetically we lost both seats? The government is already enjoying majority and its survival does not depend on the election outcome. There is no reason to target him. The BJP does not believe in political interference...” Meanwhile, foe-turned-friend of the Congress leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said, “It is true that in such circumstances, generally it is termed political vendetta. There is nothing to fear if the political representatives work diligently. If we do not work well, we should be ready to face the investigation.”
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three hospitals bag Kayakalpa award||The Emergency and Trauma Care Centre on Victoria Hospital campus, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, and Ballari District Hospital bagged the Kayakalpa award for 2019-2020. The award has been instituted by the Union Health Ministry to promote hygiene, cleanliness, and better infection-control practices in hospitals. Achieving the highest score (100%), the three hospitals equally shared the award amount of Rs. 50 lakh and each hospital got Rs. 16.67 lakh. McGann Teaching District Hospital, Shivamogga, and Vijayapura District Hospital scored 99.7% and 99.5% respectively, and won the runners-up award. They shared the award of Rs. 10 lakh each. The remaining 27 facilities got commendation award of Rs. 3 lakh for each hospital under the district hospital category, stated a note by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare). This year, 2,816 public health facilities participated in the Kayakalp award scheme, of which, 1,467 underwent peer assessment and 837 participated in the external assessment.
06 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Raids called violation of HC order||The disproportionate assets case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Congress leader D.K. Shivakumar and the subsequent raids on premises linked to him violate a recent order of the High Court of Karnataka, senior advocate and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) legal cell chief A.S. Ponnanna claimed on Monday. “D.K. Shivakumar has challenged the State government’s September 25, 2019 order giving consent to the CBI to probe corruption allegations against him under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. The Karnataka High Court had given an interim order on September 30, 2020 stating that no further coercive action should be taken in the case till further orders. Thus, the CBI registering a case and the subsequent raids are in violation of this order,” he said. Mr. Ponnanna reached Mr. Shivakumar’s Sadashivanagar residence as the CBI raids were on and tried to meet CBI officers to appraise them of the High Court order. However, he was not allowed in. Eventually, the KPCC legal cell submitted a copy of the order at the CBI office in Ganga Nagar. Sources in the CBI defended the bureau’s action, saying it was not a party to the writ petition and hence the order was not binding on it. However, Mr. Ponnanna said that since the writ petition had questioned the consent the State government had given for the CBI probe itself, the State government was party to the case and not the CBI.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Visually impaired student scores high in exam||While several candidates said that online classes helped them, Kummitha Jhanavi of Sri Sri Chaitanya PU College, Vidyaranyapura, who is visually impaired, struggled to sit for long hours in front of the screen during the pandemic. Yet she managed to get a rank of 162 under the persons with disability category in the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced). She said that unlike her peers, she could not study continuously and had to take breaks as her eyes would start burning. She said that making extensive notes and hard work was her secret to success.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Launch of web paper||A webinar on ‘Public health System: in corona times and after’ will mark the launch of Janashakthi web paper on Tuesday. Shailaja Techer, Health Minister of Kerala, and Ramesh Kumar, former health minister of Karnataka, will be among the panellists. The event will be held on Zoom at 5 p.m. via meeting ID 86549258686, passcode 144616, and on Facebook and Youtube.
06 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||What the CBI FIR states||The FIR the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered on October 3 against Congress leader D.K. Shivakumar, based on which raids were conducted on Monday, says a preliminary inquiry prima facie found that the accused and his family members had amassed disproportionate assets worth Rs. 74.93 crore from April 1, 2013 to April 30, 2018 — financial years when Mr. Shivakumar was a Minister in the State. Mr. Shivakumar and his family members were found to be in possession of assets worth Rs. 33.92 crore at the beginning of the checking period. By the end of the period, their assets were to the tune of Rs. 162.53 crore. During this period, Mr. Shivakumar and his family members amassed wealth to the tune of Rs. 128.6 crore. It is further disclosed that their income and total receipts during the check period was to the tune of Rs. 166.79 crore, and their expenditure was Rs. 113.12 crore. “Therefore, they are found to be in possession of assets disproportionate to the tune of Rs. 74.93 crore, which is 44.93% of their total income during the check period,” the FIR states. The assets the CBI has considered is what was declared by Mr. Shivakumar in his election affidavits.
06 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Train extended||Train numbers 0625/0626, running between KSR Bengaluru Railway Station and Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station, will be extended up to Adarshnagar and run as KSR Bengaluru - Adarshnagar - KSR Bengaluru Kisan Rail Special.
06 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Feedback on home isolation||The BBMP will be eliciting feedback from COVID-19 patients under home isolation. On Monday, while reviewing COVID-19 related activities in East zone’s command centre, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad directed officials to distribute feedback forms to those under home quarantine and elicit their response. He had earlier stated that nearly 55% of COVID-19 patients are under home isolation in the city. At the command centre, he sought details of the number of patients under home isolation in the zone, and contact tracing activities.
06 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||JD(S) leaders hit out at Siddaramaiah||Janata Dal (Secular) leaders have come down heavily on former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for his comments on the JD(S) and its leader H.D. Kumaraswamy. Former Minister H.D. Revanna and party State president H.K. Kumaraswamy have criticised the Congress leader and said it was the Congress which sought the JD(S) support to form the coalition government in Karnataka. Mr. Revanna, at a press conference in Hassan on Monday, said the people of the State would teach a lesson to the Congress for the comments made by the former Chief Minister. “Both the national parties are afraid of the JD(S). The whole State knows who asked H.D. Kumaraswamy to accept the Chief Minister’s post. We never went to their doorsteps seeking an opportunity to form the government.” Reacting to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s comments on Mr. Kumaraswamy, Mr. Revanna said, “Mr. Kumaraswamy weeps when he meets poor people. Our national president Deve Gowda also responds emotionally whenever he is upset with the way the developments are happening all around. Ours is a party with poor people of the land”, he said. Appeal Regarding the CBI raids on KPCC president D.K .Shivakumar, Mr. Revanna said during the Lok Sabha polls, the raids were conducted on leaders of the JD(S) and the Congress. “The raids were all politically motivated. I appeal to the Prime Minister to conduct raids on all leaders, irrespective of the party they belong to”, he said. Earlier in the day Mr. H.K.Kumaraswamy, in a separate press conference, said “Mr. Siddaramaiah should stop making such allegations against the JD(S). Though Mr. Kumaraswamy was the Chief Minister, it was the Congress which ruled the State. We were never sat on their shoulder to rule the State. They took the support of our shoulder to rule.”  Confident The JD(S) leader exuded confidence that his party would win the by-polls.
06 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cong. workers condemn raids||Workers of the Congress staged protests in Shivamogga and Hassan on Monday condemning the CBI raids on properties belonging to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. A group of activists of the NSUI, student wing of the Congress, attempted to lay seige to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’a residence at Vinoba Nagar in Shivamogga. However, the police took them into custody before they could reach the place. The police who had information about the protest had covered the Chief Minister’s residence well in advance. The protesters alleged that the raids were politically motivated and the BJP was behind the raids. A group of workers staged a protest in front of Dr.B.R.Ambedkar’s statue in Hassan raising slogans against the BJP government at the Centre as well as the State. They alleged that the BJP could not face the Congress politically and targeted Mr. Shivakumar to weaken him by misusing central agencies.
06 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||MLA tests positive to COVID-19||Shivamogga Rural MLA K.B. Ashok Naik has tested positive for COVID-19 infection. He has been home quarantined. The BJP MLA, on his social media account, said he underwent the COVID-19 test at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga on Sunday. He has appealed to those people, who came in his contact recently, to get tested for the infection. His followers and party men have wished a speedy recovery.
06 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protests staged, tyres and effigies burnt in twin cities||Terming the CBI raid on the residence and property belonging to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and his brother and MP D.K. Suresh ‘politically motivated’, members of the Congress staged protests and burnt effigies in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad on Monday. Wearing black badges, the Congress members staged a demonstration in front of the statue of B.R. Ambedkar in Hubballi, led by presidents of the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagar Zilla and Dharwad Rural District units, Altaf Halwoor and Anil Kumar Patil, respectively, and MLA Prasad Abbayya. The protesters raised slogans calling the raids politically motivated as the BJP was wary of Mr. Shivakumar emerging as a strong leader against the ruling party. They alleged that the BJP was trying to suppress democracy in the country. Addressing the protesters, Mr. Patil said that the raids were mainly aimed at blaming the Congress for corruption ahead of the byelections in the country. He said that the BJP was misusing the Enforcement Directorate, the CBI and other government agencies to suppress voices against the ruling disposition. However, Mr. Shivakumar would emerge as a strong leader and would face all the allegations and come clean out of them, he said. The protesters subsequently burnt old tyres to register their protest against the CBI raids. Congress leaders F.H. Jakkappanavar, Basavaraj Malakari, Shakir Sanadi, Rajat Ullagaddimath, Kiran Moogbasava and others were present. In Dharwad, the protesters, led by KPCC member Rober Daddapuri, district unit general secretary Anand Jadhav and others, staged a demonstration in front of the statue of B.R. Ambedkar condemning the raids. They alleged that as the byelections were announced in the State, the BJP-led Union government was misusing government agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate and the CBI to target Congress leaders. It was highly unfortunate that a government was misusing its agencies against its political opponents for the sake of electoral gains, the protesters said. They then submitted a memorandum addressed to the President seeking his intervention to stop the misuse of government agencies for political gains. They said that the raids were being used to threaten the political leader ahead of the byelection as the ruling party had sensed that it would suffer a defeat in the bypoll. KPCC Scheduled Castes Department chairman F.H. Jakkappanavar and KPCC media analyst Pandurang Neeralakeri have issued a statement condemning the CBI raids. In their statement, the Congress leaders have condemned in strong terms the raids and said that the BJP government was trying to threaten the Congress leaders through such raids. Faced with the prospect of losing the byelections, the BJP was misusing Central agencies against its political opponents, they added.
06 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Advanced yet affordable healthcare favoured||Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari and Chancellor of Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara University D. Veerendra Heggade has emphasised the need for ensuring advanced yet affordable healthcare facilities for people. Addressing the faculty members and doctors of SDM Dental College and Hospital through a video link during the 34th anniversary celebrations of the institution in Dharwad recently, Mr. Heggade also emphasised the need for making continuous efforts to provide quality healthcare facilities for the public. Expressing happiness over Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara University being recognised as an “Emerging University” in the recent all India survey conducted by Outlook India magazine, Mr. Heggade said that success did not come overnight but it was the result of continuous and persistent efforts. He asked the faculty members and students to continue making further improvements and upgrade their skills in tune with the advancements in the field of dental sciences. Vice-Chancellor of the university Niranjan Kumar, Pro Vice-Chancellor Jeevandhar Kumar and principal of the college Balaram Naik were present during the virtual address.
06 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||147 polling stations to be set up in North East Teachers Constituency||The district administration is getting ready to conduct elections to the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council which is scheduled to be held on October 28. Addressing a media conference at his office here on Monday, Regional Commissioner (Kalaburagi Division) and Returning Officer N.V. Prasad said that there were 26,242 teachers eligible for voting as on Monday. “We would set up 147 polling stations in the constituency which is spread across six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region,” he said. Speaking on the precautions to be taken in view of COVID-19, Mr. Prasad said that all norms and guidelines laid down by the Election Commission of India would be strictly followed. Asked about large sections of teachers remaining outside the electoral rolls, Mr. Prasad said that consistent persuasion had resulted in the addition of over 6,000 voters in the electoral rolls. “We have been continuously persuading teachers to add their names in the electoral rolls. Despite the best efforts from our staff, many eligible teachers have not applied for inclusion of their names in the electoral rolls. If eligible teachers are facing problems in getting their names included in the electoral rolls, they should lodge complaints with the authorities concerned,” he said. As per the calendar of events, the notification was issued on October 1, bringing the Model Code of Conduct into effect. “The last date for filing nomination papers is October 8 and scrutiny would be held the next day. Candidates are allowed to withdraw their nomination papers before October 12. Polling would be held between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on October 28. Counting of votes would be taken up on November 2,” Mr. Prasad said. The officer said that the Deputy Commissioners of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari would serve as Assistant Returning Officers. And, teams had been formed under the leadership of the Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police in each district to curb election malpractices and to ensure the enforcement of model code. “Candidates and political parties are required to take prior permission from the Deputy Commissioners in their districts to hold any meeting and for campaigning,” he said.
06 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Shashil Namoshi to file nomination papers tomorrow||BJP candidate for the North East Teachers MLC Constituency elections Shashil G. Namoshi has appealed to voters to elect him in the upcoming polls to take up issues facing teachers on the floor of the Legislative Council. Addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Monday, Mr. Namoshi said that he will be filing his nomination papers on October 7. The party leaders, including Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, Women and Child Welfare Minister Shashikala Jolle and MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath, who have been appointed as in-charge for North East Teachers Constituency, will be present when he files his nomination papers, he added. Mr. Namoshi exuding the confidence of winning the election stated that in the last couple of years he had toured all the seven districts, Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Ballari, Koppal and Harapanahali taluk in Davangere, and met 80 % of teachers/voters personally and took note of the various problems confronting them. Though there were around 75,000 eligible teachers in the constituency, only 24,941 of them have enrolled their names as per data of January 2020. A total of 30,000 teachers are expected to get their names enrolled during the recent revision, he added. Mr. Namoshi recalled his efforts in converting 1,757 private-unaided educational institutions in the North East Teachers Constituency into the aided category during 1991 and 1995. He said that efforts were made to regularise the services of teachers and guest lecturers. Also, lecturers in degree colleges and professional courses were helped in getting University Grants Commission and All India Council for Technical Education pay-scales. MLA and Chairman of the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board Dattatreya Patil Revoor and MLC Sunil Vallyapur were present. Mr. Namoshi has won the teachers constituency election for three times. In the 2014 Legislative Council elections, Congress candidate Sharanappa Mattur trounced the BJP’s sitting MLC [Mr. Namoshi]. Mr. Mattur secured 9,022 votes, while Mr. Namoshi garnered 6,933 votes.
06 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Candidates cannot keep over Rs. 50K with them||Candidates in the elections to the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council cannot keep more than Rs. 50,000 with them till the elections are over, Kalaburagi DC and Assistant Election Officer for the constituency Vijaya Jyothsna has said. At a meeting with leaders of different parties on Monday, she clarified that there was no limit to expenditure to be incurred by a candidate or party. “All other restrictions set in the Model Code of Conduct meant for other general elections such as Lok Sabha and Assembly would be applied in the elections to the Legislative Council. However, candidates and parties need to compulsorily take precautions during campaigning in view of the pandemic,” she said. The district has 7,329 voters. The district administration is going to set up polling stations and deploy 41 PROs, 41 APROs and 85 polling staff.
06 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||GESCOM contract staff stage protest||Opposing the termination of contract employees and appointment of new workers, Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM) employees under the banner of Electricity Employees Federation of India, which is affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Union, staged a protest outside GESCOM office here on Monday. The protestors said that they were working on contract basis demanded that GESCOM continue it.
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Forum to redress complaints on COVID-19 treatment fees||The Dakshina Kannada district administration will set up by this weekend a forum to redress complaints relating to private hospitals charging exorbitant fees for treating COVID-19 patients. The forum will also redress grievances on bills and treatments availed of under Ayushman Bharat scheme in those hospitals. The forum will be set up in the office of District Health and Family Welfare Officer. Informing this at the Karnataka Development Programme Review Committee meeting here on Monday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that people having grievances can approach the forum. He said that the district administration will soon introduce a service wherein COVID-19 patients in homes will be shifted for free treatment at hospitals, in case they needed hospitalisation. They will be given free ambulance service from home to hospital and back home. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojari said that COVID-19 patients can avail themselves of free treatment under Ayushman Bharat scheme in 73 hospitals in Dakshina Kannada. Probably, Dakshina Kannada is the first district in the State to bring such maximum number of hospitals under Ayushman Bharat scheme for treating COVID-19 patients free, he added.  The Deputy Commissioner told the meting that sand bars for sand extraction under the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) in the district will be identified in the next 10 days. They will be finalised as per the guidelines of the government. Land for roads Mr. Rajendra said that village accountants or other officials concerned in gram panchayats will be suspended if they did not earmark and reserve land for public roads while granting land under any government scheme. The Assistant Commissioners should conduct pension adalats in taluks within a fortnight to reddress the complaints of pensioners, he said. The Deputy Commissioner asked MESCOM to set right issues in the delay of electricity bills reaching consumers in Bantwal and Belthangady taluks at the earliest. Goshalas MLC K. Prathapsimha Nayak suggested that the government should reserve land in each gram panchayat for building goushalas. Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja suggested that the local milk cooperative societies under the KMF can manage them. Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik U., Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty, Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shantigodu, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Selvamani R., Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar and Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmiprasad and others participated.  New service soon wherein COVID-19 patients in houses will be shifted for free treatment at hospitals, in case they needed hospitalisation
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Protest staged against proposal to privatise power distribution||Members of the Federation of the Karnataka Electricity Board Employees Union and Associations on Monday staged a demonstration in protest against the Union government’s move to privatise power distribution saying that it was detrimental to the interests of States and consumers. Assembling in front of the corporate office of Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (MESCOM) here, the members said that the Union government was rushing through the proposal without due consultation with States even though electricity was a federal subject. Employees and officers of the distribution companies (DISCOMS) were valuable stakeholders of the system having toiled hard for the progress of the sector, they said. In a statement, organising secretary of KPTCL Accounts Officers Association Muralidhara Nayak, vice-president of KEB Engineers Association Manjappa and vice-president of KPTCL Employees Association H.S. Gurumurthy said that power supply in the State has been a public service providing subsidised power to the poor and farmers. While Union Power Minister R.K. Singh promised in the July 3 meeting with State Power Ministers to place a modified draft soon, the Ministry on October 1 released the draft of the standard bidding guidelines without any consultation, they said. The guidelines say that the highest bidder should be provided with a clean balance sheet, free of accumulated losses/unservicable liabilities of the DISCOMS. This, the federation said, would impose lakhs of crores of burden on State governments as they have to clear all balance recoveries, disputed recoveries, loans, etc. It was hard to digest such a scenario when States were reeling under the COVID-19 situation. The federation said that privatisation and urban distribution franchise model have failed in Odisha, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Agra, Greater Noida and many more cities. Despite this, the Union government was imposing such a failed model in the State, it regretted. Besides impressing upon the State government the flip sides of the proposal, the federation would organise State-wide protests to spread awareness on the ill effects of privatisation. It has urged the government not to support privatisation of DISCOMS in the State in the larger interests of farmers, industries and the common man. A similar protest was held in Udupi too.
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Southern Railway urged to operate train from Mangaluru Central||Rail users in the coastal districts on Monday urged Southern Railway to facilitate the operation of the proposed Mumbai Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-Mangaluru-Mumbai CSMT COVID-19 special express to and from Mangaluru Central. Kunjal Venkatesh Kini, member of the South Western Railway Zonal Users Consultative Committee, wrote to the Divisional Railway Manager of Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division voicing the concern of train patrons in this regard. He said that Central Railway has proposed to operate the COVID-19 special train between Mumbai and Mangaluru in view of the upcoming festival season. The train was operating between Mumbai CSMT and Mangaluru Junction (Train Nos 12133/12134) before its cancellation owing to COVID-19, Mr. Kini said. Since no train was being operated from Mangaluru Central towards Mumbai at present, the proposed special train may be operated out of Mangaluru Central till normal train services are resumed, he said. If the train was operated out of Mangaluru Central, it would be of much help for travellers from Mangaluru towards northern coastal Karnataka, Goa as well as Mumbai, Mr. Kini said.  ‘The proposed special train may be operated out of Mangaluru Central till normal train services are resumed’
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||India Post releases booklet on information related to Aadhaar||People scouting for information on how to correct their name, address and change the date birth in their Aadhaar cards or how to enrol to get a new card, now need not approach anyone seeking help. Mangaluru Division of the Postal Department has come out with a Kannada booklet explaining how to do it all. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojari and Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel released the booklet here on Monday. The 38-page booklet provides information on documents required for new enrolment, correction, change of name and date of birth and the like. Speaking on the occasion, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Mangaluru Division, Shreeharsha N., said that seeding of Aadhaar number has assumed significance to avail of many government services. Hence, it should be kept up-to-date. The booklet will not only help people but also staff members in Aadhaar centres to guide those in need on the documents required to enrol. It answers Frequently Asked Questions. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra suggested that the department share the PDF version of the booklet in social media and digital platforms to create awareness among people. Mr. Shreeharsha said that a digital version will be shared in many social media platforms, including WhatsApp groups, that reached people fast. Now, corrections in Aadhaar cards can be made only in post offices and bank branches. Earlier, it was allowed in gram panchayat offices. Hence, people can approach post offices to avail themselves of Aadhaar services, he said. People can call Ph: 0824-2218400/2212305 for details.
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Old Kulur Bridge develops potholes, craters again||The Old Kulur Bridge that was closed for two months between March and May this year for structural strengthening has developed potholes and craters on its surface as well as approach roads. Built in 1952, the bridge across the Phalguni (Gurupura) was found unfit for movement of heavy vehicles by the National Highways Authority of India. The bridge is on the Udupi-Mangaluru carriageway. While NHAI’s proposal to construct a new six-lane bridge to complement a six-lane highway on the stretch is yet to materialise, the authority had sought the district administration’s permission to close the Old Bridge to strengthen the structure. Accordingly, the administration allowed the closure of the bridge from March 16 and diverted traffic on the New Bridge allowing two-way traffic. With COVID-19 and the consequent lockdown, the Old Bridge was opened for traffic on May 20 by MP Nalin Kumar Kateel. The NHAI had spent about Rs. 38 lakh to strengthen the expansion joints and replace bearings between girders and pillars while it said that the pillars were strong enough to carry vehicular traffic. However, within months, the bitumen layer on the bridge surface has given way forming potholes and craters. The approach roads, from KIOCL Junction till the bridge and from the bridge till Kulur Flyover, too have developed potholes and craters. Commenting on the sorry state of affairs, Raghuram, a regular commuter on the stretch, said that the NHAI would not have done better than leaving the potholes open on the bridge, if it wanted the bridge to get weakened with every passing vehicle.
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE holds seminar on nutrition care in Manipal||Vice-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) M.D. Venkatesh has said that the challenges in nutrition among vulnerable groups should be discussed in the local level and implementable solutions should also be worked out at the same level. He was speaking at the inaugural session of an international e-conference on “Challenges and solutions to provide continued nutrition care and delivery for all vulnerable groups owing to the COVID-19 pandemic induced paradigm shifts” in Manipal recently. Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration under MAHE organised the seminar to observe the themes of Rashtriya Poshan Maah 2020 which was part of Poshan Abhiyan announced by the Union government. As many as eight resource persons spoke at the seminar. There were 476 delegate registrations, a release from MAHE said.
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CBI raids a strategy to divert attention: Khader||Former Minister U.T. Khader, MLA, on Monday alleged the raids by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar and his brother were politically motivated. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Khader said the BJP was afraid of losing the bypolls to Shira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies. Hence, it has orchestrated raids on Mr. Shivakumar and his brother D.K. Suresh. Former MLC Ivan D’Souza said raids at different locations belonging to the brothers had no authentic reason behind them. He urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to order probe into the allegations against his son and relatives of receiving Rs. 17 crore kickback. “Let the Union government too order a probe against the BJP government in the State against the alleged Rs. 2,000 crore ‘Corona scam’,” he said. Meanwhile, cadres of Dakshina Kannada district units of Youth INTUC and Youth Congress staged demonstrations in front of the District Congress office protesting the raids on Mr. Shivakumar. Chiranjeevi Anchan and Mithun Rai, presidents of respective units, led the protests.
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Survey of street vendors||The Mangaluru City Corporation has invited applications from NGOs, self-help groups or consultancies to carry out a survey of street vendors in the corporation limits. The corporation intends to identify street vendors and issue them with identity cards as well as trade licence under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojane-National Urban Livelihood Mission. Applications have to be submitted to the Deputy Commissioner (administration), city corporation, before November 5, said a press release.
06 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Congress core committee formed||Following directions from the State Congress chief D.K. Shivakumar, the core committee of the district Congress unit has been constituted to discuss and take decisions on important issues concerning the district. According to a press release, the core committee will be headed by District Congress chief K. Harish Kumar who is also an MLC. The members of the committee are Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader, the former MLAs B. Ramanath Rai, T. Shakuntala Shetty, K. Abhayachandra Jain, K. Vasanth Bangera, J.R. Lobo and B.A. Mohiuddin Bava, the former MLC Ivan D’Souza, and District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai. The district Congress has appointed Assembly-level and block-level in-charge persons.
06 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Minister suggests controlled Dasara fete over COVID-19 spike||Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar on Monday said the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions in Kerala during Onam festival resulted in a surge of cases and such inaccuracies should not happen when Mysuru celebrates Dasara. As many as 7,000 to 8,000 COVID-19 cases are now being reported in the neighbouring State after the restrictions were relaxed for the festival. Therefore the Dasara festivities should be kept as simple as possible over the pandemic scare. A final call on making celebrations safe will be taken after consultations with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar and Minister for Health B. Sriramulu, he added. “A simple and meaningful Dasara is our aim,” he said, after chairing a meeting here to review the COVID-19 situation as Mysuru reported a spike in cases over the last few days. He said COVID-19 is now getting out of control in Mysuru which was earlier a model for the State with no casualties reported despite many cases. “I am therefore here to take stock of the situation and give instructions for controlling it effectively,” he said, adding that Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who assumed charge recently, has sought a two-week time to control the pandemic and show results. Mr. Sudhakar said the State was not facing shortage of ventilators but shortage of beds with oxygen supply. Therefore, steps had been taken to arrange 33,000 beds with oxygen supply and instructions had been given to the health officials for conducting COVID-19 testing to all senior citizens across Mysuru district.  Justifying the decision of collecting fines of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 respectively from those not wearing masks, he said the decision had become inevitable since people neglected the precautions even after various awareness activities were conducted for more than six months. “We must ensure that people strictly adhere to the guidelines.” At the meeting, the Minister told the officials that the situation should be handled properly during Dasara festivities and the government guidelines must be strictly enforced. “COVID-19 is a long battle and all of us must work carefully till we get the vaccine.” The booth-level task force committees should be activated and the people’s participation must be encouraged. The reasons for upsurge in the infection in the district should be studied. The Minister said the services of people’s representatives, celebrities and popular personalities should be utilised to spread awareness. Step up the tests in markets and densely populated areas besides developing strategy for handling Dasara amidst the pandemic, he told the meeting. Drugs purchased for ILI infections must be monitored at all medicine outlets. Treating and testing senior citizens and patients suffering from other illnesses must get priority. As many as 96,000 senior citizens suffering from various ailments need to be looked at. He said the condition at the district hospitals needs improvement as there cannot be excuses in the treatment. Private hospitals should reserve 50% beds and the allotment of beds should be transparent. Private hospitals are to be legally dealt with if they don’t listen. The DC should hold meetings and there should not be any complaints of overcharging by hospitals. The DHO should take action in case of any such overcharging. Officials are given full powers and they should utilise them, he added.
06 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Proud moment for KSOU as 19 alumni selected probationary officers||The recent selection of 19 of its alumni as gazetted probationary officers, after clearing the Karnataka Administrative Services exam in 2015, has made the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) launch a campaign for propagating its open distance learning (ODL), especially in rural areas. KSOU has set a vision to give benefits of ODL to help candidates who could not pursue their education in universities for various reasons. After being derecognised in 2015 by the University Grants Commission and getting it back after over three years, KSOU is making a bid to regain the confidence of people by introducing several reforms, including online education and online admissions. “It’s a moment of pride for us that our alumni have cleared the KPSC examination and got selected as probationary officers. This has proved that degrees from KSOU can compare to those from conventional universities,” said Vice-Chancellor S. Vidyashankar. He told The Hindu that KSOU has decided to promote the KAS achievers as “ambassadors” for the varsity, to highlight the importance of distance learning for making a bright career, using its network in every district. Boosting image As many as 16,000 posters, with the details of 19 officers, have been printed and are being circulated among its regional centres and study centres for boosting the varsity’s image. “The message is clear that ODL students are also equally competent. Our alumni have proved it. Such candidates should be an inspiration for others. We provide opportunities to excel and a centre for training the candidates in competitive examinations is already functioning,” Prof. Vidyashankar said. The V-C said he personally spoke to every KAS achiever. “The posters will be put up mostly in villages and remote areas where opportunities are scarce and where the KSOU would like to fill the gap,” said Prof. Vidyashankar. The current admissions are on and the KSOU management is hoping for more admissions to various courses this year. Rudresha B.R., an ex-serviceman, who has been appointed as the Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Tax (Group A), said he got the degree from KSOU in 2012, while he was serving the Army. “The ODL helped me get a graduate and a postgraduate degree. Because of this, I could crack the KAS exam. It would have been difficult to get a degree from a conventional university since I was already employed. Distance education gave me the accessibility and I thank KSOU for this.”
06 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘COVID-19 pandemic can spark suicides outside the sphere of conventional risk factors’||Shobha (name changed), 38, a housewife from an farming family with two children, did not have ‘risk factors’ that mental health experts conventionally associate with suicides. Yet, the woman from a village on the outskirts of Mysuru recently attempted to end her life. Residents of her village, gripped by anxiety over the spread of COVID-19, had erected fences with branches of trees that not only restricted entry of outsiders into the village, but also the movement of locals. Almost overnight, the village with 40 houses had been separated by fences arbitrarily put up even on small roads. Three days before July 10 when she attempted to die by suicide, Ms. Shobha was walking back home from her field and encountered a fence blocking her path. She removed a portion of the fence to reach her house, but her act incensed the villagers, who not only scolded her, but called for a panchayat meet in the village. Her husband was summoned and asked to apologise for her behaviour, which amounted to breaking the rules of the village that had been framed to control COVID-19. Her husband felt humiliated and scolded her. Pained, she retreated to her room, locked herself up and attempted suicide. This case of attempted suicide figuring in the JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER)’s Digital Journal of Clinical Medicine seeks to demonstrate how social factors during the pandemic are beyond the conventional risk factors for suicide, said Kishor M., a psychiatrist who was part of the study. Dr. Kishor said risk assessment in case of suicide or suicide attempts involves looking at past history of such attempts, family history of suicides, current and past history of psychiatry illness, medical co-morbidity (like thyroid disorder, epilepsy, etc.) or other recognised risk factors like grief and hopelessness. “This patient did not have any of the risk factors,” he said. ‘Impulsive act’ Diagnosed as ‘Impulsive act of deliberate self-harm’, this case seeks to focus attention on the emerging patterns of suicides that mental health experts are grappling with during the pandemic. The study states that the COVID-19 pandemic has sparked a significant rise in stress at various levels including community, family and individual. “Policy measures have been formulated to address and limit the spread of infection. These measures may have led to heightened vigilance, issue of isolation, limited access to basic necessities and financial stress,” the study said, while Dr. Kishor also referred to the increased risk of suicide owing to financial problems arising out of the pandemic. Social stigma can occur in disease outbreaks, the outbreak of COVID-19 has caused a lot of fear and panic. “The social distancing that is advocated as a preventative measure to control the spread of infection can be misinterpreted and easily manifest as social discrimination,” the study cautioned.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.)
06 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s fatality rate highest||In the last one week, the COVID-19 fatality rate in Mysuru is at 3.9 per cent, which is higher than the global mortality rate. This was disclosed by Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar here on Monday. Once a model for COVID-19 management in the State, it is now registering a mortality rate of 1.9 per cent whereas the national mortality rate is at 1.6 per cent, State at 1.5 per cent and 3.5 percent globally, he said, adding that the tests are not meeting the target and 65 per cent tests are not satisfactory. He said the treatment for home-isolated patients was not being recorded properly and the health authorities must update information on such patients without showing any negligence. “It is appalling that there were 11 deaths in one household here. We should rectify past mistakes and utilise telemedicine facilities better.” The Minister said the government will not tolerate it if it gets complaints from the public since 68 resident doctors had been appointed to the COVID-19 hospital here. Tracking of infected persons was not accurate and the death audit has to be completed quickly, he suggested.
06 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Beggar’s child abducted from Nanjangud found||A beggar’s two-and-a-half-year-old daughter, who had been abducted from Nanjangud town last Thursday, has been traced to Hunasekuppe village in nearby H.D. Kote taluk. The police arrested Gangaraju, 47, a resident of the village, for allegedly abducting Parvathi’s daughter from the pavement near Srikanteshwara Temple on October 1. Inspector of Nanjangud Town police station Lakshmikanth Talwar told The Hindu that the accused had done so to satisfy his daughter’s yearning to have a child to look after after she lost two babies. The daughter of the accused, who had been married five years ago, had twice delivered still-born babies after caesarean operations. When she lost her second child last month, Gangaraju set out looking for a child, Mr. Talwar said. While Gangaraju had admitted to the kidnapping, the police have ruled out the involvement of any organised child trafficking racket in this case. The rescued girl has been handed over to Bapuji Children’s Home in Mysuru following directions from the Mysuru District Child Welfare Committee (CWC). The girl’s elder brother, who had been abducted four years ago and later rescued, is also staying in the same Children’s Home. Mysuru district child protection officer S. Diwakar said a decision on handing over the girl to her mother will have to be taken by the CWC based on the mother’s ability to provide the child food, shelter and security.
06 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘BJP must field Munirathna in bypolls’||Former Minister A.H. Vishwanath on Monday said it was incumbent on the BJP to field Munirathna, former MLA, as the party candidate in the bypolls to Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituency. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Vishwanath, who is now an MLC, questioned the need for the party to recommend two names to the high command. “Sending two names was wrong. What was the need to do so?”, he said, pointing out that Mr. Munirathna helped in the formation of the BJP government. “For no reason should the BJP ticket be denied to Mr. Munirathna,” Mr. Vishwanath said before expressing confidence that the former was popular in the constituency and would win the bypolls.
06 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||No reason for BJP to target DKS: Sudhakar||Denying the Congress party’s charges that the ruling BJP was targeting Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief D.K. Shivakumar ahead of the bypolls to Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sira Assembly segments in the State, Minister for Medical Education K Sudhakar said the fate of the BJP government in the State does not depend on the outcome of the byelections. “The BJP has 117 seats of its own (in a house of 224). Hypothetically speaking, even if the BJP loses both the bypolls, what can happen to the BJP government in the State? These two seats will not decide the fate of the government”, Mr. Sudhakar said, seeking to counter the Congress party’s argument. Also, Mr. Sudhakar said there was no truth in the Congress’s allegation that the raids against Mr. Shivakumar were politically motivated. “Why should it be politically motivated? Is Mr. Shivakumar the only leader in Congress. Isn’t Mr. Siddaramaiah there (in the party)? He was the Chief Minister for five years. Isn’t he a bigger mass leader than Mr. Shivakumar? Why are there no raids against him?”, Mr. Sudhakar questioned.
06 October 2020||Staff Reporter,KARNATAKA||CLAT results out, bring disappointment to many||The results of the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 were announced on Monday. But as soon as the results were announced, several candidates took to social media to express their disappointment with their scores. Thousands of candidates had filed objections regarding the technical glitches in the test held on September 28. However, the Consortium of National Law Universities had said that not a single complaint was valid and they had done random checks of some of the audit trails which showed no errors. On Monday, however, candidates said that they would not accept the results and said that a petition was filed in the Supreme Court which termed the test “erroneous, faulty, defective, discriminatory and violative of fundamental rights of the Constitution”. One of the candidates told The Hindu that she had taken a gap year to prepare for CLAT and was put to hardship because of the mistakes and errors that she had to encounter during the test. Sources said that over 40,000 objections were raised by candidates. The candidate who secured the top rank in UG CLAT 2020 scored 127.25 out of 147 marks. Meanwhile, the highest mark in CLAT 2020 – PG was 72 out of 119 marks - shared by two candidates. Three UG CLAT and one of the PG CLAT questions were dropped by the consortium. The Executive Committee of the Consortium of National Law Universities has resolved to give the candidates more time to complete the process of registration for counselling. A release issued by the consortium stated that an invite for counselling will be sent to approximately five times the number of seats in each category instead of three times as notified earlier. “Candidates who do not complete the counselling registration process will not be considered for allotment of seat. Candidates are requested to go through the Counselling Guidelines notified on the consortium website and also regularly check the website for updates. The schedule notified by the consortium should be strictly adhered to. No extension of time for any of the processes will be granted by the consortium and also by the NLUs,” the release stated.  Candidates are requested to go through the Counselling Guidelines notified on the consortium website. Consortium of National Law Universities
06 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Surpur bandh peaceful||The Surpur bandh call by various organisations to condemn the gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh was peaceful and complete on Monday. Several hundreds of people from various communities, particularly the Valmiki, and from different organisations gathered at Gandhi Circle and Ambedkar Circle and took out a protest march on the main streets. Commercial shops, business establishments and trades were closed in support of the bandh. The protesters, later, gathered near Raja Venkatappa Naik Circle and blocked it for nearly two hours. They shouted slogans demanding justice to the victim and capital punishment for the culprits.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath against Dasara gatherings||BJP MLC and former Minister A.H. Vishwanath on Monday said the government should reconsider holding Dasara cultural events and desist from allowing even a small gathering at the palace for the scaled-down Jamboo Savari in view of rapid surge in COVID-19 cases in Mysuru. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Vishwanath said the Jamboo Savari should be organised purely as a tradition without allowing the participation of the public and the media as well as a precautionary measure. Referring to Saturday’s cases that crossed 1,500 in Mysuru, Mr. Vishwanath said the cultural events at the palace even for a small audience could be risky since it would be difficult to restrict the public assembly, especially for the Dasara events. The former Minister was responding to questions on the government’s plans for allowing the participation of about 2,000 persons at the palace for Jamboo Savari, which has been limited to the palace fortress. “If we allow 2,000 persons, the number will cross 10,000 with each invitee bringing two or three members along for watching the proceedings. It will be tough to restrict the public. Who is going to take the responsibility if gathering turns out bigger than expected,” he asked.   Simple affair: Sudhakar  Meanwhile, Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar said a decision had been taken to keep Dasara a simple affair based on the advice of experts.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Artist harnesses free time in lockdown to build models of buses||Instead of sitting idle during the lockdown, artist Prashanth Achar, 30, from Kundapur taluk in Udupi district, started building models of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses. First, he built a model of an ‘Airavat’ bus. Elated by the response from his friends and relatives, he built other models of buses, such as ‘Karnataka Sarige’. His effort has been recognised by the transport corporation. After meeting him on Monday, KSRTC MD Shivyogi C. Kalsad has placed an order for 10 models of various brands of buses operated by the Corporation. But that is not all. During his meeting with KSRTC officials, Mr. Achar sought help to improve the infrastructure of the government school in his village Bagwadi. “There was one more reason for visiting Bengaluru, and that was to seek help to improve the infrastructure of the government school in my village where 85 students are enrolled. I am planning to meet the Transport Minister who is also the Deputy Chief Minister. Improving infrastructure at Bagwadi school will help children from rural areas.” Mr. Kalsad decided to provide an old bus of the KSRTC that can be converted into a classroom for the benefit of school children. “I am very happy with the MD’s offer of a bus. He has asked us to come up with innovative ideas to make use of the bus,” Mr. Achar said. “During the lockdown, I had a lot of free time. I was always fascinated by KSRTC buses. I thought why I should not use the free time to build models of these buses. First, I made a model of an ‘Airavat’ bus and posted photos of the bus on social media. The work received very good response from the general public. Even higher ups in the KSRTC took note and contacted me,” he added. He uses foam sheets to build the models and takes eight days to build a model. An official of the KSRTC said, “The models of buses designed by Mr. Achar are really good. They are lightweight and easy to carry. We have placed orders for 10 models. We will display them. We are also planning to present them as gifts to dignitaries visiting our office.”
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drugs probe: Court refuses bail for 6 accused||The NDPS court, on Monday, rejected the bail application filed by six accused, including two who are on the run, in connection with a drug racket allegedly involving the Kannada film industry. The prosecution filed an objection saying that granting bail would hamper the ongoing investigation. While accused Abhishek and Prashanth Raju are on the run, the remaining four accused – Prashanth Ranka, Niyaz Mohammed, Vybhav Jain and Prateek Shetty – have been arrested and are in Parappana Agrahara jail. Last week, the court rejected bail pleas of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, as well as Rahul Thonse. The CCB has arrested 14 accused in the case so far. The prime accused Shiva Prakash Chippi, Sheikh Faazil and Aditya Alva are absconding. The CCB, on Sunday, raided five pubs situated in the CBD and searched their premises to check for drug peddling. The raids were carried out based on information provided by two accused arrested by the Sanjay Nagar police that drugs are being sold in pubs during the weekend. Though the police could not recover anything during the raid, officials found CCTV camera footage to identify peddlers.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Good response to e-auction||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has earned a premium of 47.58% over the bid value of sites of various dimensions during the third phase of the e-auction. According to a press release on Monday, a total of 402 sites were to be auctioned, of which 40 were withdrawn later due to various reasons. Of the 362 sites, 286 sites were sold. There was no response for 55 sites. The release said as many as 1,673 bidders had participated in the e-auction in the third phase. While the total bid amount was Rs. 180.45 crore, the auctioned value of the 286 sites was Rs. 266.31 crore. With this, the gain was Rs. 85.86 crore. The release said that the BDA had now issued e-auction notification for the fourth stage. A total of 448 sites of various dimensions in Banashankari, SMV Layout, J.P. Nagar, Arkavathi Layout, BTM Layout will be up for e-auction. The live bidding will commence on October 12 and will be completed between November 3 and 7.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No visitors, media to Wadiyars’ Dasara fete||The erstwhile Mysuru royal family has decided to celebrate the ensuing Navaratri festivities at the palace without the participation or presence of family members, visitors and the media, in view of rapid surge in COVID-19 cases in Mysuru. The ‘Khas Durbar’ as part of the private Dasara celebrations of the Wadiyars at the Palace Durbar Hall, one of the main attractions of the festivities, will be out of bounds for the visitors as a safety precaution over the pandemic. Ms .Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, in a release here on Monday, urged the public and the media to extend their cooperation in this connection.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Getting ready for the annual show||cannon
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Symbolic gesture||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mahadayi: Goa to file contempt petition||The government of Goa will file a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Karnataka for diverting the Mahadayi waters, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said in Panaji on Monday. He told journalists that the State lawyers were preparing to move the apex court this month. This petition is being filed along with all necessary evidence, including photographs. Our action is pursuant to reports of diversion being carried out by the State of Karnataka, he alleged at a press conference. Earlier petition The contempt petition is in addition to an earlier contempt petition filed in the Supreme court in August 2018, when Karnataka had engaged in a similar attempt, he said in a press release.
06 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Slump in cases in Alappuzha at 199||The district witnessed a substantial decline in new COVID-19 cases on Monday. It logged 199 fresh cases including 194 people who contracted the disease through local transmission. Four persons who came from other States and one health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official tally to 52. The deceased were identified as a 69-year-old man from Pallippad (died on September 12), a 75-year-old woman from Alappuzha (died on September 25), a 74-year-old man from Mararikulam (died on September 28) and a 72-year-old man from Aroor (died on Sept. 30). Of the total 199 cases, 39 cases were reported from Alappuzha municipality, 23 from Cherthala municipality, and 22 from Kadakkarappally grama panchayat. Other cases were from Thuravoor (15), Thrikkunnappuzha (11), Kayamkulam (7), Haripad (7), Ambalappuzha North (5), Purakkad (5), Mavelikara (4), Punnapra North (4), Chennam Pallippuram (3), Cherthala South (3), Chettikulangara (3), Edathua (3), Kodamthurth (3), Pandanad (3), two cases each from Aroor, Punnapra South, Mararikulam North, Muthukulam, Panavally, Thakazhi and Thanneermukkom and one case each from Chingoli, Ezhupunna, Kanjikuzhy, Devikulangara, Thazhakara, Thalavady, Pallippad, Neelamperoor, Palamel, Thekkekara, Muhamma, Mannancherry, Kumarapuram, Veeyapuram, Arattuppuzha, Arookutty, Aryad and Bharanikavu. Meanwhile, 387 people who were undergoing treatment in hospitals tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 5,341. Containment zones All wards in Pulinkunnu, ward 6 in Chettikulangara, ward 6 in Ala, ward 18 in Thanneermukkom, and ward 13 in Chennam Pallippuram grama panchayat were declared as containment zones. Besides, parts of ward 31 in Alappuzha municipality, ward 7 in Perumbalam, ward 13 in Aryad, ward 7 in Thrikkunnapuzha, and wards 3, 4, 5, 14 and 20 in Thanneermukkom grama panchayat were also declared as containment zones.
06 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Found dead||A Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam branch secretary was found dead inside an SNDP Yogam branch office at Thrikkunnappuzha on Monday. The deceased was identified as Suresh Kumar, 48. He was the secretary of SNDP Yogam Panoor branch 1168. He allegedly took his own life. The police said that they suspected financial constraints had forced him to take the extreme step. Suicide prevention helpline number: DISHA- 0471-2552056, 1056.
06 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Aid on its way for landslip hit||It is two months since a major landslip happenedd at Pettimudy and the district administration is gearing up to rehabilitate eight families at Kuttiyarvalley and provide compensation to the kin of the victims. Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishnan said on Monday that the government had already identified 50 cents of land for construction of eight houses and each of which would get about five cents each. The District Collector had written to the government for a special sanction to allot title deeds to the eight families found as legal heirs of the landslip victims. The special sanction was sought as there would be delay in allotting title deeds to the land in the normal process. As per the agreement, Kanan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) Ltd would start construction of the houses at Kuttiyarvalley as soon as the title deeds are made available. In addition to the houses, there would be an approach road with water supply and power connection. The compensation amount would be given in a week’s time. KDHP Ltd, the State government, and Tamil Nadu government had announced compensation for the family of the victims. The compensation by the KDHP and State government would be Rs. 5 lakh each. The Tamil Nadu government would give Rs. 2 lakh. In the landslip on August 6, four estate lanes at Pettimudy were buried under the debris. As per the official estimate, four persons were still missing. A trade union leader said the accident should throw focus on the pathetic living conditions of the workers.
06 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Help desks to be set up to check pandemic in tribal hamlets||A meeting of senior officials of various departments chaired by Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan on Monday directed the Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) officials to set up special help desks in tribal settlements in Wayanad district to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among the tribespeople. The help desks would take steps to contain the spread of the pandemic, disburse face masks, sanitisers and soaps among tribespeople, Mr. Ramakrishnan said. They would consist of tribal promoters, animators, and officials of the Tribal Development Department. The desks would also monitor and restrict the entry of outsiders to hamlets as a part of combating the pandemic, Mr. Ramakrishnan said.
06 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Kudumbashree gears up to provide disinfection services||The Kudumbashree Wayanad District Mission is preparing to provide scientific disinfection services as part of the efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. As many as 84 members of seven Kudumbashree units in the district were trained for the purpose with the assistance of the district Health Department, sources in the District Kudumbashree Mission said. The trained members would provide scientific disinfection services to public places, shops, vehicles, places of worship, houses, and offices as per the rate fixed by the government for the purpose, the sources said. Charges They would charge Rs. 1.85 for disinfecting 1 sqft for government firms and Rs. 3.45 per sqft for private establishments. For details, contact: 04936 206589 or 8848478861.
06 October 2020||Kannur,KERALA||ViswaSanthi to join hands with MCCS||Actor Mohanlal’s ViswaSanthi Foundation would join hands with Malabar Cancer Care Society (MCCS), Kannur, to implement the Comprehensive Cancer Control Programme in the Malabar area, said M.V. Pillai, oncologist and chairman of the foundation, on Monday. He made the announcement while inaugurating the intensive month-long Breast Cancer Drive of the MCCS, which kick-started on October 4. Mr. Pillai also launched the prestigious ‘Mathru Suraksha Kavacham’, a programme under the Breast Cancer Brigade Project of MCCS. He also handled an online session on ‘Breast Cancer – A Global Perspective’ for doctors, volunteers, and women groups.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ruptured lung repaired through emergency surgery||With a chest tube inserted into his lungs, 20-year-old Arjun P. made a harrowing journey from Jalore in Rajasthan to Ahmedabad, Palakkad, Kozhikode, and Kochi, where finally he underwent a surgery for a ruptured lung, which was further delayed and complicated when he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. After a pneumothorax or a collapsed lung that left him breathless in August, Arjun and his parents travelled by road to Ahmedabad, seven hours away. At the airport in Ahmedabad, from where they intended to fly to Kerala, Arjun was initially barred from flying with the chest tube inserted to decompress the air that had ruptured his lung. After a 24-hour ordeal and a medical certificate from his doctor, he was allowed to fly. They arrived in Palakkad first, to be with family and get tested for the virus, before they proceeded for treatment. ‘Lost all hope’ Arjun tested positive, at which point he lost all hope, he said. A COVID-19 ward in a hospital in Palakkad where he saw people succumbing to the disease left him shattered and apprehensive about being able to fight both conditions. All this while he remained acutely aware that he needed surgery for his lung, a procedure that was delayed till he tested negative. Even when he did test negative, doctors in Kozhikode were apprehensive about doing a surgery on him till he had regained some strength, said Arjun, who is studying in Ahmedabad to be a clinical pharmacist. He remained asymptomatic, but had developed an infection from the chest tube that had stayed inside for a long time, he said. Key-hole surgery Dr. Nasser Yusuf, thoracic surgeon at Sunrise Hospital, Kakkanad, who had treated Arjun for a similar condition in his other lung three years ago, performed an emergency key-hole surgery in September, just a few days after Arjun tested negative for COVID-19. “He had bronchopleural fistula or a hole in the lung, and empyema thoracis or pus in the chest. He was in severe pain and his condition was deteriorating. Normally, we would have waited for a longer period before we did a surgery, but the only option was to operate and save him. It was a long shot, but we had to take the risk,” Dr. Yusuf said. Complication avoided “In a COVID-19 patient, pulmonary fibrosis or even pneumonia-like changes can set in and that would have been a dreadful condition. We could avoid that complication,” he said. The pus in his chest cavity was drained and the hole in his lung was repaired. Arjun is now with his family in Palakkad and recovering before they can go back to Jalore. Even a walk across the airport was a painful affair a little more than a month ago, but he thanks Dr. Yusuf for being able to walk now without getting breathless.  He was in severe pain and his condition was deteriorating. Normally, we would have waited for a longer period before we did a surgery, but the only option was to operate and save him Dr. Nasser Yusuf Thoracic surgeon
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Report on rail coaching terminal soon||The integrated coaching terminal (ICT) proposed on 110 acres of land in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area is likely to get a shot in the arm, with Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) expected to submit a feasibility report to Southern Railway by December. The underutilised space in the heart of the city has the potential to host trains on a dozen platforms, apart from having space for repair and maintenance of trains. ‘Biggest railway hub’ “We took up the feasibility study on a request from the Southern Railway. A survey and study are on to garner details like passenger footfall. This could become the biggest railway hub in Kerala, if all goes well. “It could become a new halt station for trains through Kottayam and a terminal point for new trains that are allotted to Kerala,” said KRDCL sources. The integrated terminal could also be linked to the Vyttila Mobility Hub located nearby. It would considerably decongest Ernakulam Junction railway station that has only six platforms and Ernakulam Town station that has just two platforms. The State government and the Railway would bear the cost of the detailed project report (DPR). Land acquisition Minimal land acquisition might be needed for a 100-m road linking the premises with the Thammanam-Pullepady Road, which was slated to be widened to four lanes, they added. The Southern Railway entrusted KRDCL with the integrated terminal’s feasibility study, after Hibi Eden, Ernakulam MP, took up the issue with the Chairman of the Railway Board. He had earlier met the Union Railway Minister to apprise him of the potential that the terminal held to speed up train movement through central Kerala since trains would not have to wait in the city’s suburbs for want of vacant platforms at the two main railway stations. PPP model “A city-based architectural firm had readied a draft design of the terminal, which showed that at least 12 platforms could be constructed on the premises. The Railway would not have to spend any money if the project is executed on the PPP (public-private partnership) model, with the land given on long-term lease, since its land is already available and underutilised. “The Railway could use the entire ground floor and the terminal premises, while commercial space, including office space for rent, can be developed on the upper floors,” said Mr. Eden. A station much bigger than Ernakulam Junction and other amenities can be built here, on land which at present houses only the Railway coaching depot and marshalling yard. A senior Railway official said private participation could take the project forward. The Railway will encounter numerous procedural and other issues if it were to implement the project. The existing tracks on the premises must be redone, while the dilapidated Railway quarters could be relocated. Space to repair trains could be earmarked within the premises or the facility shifted to the huge vacant space that the Railway owns on Willingdon Island, he said.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Heritage railway stations underutilised’||While welcoming the ongoing feasibility study of the integrated coaching terminal (ICT) proposed in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area, the Ernakulam Old Railway Station Vikasana Samiti, that has been spearheading the agitation to renovate the Old Railway Station located behind the High Court, has expressed concern over the Southern Railway “losing sight” of the potential of the 42-acre premises to decongest Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations. The Southern Railway spent Rs. 1.5 crore to replace worn-out tracks on the 1.3-km-long stretch that links the station with the main line. Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) had accorded second priority to the project over a year ago, said K.P. Harihara Kumar, general convenor of the Samiti. On October 2, the Samiti organised a function on the station premises to pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary. Gandhi had alighted at the station on his way to participate in the Vaikom Satyagraha. Harbour Terminus Mr. Kumar said the Railway must optimally use huge tracts of vacant land at the renovated Harbour Terminus station, which was constructed during the British era. Passenger train services have not resumed to the station, although a new bridge has been built parallel to the Venduruthy railway overbridge. Trains to Shoranur, Guruvayur and Kottayam must begin service from there. The Southern Railway, KRDCL and the State government must intervene proactively to make optimal use of the two heritage stations, he added.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Review of Port Trust deal with IGTPL sought||The Cochin Port Joint Trade Union Forum, comprising trade unions of different political affiliations at the Kochi port, has called for a review of the licence agreement between the Port Trust and operator of the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal. In a submission made before the Union Shipping Ministry, the trade union forum said that the licence agreement of January 31, 2005, between the Board of Trustees of Cochin Port and India Gateway Terminal Private Limited (IGTPL) needed to be subjected to a “meticulous review” and suitable clauses needed to be inserted into the agreement to ensure the financial stability of the port. BOT pact The licence agreement between IGTPL and the Cochin Port Trust was different from other build-operate-transfer (BOT) agreements as there was no minimum guaranteed throughput in the agreement, the trade union said in its representation to the government. The Cochin Port Trust ended operations of the Rajiv Gandhi Container Terminal with 1.68 lakh TEUs of throughput in 2011 when the Vallarpadam terminal was commissioned. However, the public investment of around Rs. 2,000 crore for providing basic infrastructure for the container terminal had not served its purpose, the unions alleged. The investments went into providing four-lane road connectivity, a rail link between Kalamassery and the terminal on Vallarpadam island as well as dredging operations for maintaining the draft for large vessels. Around Rs. 1,900 crore was invested in infrastructure and around Rs. 125 crore was used in capital dredging operations. However, the utilisation of these facilities has been nominal. Though the terminal can handle around 12 lakh TEUs of cargo annually, its capacity utilisation is around 50% only. The terminal handled 6.2 lakh TEUs in 2019-20 after 15 years of being in operation, the unions said. At the same time, the terminal operator had initiated arbitration proceedings against the Cochin Port Trust alleging delay in providing four-lane road facility as part of its efforts to get the licence period extended, the trade unions alleged. The overall utilisation of facilities such as national highway and rail connectivity was around 35% of the capacity, the unions said, urging the government to intervene in the matter. Demand The unions demanded that IGTPL should be made to develop the Vallarpadam terminal into a container transshipment terminal hub as envisaged in the licence agreement, failing which termination of the agreement should be effected and the facility taken over by the Cochin Port Trust.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||District reports 705 new positive cases||A total of 705 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Nineteen health workers were among those who were newly infected. The source of infection of 68 people remains untraced and 587 people contracted the infection through local contact. About 236 people have tested negative and 26,795 people remain in quarantine. As many as 176 persons were discharged from hospitals and first-line treatment centres on the day. The district’s total active caseload stands at 10,955. About 7,371 people remain in isolation at home, 230 patients are being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, 37 patients are admitted at PVS Hospital and 1,631 people at first-line treatment centres. Testing Only 922 samples were sent for testing from government facilities, a drop from 1,379 on Sunday and 2,483 on Saturday. From private labs and hospitals, 1,255 samples were sent for testing.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat BTech exams hit by pandemic crisis||The imposition of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure limiting public gatherings and use of colleges as COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTC ) have hit the timely conduct of the B.Tech supplementary exams of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). The supplementary exams for the 2012 scheme were actually scheduled in March-April. The aspirants were eagerly awaiting the publication of the notification for the exams after the varsity had initiated steps to hold it. But the declaration of Section 144 up to October 31 restricting the ban on assembly of more than five persons at a time had affected the plans to declare the notification for the exams, said senior varsity officials. The authorities had sought the cooperation of the Principals of 24 recognised colleges (now affiliated with APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University) in setting up exam centres for the supplementary exams. Only five Principals have responded as on Monday. The facilities in colleges are now being used for FLTC patients and cannot be designated as exam centres, they said. The students need to submit their application forms at the college in which they had pursued the BTech programme. “We can change the exam centres as per the convenience of the students, but they have to submit the applications at the college of study itself,” an official said. The examination wing said that they are still hopeful of conducting the exams in November-December. The varsity would be able to hold both the even and odd semester supplementary exams in this period even though a confirmation cannot be given at this point owing to the COVID-19 situation, it said. The aspirants had pointed out that they were not able to apply for the graduate level exams and other openings without clearing the arrears. Some of them had already taken up job offers and the company authorities were asking them to submit the provisional certificate. The candidates had suggested holding the exams online in view of the pandemic situation. But the authorities cited practical and logistical hurdles for conducting the exams online.  We can change the exam centres as per the convenience of the students, but they have to submit the applications at the college of study itself Cusat official
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Six held on charge of child pornography||The Ernakulam district police arrested six persons as part of operations against child pornography and initiated proceedings against 22 persons, including two under-aged individuals. Those arrested include Abdul Jaleel, 29, from Kodikuthimala; Akhil Jose, 18, from Cheriapallam Thuruth; Ainul Haq, 29, from Sonapoor; Akhilesh, 23, from Mazhuvannoor; Vaishnava Santosh, Ambatt, Okkal; and Abhijit, 26, from Vengoor. Searches held District police chief K. Karthik is leading three squads of police personnel in the investigations, said the communication. Searches were conducted in the Aluva, Perumbaovoor, and Moovattupuzha areas on Sunday with Binoy T. B., Bobby Kuriakose, P. M. Telhat, Rahul K. R., Jerish C. A., Ratheesh Subash, Ritheesh P. M. and Vikas Mani in the team. The police are monitoring the situation and more people are likely to be arrested in the coming days, said the police.
06 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘About 20% of people not protected by masks’||About 20% of 4,500 people surveyed across all districts of the State were not protected by face masks, either because they did not wear a mask or wore it improperly, according to a study by the Global Institute of Public Health, Thiruvananthapuram. The study found that 96% of people wore masks, but 16% wore them improperly, without covering the nose or mouth. Proper mask use was highest in Malappuram district (85.8%), which was also coincidentally classified as a “high zone” (district with a cumulative caseload of over 8,000 till August 28). Thiruvanthapuram, also categorised as a high zone, had mask use of 85.5%, while Idukki, categorised as a “low zone” (district with cumulative caseload of less than 4,000) had the lowest mask use at 62.4%. Ernakulam and Kozhikode recorded 82.9% and 79.7% mask use respectively. Photographs used The study was conducted between August 28 and September 5. Using the method of photo-epidemiology, over 1,400 photographs were taken in public spaces, hospitals and at indoor gatherings, capturing 6,208 people. Around 4,500 people who were clearly visible in the photographs were used for analysis. The average number of people per photo frame was used as a measure of physical distancing and the study found that crowding was higher in the high zone districts of Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram, indicating that inadequate physical distancing could have contributed to a higher number of cases in these districts, despite high mask use. “Eighty per cent proper mask use is not bad, but it is not enough, since Kerala is densely populated,” said S.S. Lal, head of public health at the Global Institute of Public Health, pointing out that there was no comparison available with other States yet. Anand Marthanda Pillai, principal investigator of the study, said, “Overall mask usage of 96% is very high. But the 20% of people who did not use masks properly or not at all could be a loophole large enough to be concerning and spread the virus,” he said. Dr. Pillai added that a drawback of the study was that it only looked at mask use in public spaces and not in private settings like at home or at work, where mask use might be lower and the virus could spread.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||LIFE Mission CEO quizzed||Officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation interrogated U.V. Jose, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the LIFE Mission, on Monday in connection with the complaints of violation of the FCRA regarding the Wadakkanchery project.  The CBI had asked Mr. Jose to produce all original files related to the project at Wadakkanchery. Two senior officials of the LIFE Mission and Wadakancherry municipal secretary Mohammad Anas were also questioned.
06 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MGU law students’ plea||Law students in colleges affiliated to the Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) fear that the delay in the conduct of pending semester exams will affect their academic and career prospects. The students have formed a collective to press their demand for the timely conduct of the semester exams. The varsity has not yet scheduled exams for the ninth and tenth semester students. Any further delay will affect their plans to pursue higher studies. Those wishing to pursue a career in law would also be affected, they said. A student representative pointed out that the fourth and fifth semester exams for students now in their sixth semester were pending. The exams for two semesters remain pending for those in the eighth semester. For those who have completed their fourth semester, three exams are pending. The results of exams that were held earlier had not been published yet, she said. The students alleged that the pending exams should have been held before the outbreak of COVID-19. The five-year LL.B course will be stretched following the delay in the conduct of exams and the publication of results. The students said they had petitioned the Governor (Chancellor of the varsity) and the Higher Education Minister regarding the delay. Students’ strike The university authorities referred to a strike by the students demanding that the end semester exams should be held ahead of other semesters. The fourth semester exams were postponed following the strike. “However, we have decided to schedule the pending exams without delay. The process will start by this week,” they said. The collective demanding speedy conduct of exams includes students from Government Law College, Ernakulam; Bharata Mata School of Legal Studies, Ernakulam; S.N. College, Poothotta; CSI College for Legal Studies, Kottayam; Al Azhar Law College, Thodupuzha; Mount Zion Law College, Kadamanitta; and Co-operative School of Law, Thodupuzha. The students are planning a virtual march on social media platforms and other innovative protests to press their demand.
06 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||458 new patients in Kollam caseload||The district reported 458 new cases of COVID-19 and 283 recoveries on Monday. While 451 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include five health workers, one person with no known source, and one who came from another State. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of an 82-year-old Vyakkal resident is due to COVID-19. The district currently has 18,176 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,29,320. While 1,851 persons completed home quarantine, the Health Department has traced 47,101 primary and 6,636 secondary contacts. Currently, 17 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning in Kollam and the total number of active cases is 7,734.
06 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two power projects get under way in State||Kerala has taken a big leap towards ensuring power security by covering its entire area under the inter-State power transmission network, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating a slew of projects, including the construction of a 400-kV gas-insulated substation (GIS) at Kuruvilangadu in Kottayam and the opening of a110-kV substation at Thiruvalla through videoconference on Monday. According to the Chief Minister, the restoration of the Edamon-Kochi 400-kV power highway has helped bring down the transmission loss from Kudamkulam to a great extent. The high voltage direct current line from Pukalur in Tamil Nadu and its substation at Thrissur, a project which was stalled, too is nearing completion. Minister for Electricity M.M. Mani said plans were afoot to appoint 436 meter readers and 97 assistant engineers in the Kerala State Electricity Board. The department had so far provided permanent employment to over 34,000 persons and among them, 4,230 were appointed in the last four years, he said. Transmission capacity The GIS substation in Kottayam forms part of the Rs. 10,000-crore Transgrid 2.0 project, which seeks to double the State’s domestic transmission capacity. On completion, it will become the first 400-kV substation in the district. The project, being established in 15 acres near Njaralamkulam, is slated to be operational in two years and will reduce transmission loss and save 1196.5 lakh units of electricity per year. The station will receive power from the Kudamkulam power line and redistribute the power through six feeders. The State has accorded a sanction of Rs. 285 crore for the project. Meanwhile, the authorities have expended Rs. 2.95 crore for upgrading the 66 kV substation at Thiruvalla as 110-kV substation by connecting it to the Mallappally-Chengannur 110-kV using underground cable. The project will help ensure uninterrupted power supply to as many as 45,000 consumers in and around the region.
06 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||354 cases in Kottayam||Three hundred and fifty four more persons were confirmed with SARS-CoV-2 infection in the district when the results of 3,935 medical samples were released on Monday. Among these, 347 persons contracted the virus through local contact, while seven persons returned from other States. The test positive rate for the day was 9%. Arpookkara grama panchayat reported an unexpected spike with 71 persons testing positive, followed by Kottayam municipality with 55 more cases. The number fresh cases remained high in local bodies including Panachikadu-15, Thalayoalaparambu-14, Vijayapuram -11, and Erumeli -10. Meanwhile, the district also reported a significant number of recovery cases with 398 persons being discharged from the treatment centres. The district currently has 4,933 active cases. Recovery rate So far, 12,648 people have been infected, of which 7,697 persons have been recovered. A total of 20,184 people in the district are presently undergoing quarantine. Meanwhile, a recent order by District Collector M. Anjana has stipulated the private hospitals in the district to reserve at least 10% of the beds only for COVID-19 patients. Non-compliance to the order will be prosecuted under Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act.
06 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Decline in fresh cases in Kozhikode||Fresh COVID-19 cases declined to 641 in Kozhikode district on Monday after continuously surging above a daily load of over 900 cases in the past few days. According to the District Medical Officer, 584 of these are locally acquired infections. They include 139 people from within Kozhikode Corporation. The source of infection of 36 people is not known. There are 19 health workers among the newly infected. The number of active cases reached 9,829 of whom 5,830 are under home isolation. Six deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Sunday and Monday. Three of them, two from Kozhikode and one from Kasaragod, died on Sunday, the others, two from Kozhikode and one from Malappuram, died on Monday. Market to reopen Meanwhile, the Kozhikode Corporation has decided to reopen the Palayam market in the city from Tuesday. Its closure had hit the movement of fruits and vegetables in a big way though the market at Thadampattuthazham was designated for the purpose. It was closed on September 23 after 233 people associated with the place were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. However, the authorities said restrictions would be imposed for entry. Of the eight entry points, four will be closed and the barricades would be under police control. The health wing would examine the body temperature of all those who enter the premises. The corporation would have to provide ID cards to traders, porters, and other staff in the market who test negative for the virus and only such people should be allowed to work there. Stalls would be allowed to operate only after 11 a.m. and pushcart vendors too should reach the premises around the same time. Quick response teams would be stationed to enforce COVID protocol. In Malappuram Malappuram saw a respite in the surge of COVID-19 cases when 606 people tested positive for the virus and 757 infected persons recovered from the disease on Monday. Officials said that 545 of the new cases contracted the virus through direct local contacts. The source of infection could not be traced in 47 cases, they said. Among the new cases, there were five health workers. The number of active cases currently under treatment in the district rose to 6,590 on Monday. More than 45,000 people were quarantined across the district. In Kannur As many as 339 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Monday. Among them, 278 contracted the disease through contact. The district also reported 127 recoveries. In Kasaragod Kasaragod recorded 207 more COVID-19 cases on Monday. As many as 189 people were infected through contact. The district also saw 170 recoveries. There are now 4,588 people under observation. In Wayanad As many as 31 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Monday. Of these, 26 persons, including two police personnel and two health workers, were infected through contact. As many as 3,653 persons are under observation in the district.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)
06 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||West Hill Station witnesses surge in goods traffic||With a major goods shed and FCI siding, the West Hill station in Kozhikode has become one of the major freight terminals in the State during the COVID-19-induced lockddown. The station has witnessed a surge in goods traffic during the pandemic period. The facility, consisting of the goods platform and FCI siding, handled 1,850 wagons in the past six months which is almost triple the number of wagons handled (670 numbers) compared with the same period the previous financial year. Officials said that the goods shed catered to Kozhikode, Wayanad, and part of Malappuram districts while the FCI depot served Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. The FCI siding dealt with foodgrains, mainly rice and wheat for public distribution whereas the goods shed mainly dealt with inward wheat for roller flour mills, fertilizers, and cement. In April, 569 wagons were unloaded at the FCI siding. The figure for May was 280, June 195, July 272 and August 391. The goods platform handled 151 wagons during April 2020. Likewise, in May it was 245, June 206, July 264 and August 148. The goods shed this year too received the customary fertilizer inwards in the pre-monsoon and monsoon periods. The West Hill goods shed was in the national news after the trial run of a ro-ro rake was conducted last month for the extension of the services from Surathkal. The Southern Railway is actively considering the ro-ro facility for trucks as the path is found suitable for the operation. On introduction of this service, the facility will be beneficial to freight movers operating through Konkan in either direction as they can go up to Kolad, Maharashtra, by skipping the busy NH 66, officials said. In the Konkan Railway, ro-ro service is now terminated at Surathkal, north of Mangaluru. If the extension of ro-ro service to West Hill is materialised, the trucks coming to Kerala from Konkan, or proceeding towards Konkan from Kerala will have an economic and faster option to take the rail route by skipping the busy NH 66 for 250 km up to Surathkal and more than 1,000 km up to Mumbai. Once operational, the ro-ro is expected to meet the transportation needs of the plantation sector - high-value agri- products like coconut, arecanut, spices, pineapple, and other fruits in addition to rubber, plywood, white goods and manufactured items from Kerala. A market analysis conducted on ro-ro predicts the scope of at least one ro-ro service carrying 50 to 60 road vehicles on every alternate day from West Hill. In the post-lockdown period, transport service providers too are increasingly coming forward to use Railways to transport the consignments which are normally moved by road. In one such move, a transport service provider started dispatching 2,100 cars to Kerala from Gujarat. From this consignment, 750 cars are being unloaded at West Hill in September and October for sale in Kozhikode.
06 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medical college hospital may stop non-COVID admission, OP soon||The authorities at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here are thinking of stopping the admission of non-COVID patients in the wake of the surge in the number of those newly infected with SARS-CoV-2. A senior official in the administration told The Hindu on Monday that a suggestion had been forwarded to stop outpatient (OP) consultation and admission of non-COVID patients. “We may entertain only emergency cases among non-COVID patients from now. A final decision is awaited,” she said. The official pointed out that the segregation of patients into COVID and non-COVID categories was becoming a cumbersome process. Sources in the hospital claimed that there is a rapid rise in the number of COVID patients there in the past few weeks. All the infected persons with existing health issues are being admitted to the MCH alone as government hospitals other than the Government General Hospital have not been designated for the purpose in the district. ‘Chaotic situation’ Describing the current situation as chaotic, a few doctors said that some of the wards are now teeming with patients. The condition of those with kidney problems was pathetic, they claimed. A section of doctors said that only 70 to 80 of the over 300-odd COVID patients at the MCH belong to Category ‘C’, or those in need of critical medical care. A majority of the rest could be easily managed at other government hospitals in the periphery had they not been tested positive for the virus. They claimed that patients seeking treatment for other health issues are now being admitted to the COVID ward if they are found to be infected. “We need to figure out if such patients can be managed at other government hospitals or under home isolation after their existing conditions improve. Otherwise the system at MCH will crumble,” they added. However, there is another section of health professionals who believes that the MCH should continue the current system. They point out that government hospitals in the periphery neither have the facilities nor the presence of specialist teams of doctors to treat such patients. Also, MCH was the only shelter for people from poor families, they added.
06 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Zonal office of police housing society begins functioning in Kozhikode||A zonal office of the Kerala Police Housing Cooperative Society (KPHCS) has started functioning in Kozhikode city. The branch office, which was opened by Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan here on Monday, will mainly help to process home loan requests of its members from the northern Kerala region at affordable interest rates. It is the second such zonal office in Kerala after Thiruvananthapuram. A spacious building near the police control room, which was renovated spending about Rs. 10 lakh, has been allotted for the new office. Service of four newly appointed staff will be available for processing the applications. Kerala Police Association (KPA) leaders say the new facility will put an end to the time-consuming visits to the KPHCS head office in Ernakulam for processing various applications. The opening of such a zonal office was a major demand put forth to the consideration of the new administrative committee during the election time, they add. According to KPHCS functionaries, home loans schemes are offered to the members at the lowest possible interest rates in Kerala. Takeover of loans sanctioned by other banks at comparatively higher interest too has been facilitated by the cooperative society, they point out. Apart from the processing of files related to housing loans, the zonal office here will be handling disbursing of property loans and funds for various welfare schemes. One of the new initiatives to be brought under the project is an insurance scheme for all its members.
06 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rights panel orders inquiry against hospital||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has ordered an inquiry against KMCT Medical College Hospital, Mukkom, following reports that it was admitting patients without adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. The commission suo moto registered a case based on reports in online media. It had been pointed out that the hospital authorities were not testing patients and their bystanders before admitting them. As many as 30 cases were reported from there, a release from the commission said. Commission judicial member P. Mohanadas asked the Principal Secretary (Health), District Collector, Kozhikode, and the Principal of the college to file a report in 30 days. Mr. Mohanadas pointed out that if the online reports in this regard were found to be true, it could be a grave violation of human rights.
06 October 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Community leaders’ help sought to fight pandemic||The district administration here has sought the help of community leaders in addressing the threats being posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan met Indian Union Muslim League district president Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal and Muslim Youth League State president Sayed Munawwarali Shihab Thangal at their houses at Panakkad near here on Monday, requesting their help in the fight against COVID-19. The district administration decided to reach out to the community leaders as the number of COVID-19 cases continued to spiral in Malappuram. The district has 6,590 active cases currently under treatment. The administration says that the healthcare facilities currently available in the district will not be sufficient to deal with the situation if the spike in COVID-19 cases continues in the coming days. Health authorities in the district expressed concern as COVID-19 category-C patients continued to increase. Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, which is the designated COVID-19 hospital in the district, has four dozen ventilators and a little over 100 ICU beds. But the number of COVID-19 patients requiring critical care is increasing day by day even as many beds in the first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) go begging. “What we badly need is ICU beds for patients requiring critical care,” said Deputy District Medical Officer A. Shibulal. The Thangals assured the administration all possible help to increase the number of ICU beds and other critical care facilities.
06 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||NH survey continues despite orders||Attempts by the revenue authorities to continue the survey for the National Highway expansion caused tension at Kolappuram in the district on Monday. Over two dozen officials with the support of the police forcibly carried out the survey even when the people resisted, pointing out the prohibitory orders existing in the district. Deputy Collector J.O. Arun led the survey team. National Highway Action Council district convener Noushad Venniyoor said that the officials had thrown all cautions against COVID-19 to the winds.
06 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||281 test positive in Palakkad||The Palakkad municipal office was closed down on Monday after three employees tested positive for COVID-19. Municipal officials said that they would review the situation after three days. The clerks in two different sections and a cleaning worker tested positive for the virus. Officials said that TrueNat test would be done on all employees on Thursday. Several employees, including the municipal secretary, were quarantined after the confirmation of COVID-19 for three of their colleagues. Meanwhile, 281 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad on Monday. As many as 187 of them had contracted the virus through local transmission. There were cases whose source of infection could not be traced. However, 327 infected people recovered from the disease in the district on Monday. Officials said that 5,703 active COVID-19 cases were currently under treatment in the district. More than 14,000 people were quarantined across the district. As many as 854 entered into quarantine on Monday.
06 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||25 cases in Pathanamthitta||Having witnessed a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases for several days on end, the number of fresh cases in Pathanamthitta witnessed a sharp decline on Monday with just 25 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the fresh cases, 24 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Thiruvualla reported six cases while Erathu reported three cases. Ranni- Pazhavangadi region reported a couple of cases. The test positivity rate for the day was 6.7%. Meanwhile, the disease claimed three more lives in the district. The deceased were identified as a 69-year-old Pallikkal native, a 70-year-old Enathu native, and a 51-year-old woman from Kavumbhagam. With this, the total number of COVID-19 fatality in the district rose to 57. The first two persons died at the district hospital in Pathanamthitta while the woman had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Thiruvalla. Recovery With 196 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,275 active cases. The total number of recoveries, meanwhile, stood at 6,613.
06 October 2020||Thiruvananathapuram,KERALA||SAY results published||The results of the SSLC/ THSLC/ AHSLC SAY exams held this year have been published. The results can be viewed onwww. keralapareekshabhavan.in
06 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Results of withheld sero survey expose a ‘lost chance’||After a lag of three months, Kerala has released the report of the baseline sero surveillance study it did in June, piggybacking on Indian Council of Medical Research’s report of the second round of sero survey conducted in the State in August as part of a national survey. Despite the alleged shortcomings in the study, the fact that nothing was done to analyse the data and put it to practical use can be seen as a lost opportunity to check the spread of COVID-19, public health experts say. Study abandoned The study was done in 9,483 individuals using rapid antibody kits during June 8-14 to find out baseline sero prevalence in the community and determine the proportion of the population which had prior silent exposure to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. However, the study was abandoned by the Health Department after the first round following problems with the test kits. The report now released says the proportion of IgG positivity (indicative of silent prior exposure to SARS-CoV-2) was high amongst those in institutional quarantine (19%), home quarantine (6%) and expatriates (5%). Eliminating these groups, the proportion of IgG positivity was between 0.2 and 0.5%. IgG positivity in samples from the elderly and epidemiological samples together was 0.38%. Among health-care workers, it was 0.5% (COVID and non-COVID hospitals). It also detected 13 cases of active infection (reconfirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, RT-PCR) from amongst those tested IgM positive (active infection).  The report says IgG positivity in non-exposed groups, which means the general community, was consistent with the data from the first round of the ICMR sero surveillance done during May 18-23, which put the IgG positivity at 0.33%. Going by the State’s (and ICMR’s) estimate of 0.33% of past infection in May, when extrapolated to the State’s population of 3.34 crore would translate to 1,10,240 infected individuals. The actual cases detected in Kerala then were less than 1,000. Though a chunk of the individuals would be asymptomatic and would defy detection, they would still transmit the infection. But the narrative at the time was about how the State had COVID-19 under control. That 0.5% of health-care workers in both COVID and non-COVID hospitals had prior exposure to COVID was another indicator that infection was actively being transmitted in the community, brought into hospitals by patients. Second round “The ICMR’s second round of study done in the same districts during August 24-26 found IgG positivity to have gone up to 0.8%. This would translate to 2,67,250 infected individuals in the general population, when on August 10 the detected cases was only 35,515. “Had the State kept the sero survey data in perspective and invested in more RT-PCR testing, more cases could have been picked up early,” a senior public health professional said.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Multilevel parking inaugurated||Implementation of projects based on people’s demand in the capital is a sign that participatory democracy is functioning effectively at the local body-level, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating the newly constructed multilevel car parking lot on the city Corporation premises through videoconferencing here on Monday. He also launched work on another parking lot at Palayam and an Integrated Command Control Centre on the Corporation premises. “One of the major issues in the capital is the lack of enough space for parking. The Corporation should be lauded for taking a step to address this,” he said. Across seven floors, the multilevel parking lot in the Corporation can accommodate 102 cars at a time. It will be opened to the public once the parking fee rates are fixed and passed in the council. Executed under the Central government’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, the parking lot was completed at Rs. 5.64 crore. Out of this, 50% of the cost was borne by the city Corporation, 30% by the Central government and 20% by the State government. The parking lot at Palayam is coming up on land owned by the Thiruvananthapuram Development Authority (TRIDA), at Rs. 32.99 crore. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the new entry to the city Corporation, constructed for ease of entry to the parking lot.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cases in capital fall in tune with testing||The COVID-19 count in the district fell drastically to 700 on Monday on account of the fall in testing in 24 hours. The daily caseload had hovered around 1,000 in the past few days. As many as 532 acquired the infection through contact, while the source of infection of 140 others is unknown. There are also eight imported cases. Two more deaths Two 72-year-old persons, from Balaramapuram and Parassala, succumbed to the disease, taking the district’s COVID-19 death toll to 249. Among those diagnosed with the disease, there are 127 persons aged above 60 years and 59 children aged below 15. With 910 more recovering from the illness, there are 12,385 active COVID-19 cases in the district. The district administration placed 3,960 people in quarantine. With this, the number of people being monitored stands at 20,226. Special officers District Collector Navjot Khosa issued orders to appoint special officers at the panchayat and municipal levels to boost the ongoing curbs. Ninety-two sectoral officers and COVID-19 sentinels have been appointed to ensure strict enforcement of the prohibitory orders that have been imposed in the district until the midnight of October 31. The special officers have been tasked with ensuring compliance with provisions of the restrictions, including physical distancing, wearing masks and using hand sanitisers. Surveillance will also be stepped up at weddings, funerals and other programmes being held in auditoriums. Enforcement of restrictions in micro-containment zones, shops and markets would also be a priority for the officials, the Collector said. Collector holds checks Ms. Khosa inspected prominent parts of the city, including the KSRTC bus depot at Thampanoor, bus station at East Fort, Chala market and various establishments to take stock of the enforcement of the restrictions. She interacted with members of the public during the visit.
06 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MCH doctors, nurses cancel strike plan||Faculties of government medical colleges in the State and a section of nurses who had been threatening to go on an indefinite strike boycotting all non-COVID-19 duties and online classes from Tuesday demanding that the suspension orders of their colleagues be revoked have cancelled their strike plan following talks with Health Minister K.K. Shylaja here on Monday. The doctors and nurses at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, have been on the path of agitation since Friday after the government issued orders suspending the COVID-19 Nodal Officer and two head nurses after an elderly patient was found with maggots wriggling all over his wounds. They were soon joined by their colleagues in other MCHs too, all of whom stayed away from outpatient (OP) duties for two hours on Monday. The doctors decided to stand down and cancel the strike plan after the Minister assured them that the government would take action only on the basis of a detailed inquiry report filed by the Director of Medical Education (DME). However, Ms. Shylaja said nothing about revoking the suspension orders. Staff shortage The medical fraternity had pointed out that the acute shortage of support staff had led to the unfortunate incident involving the patient. Addressing media, Ms. Shylaja said the sacrifices by health-care workers and the dedication with which they had been fighting on the front lines, taking care of both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients, were much valued. However, even when isolated incidents of negligence occurred, the government would have to take action and the suspension orders were issued as a temporary measure while waiting for the detailed inquiry report. The report had been submitted by the DME on Monday evening and the government would take remedial action on the basis of the report within 24 hours, she said. The government would not take any vengeful measures against the doctors or nurses but correctional measures would have to be there to prevent medical negligences small or big, she said.  They want suspension orders of their colleagues to be revoked.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Catfish species rediscovered, identified as distinct one||A catfish first described by a French zoologist in 1839, but since then was confused with another species, has now been rediscovered from Puducherry and identified as a distinct species. The species Mystus keletius was rediscovered by Mathews Plamootil, head of the department of zoology, BJM Government College, Chavara, from a freshwater body in Puducherry. The finding has been published in the Indian Journal of Applied and Pure Biology, a UGC-approved journal. “French zoologist Achille Valenciennes discovered and described the species in 1839 from Puducherry, but he had not deposited specimens in any museum. Moreover, after the original discovery, no specimen was collected again from the region. Later on, many scientists took this fish to be the same as Mystus vittatus reported by the German zoologist Marcus Elieser Bloch from Tharangambadi (formerly Tranquebar) in Tamil Nadu,” Dr. Plamootil said. Edible, but not abundant In Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, fish belonging to the genus Mystus is locally known as ‘Kelethi.’ Brown and yellow in colour, Mystus keletius can grow to lengths ranging from 101 mm to 111.5 mm. Though an edible fish, it is not found in great abundance. A comparison of the physical characteristics of the two species proves that Mystus keletius is not the same as Mystus vittatus or any other catfish, he said. Dr. Plamootil has deposited specimens of Mystus keletius at the Zoological Survey of India Museum in Port Blair, Andamans.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GH gets cath lab, new cardiac ICU||The General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, has been equipped with a new cath lab and a 14-bed cardiac intensive-care unit (ICU), promising better treatment facilities for heart patients. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will inaugurate the facilities at 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday. With the introduction of the cath lab and the more spacious cardiac ICU, the hospital will not have to refer heart patients to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, the Minister said. At Rs. 7.5 crore Although heart patients regularly approach the hospital for treatment, they could not be offered expert care due to the absence of a cath lab. Moreover, the ICU had only four beds. The new facilities, meant as a solution to the shortcoming, have been established at Rs. 7.5 crore. The facilities will enable the hospital to offer better treatment for heart diseases enabling it to carry out angiogram, angioplasty, valve intervention, pacemaker implantation, cardiac resynchronisation therapy, peripheral angiography and angioplasty and treatment for congenital heart diseases. The cardiology department has a senior consultant, a consultant, two junior consultants, two assistant surgeons, a cath lab technician and an echo technician, 15 staff nurses and allied staff. Among the oldest Among the oldest hospitals in the State, the General Hospital has today grown into a 749-bed hospital offering specialty services. On an average, 73,370 patients visit the OP and 14,170 patients the IP every month.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s Transgrid 2.0 project enters the second phase||Transgrid 2.0 project launched by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) to strengthen the power transmission network in the State has entered the second phase, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Mr. Vijayan was speaking after inaugurating through video conference various projects of the KSEB on Monday. The State government-run power utility is carrying out the Transgrid project in two phases. Multi-circuit lines linking 400-kV substations, five new 400-kV substations and 220-kV substations in 26 locations are planned under Transgrid 2.0. Substation The Chief Minister inaugurated a 400-kV gas insulated substation substation in Kottayam, a 110 kV substation at Thiruvalla, the new transmission division at Nedumkandam, an electrical section at Lakkidi and new buildings for various KSEB offices across the State. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani presided over the function. Various projects aimed at ensuring uninterrupted power supply in the State were being implemented in a time-bound manner, Mr. Mani said. KSEB chairman and managing director N.N. Pillai; Power Secretary Dinesh Arora; and KSEB directors V. Sivadasan, P. Kumaran and P. Rajan; were present.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vizhinjam to be crew change, bunkering hub||The stage is set for Vizhinjam to be declared as international crew change and bunkering hub with the 50th vessel exercising the facility off the port on Monday. Nave Buena Suerte, a crude oil tanker under the flag of Hong Kong and moving from Singapore, exercised the facility three nautical miles within the Vizhinjam port limits, helping seven seafarers to sign off and 10 to sign on. This is the 50th vessel since the outer anchorage crew change began off Vizhinjam port on July 14 opening new business opportunities for shipping companies, transshipment service providers, and the travel trade. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will soon make the declaration. “We need rooms for the crew, Customs, Immigration and port agents. For bunkering to take off, the government should provide land close to the coast for constructing tanks for oil storage. The oil companies are willing to come forward. The State should also reduce the tax for bunkering,” says Jude Sajith D’cruz, managing director of Dowins Resources, shipping agents. Good potential “We are taking steps to create the requisite facilities and offer bunkering facilities in the days ahead as crew change and bunkering have good potential,” says Kerala Maritime Board Chairman V.J. Mathew.
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Good response to ‘Cyclolsavam’||‘Cyclolsavam’, a virtual festival organised by bicycle ambassadors of the capital, concluded on Monday. The festival was organised with the help of the city Corporation and Indus Cycling Embassy. Competitions in photography, elocution, essay writing and other disciplines were held in Hindi, English, Malayalam, other Indian languages like Urdu, Bengali, Odiya, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Marathi, Gujarati, Punjabi and Kumaoni, and French, Nepali, Spanish and German. The theme of all competitions was cycling. Apart from competitions, interactive sessions by international speakers and screening of bicycle-based films on the website of the Indus Cycling Embassy were conducted. The festival held over three days included competitions for special children as well. Around 500 persons participated in various categories. T.N. Seema, Vice Chairperson, Haritha Keralam Mission, inaugurated the concluding session.
06 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Murder: CPI(M) plans protests||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will take out marches in all branches in the district in protest against the murder of party’s Puthussery branch secretary Sanoop allegedly by BJP-RSS members. The protests will have five members each in each branch and will follow all COVID-19 protocols. In a press release, district secretary Anavoor Nagappan said that Sanoop was the fourth CPI(M) member to be murdered in the past 45 days.
06 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala sues builder||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday sued a private builder who alleged that he had purchased an expensive mobile phone for the Congress leader at the behest of gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh. Mr. Chennithala pegged the purported damages to his reputation at Rs. 1 crore. The Leader of the Oppostion demanded an unconditional public apology from the builder and wanted him to retract his “false submission” in court. Mr. Chennithala asked the police to trace the users of the phones gifted by the builder. The police have sought legal opinion in the matter.
06 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NISH extends last date for application||The National Institute of Speech & Hearing (NISH) has extended the last date for applying for the courses conducted by the Rehabilitation Council of India to October 15. For registration,http://www.rciamas.nic.in/aioat2020/RegistrationPage.aspx.For details,http://rciamas.nic.in/AIOAT2020/indexadm2020.html
06 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Denial of chance to dancer: probe ordered||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered an investigation into the alleged denial of opportunity to dancer RLV Ramakrishnan, Kalabhavan Mani's brother, by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi, which led to a suicide attempt. The commission has asked the Principal Secretary of the Culture Department to submit a report in two weeks. According to the complaint received by the commission, Mr. Ramakrishnan who has a doctorate in Mohiniyattom, lost out only because he is a Dalit.
06 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU gets NAEAB accreditation for 5 years||The National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has granted accreditation to Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), its various constituent colleges and academic programmes for a period of five years. This is based on the assessment of a self-study report and scorecard submitted by the university and their further verification through ICAR’s nodal office and site visit to the university and its various colleges across the State by ICAR peer review teams of experts constituted by the NAEAB during January 2020. Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur, and its constituent colleges, such as College of Agriculture, Vellayani; College of Agriculture, Padannakkad; College of Agriculture, Vellanikkara; College of Forestry, Vellanikkara; Kelappaji College of Engineering and Technology, Tavanur; and College of Cooperation, Banking and Management (CCBM), Vellanikkara; were all graded with high scores in the accreditation process. These colleges and the various undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD programmes under these colleges have also been approved for accreditation for a period of five years. Accreditation helps students of the KAU to pursue higher studies in 70 plus State and Central agricultural universities across the country and students from these varsities to study in the KAU. More grants Accreditation also helps the KAU and its faculty to get competitive research grants and qualifies the university to receive grant-in-aid from the ICAR. Few academic programs need to be examined for uniformity in nomenclature and duration aligned to ICAR’s Fifth Deans’ Committee report for accreditation. The university has already taken steps in this direction. As per the recommendation of the council, the KAU is offering four-year BTech in Biotechnology and four-year BSc in Climate Change and Environmental Science, respectively in the College of Agriculture, Vellayani, and College of Climate Change and Environmental Science, Vellanikara, from the 2020-2021 academic year. Nomenclature of a few masters academic programmes hasbeen aligned with the council's recommendation as well. ICAR accreditation to the KAU and its colleges and various academic programs helps students, educational institutions, professional societies, government and other agencies concerned in identifying institutions and programmes which meet the minimum norms and standards as prescribed by the ICAR, according to a KAU press release.
06 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||425 new cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 425 COVID-19 cases on Monday while 285 people recovered from the disease. There are 7,418 active cases in the district. So far 17,063 cases have been confirmed from here while 9,499 people recovered from the disease. According to an official press release, 422 people contracted COVID-19 through local contact on Monday. It included six health workers. There are 24 male and 34 female patients above the age of 60 in the district. The patients also included 16 boys and 8 girls under the age of 10. In all 4,273 patients are under home observation.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protecting the shore||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Paving the way for Puncha season||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In support||
06 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to buy sweet lime at Rs. 10,000 per tonne||The State government on Monday issued orders for the purchase of sweet lime at Rs. 10,000 per metric tonne directly from the farmers to help them tide over the crisis induced by the pandemic. Special Commissioner and Director of Agricultural Marketing P.S. Pradyumna said that the decision was taken to support the farmers who were not getting the Minimum Support Price(MSP) as the sales were affected. In the discussion of the Group of Ministers, it was felt that since sweet lime is rich in vitamin-C and aids in disease resistance, it should be made available to people in rural areas too, at subsidised prices. The procurement of sweet lime shall be made from farmers only through NeML Software by the supplying Agriculture Market Committee, the maximum quantum of procurement would be 10,000 tonnes at Rs. 10,000 per MT. The procured product shall be supplied to Rythu Bazars through the network of SERP and MEPMA. The procurement limit has been set at 20 MT (200 quintals) per acre for a maximum of 5 acres - 100 MT (or 1000 quintals) per farmer. In the beginning days of the pandemic in Anantapur district, where the crop is grown in 1,40,000 acres, there was no such support for the farmers, whose problems had compounded when the lockdown was announced, as sending the produce outside the State had turned a herculean task. ‘Price very low’ The Rythu Sangham leaders told The Hindu on Monday that the price then was Rs. 6,000 a tonne in the open market which led to thousands of acres of sweet lime farms remaining unattended, and fruits were not plucked as it was not economically viable. “Currently, the fruit is being sold between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 30,000 a tonne in the open market depending on its grade and if the government gives only Rs. 10,000 a tonne, the price in the open market will also drastically fall,” they opined. Unless the sweet lime is sold at Rs. 30,000 a tonne, it was economically not viable, they said. In the summer of 2019, the fruit was sold at Rs. 60,000 a tonne in the open market.
06 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pregnant worker killed in roof collapse at COVID hospital||A 30-year-old worker, a two months pregnant, died and two COVID-19 patients were critically injured when the roof of an under-construction floor collapsed on them at the SVIMS Padmavathi COVID Hospital at Tirupati on Sunday midnight. According to information, the deceased, Ms. Radhika, an outsourced employee, was moving a just admitted COVID-19 patient, a 70-year-old woman, into a ward when all of a sudden a part of the roof with granite blocks at an extension building fell on her killing her on the spot and injuring the patient, whose condition is said to be serious. Another patient in the vicinity also received serious injuries. Radhika’s colleagues in the ward said that she had not been keeping well for a couple of days. “When a COVID-19 patient arrived at portico, Radhika rushed to attend the case and in just a couple of minutes tragedy struck at the adjoining block. The entire structure has developed cracks and we are scared,” a woman employee said. Radhika’s two children reportedly died in the last two years. Contractor blamed Local leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party rushed to the spot and blamed the contractor for poor quality construction. They demanded his arrest and Rs. 1 crore ex gratia to the family of the deceased and threatened to launch an agitation if their demand was not met. Chittoor SP A. Ramesh Reddy and senior officials inspected the building. Meanwhile, Health Minister Alla Nani on Monday ordered an inquiry into the incident and directed the SVIMS management to initiate immediate steps to prevent such mishaps. He announced an ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh to the kin of the deceased and Rs. 2 lakh each to the injured. The Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised all possible support to the families of the victims.
06 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM pays tributes to Gangi Reddy||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday paid rich tributes to popular paediatrician and his father-in-law E.C. Gangi Reddy, who passed away a couple of days ago, at a remembrance meeting organized at Dr. YSR Auditorium at Pulivendula in Kadapa district. The Chief Minister reached Pulivendula in a helicopter and drove straight to the auditorium from the helipad, taking part in the memorial services held in honour of Gangi Reddy. Services recalled Speakers at the event recalled the services of Dr. Reddy for the poor and downtrodden persons without collecting any consultation fee and always keeping himself accessible to public. Chief Minister’s mother Y.S. Vijayamma, wife Y.S. Bharati, Minister Adimulapu Suresh, Rajampeta MP Peddireddi Midhun Reddy, district MLAs and party leaders and officials participated in the prayers on this occasion.
06 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||701 bags of PDS rice seized, two arrested||The Tirupati urban police on Sunday night seized a lorry with 701 bags of rice weighing about 17 tonnes, meant for fair price shops and nabbed two persons in Railway Colony locality in Tirupati. According to the police, they were acting on a tip off about clandestine loading of the rice bags into the lorry at the locality and took two persons into custody on reaching there. On interrogation, it was revealed that the duo – identified as A. Kishore Kumar (41) of Tirupati and Syed Nanne Saheb (53) of Rayachoti in Kadapa district – used to procure the rice supplied through PDS system from several persons in Tirupati sub-division limits at a lesser price and send the same to a provision shop owner in Kadapa, who sold them at a higher price. A case was registered and further investigation is on.
06 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 40 lakh seized||A combing party of the Red Sanders Task Force in the early hours of Monday seized as many as 27 logs of red sanders worth Rs. 40 lakh abandoned by smuggling operatives close by a rivulet in Bhimavaram valley of Seshachalam ranges, 25 km from Tirupati, while a batch of trespassers fled the area. Deputy SP (Task Force) Venkataiah told the media that a combing party with 30 personnel was on the field moving from Bhimavaram valley to Bhakarapeta ghat section on Sunday. In the middle of the valley, they spotted the footprints and signs of camping on the wet sands of a rivulet. Advancing further, the party sighted a large group of smuggling operatives carrying the logs and negotiating a slope. Additional forces to be deployed On seeing the party, the group abandoned the logs and fled the area. Additional forces would be deployed to flush out the woodcutters from the hills, the official said. The seized logs were brought to the Task Force office at Tirupati and a case was registered.
06 October 2020||FROM PAGE 1,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID toll breaches 6,000-mark in State||Chittoor has the highest toll of 680 and the second-highest mortality rate at 1.04%. In the past one month, 1,672 patients succumbed to the disease in the State. In the past day, 7,558 patients have recovered and the recovery rate has gone up to 92.11% with a total of 6,66,433 recoveries so far. Currently, there are 51,060 patients undergoing treatment. So far 61.50 lakh samples were tested and the overall positivity rate was at 11.76%. The tests per million ratio has increased to 1,115, 175 and the cases per million ratio too increased to 13,549. New cases East Godavari reported the highest single-day infections and Krishna the highest number of deaths. The new cases and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (853 and 3), Prakasam (666 and 2), West Godavari (513 and 2), Guntur (444 and 2), Nellore (365 and 2), Anantapur (271 and 4), Kadapa (231 and 5), Chittoor (224 and 5), Krishna (179 and 7), Srikakulam (157 and 1), Visakhapatnam (138 and 4), Vizianagaram (129 and 1) and Kurnool (86 and 0). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,01,638), West Godavari (70,646), Chittoor (65,585), Anantapur (59,005), Guntur (57,232), Kurnool (57,158), Nellore (54,629), Prakasam (51,567), Visakhapatnam (51,187), Kadapa (45,687), Srikakulam (40,666), Vizianagaram (36,252) and Krishna (29,365). The recovery rate in Anantapur was the highest in the State at 97.1% and Prakasam’s the lowest at 88.8%. The same for the other districts was between 89% and 96%.
06 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases of minors being forced into flesh trade on the rise||A report by the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development has come out with a report ‘Commercial sexual exploitation in India’, according to which there are over three million sex workers in India, out of which 35.47% enter into prostitution before they enter 18 years. The International Day of No Prostitution was observed on October 5. The other facts in the report include an alarming rate at which minors are being forced into flesh trade. According to a survey, about 1.2 million children are involved in such trade. The report also revealed that there was a 50% increase in prostitution in India between 1997 and 2004. The report also said that Mumbai and Kolkata have among the largest brothel based sex industry. In Mumbai, about 1,00,000 sex workers are involved. The government organisations like Maharashtra District AIDS Control Society (MDACS) and NGOs like National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) play an important role in combating STDs (Sexually Transmitted Diseases) and increase awareness on HIV/AIDS. There are diverse views on legalising profession, and a number of NGOs have suggested that the prostitution be legalised and laws framed to prevent exploitation. In Andhra Pradesh, the trade runs in the semi nomadic tribal community that resides in slums in various towns. Adolescent girls are initiated into the family 'tradition', while their brothers become 'agents'. According to K.K. Mukherjee, former head of the Department of Social Work, DU. Apart from the community, there are other tribal communities in Anantapur district who take up prostitution as their primary source of income. NGOs’ campaign NGOs like Help and Vimukthi have been campaigning for the rights of children and prevent second generation prostitution and to end human trafficking. “We have been asking for compensation for victims under the laws. Those forced into prostitution can be absorbed into the mainstream,” says Ongole-based Help organisation secretary N.V.S. Rammohan.
06 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu spreading falsehood for political gain’||Adviser (Public Affairs) to the State government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has alleged that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is writing letters to Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang with a mala fide intention of painting a false picture about the law and order in the State. “Mr. Naidu has failed as the Leader of Opposition as he never raised issues of public interest. Instead, he has been writing letters to the DGP knowing well that the latter has his own limitations,” he told the media here on Monday. Cases against police Brushing aside the allegations levelled by Mr. Naidu that more than 1,600 cases were registered against police personnel in the State last year, quoting the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that the TDP president had been writing letters, without knowing the facts. Mr. Naidu is trying to feed the same untruths to the people, despite a small number of cases were registered against the police personnel, he said. “Mr. Naidu has exaggerated the figures in his letter to the DGP. In Chittoor, it was erroneously mentioned that 400 such cases were registered while the actual figure is just four. The correct data has been sent to teh NCRB for corrections,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has already made it clear that serious action will be taken against the officials involved in any crime or corruption, said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy
06 October 2020||JANGAREDDYGUDE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held in tonsure case||The Lakkavaram police on Monday arrested three persons for allegedly tonsuring a person in West Godavari district. According to West Godavari district SP K. Narayan Naik, one Abhilash, a chef in a private college borrowed Rs. 28,000 hand loan from a woman a few months ago, but could not repay the loan amount. Angered over this, Y. Vijay, R. Markandeya and SK. Nagur Meera Vali reportedly kidnapped him in a car and committed the crime at Vijay’s house in Jangareddygudem on October 4. Following a complaint, the police arrested the accused and produced them in court, the SP added.
06 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treasury staff, driver produced in ACB court, remanded||The Anantapur Treasury employee, from whom promissory notes, gold and silver ornaments and articles valued at over Rs. 2 crore were confiscated in the disproportionate assets case, and his driver were produced before the judge in the Anti-Corruption Bureau Special Court here on Monday afternoon. Both of them were remanded to judicial custody, while the Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths produced material evidence in the court. ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Allabaksh said that raids at five places had helped in recovering additional evidence related to the employee Manoj Kumar, his wife, driver Nagalingam, a friend of Manoj Kumar and the Treasury Office.
06 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,031 new infections in Nellore, Prakasam||The incidence of coronavirus showed signs of easing in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as the number of fresh cases and fatalities dropped while more persons recovered in Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. The toll marginally rose to 956 in the region with four more deaths during the period. The toll touched the 500-mark in Prakasam as two more persons succumbed to the pandemic during the period. With an equal number of deaths, the toll reached the 456-mark in Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Monday night. With 1,031 new cases, the number of cumulative confirmed cases rose to 1,07,762 in the two districts, where 98,006 persons have so far recovered from the disease. In Nellore district, 52,210 persons recovered from the disease while as many as 45,796 persons have so far recovered from the illness in Prakasam district. Health professionals heaved a sigh of relief as the number of persons getting discharged from hospitals was more by about 500 in the two districts. As many as 1,525 persons, including 1,024 in Prakasam district recovered from illness in the last 24 hours. With this the number of active cases dropped to 9,256 in the two districts, including 3,985 in Nellore district.
06 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||APCC seeks justice for Hathras victim||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S. Sailajanath has asserted that his party would stand by the family of the deceased Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped and brutally assaulted by upper caste men in the Hathras district in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress called for a nationwide satyagraha seeking justice to the Dalit girl on Monday. Congress activists led by Mr. Sailajanath took part in the satyagraha in-front of the Prakasam Bhavan here. “It is time the Yogi Adityanath government took stern action against the perpetrators based on the statements made by the victim before her death. The Congress will spearhead a protracted struggle till the victim gets justice and her family members get compensation,” said Mr. Sailajanath asserted. Taking exception to the way the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh treated Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi when they proceeded to meet the family members of the victim. Taking a dig at the YSRCP government in the State, the APCC chief said, “It is unfortunate that the YSRCP government supports the NDA government at the Centre on each and every issue at the drop of a hat.” Referring to the three farm laws, he said the YSRCP backed the NDA when the Bills were passed in Parliament. “The farm laws are pro-corporate and anti-farmer. With the laws, the market intervention system which protected farmers will come undone, reducing the small and marginal farmers to mere labourers,” he said. Campaign against farm laws The Congress will collect signatures from public from across the State against the ‘controversial farm laws’ and send them to President Ram Nath Kovind, said APCC vice-president Sripathy Prakasam.
06 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fully committed to home guards’ welfare’||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal on Monday lauded the services of home guards in the times of the pandemic. Addressing a home guards meeting here, he said Project TATA (Trainings & Activities for Technology Adoption), a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country at the district level launched for the police personnel, would be extended to home guards also to improve their professional skills. They would be assigned technical duties shortly, the SP said amid loud cheers. He assured them to step up welfare activities for their benefit. They would be shortly issued identity and police canteen cards, besides loans from the Cooperative Society, he said. The SP sorted out certain technical issues pertaining to home guards switching over from State Bank of India to Axis Bank after it provided insurance cover for them and arranged bank loans for them on the occasion. Home Guards Welfare Association State president S.Govind, Association Prakasam District unit president D. Baburao thanked the SP for the welfare initiatives.
06 October 2020||PAMARRU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||CRPF SI held on charge of attacking three||Three persons were injured when an SI (communications) of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), B. Chandrashekar, allegedly attacked them with a knife following a dispute on construction of a compound wall on the borders at his house, at Chennuvaripalem village in the district on Monday. The Pamarru police arrested Chandrashekar, attached to 4th Signal Battalion at Neemach in Madhya Pradesh. He was transferred from 234th Battalion, located at Bakkapalem village in Visakhapatnam, recently. Trouble broke out when the neighbours had an argument with the SI over deciding the borders for constructing the wall. Chandrashekar, who became angry, allegedly attacked T. Sriram, B. Rajendra Prasad and D. Appala Swamy, with a knife. Gudivada DSP N. Satyanandam said a case was registered and the accused was arrested. The situation was peaceful in Chennuvaripalem. The villagers staged a rasta roko for some time on the National Highway demanding action against the CRPF SI.
06 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU holds blood donation camp||District Collector J. Nivas has urged employees and workers to come forward to donate blood since its reserves are almost nil in the district as many people stopped donating blood since the outbreak of COVID-19. Speaking after inaugurating the blood donation camp organised by CITU in Indira Nagar Colony of Srikakulam on Monday, the Collector pointed out that many patients and victims of road accidents were unable to get blood due to shortage of it at Indian Red Cross Blood Bank and at other such facilities. He praised CITU vice-president D.Govinda Rao for mobilising 42 persons to donate blood in spite of the COVID-19 threat. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao thanked the donors and urged them to motivate others for blood donation to save precious lives. IRCS Srikakulam district chairman P. Jaganmohana Rao hoped that the trade union would organise such camps in industrial zones of Pydibhimavaram, Palasa and other places. He said that non-governmental organisations were coming forward to create awareness about blood and plasma donation to save patients and COVID victims. CITU district president R.Suresh Babu, general secretary P. Tejeswara Rao, IRCS representative Penki Chaitnya coordinated the programme.
06 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police patrolling goes hi-tech||Srikakulam district Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar on Monday launched QR-based e-beat system to ensure efficient patrolling on the lines of Bengaluru where technology is being used for the optimum and quick utilisation of man power located at different parts of the district. The software ‘Subhahu’ which is used in e-beat system works based on cloud and artificial intelligence system. Mr. Bardar handed over the software to Kasibugga Inspector Guggilapu Srinivasa Rao for the immediate adoption of the new system in Palasa-Kasibugga and surrounding areas which are very close to the Odisha border where patrolling is highly sensitive for the police. “Effective patrolling curbs crime rate. The usage of technology helps the police on the duty to inform important messages quickly to all higher officials who in turn would be able to guide them in case of emergency. The officials can upload pictures related to the places visited, data within no time. The information can be retrieved at any time quickly in future,” said Mr. Bardar. Mr.Srinivasa Rao thanked Mr. Bardar for selecting Kasibugga area for implementation of the e-beat system.
06 October 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID vaccine trial begins at KGH||King George Hospital (KGH), has embarked on a historic journey on Monday with the beginning of the trial for coronavirus vaccine. The vaccine Covishield, which was developed by the Oxford University, with Serum India Limited and the IndianCouncil of Medical research (ICMR) as partners, was administered to the first volunteer by KGH Superintendent and principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. The vaccine was administered under strict guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and as per the protocols laid down by the Oxford University, Serum India Limited and the ICMR, Dr. Sudhakar told The Hindu . The KGH and the AMC intend to select around 100 volunteers for conducting various tests prior to the vaccine trial and 20 volunteers have already registered as of now. About 10 volunteers were called on the first day on Monday and eight qualified the norms. Of the eight, two were administered the vaccine on Monday. Prior to administering the vaccine, the volunteers discussed their medical history with a team of 10 doctors and underwent various tests, including RT-PCR for the coronavirus, said Mr. Sudhakar. The two volunteers who were administered the vaccine were put under observation for a few hours before they were allowed to go home. They will be tested again for development of antibodies 57 days later. Such tests will be conducted periodically for six months, said Dr. Sudhakar. Strict protocol The vaccine is not only administered under strict protocol, but even storing it also is defined in the protocol. It has been stored in temperature varying from 2° to 8° Celsius and the storing process has to be logged and sent to the ICMR. “For this reason, we have purchased a logger for Rs. 70,000 and the report will be sent to the ICMR,” he said. It is a learning experience for the team of doctors, as international-standard protocols are being followed. According to Dr. Sudhakar, volunteers are free to approach the Department of Plastic Surgery in the KGH and register. A team of doctors will examine the volunteers and if satisfied tests will be conducted. People with co-morbidities and those who have tested positive for COVID, are not eligible.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily hearing on capital pleas in HC from today||A full bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari, Justices Rakesh Kumar and M. Satyanarayana Murthy has decided to hear the numerous petitions filed against the shifting of capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam, on a daily basis from October 6 (Tuesday). Advocate-General S. Sriram’s plea to vacate the interim order for a status quo on the construction of a State guest house in Visakhapatnam and a host of interlocutory applications and other related matters will come up for hearing on Tuesday, according to official sources. Interim applications As many as 225 interim applications have been filed in the High Court, most of them seeking a stay on the implementation of the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act- 2020 and the A.P. Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Act- 2020 through which Visakhapatnam and Kurnool were proposed to be developed as the executive and judicial capitals respectively, leaving out Amaravati as the legislative capital. All the capital-related matters will be heard during the pre-lunch session henceforth. Appeals for physical hearing might be considered only in respect of the main petitions. As per the High Court’s latest notification, the restrictions on its normal functioning in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic will be in force till November 3.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspect sheets in attacks on places of worship||The Andhra Pradesh police have decided to open suspect sheets against 8,210 persons involved in attacks on the places of worship and also in thefts in temples in the State. A few minors have also been apprehended in these cases. The police conducted meetings with endowments personnel, managements of shrines and community heads in villages and discussed security aspects at places of worship. Miscreants set fire to the chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy devastanam at Antarvedi in East Godavari district on September 6, which triggered protests across the State. The State government handed over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Later, a series of incidents of attacks on shrines and thefts in temples were reported in East and West Godavari, Krishna, Nellore and other districts. Police arrested the accused in many cases and tightened security in villages to prevent recurrence of such incidents. Mapping Following directions by Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, police identified (mapped) 50,958 religious places, including 30,415 temples, 5,442 mosques and 15,101 churches in the State. Surveillance cameras have been arranged at 2,676 temples, 623 masjids and 1,001 churches and police are insisting the managements on instilling CCTV cameras, proper electrification and provide security to the shrines with the locals. Mr. Sawang directed the Superintendents of Police (SPs), Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) and the Station House Officers (SHOs) to visit the religious places in person, hold meetings with villagers and keep a tab on the criminals and those having history. Friendly policing Krishna district Superintendent of Police (S) M. Ravindranath Babu said as part of friendly policing Grama Rakshana Dalams have been formed to prevent thefts and other crimes in villages and involve people in policing. “Out of eight thefts occurred in temples post Antarvedi temple incident, seven were detected in Krishna district and the accused were arrested. Members of Grama Rakshana Dalams helped the police in detecting the accused quickly,” Gudivada DSP N. Satyanandam said. “Police bound over 8,210 persons involved in thefts and attacks on shrines in the State in last six years, and a few were notorious and inter-State offenders involved in many cases,” a police officer said on Monday. “This year, 230 cases of thefts and attacks on religious places were reported up to September 30. I request the people to respect the sentiments of all sections in society, not to resort to anti-social activities and cooperate with the police in maintaining law and order,” Mr. Sawang said. Meanwhile, the Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsulu (MSKs) along with grama and ward volunteers are visiting the shrines in villages and collecting the details.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 13 cr. for Shilparamams at Tirupati, Srikakulam||The government has sanctioned Rs. 10 crore to the AP Shilparamam Arts, Crafts and Cultural Society for undertaking development works at the Shilparamam Park in Tirupati and Rs. 3 crore for the establishment of a new Shilparamam Park at Ponnada near Srikakulam town, according to separate G.Os issued by Special Chief Secretary (Tourism and Culture) Rajat Bhargava. The works being taken up at the Shilparamam Park at Tirupati are construction of an entrance plaza, an arch, visitors’ facility centre, a water fountain, an arts and crafts village with stalls, a training centre for artisans, crafts emporium with a souvenir shop, food courts, toilet blocks, an open air theatre, pathways, landscaping and gazebos, storm water drains and external electrical, plumbing and sanitation works. The new Shilparamam Park near Srikakulam is being set up in 9.75 acres on the banks of River Nagavali. The district administration has allotted land for it and took other steps required for setting up the facility.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Award for APSRTC||Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation has been conferred with the Kaushal Acharya Award-2020 by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. The award was presented in recognition of the corporation’s skill development programmes, according to a release. APSRTC VC & MD M.T. Krishna Babu appreciated the efforts of executive director (Admin) A. Koteswara Rao, Chief Manager (Personnel) P.V. Swarupananda Reddy, Dy. Chief Manager (HRD) D. Samrajyam and Personnel Officer J Tirupathi.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy Dept. focusses on PAT scheme in industries||The Energy Department will hold a webinar on Perform, Achieve & Trade (PAT) scheme for all stakeholders on October 6 (Tuesday), in which the officials of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) will deliberate on implementation of the scheme and improving the efficiency of energy-intensive industries, a release said. Andhra Pradesh has saved 2,386 million units (MU) of energy worth around Rs. 1,600 crore in 22 energy-intensive units in various industrial sectors and demonstrated energy savings of 2,05,204 tonnes of oil equivalent (ToE) under the PAT scheme. The BEE said the industrial sector alone was consuming 40% of total energy in the country. The sectoral energy consumption is expected to reach about 445 million ToE by 2031 when compared to the present 347 MToE in the industrial sector. The PAT scheme is a market-based compliance mechanism aimed at accelerating the implementation of cost-effective improvements in energy efficiency in industries through certification of energy savings that could be traded. Energy saving certificates Under the scheme, the industries which achieve the specific energy consumption in excess of the targets, will be issued energy saving certificates by the BEE and they can be traded on the power exchanges. The certificates can be purchased by the under-performing industries to avoid penalty. The energy efficiency measures under the PAT help reduce usage of electricity and lower per-unit production cost, leading to higher profits. The PAT scheme has achieved savings of 8.67 MToE, with monetary savings of Rs. 9,500 crore and emission reduction of 31 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent and capacity building of over 5,000 engineers and operators.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Postings on social media false: KLU||Koneru Lakshmaiah University (KLU) Vice-Chancellor L.S.S. Reddy has said that some unidentified persons posted false messages on social media damaging the reputation of the university, and there is no need to get panic on such postings. Speaking to the media here on Monday, Dr. Reddy said that miscreants posted that KLU has lost ‘Deemed to be University’ status, which was incorrect. He said that the 40-year-old university was successfully conducting online classes for the last few months during the pandemic and organised virtual admissions, and the response was overwhelming. Stating that KLU, located at Vaddeswaram village in Guntur district, got autonomous status in 2006, and NAAC A++ category, bagged many awards from the University Grants Commission (UGC) and was giving top priority for researches.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM should make a strong case at Apex Council meet||The State unit of the BJP has suggested to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to make strong arguments in favour of the projects on the Krishna and Godavari rivers at the Apex Council meeting scheduled to be held on October 6. In a press release, the party suggested that the Chief Minister should speak about the projects like Palamuru-Ranga Reddy Lift Irrigation (LI) scheme in view of the tough posturing by his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the proposed Rayalaseema LI and other projects. The party observed that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao made an in-depth study of the utilisation of the Krishna and Godavari river waters during the agitation for Statehood to Telangana. A string of LI projects were undertaken by the Telangana government after the new State came into existence, but neither the then Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu nor his successor uttered a word about its due to their compulsions. Taking advantage of his cordial relationship with Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy should at least now talk to him about lifting water from Pothireddypadu head regulator for the benefit of the Rayalaseema region which has the potential to be transformed into a granary and an industrial hub if the river waters were taken to its dry lands. The BJP demanded that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao should give up his hostile attitude towards the Central government and condemned objectionable comments which he continued to make on AP and the Centre even after bifurcation. It appealed to Union Minister for Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, to ensure justice is done to both States.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Focus on bringing down death rate in Krishna’||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz stressed the need for bringing down COVID mortality rate and spread of infection in the district, at a meeting with the officials concerned and COVID task force team at Machilipatnam on Monday. The district’s mortality rate was at 1.60% with 471 deaths and 29,365 cases. There are 2,705 active cases in 512 containment zones. Mr. Imtiaz said that though the number of new infections is low compared to other districts, the viral disease is still very much active in the district and its spread should be contained by taking all measures. He said 60% of the infections are being reported in rural areas and 40% are being reported in urban areas, adding that those experiencing breathlessness, cough and fever should approach the government hospitals and asked officials to provide treatment to such patients. Joint Collector (Development) L. Siva Sankar said that the death rate should be brought down to at least 1%.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on bio-diesel plants today||Oil marketing companies will conduct a virtual roadshow and interactive session for prospective entrepreneurs through webex on Tuesday at 3 p.m. The webinar is being held to discuss the expression of interest for setting up bio-diesel plants and procurement of bio-diesel. Interested traders can send email tosray@hpcl.into participate in the webex meeting, according to a press release.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buggana seeks early release of GST dues||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy sought an early release of the GST compensation due to the State, at the 42nd GST Council meeting in which he participated virtually on Monday. He said the devolution to States came down from Rs. 18 lakh crore in 2018-19 to Rs. 15.50 lakh crore in the 2019-20 fiscal, despite a substantial increase in the cess and surcharge collections by the Centre. The Centre should make the necessary course of corrections, which would help Andhra Pradesh which bore the brunt of bifurcation and COVID-19. Mr. Rajendranath Reddy stressed the need to allow the States to make an additional 2% borrowings to fulfilcertain criteria, to help them meet the liquidity needs.
06 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister inspects land for agri research centre||Transport and I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, along with officials, inspected a land for setting up an agriculture research centre in the Bandar division on Monday. As the land allotted for the research centre earlier will be given for the proposed medical college, the officials are in search of a new site. Mr. Venkataramaiah, along with Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, Bandar Division RDO N.S.K. Kazavali inspected a 20-acre land near the Gurukul School in Rudravaram village for the agriculture research centre. He asked the officials to submit a reports in this regard.
06 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 4 more deaths, 138 new cases||The district recorded the lowest number of COVID-19 cases since mid of July, in the last 24 hours, here on Monday. The number of COVID-19 positive cases were 138, taking the total to 51,699 and active cases to 3,172. The district also recorded four deaths, taking the total death count since the outbreak of the pandemic to 420. The number of discharges and recoveries on Monday was 299, taking the total discharges to 48,107. According to COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, there are 13 very active, 55 active and 239 dormant clusters. The de-notified clusters are 627.
06 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizagites bid tearful farewell to Dronamraju Srinivas||A large number of people, YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders and party workers went to the residence of VMRDA Chairman and former MLA Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao at Doctor’s Colony in China Waltair on Monday morning, to pay their last respects. Many of his admirers broke down. Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Government Whip Budi Mutyala Naidu, Deputy Speaker Kona Raghupathi, Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi, MLAs Gudivada Amarnath, Adeep Raj, Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar, Golla Babu Rao and K. Bhagya Lakshmi, YSRCP city president Vamsi Krishna Srinivas, BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav and CPI(M) leader Ch. Narasinga Rao were among those who paid their last respects. Former MLAs Malla Vijay Prasad, Tynala Vijay Kumar, Chintalapudi Venkataramaiah, Tippala Gurumurthy Reddy, Palla Srinivasa Rao and P. Vishnu Kumar Raju, State YSRCP secretary Rongali Jagannadham, State general secretary Kola Guruvulu, party additional secretary Ravi Reddy, party leaders K.K. Raju, A. Vijaya Nirmala, Behara Bhaskara Rao, Mantri Rajasekhar, John Wesley and Karri Rama Reddy were present. The leaders recalled the contribution of Dronamraju Srinivas for the development of the city. They said his death was a great loss to north Andhra. “We hoped that he would return home after fighting COVID-19 but we never thought we would lose him,” his party colleagues said. They said he was loved by all leaders, irrespective of their political affiliations and ideological differences. He had great concern for the poor. His son Dronamraju Srivastava performed the last rites at the Hindu cremation ground.
06 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water bodies choking on plastic wastes: NGO||The haphazard dumping of plastic wastes is polluting water bodies and causing the death of fish. One in every three plastic wastes is reaching the drains and from there into the rivers and ultimately into the ocean, Vinod Bodhankar, co-founder of Sagarmitra, has said. At a webinar on ‘Mana Nudi, Mana Nadi’ on the theme of ‘Plastic waste management through people’s participation’, Mr. Vinod said that the ultraviolet rays of the sun was breaking plastic wastes into small pieces. The fish and birds were mistaking them for food and eating them, resulting in their death. Sagarmitra, in association with Jalbiradari, has been creating awareness among schoolchildren against the hazards of dumping of plastic wastes. The children were asked to collect the plastic wastesand bring the collection to the school. Sagarmitra tied up with a plastic manufacturer and the latter would pick up the wastes for recycling. The manufacturer would pay the school management . The money would be utilised by the school managements, in consultation with the students
06 October 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gallantry awards presented||Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C) Eastern Naval Command, conferred the Gallantry and non-Gallantry Awards announced on the Republic Day this year on meritorious personnel, as well as citations to naval units which have distinguished themselves during the past year at the Naval Investiture Ceremony conducted here on Monday. The ceremony was conducted at Samudrika Naval Auditorium and was witnessed by senior dignitaries of the Indian Navy and families of the awardees. During the Investiture Ceremony, Cdr Prakash Vivek was conferred Yudh Seva Medal (YSM) while Rear Admiral Jyotin Raina and Shri Niwash Leading Seaman were conferred Nao Sena Medal (Gallantry). Commodores P.C. Maragatha Velan and R Vijay Sekhar were conferred with Nau Sena Medal (Devotion to Duty) and Ram Dular MCME II, and Shrikant Parashram Mane MCPO (UV) II were conferred with Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM). Other awards presented were Lt V.K. Jain Memorial Gold Medal to Lt Cdr V. Rajesh Kumar Singh and Jeevan Rakshak Padak to Mukesh Kumar CPO (RP). The C-in-C also presented Unit Citations to INS Sujata, INS Karna, INS Chilka, and INS Kalinga.
06 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thunderstorm likely at isolated places from today||Thunderstorm along with lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam from October 6 to October 9, over south coastal A.P. on October 6 and over Rayalaseema on October 8 and 9. According to the weatherman, the low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast, with the associated cyclonic circulation, extending up to 5.8 km above the mean sea level, tilting south westwards with height, persists. A trough at 1.5 km above mean sea level runs from the cyclonic circulation associated with the above low pressure area to north Maharashtra coast, across Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha and north Madhya Maharashtra. Low pressure area A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over north Anadaman Sea and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal around October 9, according to the IMD.
06 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mentally unsound’ man attacks kin, passers-by||A man, suspected to be mentally unsound, attacked his relatives and also passers-by near Amaravati Colony at Kommadi area under the PM Palem Police Station limits here on Monday. Two persons, a 10-year-old-girl and a 42-year-old-woman Lakshmi were injured after the man known as Rafiq, a native of Odisha, allegedly attacked them with a knife. The police said that one Srinivasa Murthy, a native of Semiliguda area of Koraput district of Odisha, rented a house at JNNURM Colony at Amaravati Colony, as his children are studying in a private school in Anandapuram area in the city. Srinivasa Murthy used to visit Vizag once in a month. On Monday, Srinivasa Murthy along with his friend Basha and Basha’s brother Rafiq came to the city for treatment of Rafiq, said to be mentally unsound. The trio stayed for sometime in the rented house. However, Rafiq attacked his brother Basha and Srinivasa Murthy and left the house with a knife. Rafiq injured a minor girl and also Lakshmi with the knife. Locals nabbed Rafiq and gave him a thrashing before the police reached the spot. Case registered The police said that Rafiq and the injured persons were admitted to a hospital, where the condition of the duo is said to be stable. A case has been registered against Rafiq and investigation is on.
06 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online yoga classes from October 8||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, is conducting regular online yoga classes from October 8, according to O.S.R.U. Bhanu Kumar, honorary Director. The classes will be conducted under the supervision ofP. Pratap. Interested can contact him on mobile no. 89196 39492 or on the phone no. 0891-2566640.
06 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HoD takes charge||D.V.R. Murthy assumed charge as Head of the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication on Monday. Faculty member Challa Ramakrishna, teachers, staff and students congratulated Prof. Murthy. Prof. Murthy is presently Dean of UG Examinations and Director of AU Centre of Foreign Languages. He had also worked as Dean, Media Relations, and HOD of Journalism Department in the past.
06 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shilparamam to be developed at a cost of Rs. 10.92 crore||Minister for Tourism and Youth Advancement Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that Shilparamam in Visakhapatnam city would be developed at an estimated cost of Rs. 10.92 crore. The Shilparamams in the State will be opened to visitors from Tuesday. However, film shows and entertainment programmes will not be allowed.
06 October 2020||VISSANNAPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||3 of family found dead||Three persons of a family, including an eleven-year-old girl, died under suspicious circumstances on the town outskirts on Monday. The bodies were found near NSP canal. They were identified as P. Chinna Swamy (36), his wife Tirupatamma (25), and Meenakshi (11). The family was eking out livelihood by selling plastic and porcelain material. One D. Chinna Venkanna of Chintalapudi in West Godavari district was investing the amount for doing the business and helping the family. Nandigama DSP G.V. Ramana Murthy, who visited the spot, said that plastic and plastic material, cups and saucers were found damaged and scattered on the road. But, the miscreants tried to create the scene as an accident, Mr. Murthy said. Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu said that a case under Section. 302 (Murder) was registered and investigation is on. Police pressed clues team and dog squad to trace the accused, the DSP added.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Learning the ropes||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preparing for festival||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wait to end soon||
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Learning the ropes||
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State clocks two lakh COVID cases in 217 days||Telangana has logged 2 lakh coronavirus cases, exactly 217 days after the first patient was diagnosed with the infection on March 2. With 1,335 new COVID-19 cases detected on Sunday, the total has reached 2,00,611. Just about 36,348 samples were put to test and the results of 695 persons are awaited. Meanwhile, eight more people have succumbed to the virus. The new 1,335 cases include 262 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 137 from Rangareddy, 91 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 83 from Karimnagar and 72 from Nalgonda. So far, 32,41,597 samples have been tested in the State. Currently, there are 27,052 active cases with 1,72,388 already having recovered from the infectious disease. The death toll stands at 1,171. According to the media bulletin issued by the Health department, the recovery rate in the State is 85.93% and case fatality rate is 0.58%. In the 62 State government hospitals, 4,621 oxygen beds and 910 ICU beds with ventilator were available as on Sunday. And in case of the 231 private hospitals, 2,559 oxygen beds and 2,086 ICU beds with ventilator were vacant.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IPL betting racket busted||Seven members of a gang organising betting for the ongoing IPL matches were apprehended by the Cyberabad Special Operations Team of Balanagar Zone on Sunday night, who seized Rs. 22.89 lakh and eight mobile phones from their possession. The police further froze the bank account of the accused, which had Rs. 13 lakh. Addressing the media, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said on Monday that the gang was organising cricket betting in the Pet-Basheerabad area and other parts of Hyderabad. Acting on a tip-off, the SOT apprehended the bookie and seven punters at Omkar Opticals, near Suchitra crossroad. The accused were identified as Chandoor Shashank, 34, a bookie from Kompally, and punters Gaddam Praveen Yadav, Mettukadi Prasad Reddy, Palnati Shyam Rao, Pradeep Kumar, Peddireddy Pavan Kumar, Daripalli Tarun Reddy and Deepak Singh. Mr. Sajjanar said that the bookies used to communicate the details of betting through the mobile numbers to interested persons, who after depositing a minimum amount of Rs. 50,000 will get the ratings of the teams. “For the ratings, bookies are depending on Cricketline and Cricket Exchange mobile apps. Shashank looked after the local contacts with regard to money transfer and liaison with the main bookie who is said to be based in Goa,” he said. The transfer of money is mostly through internet banking, PhonePe and GooglePay. Cash transactions used to be routed through Shashank who would settle bets after completion of the match, the officer said. Further, Mr. Sajjanar said that so far the Cyberabad police booked 30 people in seven cases related to cricket betting and seized Rs 40 lakh. Gaming house raided Meanwhile, the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (Central Zone) team on Monday raided a gaming house in Red Hills and apprehended three persons on charges of organising cricket betting. They were accepting cricket betting money directly and indirectly over cell phones from punters for ongoing IPL matches. The accused were identified as Mahesh Prasad Tiwari, 32, betting organiser and kirana store owner, and punters Pathakoti Mukesh Kumar, 32, a driver, and P. Vikram, a bike mechanic, all from Bazarghat in Nampally. Police seized Rs. 47,240, four mobile phones, a television set and other material from their possession.  Three held In a third incident, three persons who were organising cricket betting racket were caught by the Hyderabad city police on Monday. Acting on a tip off, the Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) team along with Osmania University police raided a place and apprehended S. Suresh, Prem Sagar and Yellappa. The prime accused M. Prasad is currently at large. They were betting on the IPL matches. Police seized Rs. 30,000 cash, three mobile phones from their possession. The accused persons along with seized property were handed over to Osmania University police for further investigation.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre asked to borrow money and pay GST shortfall to States||The Telangana government once again made its stand clear at the Goods and Services Tax Council meeting on Monday that the Centre pay the entire GST compensation due to States on account of dismal collections this year from its own coffer. The State government rejected both the options given by Centre to make up for unpaid GST compensation. Option one offered States to borrow the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, estimated at Rs. 97,000 crore, to be borrowed through the issue of debt under a special window. Option two offered the States to borrow the entire compensation shortfall of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore through the issue of market debt. Speaking at the virtual meeting, presided over by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman, Telangana Finance Minister T. Harish Rao asked the Centre to borrow the money and pay compensation to States which is their right under the GST Act. Unpaid instalments Mr. Rao demanded that the government immediately release to the States Rs. 30,000 crore deposited in the account of GST Council as GST compensation cess. Three instalments of money were already unpaid to States in last six months. This money was valuable to States in the current COVID situation. Mr. Rao asked Centre not to link the lifting of cap on borrowings by States as part of Atmanirbhar package with payment of GST compensation. The entire quantum of money due to State under Integrated GST should be paid immediately. A sum of Rs. 24,000 crore towards IGST for 2017-18 was deposited with the Consolidated Fund of India. Telangana’s share in it was Rs. 2,638 crore which should be released immediately. Input tax credit A release said Ms. Sitaraman committed to releasing the entire Rs. 24,000 crore to States within a week. Mr. Rao requested her to release Rs. 1,000 crore due to Telangana as input tax credit of reversed and lapsed IGST which was unpaid to States for sometime. The release added that the meeting ended inconclusively after Telangana, West Bengal and Congress led State governments rejected the two options on GST compensation.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Enumeration of properties under way in Hunwada mandal||Collection of details in the morning, confirmation of facts during the night. That is the system adopted by Hunwada mandal authorities in Mahabubnagar district to execute the task of enumerating details of properties for updating records in Dharani portal. Three days ago, when the teams of village panchayat secretary and multi-purpose workers turned up at the villages in the morning, not many people were available at their homes. “Majority of the villagers are going to crop field works in the mornings. This made our job of collecting information difficult,” Hunwada Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) Natraj said. The work of collecting details of properties cannot be postponed. After racking up their brains on the way forward, they decided to knock the doors of the villagers in the evening even if it meant disturbing them after backbreaking work in the fields. This helped them in two ways. The teams began visiting the houses in the morning and collecting details of all properties with the persons available there. Later, in the evenings they are going back to the houses for confirmation of the facts and figures they had collected in the morning. This also instilled an element of trust in the villagers. Crosschecking details “Since each fact has to be cross-checked, sometimes the work was going till late in the night. At the end, it is yielding positive results,” the MPDO said. There are nearly 12,600 households spread over 35 gram panchayats in the mandal. So far they could contact 2,600 households and verify details of different properties. In Vepuru village of the mandal, located 110 km away from State capital, there are 971 households. Already, information of 205 of them was gathered and cross-checked with the members of the families during interactions in the night. Along with the multi-purpose workers, even youngsters in the villages were coming forward voluntarily to assist them in ascertaining facts, the MPDO said. He too is going around the villages to oversee progress of the work during the nights. Mahbubnagar district Collector S. Venkat Rao hopes, at this pace, enumeration of properties would be completed on time.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Watch out for blurred vision, survivors told||Retina and cornea consultants have urged people to watch out for eye-related complications after recovering from COVID-19. Specialists from L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) said that critically-ill COVID patients who were administered steroids to mitigate complications in lung and other organs can be at risk of developing steroid related ocular complications. Not all those who have recovered from COVID-19 need a mandatory detailed eye examination. It is suggested for those who experience blurring of eyesight or similar symptoms after recovering from the infectious disease. Complications likely The specialists said that COVID-19 may cause obstruction of blood supply to the retina. One of these is an eye complication called ‘retinopathy’, which is a kind of a retinal vascular disease where the retina gets damaged because of abnormal blood flow, resulting in vision impairment. “Retinopathy due to COVID or steroid treatment usually occurs within two to four weeks after COVID has resolved. So, patients who have recovered from COVID and had been treated with steroids should watch out for such symptoms for the initial weeks or till the time they are on steroids for lung complications. The most common symptom is blurring of vision (not necessarily accompanied by redness or pain). We are seeing patients with retinopathy, either due to block of the retinal blood vessel or swelling of the retina. But the good news is that, so far, based on the cases reported to us, the risk to develop this condition is less than 0.1%,” said Raja Narayanan, senior retina consultant at LVPEI. A senior cornea consultant at the premier eye institute, Sunita Chaurasia said that steroids administered to treat elderly COVID-19 patients can lead to a relative immune-deficient stage and hence there is also a risk of developing certain viral conditions such as herpes zoster ophthalmicus. Redness, discharge “This is a condition that presents with skin eruptions and excoriations involving the eyelid and the surrounding area, along with secondary conjunctivitis-like symptoms such as redness and discharge. The condition can be associated with pain or tingling sensation in and around the eyes,” she said, adding that maintaining good eye health practices, being vigilant, and consulting doctors immediately on experiencing any vision-related complications is very important.  Retinopathy due to COVID or steroid treatment usually occurs within two to four weeks after COVID has resolved. But based on the cases reported to us, the risk to develop this condition is less than 0.1%. Raja Narayanan, Senior retina consultant at LVPEI
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dengue, malaria under control, says GHMC||The much-dreaded spread of the dengue fever has been under control so far in the city, when compared to its incidence last year during the same time. The GHMC officials attribute it to the successful anti-larval activities by the Entomology department. According to details shared by the Entomology wing of GHMC, last year, during September, a total of 1502 Dengue cases, confirmed and suspected, were reported to the Health authorities from the city. Of these, 587 were confirmed cases, while 915 were suspected. During October, the total number of cases were 745, of which 307 were confirmed, and 438 suspected. These were only the reported cases, with data collected from the government and private hospitals. This year, during September, the total number of Dengue cases were 48, of which the confirmed cases were only three. In October, so far, three cases have been reported, of which two are confirmed. Total number of Dengue cases starting since January up to October this year have been 229, as against the 2471 cases last year, both confirmed and suspected together. Officials informed that Dengue fever can be confirmed only through Elisa antibody diagnostic test, whereas in private hospitals, patients are admitted based on NS1 Antigen test results too. “Last year, government had made it mandatory to take two samples from the Dengue suspected patients, and send one to the nearest government facility for testing. This year, however, the same is not being adhered to by the private hospitals,” said an official. Malaria cases too have come down drastically, from 76 last year, to mere three this year. While the torrential rains which led to increased flow in water bodies too has contributed to the washout of the mosquito eggs and larvae, GHMC officials attribute it to the anti-larval activities taken up by the corporation. Listing the vector control operations by GHMC, Chief Entomologist A.Rambabu said weekly anti-larval activities have been taken up with 642 teams in domestic, and peri-domestic mosquito breeding sources. Every day, a lakh houses are being covered, he said. On an average, 3,000 to 3,500 houses are being identified as positive for mosquito breeding daily, based on the sources of stagnant water. All such positive sources identified are being removed and treated with larvicides. Overhead tanks, sumps, pit-taps and water storage containers such as drums, tins, pots and waste material are being checked regularly for identification and arresting of Aedes aegypti and Anopheles mosquito breeding. Besides, 18 anti larval operation teams with 54 workers are carrying out anti-larval operations in Musi River from Attapur to Chaderghat bridge for edge cleaning and spraying.  Weekly anti-larval activities have been taken up with 642 teams in domestic, and peri-domestic mosquito breeding sources. A. Rambabu, GHMC Chief Entomologist.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Next batch of T-Hub’s Lab32 launched with 15 startups||Fifteen startups have been selected as part of the fourth batch of T-Hub’s Lab32 programme. They will receive goal-oriented consultation from experts on product design and market expansion, said a release from T-Hub announcing the launch of the fourth batch. The shortlisted startups include Diagnocare, Talentrackr, Oqupi Health Tech, Crossforge Solutions, Vividminds Technologies and Shri Shakti Opstech. The programme has been designed such that the startups will not be required to be physically present and make the best use of various benefits of Lab32 through active interventions. The batch comprises startups from Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata. The selected startups offer innovative solutions in key industries such as healthcare, food technology, HR and enterprise SaaS solutions among others. The primary focus will be to validate the business objectives of the startups through gap analysis and goal setting. According to the release, the startups will undergo rigorous training and consultation sessions by professional trainers, advisers and subject matter experts, based on the track they choose. The two tracks are product track and marketing track. CEO of T-Hub Ravi Narayan said “the fourth batch of Lab32 has around 50% of the startups in the early and mid-growth, that have not just managed the challenges the pandemic introduced into their markets, but also are ready to thrive. Numerous startups have scaled up through the previous three batches. The fourth batch of Lab32 brings in digital enablement and the hybrid mode of programme delivery, which we believe will benefit the startups better than ever before.”  The fourth batch of Lab32 brings in digital enablement and hybrid mode of programme delivery, which we believe will benefit the startups better than ever before Ravi Narayan, CEO, T-Hub
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Apex Council meeting on TS, AP water issues today||The second meeting of the Apex Council on issues of water resources between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States will be held virtually on Tuesday. To be chaired by Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the meeting will be attended by two other Members of the Council – Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, respectively, and higher officials of the Ministry of Jal Shakti and of the two member States. The first meeting of the Apex Council, constituted under the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act after bifurcation of combined AP into AP and Telangana, was held on September 21, 2016. Although no breakthrough was made on water disputes between the two States at the first meeting the Council did not meet again until it was planned to be held on August 5 this year following AP’s decision to take up Rayalaseema Lift Scheme and to expand Pothireddypadu Head Regulator to divert nearly 8 tmc ft of Krishna water a day from Srisailam reservoir. However, it could not be held as Telangana Chief Minister expressed his inability to participate due to his prior engagements. With the major issue of water share between the two States pending before the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal and in the Supreme Court, the Apex Council, according to officials, would focus on the management of water allotted to combined AP by Tribunals headed by R.S. Bachawat both in the Krishna and Godavari Basins with region wise allotment of water. Issues such as finalisation of working manual for the Krishna and Godavari River Management Boards – KRMB and GRMB, operational issues, allocation of funds, installation of telemetry equipment and sharing of detailed project reports pertaining to new projects are in focus. Although complaints against each other by the two States including AP’s plans to divert 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day and AP’s objections to Telangana’s new projects on Godavari are not part of the agenda, they are expected to be raised by the member States. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao has recently addressed a 14-page letter to MoJS explaining how injustice was being done to Telangana .
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Door-to-door deworming drive begins||Health department staff have begun administering Albendazole tablets as part of the National Deworming programme that commenced on October 5 and will continue for a week. The tablets will be given in appropriate dosage to children as young as year-old infants to 19 year olds. Earlier, it used to given at schools and Anganwadi centres. However, in view of COVID-19 now, the Health staff will door to door to give the tablet to children and teenagers in presence of their parents. Accredited Social Health Activists, Auxilliary Nursing Midwives and Anganwadi workers will execute the programme. Health Minister Eatala Rajender, who attended the programme at the State Health Campus on Monday, said that health staff in all districts have been trained to take all safety measures to carry out the programme. He also took the opportunity to appeal to people to follow safety precautions during Dasara and Bathukamma festivals. Health department officials have been urging people to avoid large gatherings so as to keep a check on clustering of coronavirus cases. Mr Rajender said that while festivals can always be celebrated in the coming years, human lives, once lost, cannot be brought back. He said that though incidence of the infectious disease might be low at present, people have to be alert.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress asks people not to pay LRS, assures to do it free||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has asked people not to pay the regularisation fee under the Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS) unveiled by the State government recently even if they have applied for it and assured that the Congress would implement the scheme without any fee once it returns to power in the next elections. “It’s one of the bankrupt ideas of the State government to fill its empty coffers and to repay huge debt, about Rs. 3 lakh crore made during the last six years. It has run out of all ideas to improve the State’s economy and has resorted to collect as much money as possible from people through direct and indirect taxes, including the LRS regularisation fee,” Mr. Vikramarka said addrressing a press conference here on Monday. The LRS scheme was aimed at burdening the people embattled by the economic crisis induced by the COVID-19 pandemic, the CLP Leader said adding that the Congress government that would be formed after the next elections would cancel the regularisation fee. He compared the huge LRS fee structure to ‘Bhoomi Sisthu’ (land cess) collected by the Nizam’s Government.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bathukamma sarees ready for distribution in Karimnagar||With the State government fast-forwarding the distribution of Bathukamma sarees, festive mood has set in the Karimnagar district. District Collector Konduru Shashanka on Monday directed the officials to distribute the sarees before October 15, following all the guidelines related to COVID-19. He instructed the officials to constitute teams, who in turn with coordinate with panchayat secretary, self-help groups and fair price shop dealers will take up the task of distributing the sarees at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries in the villages. In Karimnagar town and surrounding municipalities the saree will be distributed in coordination with concerned ward members, bill collectors, self-help groups and ration shop dealers. The officials have been told to stick to the stipulated time-frame and ensure that all the eligible beneficiary women receive the sarees ahead of the nine-day Bathukamma festival, which will commence on October 16. Mr. Konduru said that this year they will distribute over 3.10 lakh Bathukamma sarees in the district. “On October 9, 10 and 11, the sarees will be delivered at the doorstep of the beneficiaries due to COVID-19 pandemic and after October 12, the women can get the sarees from nearby fair price shops,” he said, adding that concerned officials must wear masks and use hand sanitisers while taking part in the distribution. Irrespective of the caste and religion, women aged 18 years and above and belonging to Below Poverty Line families are eligible for Bathukamma sarees and people must get benefited by the government’s initiative, the Collector said. He further requested the beneficiary women to carry their food security card, Aadhaar card or any identification card to avail the scheme without any hassle. With IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao personally overseeing the distribution of handloom sarees weaved at Sircilla, Warangal and Karimnagar, officials across the State are on the high drive to meet the deadline. Distribution of sarees in implicate patterns and myriad colours has become a ritual among the women folk in the State, as many wait eagerly to get to experience the ‘gift’ of the State. Variety of designs This year, the government had spent Rs. 317.81 crore to produce 91 lakh sarees of 6.30 metres each and another eight lakh sarees of 9 metres length in 287 designs and colours to satisfy the choice of all women. The nine-metre sarees are worn by elderly women, especially in the districts of north Telangana. Last year, the State spent Rs. 313 crore on the production of Bathukamma sarees.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Vidya Volunteers’ conduct offline classes for the less privileged schoolchildren||GMR Varalakshmi Foundation (GMRVF), which has been conducting online lessons for class X students of government schools in villages around the city airport due to the COVID-induced closure of educational institutions, has now decided on an offline programme to reach out to students of classes 1-8 too. This offline mode has been taken up through the ‘Study Circle’ programme where a group of ‘Vidya Volunteers’ are trained to give focused assistance to students in need. The volunteers are also empowered to pick up bright senior students from the same schools to teach their juniors, said an official spokesman. The foundation partnered with ConveGenius (CG), a Delhi-based tech startup, to implement online classes for class X students in August. Those classes have helped shortlist about 100 students of the Zilla Parishad Girls’ High School, Shamshabad; Zilla Parishad Boys’ High School, Shamshabad and Zilla Parishad High School, Mamidipally. The firm has developed an app for students to track their progress using online learning tools. “The new way of learning through CG slate app has helped us correct ourselves. Vidya volunteers are also very helpful in clearing our doubts,” says R. Mahalakshmi, a class 10 student of Mamidipally high school. A class 8 student from ZPHS Shamshabad K. Yagnesh says, “The study circle has come as a boon. We are able to continue our studies though schools have not opened yet”. Study circles have enrolled 110 students of classes 1 to 8 belonging to four government primary schools, one each in Airport Colony, Gollapally, Mamidipally and Shamshabad. Classes are conducted offline where a senior student volunteer mentors four children in the neighbourhood in mathematics, science, English and other subjects. “GMRVF staff monitor the classes fortnightly, provide feedback and advice for improvement. Each volunteer is trained to follow safety measures,” the spokesman explained. Specially designed workbooks are distributed to students with assessments done verbally on a weekly basis. Earlier, GMRVF introduced customised online training classes for unemployed youth for vocations like false ceiling, refrigeration and AC, automobiles and 2-wheeler repair, electrical house wiring, hotel management, computers. etc. “With online and study circle classes, we are able to provide the students a level-playing field. We hope they utilise the opportunity to achieve meritorious results,” said GHIAL CEO Pradeep Panicker.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘MSP is here to stay’||The minimum support price (MSP) for crops is not going anywhere and the NDA government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is committed to implement it with all sincerity across the country, asserted Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Monday. “Wherever the market price for the agriculture produce is less, the government will intervene with MSP. Let there be no doubt about it. I appeal to the farming community not to fall prey to negative propaganda unleashed by the Opposition parties because the Modi government has provided most funds towards agriculture and allied activities,” he claimed. Addressing a press conference held in the party office, Mr. Reddy stated that the Centre has brought forth ‘revolutionary landmark farm bills’ in Parliament and this was conforming to what almost all the other parties wanted to do to “unshackle” the farmers and allowing them to sell their produce freely without being restricted by the market committees or being “duped” by the middlemen. “All the parties agitating against the new Agriculture Acts are only supporting the established middlemen. No real farmer, who has understood the intent behind the new Acts, is taking part in any of the protest programmes from Punjab to Telangana as it is only meant to bring more investment into the agriculture sector,” he claimed.The Minister questioned the Congress Party’s commitment to the farmers claiming its manifesto wanted to take up the same kind of initiatives taken up by the Modi government. “These are especially beneficial for the small and marginal farmers constituting the majority,” he said. The Congress-led governments never took up the Dr.Swaminathan Committee recommendations to improve the agriculture incomes and operations, he said and reeled out statistics to buttress his point about enhanced budgetary support from the NDA government from 42% to 120% in MSP for various crops from paddy to wheat, bajra, maize, ragi and so on. “Modi government had spent Rs. 7 lakh crore on MSP, double of what the previous Congress led UPA government did,” he claimed. The Opposition was welcome to come up with constructive ideas for taking up implementation of new education policy, finance bills, farmers bills or even the labour code, he appealed.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kidnapped businessman rescued||In a swift action by Jagtial police, a businessman was rescued from the clutches of kidnappers in less than four hours after he was abducted from his residence at Saroornagar in Hyderabad on Monday afternoon. Six people were detained in connection with the crime. The offence took place in Green Park Colony of Karmanghat around 3.30 p.m. when the businessman Nagarbushanam was in a meeting with a group of people over financial disputes. He runs a rice mill in the city. Police said that the accused Raj Bushan, his son and wife along with Aziz, Burri Rajesh and six others went to the house-cum-residence of Nagarbushanam and asked to return their money that ran into lakhs of rupees. They picked-up an heated argument with the victim, who was soon dragged out of his office by Aziz and Burri Rajesh. He was whisked away in a car. Immediately, the victim’s family member approached Saroornagar police, who in turn constituted teams to search for Nagarbushanam. After tracking the vehicle and mobile phones of the kidnappers, the Rachakonda police learnt that they were going toward Jagtial. The district police, who were alerted about the kidnapping by their counterparts in Rachakonda, deployed their personnel at several checkposts. Police teams, who were already on high-alert, identified and intercepted the suspect vehicle at JNTU check post near Kondagattu and rescued Nagarbushanam, and detained two people, while four others managed to escape, Jagtial Superintendent of Police Sindhu Sarma told The Hindu .
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New chairman of IACC AP and TS chapter||Real estate industry leader and S&S Green Projects managing director Vijaya Sai Meka has been unanimously elected chairman of the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Chapter of Indo American Chamber of Commerce (IACC) for 2020-21. He takes over from Phoenix Group director Srikanth Badiga, who has been elevated to the South India Council of IACC. Mr. Meka said increasing membership, enhanced engagement with members and engaging stakeholders and the government on matters of concern will be his priorities. Mr.Meka has over two decades of experience in construction and real estate and associated with the Indian Green Building Council. He is also executive vice-president of Telangana Real Estate Developers Association and is joint vice president of Basic Research Education and Development Society that works to improve education in government schools. A release from IACC AP and Telangana Chapter said others elected include P&P Nexgen Tech MD Ramkumar Rudrabhatla as senior vice-chairman and DivyaSree NSL Infrastructure CFO C. Narayana Rao as vice-chairman.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kodandaram is TJS candidate for MLC poll||It’s official now. Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) has formally named the candidature of its president M. Kodandaram for the forthcoming election to Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda Graduates’ Constituency in the Legislative Council. The announcement was made by vice-president of the party P.L. Vishveshwar Rao here on Monday after a meeting of the party which was chaired by Mr. Kodandaram. It is for the first time Mr. Kodandaram will be in fray for direct election for a seat in the Legislature. The party has also released poster and leaflets on the party’s candidature for the Graduates Constituency on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kodandaram said TJS was fighting for the self esteem of Telangana people irrespective of political interests as the government led by Telangana Rashtra Samithi had failed completely in protecting the self respect of the people. Mr. Kodandaram spearheaded the movement for statehood to Telangana as the chairman of Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC), an apolitical platform for people’s organisations, employees’ bodies and political parties.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRS resorting to poll code violations’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has accused the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) of resorting to horse-trading before the election to Local Bodies Constituency in the Legislative Council. At a party meeting held here on Monday, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said people of Telangana were expecting that Statehood to the region would help flourish democratic values after formation of the State. But, the ruling family was leaving no opportunity to flay democracy. After fielding K. Kavitha, who was defeated as TRS candidate for Nizamabad Lok Sabha seat, for the Local Bodies Constituency the ruling party was forcing the local bodies’ elected representatives to join it by defecting from the party from which they were elected by luring them with all sorts of baits, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said. By asking other parties not to hold party meets citing COVID-19 guidelines the ruling party, however, had conducted party meets at all levels. Stating that the ruling party was resorting to poll code violations, the TPCC chief said the Congress party would ask the Election Commission to disqualify the TRS candidate. Mr. Revanth Reddy said the Congress party would take up a legal battle on the goings-on in the Nizamabad MLC election and demanded that the EC send its teams to conduct searches in Nizamabad to find violations by the ruling party.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rs. 40 lakh seized||The Cyberabad police on Monday evening seized Rs. 40 lakh from four persons at Shamirpet. The unaccounted cash was being transported to Dubbak, ahead of Assembly bypolls. A senior police officer said that the cash reportedly belonged to a BJP leader. The accused who were caught around 7 p.m. while travelling to Dubbak in two cars were identified as Srinivas Babu, Md. Majeed, Puligiri Suresh and Bhavani Anjaneyulu. A case was registered and a probe is on.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||When will you appoint Women Commission chief, HC asks State||Telangana High Court on Monday directed the State government to inform it within a week how much time was required to appoint the chairperson for State Women Commission. Hearing a Public Interest Litigation plea, a division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said statutory bodies like Women Commission should not be left without chairpersons. It directed Advocate-General B.S. Prasad to inform the court when the government would appoint State Women Commission chairperson. Regulapati Ramya Rao of Arepally in Karimnagar, who filed the petition, stated that since completion of the term of Tripurana Venkataratnam in July 2018, no person was appointed in the post. She contended that 45 complaints were pending before the Commission but the government had not taken any steps to fill up the chairperson post. As a result, the complainants were deprived of justice for long. She said that even National Women Commission chairperson Rekha Sharma took up the matter with Telangana Chief Secretary. Yet no action was taken so far, she stated. Online classes in Urdu In another PIL petition, the bench sought to know from the AG as to why the government had not taken steps to conduct online classes for school students in Urdu. Hearing the plea filed by a citizen Md. Abdul Sami, the bench observed that online classes to Urdu medium students should be conducted in Urdu only. Mr. Sami, in his petition, stated that there was no mention of Urdu medium in the circular relating to online classes issued by School Education Commissioner. He sought a direction to the government to hold online classes in Urdu medium. The matter was posted to October 12 for next hearing.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||5,000 plus GHMC staff on Dharani duty||Almost entire staff of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has been deployed on the field work related to data collection for populating the much publicised Dharani online portal reportedly for registration of properties. Officials and staff of the corporation have been instructed by the GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar on Monday to report to the zonal commissioner of the zone assigned to them for the field work. The orders were issued through the respective social media groups maintained by each department, besides written instructions to individual employees, said officials under the condition of anonymity. All the staff and workers deployed for the duty reportedly got calls at 7 a.m., from their immediate supervisors or officials, informing them of the deployment. Consternation at the orders is palpable among employees as it would expose them to unknown localities/households during the COVID-19 times. “No consideration for age, gender, physical ability or category has been given. Even old women who cannot operate smart phones, disabled and lactating mothers have been assigned duties. Those who do not possess smart phones have been asked to buy them forthwith,” informed an employee under the condition of anonymity. Though initially, the work was assigned to only bill collectors and tax inspectors, it is said the highest ranking officials in the government were not satisfied with the progress. Hence, instructions have been issued to rope in all the employees. According to sources, more than 5,000 employees from across the GHMC circles and zones have been deployed for door to door collection of details for uploading onto the portal. Even specialised staff such as Engineering, Town Planning, Sanitation and Entomology workers and employees have not been spared. Of the total, over 2,300 are the Entomology field workers who are engaged in fogging, anti-larval and COVID-19 control operations. From the Maintenance and Sanitation wings, even the cadre of Assistant Engineers have been roped in, said officials. Sources informed that over 250 employees deployed for Dharani work are from the GHMC headquarters. Staff of the cadres such as data entry operators, junior assistants, senior assistants and even record assistants from all the departments have been posted for the work for the coming one week. Even sanitation jawans, kamatis and supervisors have been asked to report to various zones.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rachakonda police seizes over 1 tonne ganja being smuggled to U.P.||In a major haul, the Rachakonda police on Monday seized 1,010 kg. of ganja, which was being smuggled to Uttar Pradesh from the Agency areas in Odisha. Acting on a tip off, the Special Operations Team of LB Nagar Zone along with Abdullapurmet police intercepted the container lorry near the Outer Ring Road and nabbed two people. They seized 1,010 kg. of ganja, the container lorry, Rs. 4,000 in cash and two mobile phones, all worth Rs. 1.30 crore from their possession. List of accused Officials said that the accused, Mohammed Ramzan, 24, from Nuhu district in Haryana, and Schashikant Gowtham Rao, 25, of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, were transporting the contraband from the Agency area located in Padwa mandal of Koraput district in Odisha. Ganja supplier Mahadev, 45, from Koraput, Vivek Singh, 40, purchaser from Varanasi, and Imran, 42 of Nuhu district in Haryana, the owner of the container lorry, are currently at large. According to the police, the arrested persons created a secret cabin in the container to facilitate the illicit transportation of ganja. The gang procured the contraband for Rs. 3,000 per kg and intended to sell it for Rs. 9,000 per kg in UP. It was concealed in 194 packets with each weighing 5.1 to 5.5 kg.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jewellery shop worker arrested for theft||A 39-year-old man was arrested by the Banjara Hills police on Monday for stealing jewellery from a jewellery repair shop. Joint Commissioner of Police (West Zone) A.R. Srinivas said that the accused Anish Kumar Agarwal, who worked as in-charge of the repair department at a noted jewellery shop at Banjara Hills Road No. 2, stole the gold ornaments and kept them in his house. “During COVID-19 lockdown, he mortgaged a few ornaments and used the money for personal needs,” he said. Based on the complaint lodged by the store owner, a case was registered and Anish was arrested.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Smuggled cigarettes worth Rs. 7 lakh seized||The Customs enforcers on Monday seized over 4,000 packets of foreign origin cigarettes worth Rs. 7 lakh at Secunderabad Railway Station. Based on specific intelligence that certain foreign origin cigarettes are being clandestinely moved from New Delhi to Secunderabad though parcel service, the Customs officials along with Railway officials conducted a joint search of suspected parcels and found four polythene packs containing 4,000 cigarette packets, each packet containing 20 cigarettes. The parcel was booked from New Delhi to Secunderabad. Officials said that the details of the consignee and consignor for the parcel are being ascertained.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI donates refurbished computers to NGOs||State Bank of India (SBI) Hyderabad Circle on Monday handed over refurbished computers to a few NGOs as part of the Joy of Giving week. Chief General Manager O.P. Mishra handed over the refurbished computers to Sri Saraswati Vidya Peetham Hyderabad, Vaidehi Seva Samiti, Heaven Homes Society, Padmavati Institute For The Disabled, Manchikalalu and Pamencap. The bank would be distributing 100 refurbished computers during the week. A release from the bank said a number of activities are planned during the week. It includes donation of clothes/blankets (used/new), refurbished computers, stationery items to old age homes and orphanage homes through identified NGOs. The Joy of Giving week is observed every year from October 2-8 and provides an opportunity for all individuals/corporates to reach out to the lesser privileged and help them by giving back to the society.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Focus on India-France linguistic dialogues||Various aspects of the cultural and linguistic dialogues between India and France, with focus on the period between 19th century to the early years of independent India were discussed by Samuel Berthet, director of Alliance Francaise, Hyderabad. He was speaking at a webinar, ‘French Language in India: challenging the ruler on its own ground’, organised by Department of French and Francophone Studies, Englishand Foreign Languages University (EFLU). Some questions that he raised pertained to the history of French language and culture in India. An interactive session was moderated by Uma Damodar Sridhar, from the Department of French and Francophone Studies that saw participants clear their doubts. EFLU Vice-Chancellor E. Suresh Kumar, who is also a UGC member, initiated the lecture series. Berthet did his Ph.D in history on ‘Indo-French cultural relations 1870-1962’. He did his postdoctoral research on the new states in India, and has several publications to his credit, a press release said.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Arjita Sevas’ at Vemulawada temple||Different types of ‘Arjita Seva’ will begin in Sri Rajarajeshwara Swamy temple of Vemulawada in Siricilla Rajanna district from Wednesday. ‘Nityakalyanam’ - 40 tickets, ‘Satyanarayana vratam’ - 25 tickets, Mahalingarchana - 25 tickets and ‘Chandisahitha Rudrahomam - three tickets - would be held by allowing two persons for each ticket. Temple executive officer D. Krishna Prasad said the sevas would be permitted in compliance with COVID-19 restrictions to a limited number of devotees. Temple would be open to devotees from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily. Ban on entry into sanctum sanctorum would continue. Rooms in Nandeeshwara complex and Parvathipuram would be allocated to devotees. Two adults and two children are allowed in one room. Prasadam would be sold in temple’s old Andhra bank premises.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre ready to part-fund free housing for poor’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy took on the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government for its ‘slow paced’ free two-bedroom housing programme for the poor in the twin cities and in rest of Telangana. “It is not enough to build 50,000 houses for the poor in the city as there are at least 16 lakh people waiting to own a home. There was an overwhelming vote for TRS in the last GHMC polls expecting construction of two-bedroom housing on a large-scale, but this has not happened,” he said. The Minister was talking to the media after inspecting the ongoing construction of the housing scheme at Saichand Colony in Musheerabad where foundation stone was laid five years ago but progress has been tardy. “Free two-bedroom housing scheme was the single point upon which the TRS was swept to power and even got their own Mayor. Yet so far not a single beneficiary name has been sent to the Centre for providing requisite funds,” he charged. “Prime Minister Modi has committed to provide a home to every single eligible person and it is my responsibility to get the funds from the Centre for the same if the TRS government fulfils its part of the bargain,” he said. There were about an estimated 10 lakh people without homes in the capital and although the government was building each home at an estimated cost of Rs. 8 lakh, the intended beneficiaries have nearly paid half of the amount in the last five years as rent expecting the new home nearby and also were forced to face all kinds of problems during the raging COVID-19 pandemic. They were expecting to get a house within a year of foundation stone, he claimed.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Poor show by Telugu students in JEE||Results of the Joint Entrance Exam (Advanced) for admissions to IITs on Monday saw relatively poor performance by students in the Telugu States. Gangula Bhuvan Reddy from Andhra Pradesh secured all-India rank 2 while Hardik Rajpal from Telangana was at no.6. Landa Jithendra from Vizianagaram secured 14th rank and Annam Saivardhan from Mancherial 93rd. Except them, none from Telugu States figured in the toppers’ list. Only 15 students from two Telugu States secured ranks in top-100. Two girl students Gutta Sindhuja (18th) and Kothapalli Namitha (44th), said to be hailing from Telugu families, also figured in the top-100 but it was unclear if they hailed from the Telugu States.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MANUU journal in UGC list||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has included the half-yearly research and refereed journal ‘Adab-o-Saqafat’ (Literature and Culture) published by Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU)’s Directorate of Translation and Publications in the list of UGC-Consortium for Academic and Research Ethics as its approved Journal. The journal was already listed as UGC-approved magazine and journal even before the UGC-CARE list was introduced. The journal was launched in September 2015 and is continuously being published under the editorship of Mohammad Zafaruddin, who heads the Directorate of Translation and Publications. Adab-o-Saqafat is a pure research journal containing authentic articles. All issues of the journal can be read and downloaded from the university website.
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||4 more held in Hemanth murder case||Four more accused persons in the sensational kidnap and murder case of Chinta Yoga Hemnath Kumar, 28, were arrested by the Gachibowli police on Monday. The accused are Somayala Raju, 52, Erukala, 33, both farmers, Mohammad Pasha, 32, a plumber from Vattinagulapally village in Gandipet mandal of Ranga Reddy, and Byagari Sayanna, 48, a businessman from Jinnaram in Sangareddy district. With this, the total number of accused persons arrested in the case rose to 18. On September 24, Hemanth was kidnapped and killed by his wife D. Avanthi Reddy’s parents and relatives.
06 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Release pending bills, ZP members urge Collector||The members of Zilla Parishad (ZP) urged Collector M. Hanumantha Rao to see that pending bills of dumpyards, graveyards and drying platforms were cleared. The general body meeting of the ZP held here on Monday was presided over by chairperson P. Manjushree and attended by Mr. Hanumantha Rao and others. None of the MLAs attended the meeting while Finance Minister T Harish Rao could not attend due to the scheduled virtual meeting on GST with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman. “We are happy that the district is in the first place in completing the construction of graveyards and dumpyards in the State. Many sarpanches paid the amount from their pockets as they were promised that they will get the amount. Some sapranches even pawned their household gold jewellery to complete these works. Please see to it that their dues are paid immediately,” said the members. Responding to their request, Mr. Hanumantha Rao said that the amount of Rs. 30 crore was yet to be released by the government and the issue was in the notice of Mr. Harish Rao and will be released shortly. Zilla Parishad vice-chairman Prabhakar and others pointed to the repeated pollution of tanks and death of several fish in tanks at Jinnaram and Gummadidala. The Collector has asked the Pollution Control Board (PCB) to submit the report copies to him as well.
06 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Congress, TRS yet to officially name candidate for Dubbak||For the reasons best known to them, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the main opposition Congress parties are yet to make an official announcement of their candidate for Dubbak bye-election, scheduled for November 3. As on Monday morning, only the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced its candidate — M. Raghunandan Rao, who had unsuccessfully contested the election twice in the past. The TRS has indicated that the party would allot the ticket to the family members of sitting MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy, who passed away in August. The TRS leadership had said that the party ticket will be given to Ms, Sujatha, wife of Ramalinga Reddy. This was also made clear to those aspiring for party nomination in this election. However, party has not made any official announcement so far in this regard. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has already started the election campaign without naming the candidate and has been asking people to vote for the party saying that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been focusing on welfare and development. The ruling party has also been focusing on oustees of Mallannasagar. On their part, oustees from villages that are getting submerged by the irrigation projects have been joining the party in the presence of Mr. Harish Rao and Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy. Coming to the Congress party, the party was unable to find a suitable candidate to take on the ruling party. Initially, the name of Gajwel former MLA T. Narsa Reddy was floated, but it was kept on hold. Since then the party has been trying to lure Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, son of former minister late Cheruku Muthyam Reddy, who had a good hold on the constituency. According to sources, Congress State affairs in-charge Manickam Tagore and former deputy chief minister Damodar Rajanarasimha held discussions with Mr. Srinivas Reddy in this regard and offered to give him the party nomination. He has reportedly told the Congress leaders that he would take a decision on Tuesday after consulting his supporters. The Congress, is likely to make an official announcement on Tuesday. “As the TRS doors were almost closed for elections, the joining of Srinivas Reddy will be a win-win for both Congress and him. A decision will be made tomorrow and it is likely to be only a formality,” said a source.
06 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Collector seeks cooperation of parties for smooth conduct of bypoll||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy urged political parties to cooperate for the smooth conduct of by-election for Dubbak Assembly constituency. The Collector, also the District Election Officer (DEO), held a meeting with the representatives of political parties here on Monday. “The Election Commission of India (ECI) has released the schedule for the election on September 29. Notification will be released on October 9, last date for nominations is October 16, scrutiny on Oct. 17, withdrawal of nominations - Nov. 19, polling on November 3, and counting on November 10. Special Deputy Collector Chennaiah is the returning officer. A total of 315 polling centres are being established in view of not having more than 1,200 voters in each polling station. The code of conduct is already in force and political parties urged them not to violate it,” said Mr. Venkatarami Reddy adding that loud speakers are not allowed from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. Informing that special teams are being formed for implementation of code of conduct, the Collector said that postal ballot would be provided to those suffering with corona and those who crossed 80 years of age. Additional Collector S Padmakar, Husnabad RDO Jayachandra Reddy and others were present.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Who let the giraffes out?||
06 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Ban crackers for 5 months: citizens to EPCA||The Citizens For Clean Air — a group of citizens, environmentalists, waste management experts, scientists, medical practitioners and several RWA representatives — has written to the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), seeking a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers for five months starting mid-October. They fear a rise in pollution levels, which could aggravate the situation arising out of the pandemic. In a letter to EPCA chairman Bhure Lal, the group said winter months recorded high levels of pollution and “these dangerous levels of pollution will be repeated this year too and the ongoing pandemic will only make the situation graver.” ‘Treat as emergency’ They demanded that EPCA treat this as an impending health emergency and intervene to ban and issue required advisories on the sale and use of firecrackers during the pandemic period from 15 October, 2020 to 15 March, 2021. The letter pointed out that these five months were the time for festivals, marriages, sport and other public events and firecrackers were one of the main contributors to the pollution. The letter, written by waste management activist Ruchika Sethi, also running — Why Waste Your Waste — campaign, also referred to media reports suggesting that a marginal increase in pollution levels could lead to an increase in COVID-19 deaths. Study on COVID-19 “Also, a study published by Harvard University found that even a minor increase in PM 2.5 particles can lead to an increase in COVID-19 deaths,” read the letter. “We have enough anecdotal evidence of children, adults with underlying respiratory diseases and senior citizens experiencing difficulty in breathing resulting in increased hospital visits. Many residents were restricted to their homes. There are also enough newspaper reports and studies done on the dangers of firecracker emissions,” said the missive, arguing that increased visits to hospitals, due to respiratory emergencies arising out of toxic particles in our breathing zone, during COVID-19 times, were fraught with its own dangers. Meanwhile, average PM 2.5 reading of 110 micrograms per cubic meter was recorded at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station at Vikas Sadan here on October 3. The PM 2.5 levels reached a maximum of 400 around 10 a.m. and dropped to a minimum of 61 around 4 p.m.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||CM announces anti-pollution campaign ahead of winter||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced an anti-pollution campaign — Yuddh Pradushan Ke Virudh — to reduce air pollution levels in Delhi for the upcoming winter season. Mr. Kejriwal said various measures to combat pollution such as the launching of the Green Delhi app, creation of a war room to monitor steps on a real-time basis, processing liquid solution for farm fields to prevent stubble burning, implementing hotspot-specific action plans would be a part of the campaign. “Every year, the level of pollution rises in October, November, and December here. One of the biggest reasons for this is burning of crop stubble. This year, air pollution can be deadly because of COVID-19,” he said at a digital briefing. “In the last five years, the people of Delhi have done commendable work to control levels of pollution. In Delhi, the pollution levels have actually decreased between 2014-2019. The average PM2.5 in 2014 was 154, and PM2.5 in 2018-19 was 115,” he added. Following a meeting with government departments and agencies earlier during the day, Mr. Kejriwal said the government would be declaring a war against pollution. The foremost aspect of this campaign, he said, would require dealing with the pollution due to crop stubble burning every year. The Pusa Agricultural Research Institute had devised a fermented liquid solution to be sprayed on the fields to soften the stubble and prevent its burning, which Delhi would use. ‘Heavy fines’ “We are also launching an intensive anti-dust drive from today [Monday] under which various action plans will be implemented. Our inspection teams will visit the construction sites across Delhi and impose heavy fines if they are found not following anti-pollution measures in construction sites,” he said. He said mechanical sweepers would be used by civic bodies across Delhi to ensure no pollution due to road dust. He said he had also instructed agencies to repair potholes. Anti-smog guns had also been installed across the city to reduce the impact of pollution.  There are 13 points in Delhi where the impact of pollution is the maximum; those areas have been identified and the government has done detailed planning for each of the hotspots. “We will also be launching the Green Delhi App this month,” he said. “We are also creating a war room against pollution for monitoring of various measures that are implemented and have to be implemented in the coming days. I will get the daily report of the frequency, impact and success of these activities. We are also drafting the tree transplantation policy,” he said. “Delhi has shut down its own two plants,” he added.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protests over Hathras continue||Protests against the Hathras incident continued on Monday with several students’ organisations gathering at Jantar Mantar to demand Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s resignation. Students’ organisations like the All India Students’ Association (AISA) and the Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS) were a part of the demonstration where Mr. Yogi’s effigy was burnt. Anti-caste movements Kawalpreet Kaur, president of AISA’s Delhi unit said, “We demand the Chief Minister [Yogi Adityanath] to resign. Now he is hinting at an international conspiracy. This only shows that they want to kill any kind of dissent which grows in the country. Apart from this, efforts to criminalise anti-caste movements are also being done. Right now, there is not even a shred of pretence about a fair trial as we are seeing how the victim’s family is being treated. We are going to continue pursuing this issue.” Activist Kavita Krishnan said that “filing blank FIRs was a sinister move”. ‘Counter narrative’ “The ruling party and the government is trying to run a counter narrative and say that there was no rape and its an honour crime. This is being said even after there is evidence that the victim till the end kept saying that she had been sexually assaulted. It is being seen that every time there is an incident the perpetrators are protected while the victims are blamed, locked up and killed. We are not going to allow these things to be hidden away,” said Ms. Krishnan. Protesters also demanded action against senior police officers for allegedly intimidating the victim’s family.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||High Court seeks NADA reply on plea by athletes||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response from the Centre and the National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) on petitions by two athletes challenging certain provisions of the NADA Rules 2015. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan gave the direction on petition by Dharam Raj Yadav and Chunni Lal, who has additionally sought compensation claiming that they were suspended illegally. Identical petitions In their separate but identical petitions, Mr. Yadav, an international discus throw athlete and Mr. Lal, an international fencing athlete, stated that they were wrongfully placed under suspension on March 5, 2019, on the basis of a wrongfully decided Anti-Doping Agency (ADR), 2015 violation. Both of them said they were wrongfully placed under suspension from March 05, 2019, to March 06, 2020, which effectively deprived them from competing in any fencing tournament for a period of one year. They argued that the NADA Rules require the athlete to pay for procuring the laboratory documentation package (LDP). Since they had limited means, they had to wait for a re-analysis report to be prepared in March 2020 which found them to have not committed an anti-doping rule violation. Mr. Lal is the winner of the gold medal in both Senior and Junior National Fencing teams (2018) and a Silver Medal in the Junior Commonwealth Games (2018). Mr. Yadav said he has won numerous medals in both National and International Athletic Meet.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Govt.’s reply sought on plea to hold fresh JEE exam’||The Delhi High Court has sought response from the Ministry of Education on a plea of a father seeking direction to the authorities to conduct JEE (Advanced) 2020 exam afresh for his son, who was allegedly harassed at the centre for not bringing passport size photograph and transparent pen. Justice Jayant Nath, however, refused to stay the declaration of the results as sought by Pawan Kumar Singh on his petition. ‘Not possible at this stage’ The court said at this stage, it was not possible to withhold the result of JEE-Advance 2020 where thousands of students have appeared. Mr. Singh, in his plea, said his son was hounded for 45 minutes and thereafter allowed to enter in the examination centre. He said at the exam centre, his son was illegally harassed for not bringing passport size photographs while there was no such condition to bring a photograph. "Because of the physical and mental torture meted out to the son of the petitioner, he had lost a minimum of 30-40 marks, which he could have easily scored on any normal day," the plea said. The entrance examination of the JEE-Advance was conducted on September 27. The court will hear the case again on October 7.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘CAA, stirs gave rise to hate speeches before riots’||An environment for violence was created before the riots broke out in the Capital in February, a recent report released by Citizens and Lawyers Initiative has stated. The report, titled ‘Delhi Riots of February 2020: Causes, Fallout and Aftermath’, claims that the implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act and the protests that followed gave rise to hate speeches, “which stoked the flames of communal violence”. ‘Kapil Mishra’s speech’ “This culminated in the communally charged Delhi election campaign, which was eventually won by the Aam Aadmi Party without challenging the vitriolic content of its main Opposition. This gave rise to well-publicised gun-wielding vigilantes. The environment was as charged as a powder keg that just needed a spark to erupt. Kapil Mishra’s provocative speech in Jaffrabad, and the incendiary Facebook Live posts by Ragini Tiwari aka Janki Behen, appear to have had that effect; bolstered by rumour and misinformation on social media,” the report stated. According to the report, “ambiguous” role of police, inaction, “selective” complicity with Hindu rioters, and other factors lead to the escalation. The report also stated that the violence had multiple aspects, including the strategic deployment of rampaging mobs, local vigilantism and social media playing a role in coordinating and mobilising attacks and spreading misinformation to incite. “The failure of the law and order situation arose as a result of reported incidents of police partaking in the violence, providing tacit support to Hindu mobs, and failing to take appropriate action to staunch the loss of lives, livelihoods, and properties,” the report read. Talking about the compensation offered by the government, the report stated that it was less than what was offered during the Muzaffarnagar riots and there were also gaps in what was promised and what was delivered. Mentioning “political parallelism” in the investigation, the report claimed that the police put forward the narrative of the ruling party and that they chose to base their ‘analysis’ of the event on selective aspects of the witness statements “that conform to their existing narrative”. The report recommended the formation of a multi-stakeholder accountability team to supervise the investigation, institute adequate rehabilitation package, publish an account of compensation promises and disbursed, conduct trust drives. Former Supreme Court judge B.N. Srikrishna, who presided over the Commission of Inquiry into 1992-93 Bombay riots, who has written the prologue of the report, said: “It is time that the State machinery and constitutional functionaries display greater seriousness in the investigation of the causes of such riots and take appropriate steps to prevent their recurrence”.  The failure of the law and order situation arose as a result of reported incidents of police partaking in the violence, providing tacit support to Hindu mobs Delhi Riots of February 2020: Causes, Fallout and Aftermath
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Snatcher kills 24-year-old civil defence volunteer||A 24-year-old civil defence volunteer was stabbed to death and his friend was injured allegedly by two persons while trying to resist a snatching bid at GB road in Central Delhi, the police said on Monday. The incident happened at 11.30 p.m. on Sunday when the victim, Aman from Noida, along with his friends — Aniruddh, Hari Om and Raju — went to GB Road for some work. A person suddenly tried to snatch Aman’s mobile phone but failed as the group caught him. The men started beating the snatcher when the latter’s accomplice came to the spot and stabbed Aman. He also attacked Aniruddh, the officer said, adding that the accused fled the spot with the phone. Both men were rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where Aman was declared brought dead by doctors while Aniruddh is undergoing treatment. “We received information at 1.54 a.m. from RML hospital,” said DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 397(robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) at Kamla Market police station and probe is under way, he added. “Aman’s younger sister's marriage was scheduled on November 11. He was preparing for it. He was our only son. I demand the Delhi Police arrest the accused at the earliest,” said Aman’s mother.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Court orders to provide security to Umar Khalid||A Delhi court on Sunday ordered to provide adequate security to former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid, who was sent back to judicial custody after three days in police custody. Through his counsels — Rakshanda Deka and Santa Kumar — Mr. Khalid also reiterated that he had not signed any statements while in police custody. Mr. Khalid requested the court that he be provided security while in judicial custody, be allowed to wear spectacles, and have two legal interviews using video call facility for 30 minutes each. The court allowed the same and ordered the jail superintendent “to provide adequate security to the accused/applicant taking proper precautions that no harm should be caused to the accused/applicant and to provide other facilities asked for by the accused/applicant”.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Woman takes to drug peddling after losing job, held||A 50-year-old woman has been arrested for allegedly peddling drugs, the police said on Monday. The accused worked as a house help but lost her job during the lockdown and committed the crime to support her children.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Teenager gang-raped; one arrested||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by two men in north-west Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, the police said on Monday. One of the two accused nabbed, they said. A senior officer said on October 1, a call was received stating that the girl, who lives with her elder sister in Jahangirpuri, had been raped. On reaching the spot, the victim said she had gone to buy vegetables when a man named Rehan and his friend took her took a factory and sexually assaulted her. The victim’s medical examination was then conducted and based on the statement, a case on charges of gang-rape and common intention under IPC and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered. Teams are looking for absconding accused.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Life goes on||
06 October 2020||Mumbai,||HC reserves judgement in plea filed by Kangana against BMC demolition||The Bombay High Court on Monday reserved judgement on a plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished portions of her bungalow in Bandra. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla stayed the demolition process on September 9. Soon thereafter, affidavits were filed by the actor and the civic body had replied to them. The 33-year-old actor also amended her petition and sought a compensation of Rs. 2 crore from the BMC. On September 22, the court impleaded Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut as a respondent in the petition. This was done after Ms. Ranaut’s advocate Birendra Saraf submitted a DVD containing Mr. Raut’s statements against the actor, which she alleged led to the demolition. Mr. Saraf had argued, “Ms. Ranaut is at loggerheads with the Maharashtra government over certain issues. She has displeased a party in power with her open views. She had to face life threats and had to seek special protection from the Centre. Mr. Raut has made derogatory statements against Ms. Ranaut on TV channels. He said that Ms. Ranaut needed to be taught a lesson. On the same day Mr. Raut made the remarks, an officer from the BMC entered her property without prior notice. The timing of the visit assumes relevance.” On September 28, the Bench had said, “There is something absolutely fishy here in the manner in which portions of the bungalow were demolished.” The BMC has maintained that Ms. Ranaut carried out substantial work of alterations and additions to the building.
06 October 2020||Mumbai,||If COVID-19 patient dies due to negligence, family should get compensation, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Monday said if the State government accepted that victims of COVID-19 had died due to culpable negligence, their family members should be entitled to compensation. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by BJP MLA Ashish Shelar. The PIL raised an issue about the proper management of bodies of COVID-19 victims, which is also pending adjudication before the Supreme Court. It said that hospitals, including Sion hospital, should have considerably large areas for a mortuary hall and a post-mortem hall for dealing with bodies. The PIL sought a direction to the State government to set up a committee to look into this. The court directed Mr. Shelar to suggest additional measures that could be adopted by the State for better management of bodies in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. An additional affidavit was filed by Mr. Shelar on July 10 in which he had referred to 11 instances of death of patients, either at State-run hospitals or hospitals operated by various municipal corporations, amid the pandemic. According to him, such instances would suggest culpable negligence on the part of those responsible for running the hospitals. The court on Monday said, “If the instances referred to by Mr. Shelar were true and the State accepts the allegations of the petitioner that there has been culpable negligence, the unfortunate victim’s family members should be entitled to compensation.”
06 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘Uddhav will soon decide on reopening places of worship’||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is holding discussions with various religious organisations and he will soon take a decision on reopening places of worship in the State, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Monday. Mr. Raut said this when some reporters pointed out that restaurants have been allowed to operate again with their capacity not exceeding 50% or as prescribed by local authorities, but temples have not been reopened in the State. “The Chief Minister has maintained from the beginning that things will be unlocked in a phased manner...you can impose 50% restrictions on restaurants while reopening them, but it is not possible in the case of temples,” he said.
06 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records lowest COVID-19 case surge in 45 days||In its lowest case surge in over 45 days, Maharashtra reported just 10,244 new COVID-19 cases on Monday as the State’s total tally reached 14,53,653 of whom 2,52,277 are active. Hearteningly, the State’s recovery rate rose to 80% as recoveries outpaced cases yet again with 12,982 patients being discharged to take the cumulative recoveries to 11,62,585. Recoveries have been outweighing cases for the better part of the last 10 days. Yet, this spike has to be viewed in the context of relatively low samples tested — 58,000 — in the last 24 hours as opposed to the daily average of 85,000-90,000. With 263 more deaths, the State’s death toll has now climbed to 38,347. “Of a total 71,69,887 laboratory samples tested thus far, 14,53,653 (20.27%) have returned positive with around 58,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stood at 2.64%. Pune district — in its lowest daily surge in over a month — reported a little over 1,000 cases to take its total tally to 3,04,353 while 30 deaths saw its fatality toll touch 6,002. As per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate has reached 85.30% with the number of active cases down to 36,500. Mumbai reported 1,836 cases to take its total case tally to 2,15,488 of whom 26,392 are active ones. As many as 47 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 9,155. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 650 cases, taking the district’s total tally to 82,396 of whom 11,222 are active. As many as 20 deaths saw the death toll climb to 2,197. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 15 deaths to take its death toll to 1,123. A spike of 486 fresh cases saw the total case tally reach 39,755 of whom 7,882 are active.
06 October 2020||Pune,||Hathras case: RSS, BJP view women as commodities, says Prakash Ambedkar||Attacking the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the alleged gang rape of a 19-year-old girl in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar on Monday said that the Sangh and its political arm envisaged women only as “commodities”. Mr. Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, also lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his “conspicuous silence” over the crime in Uttar Pradesh. “The heinous Hathras incident has been protested at all levels of society…The younger generation is now looking at the oppression of women from a different perspective. In this changing scenario, it is worth noting that the mentality of the RSS-BJP throughout has been to propagate this notion of women as objects of consumption,” the VBA leader said in Pune after a protest against the Hathras crime. Stating that it was heartening to see youth coming out in large numbers to protest crimes against women, Mr. Ambedkar said that youngsters today were more conscious of the basic rights of a woman. “Youngsters recognise that a woman, too, has inalienable rights and that she should be able to live the way she wants to. The new generation has no toleration against such brutal oppression of women. The fact that they are hitting the streets in such great numbers across the country is evidence of this fact,” he said.
06 October 2020||BETHESDA,||Ignoring concerns, Trump takes a car ride||Infected and contagious, President Donald Trump briefly ventured out in a motorcade on Sunday to salute cheering supporters, a move that disregarded precautions meant to contain the deadly virus that has forced his hospitalisation and killed more than 2,09,000 Americans. With one month until election day, Mr. Trump was eager to project strength despite his illness. The President surprised supporters who had gathered outside Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, driving by in a black SUV with the windows rolled up. Secret Service agents inside the vehicle could be seen in masks and other protective gear. The move capped a weekend of contradictions that fuelled confusion about Mr. Trump’s health, which has imperilled the leadership of the U.S. government and upended the final stages of the presidential campaign. While Mr. Trump’s physician offered a rosy prognosis on his condition, his briefings lacked basic information, including the findings of lung scans, or were quickly muddled by more serious assessments of the President’s health by other officials. ‘This is insanity’ In a short video released by the White House on Sunday, Mr. Trump insisted he understood the gravity of the moment. But his actions moments later, by leaving the hospital and sitting inside the SUV with others, suggested otherwise. “This is insanity,” said Dr. James P. Phillips, an attending physician at Walter Reed, who is a critic of Mr. Trump and his handling of the pandemic. “Every single person in the vehicle during that completely unnecessary presidential ‘drive-by’ just now has to be quarantined for 14 days. They might get sick. They may die.” “For political theater,” the doctor added. “Commanded by Trump to put their lives at risk for theater.” White House spokesman Judd Deere said Mr. Trump’s trip outside the hospital “was cleared by the medical team as safe to do.” He added that precautions were taken, including using personal protective equipment, to protect Mr. Trump as well as White House officials and Secret Service agents. Joe Biden’s campaign, meanwhile, said the Democratic presidential nominee again tested negative for COVID-19 on Sunday. The results come five days after Mr. Biden spent more than 90 minutes on the debate stage with Mr. Trump. Mr. Biden, who has taken a far more cautious approach to in-person events, had two negative tests on Friday. For his part, Mr. Trump still faces questions about his health. It was the second straight day of obfuscation from a White House already suffering from a credibility crisis. And it raised more doubts about whether the doctors treating the president were sharing accurate, timely information with the American public about the severity of his condition. Conflicting messages Pressed about conflicting information, Dr. Sean Conley said that he had tried to present a sunnier description of the President’s condition. “I was trying to reflect the upbeat attitude that the team, the President, that his course of illness has had. Didn’t want to give any information that might steer the course of illness in another direction,” Dr. Conley said. “And in doing so, you know, it came off that we were trying to hide something, which wasn’t necessarily true. The fact of the matter is that he’s doing really well.” Medical experts said Dr. Conley’s revelations were hard to square with his positive assessment and talk of a discharge. “There’s a little bit of a disconnect,” said Dr. Steven Shapiro, chief medical and scientific officer at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. According to CDC guidelines, “In general, transport and movement of a patient with suspected or confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection outside of their room should be limited to medically essential purposes.” Even before Mr. Trump’s motorcade outing on Sunday, some Secret Service agents have expressed concern about the lackadaisical attitude toward masks and social distancing inside the White House, but there isn’t much they can do, according to officials who spoke to the Associated Press.
06 October 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka sees a sudden spike in COVID-19 cases||Months after successfully containing  the spread of the coronavirus, Sri Lanka on Monday reported a sudden spike in COVID-19 cases — whose source remains unclear — raising questions over possible community transmission that authorities have so far denied. On Monday evening, Sri Lanka’s Health Promotion Bureau had recorded at least 101 new cases, in the last 24 hours, raising the total number of COVID-19 cases to about 3,500. Sri Lanka has so far reported 13 deaths since the outbreak in March.  Factory outbreak Health officials conducted about 2,000 PCR tests after a woman employed in a garment factory in Minuwangoda, about 40 km north of Colombo, tested positive this weekend. Subsequent tests among workers revealed 69 of them were infected and prompted authorities to impose a police curfew in the district. Army Commander Lieutenant General Shavendra Silva, who heads the National Centre for the Prevention of COVID-19, told local news portal Colombo Gazette that “contingency plans were in place”. The government has also urged the public to refrain from non-essential travel and large gatherings. The recently tested COVID-19 cases come at a time when Sri Lanka is mulling re-opening the country to tourists to help revive its pandemic-hit economy. With its vital export sector and foreign remittances badly affected, Sri Lanka is due to repay some $3 billion of its external debt this year. On Friday, the government settled a $1 billion-worth International Sovereign Bond, amid persisting fiscal strain. The island nation was among the few countries in the world that contained the spread of infection with early interventions, by public health officials and the Army, including a stringent curfew and aggressive contact tracing. International leaders and agencies, including the World Health Organization, have commended Sri Lanka’s effective response to the pandemic. Further, the government has also restricted the return of several thousand Sri Lankan migrant workers, stuck in West Asian countries where they are employed, fearing they might bring home the virus. Though Sri Lanka boasts of a relatively low COVID-19 death rate, 64 Sri Lankan migrant workers have died from contracting COVID-19 so far in their host countries, according to the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment.
06 October 2020||Bamako,||Mali frees over 100 jihadists||Insurgency-hit Mali has freed over 100 alleged or convicted jihadists to secure the release of a top politician and a French charity worker, sources close to the talks said Monday. This is a rare mass release of prisoners in the fragile West African country, which is struggling with an eight-year-old Islamist insurgency. Soumaila Cisse, a former opposition leader and three-time presidential candidate, was abducted on March 25 while campaigning in his home region of Niafounke ahead of legislative elections. Sophie Petronin, a French charity worker, was abducted by gunmen on December 24, 2016, in the northern city of Gao. She is presently the last French national held hostage in the world. “As part of the negotiations to obtain the release of Soumaila Cisse and Sophie Petronin, more than one hundred jihadist prisoners were released this weekend,” a person in charge of the negotiations said. An official at the security services confirmed the information. The prisoners were released in the central region of Niono and in Tessalit in the north after arriving by plane, the official said.
06 October 2020||Berlin,||Jewish student attacked outside German synagogue||German investigators said on Monday that they were probing an attack on a Jewish student outside a synagogue in Hamburg as attempted murder with anti-Semitic intent, a case condemned by Chancellor Angela Merkel as a “disgrace”. The 26-year-old student was badly injured on Sunday by a man who repeatedly struck him on the head with a shovel outside the synagogue where the Jewish community was celebrating Sukkot, also known as the Feast of the Tabernacles. The assault came a year after two people were shot dead by an extremist who tried and failed to storm a synagogue in the eastern German city of Halle. Jewish leaders and top politicians led condemnation of the latest attack, which Ms. Merkel’s spokesman described as a “repulsive” assault. “Such an attack is repulsive, no matter what investigations about the motivation and the condition of the perpetrator might show,” said spokesman Steffen Seibert. Suspect arrested “And it must be clearly stated by everyone in this society: in Germany, every such act is a disgrace.” The suspect, 29, was arrested by police officers who were assigned to protect the synagogue in the northern city. Dressed in combat fatigues, he had a piece of paper with a hand-drawn swastika in his pocket, said police and prosecutors in a statement. “The current assessment of the situation suggests that this is an anti-Semitic motivated attack,” they said, adding that investigators are treating the case as “attempted murder with grievous bodily harm”. Ronald Lauder, leader of the World Jewish Congress, demanded action, saying that the attacker “must be held responsible as must all who engage in any expressions of hate or intolerance”. Anti-Semitic crimes have increased steadily in Germany in recent years with 2,032 offences recorded in 2019, up 13% on the previous year.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘U.S.-made F-16 jets are being used against Armenians’||When Nikol Pashinyan, Armenia’s Prime Minister, spoke by telephone on Thursday with President Donald Trump’s National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien, he raised a delicate issue: Why is nothing being done to stop a longtime U.S. ally, Turkey, from using U.S.-made F-16 jets against ethnic Armenians in a disputed mountain region? Mr. Pashinyan’s call to Mr. Robert O’Brien followed an eruption of heavy fighting in and around Nagorno-Karabakh, a remote territory at the centre of the most enduring and venomous of the “frozen conflicts” left by the collapse of the Soviet Union. The breakaway enclave, legally part of Azerbaijan but controlled by Armenians for the past three decades, has seen many military flare-ups over the years. But the current fighting, Mr. Pashinyan said in a telephone interview, has taken on a far more dangerous dimension because of Turkey’s direct military intervention in support of Azerbaijan, its ethnic Turkic ally. On Sunday, news reports said, the forces of Armenia and Azerbaijan, both former Soviet republics, exchanged rocket fire, with missiles falling on Azerbaijan’s second largest city, Ganja, and on the Armenian-controlled capital of Nagorno-Karabakh. Each side accused the other of targeting . In a statement on Sunday, the International Committee of the Red Cross denounced “a surge in attacks using heavy explosive weaponry on populated areas,” which it said “is taking a deadly toll on civilians.” The conflict has set off alarms about the risks of a wider war and put the U.S., with its large and politically influential Armenian diaspora, in the uncomfortable position of watching Turkey, a vital NATO ally, deploying F-16 jets in support of Armenia’s enemies. ‘Heard, acknowledged’ “The U.S.,” Mr. Pashinyan said, “needs to explain whether it gave those F-16s to bomb peaceful villages and peaceful populations.” He said that Mr. O’Brien had “heard and acknowledged” his concerns and promised to set up a phone conversation between the Armenian leader and Mr. Trump. That opportunity to rally the U.S. to Armenia’s side vanished just a few hours later when Mr. Trump announced that he had tested positive for the coronavirus. But Mr. Trump’s health issues, analysts say, have only accentuated his administration’s disengagement from a conflict that offers no easy diplomatic victories. It has confounded decades of efforts to resolve a dispute that has left Armenians in control of not only Nagorno-Karabakh but also large swaths of Azerbaijani territory outside the breakaway enclave. Mr. Pashinyan declined to say whether Armenia might be ready to surrender any occupied Azerbaijani land as part of a possible peace settlement, insisting that this was not up to him but a matter for the leaders of Nagorno-Karabakh, a nominally independent entity ruled by ethnic Armenians.NY Times
06 October 2020||Jalalabad,||Eight killed in attack on Afghan Governor||A suicide attack targeting an Afghan provincial Governor killed at least eight people on Monday, officials said, as the President travelled to Qatar, where peace talks with the Taliban have stalled. Twenty eight people were wounded when the attacker rammed his explosives-filled vehicle into the convoy of Rahmatullah Yarmal, the Governor of eastern Laghman province. “The Governor was driving to his office when his car was hit. Four of his bodyguards and four civilians were killed, 28 wounded,” the Governor’s spokesman Assadullah Daulatzai told AFP, adding that the Governor was unhurt. It comes as President Ashraf Ghani on Monday left for Doha to meet with Qatari officials, three weeks after the launch of landmark peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban. Mr. Ghani will first stop in Kuwait to offer condolences over the death of Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad Al-Sabah. Doha talks have stalled over disagreements on how to frame a code of conduct that will guide the broader talks. The Taliban, who are Sunni hardliners, are insisting on adherence to the Hanafi school of Sunni Islamic jurisprudence, but the government negotiators say this could be used to discriminate against Hazaras and other minorities in the country.
06 October 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Pakistan charges former President Zardari||A Pakistani court on Monday officially charged the country’s former President Asif Ali Zardari in two corruption cases, escalating the legal challenges facing the now leading opposition lawmaker and widower of assassinated former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. The development came as Mr. Zardari’s party and a key anti-government ally were preparing for a massive rally against Prime Minister Imran Khan later this month. Mr. Zardari was released on bail on medical grounds last December, six months after his arrest. During Monday’s court appearance in the capital, Islamabad, Mr. Zardari pleaded not guilty to money laundering and corruption charges. He later told reporters he was not surprised by the indictment and that charges are something he routinely faces whenever he is in the opposition. A member of Parliament, Mr. Zardari is accused of having dozens of bogus bank accounts, a charge he denies, saying he has been politically victimised.
06 October 2020||Paris,||Paris, Oct 5, 2020 (AFP) -||As much as 40% of the Amazon risks crossing a tipping point from rainforest to savanna as greenhouse gas emissions reduce the rainfall needed to sustain its unique ecosystem, scientists said in a study published in Nature Communications .AFP
06 October 2020||Islamabad,||FATF all set to decide on Pakistan’s grey list status||The Financial Action Task Force is all set to decide on Pakistan’s grey list status in a virtual meeting scheduled later this month, according to a media report on Monday. The Paris-based global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog had placed Pakistan on the grey list in June 2018.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||India needs a rainbow recovery plan||The world could emerge from COVID-19 so much the worse by attempting ‘business as usual’, or it could take pathways to a more just, sustainable future. In Europe and the U.S., a ‘green new deal’ (GND) proposed by some from the political mainstream puts the climate and employment crises at the centre of economic recovery. In India, we have a chance to build on our genius and heritage to forge a multihued approach — a rainbow new deal (RND). By RND, I refer to a seamless integration of ecological protection and tackling of wealth inequality and economic vulnerability of several hundreds of millions of people. Green meets red, so to speak. But ‘green’ itself is a restricted environmentalism; the oceans and rivers and natural deserts and mountains together are a lot more colours. I also include here recognition of multiple genders and sexualities from whose movements I borrow the symbol of the rainbow. What would RND entail? Our most urgent task is to generate dignified, sustainable livelihoods for the vast majority of the population and workforce that is today living precarious lives. And this has to be built on regenerating and safeguarding the country’s soil, natural ecosystems, water, biological diversity, and air. We should never forget that the more we destroy it, the more we invite crises, from COVID-19 to climate. The nearly 200 million small farmers, pastoralists, and fishers can be enabled to sustain or switch to organic, ecologically sustainable production, with their own food security as the highest priority, and with local marketing links. This would include over 10 million people who appear to have gone back to agriculture in the COVID-19 period. Next, the RND could encourage lifestyles and livelihoods that obtain substantial food, medicines, household items and other needs, as also sustainable livelihoods, from natural ecosystems. Forest-based livelihoods alone, for instance, can support 100 million people. Third, it would entail reviving and sustaining India’s incredible diversity of crafts, and decentralised production of most goods and services, across all villages and towns, with a massive investment in the small and medium sector enterprises. This could gainfully employ 200 million people. All such production could be run democratically as producer companies or cooperatives. For all the above, schemes like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme could be re-oriented and extended, including for urban livelihoods. Then, the RND would entail substantial investments in public health, education, housing, transportation and other basic needs. If these are run in a decentralised way, with appropriate training, they could generate many more millions of jobs. The same could be for other services like digital networks and communications, as also decentralised infrastructure development by worker collectives. All of this would be within ecologically sustainable limits, and specially focused on empowering and benefiting the most marginalised people. In such a recovery, big companies need to be kept out. Soap, footwear, furniture, clothes, energy, and myriad other items of everyday use can be produced by community-run units across the country. ‘Made in India’ should be ‘Handmade in India’ by local workers. In a recent webinar, Suresh Chhanga, sarpanch of Kunariya village in Kachchh in Gujarat, proposed that they can save Rs. 40 lakh a month on such items by producing them locally. Elango Rangasamy, former Dalit sarpanch of Kuthambakkam village in Tamil Nadu, proposes a ‘network economy’, in which clusters of villages can be self-reliant for most basic needs, and exchange with neighbouring clusters what they cannot produce or grow. Ela Bhatt, founder of SEWA, has proposed the ‘100 mile radius’ as a region within which the objective of self-reliance can be met. These are all currently relevant versions of Mahatma Gandhi’s focus on self-reliance. There are hundreds of initiatives already demonstrating the feasibility of such an approach. Many are run by workers and communities themselves. Government-sponsored programmes like Kudumbashree in Kerala and Jharcraft in Jharkhand show how they can be significantly scaled with state support. During the COVID-19 lockdown, community resilience based on such initiatives was amply demonstrated. But let’s be clear: such RND will succeed only if there is a fundamental move away from a privatised, capitalist economy, and an authoritarian state, and head-on tackling of casteism, patriarchy and other structures of inequality. There are many successful initiatives at empowering women, Dalits, Adivasis, landless, the LGBTQ+ community and the disabled to learn from. This also means a serious attempt at land reforms, including recognising collective rights over the commons: forests, grasslands, coastal and marine areas, biodiversity, wetlands, water, and knowledge. Legislation similar to the Forest Rights Act, and community mobilisation to implement it, is needed for all other ecosystems. Wealth redistribution Where substantial public investments are needed, serious wealth redistribution is called for. As economist Prabhat Patnaik has pointed out, a mere 2% wealth tax coupled with a 33% inheritance tax on the richest 1% of India could generate more revenue than the total recovery package the Government of India announced in May 2020 . It is of course foolish to expect the government to go for such RND. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ programme, with all its doublespeak on ‘self-reliance’, places India’s economy even more into the hands of private capital and big players. Massive, informed public mobilisation is needed to counter this policy regression. The recent protests by lakhs of young people against the regressive Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020 and against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens provide hope. If these diverse strands of resistance, feminist, worker, farmer, and other mobilisations of the marginalised, and myriad grassroots initiatives at alternative living all can be synergised, a RND kind of transformation may yet be on the horizon. Ashish Kothari is with Kalpavriksh, Vikalp Sangam, and Global Tapestry of Alternatives
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Farm Acts – unwanted constitutional adventurism||The passage of the three Farm Acts by Parliament has led to a constitutional debate. These Acts are: the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Does the Union government have the authority to legislate on what are rightfully the affairs of States? Many States have questioned the constitutional validity of the Farm Acts and are reportedly exploring legal options. The issue Agriculture is a State subject in the Constitution, listed as Entry 14 in the State List (List II). This apart, Entry 26 in List II refers to “trade and commerce within the State”; Entry 27 refers to “production, supply and distribution of goods”; and Entry 28 refers to “markets and fairs”. For these reasons, intra-State marketing in agriculture was always considered a legislative prerogative of States. Seen in this perspective, Parliament’s passage of the Farm Bills was an extraordinary step. For this purpose, the central government invoked Entry 33 in the Concurrent List (List III). Entry 26 and 27 in List II are listed as “subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III”. Entry 33 in List III is the following: 33. Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of, — (a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products; (b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils; (c) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates; (d) raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned, and cotton seed; and (e) raw jute. Amendment and dissent Entry 33, in its present form, was inserted in List III through the Constitution (Third Amendment) Act, 1954. That its import was significant is clear in the heated constitutional debates around the Amendment. After tabling in the house, the Constitution (Third Amendment) Bill was referred to a Joint Committee. In the Joint Committee, there was severe opposition to the Bill from seven members: N.C. Chatterjee, K.S. Raghavachari, A. Krishnaswamy, Parvathi Krishnan, Bimal Commar Ghosh, V. Venkataramana and Harish Chandra Mathur. In the final report, these members also wrote an important note of dissent (https://bit.ly/30BqRZv). The contention of the dissent was the following. As per Article 369 in the original version of the Constitution, the responsibility of agricultural trade and commerce within a State was temporarily entrusted to the Union government for a period of five years beginning from 1950. The 1954 Amendment attempted to change this into a permanent feature in the Constitution. But according to the dissenting members, “the Constitution makers did not desire to place matters enumerated in Article 369 in the Concurrent List”. If indeed they were placed in List III, “State autonomy would be rendered illusory and State powers and rights would be progressively pulverised…”, and “…the legislative authority of State legislatures is pro tanto abrogated”. As a result, the Amendment would be “…permanently depriving the State legislatures from effectively exercising their legislative judgement in respect of certain vital matters….” Parliament discussed the Bill in September 1954 (https://bit.ly/2GCI0L4). In his opening speech, Minister for Commerce and Industry T.T. Krishnamachari clarified that the Amendment was required because many States were deficit in food production, and the Centre had to “safeguard the interests of the weaker units in the Union”. His point was that it was the adverse food situation in the country that necessitated the Amendment. But many eminent Opposition members were not impressed, and pointed to the spirit of the dissent note. In their eloquent elaborations, Asoka Mehta and K.K. Basu argued that States such as Bihar, Bombay, Travancore-Cochin and Assam had explicitly opposed the Bill. Basu said that Article 369 was retained as a temporary feature in the Constitution because “the situation in the country [after 1947] was abnormal” and “the food situation was very bad.…” But the Constitution-makers knew that the situation would return to “normal” in a few years. That was why they did not vest the listed powers with the Centre for more than five years. Hence, its conversion into a permanent provision was unwarranted. Asoka Mehta warned that if the Centre truly wanted control on trade and commerce in States, then, over time, it would also want to have “control over crop planning and cultivation”. Thus, the Bill would lead to “an expanding encroachment on the rights of the States”; “a progressive erosion of State powers”; and “the possibility of side stepping of democratic processes”. According to K.K. Basu, “passage of the Bill would transform the Indian Constitution into a “unitary Constitution” instead of a “federal Constitution” and reduce “all the States’ powers into municipal powers”. A “reactionary legislation” was being introduced as “an innocuous piece of legislation”. Notwithstanding the strong dissenting voices, the Bill was passed. But history appears to have proven the dissenters right. In September 2020, the same Entry 33 was invoked to usurp the same powers of the States that the dissenters feared would be taken away. What the judiciary said In many of its judgments after 1954, the Supreme Court of India has upheld the legislative powers of States in intra-State agricultural marketing. Most notable was the ruling of the five-judge Constitution Bench in I.T.C. Limited vs. Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and Others , 2002. The Tobacco Board Act, 1975 had brought the development of the tobacco industry under the Centre. However, Bihar’s APMC Act continued to list tobacco as an agricultural produce. In this case, the question was if the APMC in Monghyr could charge a levy on ITC for the purchase of unprocessed tobacco leaves from growers. An earlier judgment had held that the State APMC Act will be repugnant to the Central Act, and hence was ultra vires . But the Constitution Bench upheld the validity of the State APMC Act, and ruled that (a) market fees can be charged from ITC under the State APMC Act; (b) State laws become repugnant only if the State and Centre enact laws on the same subject matter under an Entry in List III; and (c) in those cases outside List III, one has to first examine if the subject matter was an exclusive entry under List I or List II, and only after determining this can one decide on the dominant legislation that would prevail. In the case of the Farm Acts of 2020, the applicable points are (a) and (c). With regard to (a), States could continue to charge mandi taxes from private markets anywhere in the notified area regardless of the Central Act. With regard to (c), the State legislation should prevail as agriculture is an exclusive subject matter — Entry 14 – in List II. In summary, first, it was unwise on the part of the Centre to use Entry 33 in List III to push the Farm Bills. Such adventurism weakens the spirit of federal cooperation that India needs in this hour of crisis. Second, agriculture is exclusively a State subject. Everything that is ancillary or subsidiary to an exclusive subject in List II should also fall under the exclusive legislative purview of States. Most importantly, Entry 28 in List II — i.e., “markets and fairs” — is not subject to Entry 33 in List III. In short, there appears to be a strong case to reasonably argue that the Farm Acts have poor legal validity, if not being outrightly unconstitutional. R. Ramakumar is Professor, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-imagining education in an India at 100||After 34 years, India rekindled the conversation on its National Education Policy (NEP) in 2020. A policy is as good as it is actualised in practice and it would be ideal to explore the contours of national education practices leading to 2047 when politically independent India becomes 100 years old. From a teacher’s perspective, the next education practices can be viewed through the following five design principles. To excel is key Autonomy: Currently, the clamour for autonomy in education practices is a mixed bag of pretentious idealism and hard-nosed practicality. The Indian Institutes of Management (IIM) Bill, 2017 granting autonomy to the IIMs has now become an Act. In helming a first generation IIM for two terms, one has seen no dramatic variation in the nature of autonomy of the IIMs. The reason for this is that the IIMs, as indeed the Indian Institutes of Technology, have been performing institutions with robust self-correcting systems. The greatest insurance for autonomy is excellence in students’ outcomes rather than a piece of legislation. As long as institutions continue to excel, they will earn their autonomy through social, community and citizens’ sanctions. Legislation may help. However, institutions and institutional leaders who are trained for blind conformity will find exercise of autonomy rather difficult even if the law is on their side. In practice, autonomy cannot be defined by entitlement nor limited by unlawful encroachment. Mere assumption of autonomy does not ensure exercise of autonomy. By 2047, autonomy has to be imbibed as an institutional culture rather than a personal perquisite of a vice chancellor, principal or a director. There will be autonomy in teaching methods, autonomy of the learner in creating her own curriculum, autonomy of thought and self-governance — Swayttata . Technology-rich settings Learning: In 2047, six billion people in the world would constitute the middle class. With little money but with enormous hunger for learning, they will define the learner base for a networked global university system. Technology will proliferate intelligence from hardware to software to everywhere. Smart schools and smart classes may soon morph to smart chairs and smart desks. Intelligence can be embedded into everything. Smart chairs will have sensors to map the flow of attention in the classrooms. On the other hand, the intangibles of the teaching learning process such as creativity, mentorship and facilitation of learning will give birth to the quest for mastery. Teachers will evolve from ring masters to zen masters, raising awareness rather than delivering content. The four core tasks of the university: creation; dissemination; accreditation and monetisation of knowledge will require a sweet synthesis of algorithm and altruism. Learning will involve mobilisation of knowledge for a specific person; is a specific context to face specific challenges or problems. In the ultimate analysis, learning will be about propagation of crucial questions rather than pre-determined answers. Pressure of performance will have to co-exist with the pleasure and ecstasy of learning — ananda . Coherence across fields Trans-disciplinarity: The new National Education Policy (NEP) roots for multi-disciplinary institutions rather than standalone schools. Multidisciplinarity involves experts from different disciplines working together, each drawing on their unique disciplinary knowledge. In a world that is going to be more complex and volatile, expertise from multiple disciplines will be required to construct an understanding of the real life problems we will face. The challenges that COVID-19 has thrown before us require medical scientists, economists, historians, architects, health workers and political scientists and more experts to bring their disciplinary depth to the table. Frequent flooding of our cities is at once an urban planning issue, an engineering issue, environmental issue, public health issue, and of course a political issue that requires many diverse fields to create an understanding of the nature of the problem and its solution. However, by 2047, trans-disciplinarity rather than multi-disciplinarity will be the norm. Transdisciplinarity is about creating a coherence of intellectual frameworks beyond the disciplinary perspectives. Knowledge in 2047 will move from discipline-based units to the unity of meaning and understanding. The reductionist knowledge of the West that explains the whole as the sum of parts will yield space to the quest for the part less whole that the rishis of the Upanishads described as purnatwa . School as a connecting hub Technology-innovation: Technology-led innovation will take learning from cognition to immersion. The content of knowledge has evolved from text that had to be cognised to include visual, audio and tactile immersive experiences. Traditionally, students of professional courses learnt through field and factory visits. Today, it is possible for a factory experience to be simulated in a classroom. A leading global engineering company, ABB, is using virtual reality to simulate a factory experience inside a school. A classroom will not be a place but a space. In 2047, school will not be a brick and mortar house but a connecting hub that will digitally decode, deliver and disperse knowledge. Disruptive innovation will enable technology to give greater access to hitherto exclusive knowledge and fulfil unmet learner needs. A vice chancellor’s office will look a lot more like a tech-studio. Technology will not be a cosmetic add-on but serve a strategic purpose. Leading schools of the world will harness talent and technology seamlessly.  Nurturing minds with values Values, mindset and culture: By 2047, Indian teachers will be engaged in nurturing global mindsets based on three classical values of India: satyam (authenticity), nityam (sustainability) and purnam (wholeness). Mindsets will be based on how learners receive information and not what information they receive; on how to think rather than what to think. Education is finally about creating and sustaining wholesome cultures rather than serving the templates of outmoded civilisations. The post-colonial Indian education system has managed to create mindsets of clerks and coders and imitators to serve a civilisation that bets on material values of exploitation of nature and increasing consumption. While civilisation is about what we acquire, culture is concerned with who we become. The most valuable outcome of education is the becoming of a competent and compassionate human being. In 2047, a teacher’s role will be to midwife this transformative re-birth of citizens of our great nation. Debashis Chatterjee is the author of ‘Timeless Leadership’ and the Director of IIM Kozhikode
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Breaking the law over Brexit||The latest spectacular development in the Brexit saga is the Internal Market Bill that was passed in the House of Commons. The Bill has caused uproar in the U.K. and across the world as it breaks international law by going back on the Withdrawal Agreement Bill signed by the Boris Johnson government in January 2020. That a country that considers itself home of the rule of law would break international law is ironic. Brandon Lewis, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland in the U.K. government, admitted in the House of Commons that the Bill would break international law in “a very specific and limited way”. The European Union (EU) has initiated legal action against the U.K. over the Bill. The possibility of destabilisation More dramatic is the possibility that Brexit could bring about the Balkanisation of the U.K. into its constituent nations of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Island. The term “ tukde tukde ”, coined in noisy news debates in India and translated for the British as fragments of the nation, could actually be applicable to Britain, which stares at the possibility of destabilisation. Among the nations that constitute the U.K., Scotland and Northern Ireland would become the major lines of fracture. While the Brexit process and Mr. Johnson’s hard Brexit stance have been believed to be the catalyst for the current situation in the U.K., Mr. Johnson has suggested that the threat to the territorial integrity of the U.K. comes from the EU. The unfolding of the Brexit process has revealed the likelihood of a hard border between Northern Ireland, which is part of the U.K., and the Republic of Ireland, which is part of the EU. To prevent such a possibility, the EU had negotiated an earlier backstop arrangement with the previous Theresa May-led British government. The backstop arrangement was akin to an insurance policy to prevent the possibility of a restrictive hard border that would impede the flow of goods and people. Mr. Johnson had always balked at the idea of a backstop. In the Withdrawal Agreement Bill that he had signed with the EU, the Northern Ireland protocol was introduced to eliminate the possibility of a hard border and achieve the aims of the earlier backstop. It is the provisions of the protocol that he himself signed that Mr. Johnson is now backtracking on with the new Bill. Mr. Johnson’s Brexit position completely overlooks constitutional developments in the U.K. since the late 1990s, beginning with the 1998 Good Friday Agreement. A major achievement of the Tony Blair government, the Agreement ended violent decades of troubles in Northern Ireland and brought peace and stability in the region in the last two decades. It is this stability that the Brexit process threatens to undo. Following closely on the heels of the Good Friday Agreement, significant devolution of powers was effected with the nations that constitute the U.K., resulting in regional parliaments in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Ostensibly, the Johnson government’s Internal Market Bill seeks to create a single uniform market across the four nations of the U.K. A measure taken by one of the parliaments would have to be accepted across all four nations to maintain the viability of the unified internal market. The reality could actually be a significant undermining of the rigorous food, health and safety regulations that have been hitherto upheld by the EU. The example that has most often been used is the possibility of chlorine washed chicken imported from the U.S. filling up shelves in U.K. supermarkets.  On a decline Since the end of World War II, the U.K. has been on a decline. Yet, on account of a fortuitous combination of soft power through the reach of its cultural exports, the prestige of its university system, and the vast scale of London as a leading financial centre, it has maintained its position somewhere near the top in the league table of nations. Ardent Brexiteers in the true spirit of ‘Rule, Britannia!’ seek to restore the glory days of Britain’s dominance. For this to happen, in their view, Britain has to stop being a more or less equal partner with Germany and France in the EU and ride subordinate on the coat-tails of the U.S. For Brexit critics, the phenomenon is just one more confirmation of the implosion of the U.K. Perhaps Mr. Johnson and his special adviser Dominic Cummings could heed a bit of oriental advice. A wise ruler explained his ability to keep his countrymen together by suggesting that the tie that bound him to many of them in far-off provinces could sometimes be as fragile as a single strand of hair that he would never break. When his countrymen pulled, he would loosen his hold, and when he felt them relaxing their hold, he would make it a point to pull them closer. Brexit, with its extreme centripetal tendencies, is just the opposite of this sagely advice. Amir Ali teaches at the Centre for Political Studies, JNU, New Delhi
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||An unconstitutional harvest||Since independence, Minimum Support Price (MSP) has served as an insurance to farmers, in the form of income security for their produce. As many as 23 vital farm products are supported by the MSP regime. Yet, it has no legislative backing. Recently, three laws were passed, which the Central government described as necessary farm reforms. Two of these are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act (FPTC Act), and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act (FAPAFS Act). Unsurprisingly, none refer to the MSP. The stated object of these laws is to provide farmers an additional marketplace for selling their produce by institutionalising contract farming, whilst reducing the dependency on government-controlled APMC-designated mandis, where farmers are often forced to pay high commissions to intermediaries. Abuse of federalism Agriculture falls within the exclusive legislative competence of State governments, through Entry 14 of the State List. However, the Acts in question have been enacted by Parliament, seemingly deriving the legislative competence to do so under Entry 33 of the Concurrent List, which deals with ‘trade and commerce’ of some products listed in that Entry. This inference is axiomatic as the FPTC Act (defining ‘farmers’ produce’), and the FAPAFS Act (defining ‘farming produce’), borrow the items enumerated in Entry 33. The list of items provided under Entry 33 is an exhaustive one. However, the two definitions take leaps beyond the exhaustive set of items enumerated in the said Entry, by also including what can practically be considered as the entirety of farming output — “...wheat, rice or other coarse grains, pulses, vegetables, fruits, nuts, spices, sugarcane and products of poultry, piggery, goatery, fishery and dairy...” — none of which find mention in Entry 33. The definitions of ‘farmer’ and ‘farming produce’ are at the heart of these laws, as they lay out the items in which any trade beyond the mandis can take place. Including the vast majority of agricultural produce in such definitions amounts to an egregious breach of legislative competence by the Union government as it is the States which are empowered to enact laws regulating ‘agriculture’. Despite this clear constitutional position, the statement of objects and reasons accompanied with these Acts attempts to give an impression of being intended towards reform in the agricultural sector while drawing upon purported powers under Entry 33, despite the Entry not explicitly including within its ambit the expansive definition of farming produce as referred to in the Acts. In short, this is a case of abuse of federalism. The way forward States like Punjab are considering declaring all of their territory as ‘mandi’ to circumvent the effect of these laws. However, it is doubtful if their respective APMC Acts permit the same; and in any case such knee-jerk reactions would surely involve scrutiny from the courts. Constitutionally speaking, however, there exists a strong case for aggrieved State Governments to invoke Article 131 of the Constitution and file a suit challenging the vires of the two laws. Whilst doing so, State governments could also explore the potential of granting MSP a legislative backing, at least within the mandis, since any MSP is a matter of government largesse, and not a legally enforceable right with farmers. This move would incentivise farmers to sell their produce at the mandi at assured rates rather than expose themselves to the whims and caprices of private players. At the same time, demands from opposition parties to impose MSP upon private players could be at loggerheads with the free market economy principle enshrined under Article 301 of the Constitution. It is in view of these complexities that the best way forward for the States is to challenge the very constitutionality of these laws. Aditya Manubarwala and Pranav Verma are LLM candidates at the University of Cambridge
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic peak||The Finance Ministry in a report said that while the pandemic was far from over in India, the country may be “past its peak” of the COVID-19 case load. It premised this on a declining case load from September 17-30 when the daily positive cases dipped from 90,000 to 83,000 a day. This, along with an increase in testing had led to a falling test-positivity (or the number of tests needed to find a positive case) and so was a sign that India ought to be ‘further freeing up its economy.’ The pandemic being past its peak in India is irrational optimism. Last week the chief of the Indian Council of Medical Research, while announcing the results of the second all-India serology survey, said only 7% of Indians had been exposed to the virus. The Health Minister too, referencing the same survey, said that India was “far from any sort of herd immunity.” The decline from 90,000 cases a day to around 75,000 for over a fortnight is certainly welcome but can be deceptive. In the United States, daily cases steadily plummeted from 70,000 in July to 24,000 in September, to ascend again to 50,000 this week. India’s test positivity is declining but not substantially. On September 23 it was 8.52% and as of October 4 had fallen to 8.29% — an improvement but not close to the World Health Organization-suggested safety barrier of less than 5%. What further complicates projections based on ephemeral undulations in cases is that it does not take into account the dynamic nature of the virus itself. The early optimism that its spread may be contained by changes in the weather, behavioural modifications and imposing a sudden, stringent lockdown has been belied. If a complete shutdown could not stop it, it is hard to fathom how allowing public transport and religious congregations, permitting schools and educational institutions to restart, opening up malls in a season that is particularly conducive to viruses, will not catalyse the movement to a new peak. The so-called peak is a statistical artefact closely connected to the number of tests a country administers. If testing were to decline, more cases would be undetected, and conversely, an increase in tests could push this hypothetical point even further. Therefore, it is only after sufficient time has elapsed and in retrospect that a country’s peak can be inferred. India has been opening up the economy and this increases the average person’s exposure to the virus. Countries with much fewer cases have been far more cautious with opening. The lockdown had shown the disruption in the economy, and it is understandable if Finance Ministry officials seek a justification for opening up. But just as it would be surprising for epidemiologists to forecast GDP growth, officials ought not to be prognosticating outside their ken merely to revive economic sentiment, when several alternatives based on fact and reason exist.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||People’s court||The ruling BJP and the opposition Congress are face-to-face in by-elections in 28 Assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh scheduled for November 3. Unfortunate circumstances — deaths of three sitting MLAs — and resignations of 25 Congress MLAs have led to these by-elections, within two years of the election in 2018 that had brought the Congress to power with the support of independents and smaller parties. The BJP displaced the Congress in March, following the defection of 22 Congress MLAs. Three more followed suit in later months. Most of these 25 are likely to enter the fray as BJP candidates this time. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is leading the BJP campaign and he needs to win at least nine seats to have an absolute majority in the Assembly of 230. The BJP now has 107 MLAs. The Congress has 88 MLAs and it needs to win all the 28 seats to return to power on its own. If it wins 21, four Independent MLAs, two BSP MLAs and one SP MLA will be in play again. The BJP has the advantage of being in power at the Centre and in the State, but the Congress led by former Chief Minister Kamal Nath is trying to wrest power by drawing attention to its own record over a period of more than a year, and the failings of the present government. Most of these seats are around Gwalior, areas considered as the sphere of influence of Jyotiraditya Scindia who led the Congress defectors to the BJP. The entry of adversaries has complicated power balances within the BJP in the State. Mr. Chouhan’s effectiveness in the usurpation of power has not extended to governance in the following months, and Madhya Pradesh’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic has been chaotic. The Congress campaign puts the spotlight on the mismanagement of the pandemic, and it has promised a government job to each family that has lost a member to the disease. A considerable population from these northern regions of the State used to work in urban centres outside the State and they had to return in distress during the lockdown. Several instances of police brutality earned the State government infamy in recent months. The defector-MLAs will be required to explain their conduct as the Congress accuses them of betraying the 2018 mandate. Along with Mr. Chouhan, Mr. Scindia too is facing a test. Now a Rajya Sabha member from the BJP, he is hoping to be inducted into the Union Cabinet and the results of the by-elections will reflect his political clout in the region and impact his own standing in his new party, the BJP. His exit has ended the infighting in the Congress and opens the possibility of a new politics for it in the Gwalior region. Regardless of the outcomes, these by-elections will signify the reshaping of both the Congress and the BJP in Madhya Pradesh.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Checking price rise||The Union Finance Minister, Mr. Y.B. Chavan, has said the increase in prices in the country “was certainly causing concern”, though it was not alarming. It was, therefore, his “first concern” to keep the prices under check, he told a press conference here to-day [Madras, October 5]. Mr. Chavan, however, said that the price rise was a trend noticed in all developing countries, and one could not hope to keep the prices stabilised “for all time to come”. “As economic activities increase, as production rises and as demands go up, there is bound to be some sort of price increase, but it should not go beyond a certain level”, he said. The Union Minister said the prices showed a tendency to shoot up on account of complex processes in the working of the economy. Production of agricultural commodities was an important factor which had a bearing on the prices. The prices of foodgrains had not gone up appreciably. But the production of some of the agricultural raw materials like cotton and oilseeds was not sufficiently high and this had its pressure on the prices. The Government was trying to import these materials, though it could not be done on a massive scale.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Non Co-Operation: British Attitude||Non-Co-Operation is beginning to be taken seriously in this country [London]. Just before the Congress meet at Calcutta, the newspapers gave prominence to messages holding the movement up to scorn, and predicting its utter failure. They are, however, realising that Mr Gandhi and his colleagues are not indulging in idle threats, and that therefore, non-co-operation cannot be laughed out of court, and they are naturally beginning to sing a different tune. Views of British Correspondents: The “Times” Bombay correspondent, for instance, frankly confesses that “none dare to forecast the position” in India. While, in his opinion, the boycott of schools, colleges, and the law courts, and foreign goods is bound to fail, he concedes that public resentment is running so high, and anti-British feeling is so strong, “that the position in regard to the Councils is uncertain.” While the “general opinion is that the boycott of the Councils will be a tragic error, such is the vehemence of the anti-British feeling that the whole country may be stampeded into this movement and the fair promise of the reform scheme blighted at its birth.”
06 October 2020||Chennai,||PNB to add 4,000 jobs, open 500 branches in FY21, says Rao||Public sector lender Punjab National Bank (PNB), which has set its sights on the South and West for expansion, will open about 500 branches and add about 4,000 jobs during the current fiscal, said its MD and CEO Ch. S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao. “We have completed the business and human integration of United Bank of India and Oriental Bank of Commerce with the PNB,” said Mr. Rao. “IT migration will happen by December and February 2021 respectively,” he added. The bank, which currently operates 11,000 branches predominantly in the North and East, plans to expand in the South and West. Initially, the bank plans to open about 500 branches during FY21. “The merger will lead to high incidence of rationalisation of branches,” Mr. Rao said. “If there are two branches within 500 metres, we will club them together and then use the licence to open a new branch in the South or in the West. That way, we hope to open 500 branches and will be writing to the RBI.” By November 15, PNB will be adding almost 4,000 employees to its payroll with 990 of them absorbed in the officer cadre. On loss-making branches, Mr. Rao said they would number about 350 and the bank was finding ways to reduce their count through innovative marketing of services or introduction of region-specific products. Noting that the bank’s financial performance was muted in the first half due to COVID-19, he said the lender expected the economy to pick up in the second half.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shouldn’t let AI become weapon of non-state actors, says Modi||Vowing to make India a global hub for artificial intelligence (AI), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday stressed the need for transparency and accountability to protect against weaponisation of the technology by non-state actors. “It remains our collective responsibility to ensure trust in how AI is used. Algorithm transparency is key to establishing this trust. Equally important is accountability. We must protect the world against weaponisation of AI by non-state actors,” the PM said at the inauguration of RAISE 2020, a virtual summit organised by the Centre. Stakeholders from about 123 countries are expected to participate in the event. ‘Unique advantages’ Stating that creativity and emotions continued to be the greatest strengths of humans, Mr. Modi said these attributes were unique advantages that humans had over machines. “Even the smartest of AI cannot solve mankind’s problems without blending with our intellect and empathy,” he said. Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani stressed the urgent need for a regulatory framework on data, which he said was the raw material for AI. Observing that intelligent data was ‘digital capital’ and a vital national resource, he said, “In the coming decades… nations will increasingly compete on digital capital. “We are confident that the government will introduce a sound data regulation framework to protect this national resource and ensure data privacy,” Mr. Ambani added.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Google defers Play Store billing move to March ’22||Google on Monday said it was extending the deadline for developers in India to integrate with the Play Store billing system by six months to March 2022, while adding that it would also be setting up “listening sessions” with leading Indian start-ups to understand their concerns. The development comes after several Indian start-ups voiced their displeasure against Google over the company’s requirement that apps mandatorily use the Play Store’s billing system for in-app purchases of digital goods. Paytm, which competes with Google’s digital payments application GPay, on Sunday introduced its own ‘mini app’ store to support Indian developers. “First and foremost, we want to reiterate that we are deeply committed to the success of the Indian ecosystem — we do not succeed unless our partners succeed,” Google said in a blogpost. “Being mindful of local needs and concerns” the firm said it had taken steps including planning workshops to clarify its policies.
06 October 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Road transport revenue may shrink 18-20% in FY21’||The Indian road freight transportation sector is expected to see revenue contraction of 18-20% in FY21 due to the adverse impact of lockdowns, ICRA Ratings has said. ICRA has maintained its negative outlook for this sector due to expectations of continued pressures on the credit profile of road transportation companies. The rating agency said over the medium term, the sector would witness some consolidation trends, given the rising pressure on viability of small fleet operators. “The aggregate revenues of ICRA’s sample of logistics companies contracted sharply by 35% during the quarter,” Shamsher Dewan, vice-president, ICRA Ratings, said. “The impact was more visible on players operating on an asset-heavy model, due to high fixed costs for owned assets, while asset-light players fared relatively better,” he added. This decline was also corroborated by the generation of e-way bills, which contracted by 49% during the quarter.
06 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Office space absorption rises 64% QoQ, says JLL||The office market in India witnessed a net absorption of 5.4 million sq. ft. in the quarter ended September, an increase of 64% compared with the quarter ended June, according to estimates by JLL. The rebound in growth was led by Bengaluru and Hyderabad, which together accounted for almost 80% of the net absorption. There was, however, a contraction in major markets of Delhi NCR, Mumbai and Pune. From a very low base, the Chennai market grew 110%. “While we continue to see the impact of the pandemic on various businesses, there is a significant surge in activity across most office markets under consideration,” said Ramesh Nair, CEO and country head, India, JLL. “At the same time, it is important to note that large and mid-sized occupiers across major markets continue to review real estate portfolios in a bid to optimise cost, laying higher emphasis on sustainability and employee well-being as well as adoption of flexible working practices,” he said.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Covaxin to use ViroVax’s adjuvant||Bharat Biotech has entered into a licensing agreement with Kansas-based ViroVax for use of adjuvant Alhydroxiquim-II in its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin. The adjuvant will boost immune response and provide longer lasting immunity, the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker, whose Covaxin is undergoing phase II human trials, said on Monday. Adjuvants also enhance the sustainability of the global vaccine supply on account of their antigen-sparing effect. The partnership with ViroVax resonates with Bharat Biotech’s efforts to develop safe and effective vaccines coupled with long term immunity, CMD Krishna Ella said.
06 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Angel Broking lists at 10% discount||Angel Broking Ltd., a Mumbai-based broking house, on Monday listed at Rs. 275 a share on the BSE, a discount of more than 10% compared with the issue price of Rs. 306. The Rs. 600-crore IPO was subscribed four times. The stock hit the day’s high of Rs. 296.45 and a low of Rs. 256.60 before settling at Rs. 275.85 on the BSE. A total of 8.94 lakh shares were traded on the first day and based on the closing price, the market capitalisation of the company was estimated at Rs. 2,256 crore. On the NSE, the shares fell 10.4% from the issue price to Rs. 274.25 apiece.  (With PTI inputs)
06 October 2020||Chennai,||Srikalahasti to merge with parent ECL||Srikalahasthi Pipes Ltd. (SPL), a leading maker of ductile iron (DI) pipes, will amalgamate with its parent Electrosteel Castings Ltd. (ECL). The date for amalgamation is October 1, according to SPL.As per the proposal, SPL shareholders will receive 59 equity shares of ECL for every 10 equity shares held in SPL. The firms’ boards met on Monday to consider the proposal. The merged entity will have a DI pipe-manufacturing capacity of 8 lakh tonnes with a market share of 30%, said SPL. The objective is to simplify the group structure with one listed entity for a certain category of business, as per SPL.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SpiceJet to start non-stop London flights||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet announced non-stop flights to London from Mumbai and Delhi with effect from December 4, making it the first long-haul destination for the airline. SpiceJet is the second Indian carrier after Vistara to start operations on the India-U.K. route during COVID-19. The airlines decided to start London operations after the pact between India and the U.K. allowing their airlines to operate limited, non-stop flights. “The bubble arrangement helps us stabilise flights before it opens up to other airlines allowing them to take passengers through their hubs,” said Ajay Singh, CMD, SpiceJet.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Biz returning to pre-COVID levels, September strongest month in recovery: HDFC||HDFC Ltd. said its individual loan disbursements in Q2 of 2020-21 reached 95% of the level in the year earlier period and September saw the strongest recovery since the COVID-19 outbreak, suggesting business was returning to pre-crisis levels. Individual loan business had continued to see a month-on-month improvement in July-September, it said in a filing on Monday.pti
06 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Reliance General Insurance, Satsure Analytics||Reliance General Insurance Company Ltd. (RGICL) has partnered SatSure Analytics for satellite-based crop monitoring and predictive analytics support for better risk management and improving efficiency of its crop insurance business. RGICL will supply extensive ground observation data and generate timely reports through SatSure’s SAGE platform, as per a release.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||JLR retail sales fall 12 pc in July-Sep quarter||Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) on Monday reported an 11.9% decline in sales in the second quarter this fiscal to 1,13,569 units as compared to the year earlier period. However, sales improved by 50% during the July-September quarter as against 74,067 units in the April-June period of the current fiscal, JLR said. China sales during the period under review rose 14.6% over the previous quarter and 3.7% year-on-year, JLR added.pti
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Capitals demolish Royal Challengers||Marcus Stoinis (53 n.o., 26b, 6x4, 2x6) and Rishabh Pant (37, 25b, 3x4, 2x6) provided the late impetus to carry Delhi Capitals to 196 for four in its IPL encounter against Royal Challengers Bangalore at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium on Monday. Stoinis and Pant came together when Capitals were struggling for momentum at 90 for three in the 12th over. The duo got into action, putting on an 89-run stand in 6.5 overs. RCB pacer Mohammed Siraj, playing his first match of the tournament, cleaned up Pant with a slower ball in the 19th over. Stoinis, his muscular frame exuding power, notched up his second fifty of the season. The Australian’s first big hit came off a long hop from off-spinner Moeen Ali, which he launched over the mid-wicket fence. With six fours and two sixes, Stoinis played the role of aggressor to perfection. Openers Prithvi Shaw (42, 23b, 5x4, 2x6) and Shikhar Dhawan (32, 28b, 3x4) gave Capitals a good start, scoring 68 in 6.4 overs. A bouncer from Siraj spelt doom for Prithvi, who gloved an attempted hook. Dhawan fell to left-arm seamer Isuru Udana, skying a length ball to long-on. Bright start Captain Shreyas Iyer (11, 13b, 1x4) started brightly, flicking Siraj to the square-leg boundary. It took a brilliant catch from Devdutt Padikkal to get rid of the in-form batsman. Shreyas struck a full delivery from Moeen to deep mid-wicket where Padikkal pulled off a circus act. Showing presence of mind, Padikkal threw the ball in the air before stepping out of the field of play and then jumping back in to claim the catch. RCB spinner Washington Sundar was once again impressive. Washington, who operated with the new ball, conceded just 20 runs in his four overs. The youngster’s flat, tight trajectory has hardly offered any pickings for the opposition batsmen. Saini, on the other hand, was not at his best, going for 48 off his three overs.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Watson, du Plessis put Kings to the sword||Shane Watson (83 n.o., 53b, 11x3, 3x6) and the in-form Faf du Plessis (87 n.o., 53b, 11x4, 1x6) pummelled Kings XI Punjab into submission to lead Chennai Super Kings to a thumping 10-wicket win at Dubai on Sunday. Chasing Kings’ competitive 179-run target, CSK emerged victorious with 14 balls to spare and snapped its three-match losing streak. The three-time champion will finally be relieved to have Watson back in form after a sedate start to the tournament. The Australian looked in good touch from the beginning, leaning into drives and clearing the in-field with ease. At the other end, du Plessis cut loose when he went after Chris Jordan, hitting him for four boundaries to help CSK finish the PowerPlay with 60. And they both went from strength to strength from there.   CSK 112 for no loss  Chennai Super Kings was 112 for no loss in 11 overs, with Watson (55) and du Plessis (50) at the crease
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Ashwin turns down ‘Mankad’ opportunity||In a surprising departure from his natural instinct, Delhi Capitals (DC) spinner R. Ashwin declined the chance to ‘Mankad’ a batsman. In the Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) chase, opener Aaron Finch wandered well out of his crease before Ashwin had delivered the ball. Ashwin, a vocal proponent of the ‘Mankad’ dismissal, only shot an angry look at Finch and walked back to his bowling mark. The camera quickly panned to Delhi Capitals head coach Ricky Ponting, who sported a smile. Before the start of the IPL, Ponting had stated that he would tell Ashwin not to employ the ‘Mankad’ in matches.
06 October 2020||London,||Villa spanks Liverpool||Champion Liverpool suffered a humiliating 7-2 defeat at Aston Villa in one of the most astonishing days in Premier League history. Historians were reaching for the record books as the goals flowed and Liverpool surrendered seven goals for the first time since 1963. Barcelona dropped its first points of the season on Sunday as Sevilla made a statement of intent in LaLiga’s title race by drawing 1-1 at Camp Nou. Napoli failed to turn up for its Serie A clash against Juventus in Turin on Sunday after a coronavirus row threw Italian football into chaos. The match was abandoned 45 minutes after its scheduled start time. Now Gennaro Gattuso’s side risks forfeiting the game 3-0.  The results: Premier League: Manchester United 1 (Fernandes 2-pen) lost to Tottenham 6 (Ndombele 4, Son 7, 37, Kane 31, 79-pen, Aurier 51); Aston Villa 7 (Watkins 4, 22, 39, McGinn 35, Barkley 55, Grealish 66, 75) bt Liverpool 2 (Salah 33, 60).   LaLiga: Cadiz 1 (Alejo 48) drew with Granada 1 (Sanchez Barahona 27); Barcelona 1 (Coutinho 10) drew with Sevilla 1 (L. de Jong 8)   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 4 (Lewandowski 40, 51, 85, Lewandowski 90+3-pen) bt Hertha Berlin 3 (Curdoba 59, Cunha 71, Ngankam 88).   Serie A: AC Milan 3 (Leao 57, 78, Hernandez 76) bt Spezia 0; Did not play: Juventus v Napoli.
06 October 2020||ABU DHABI,||Shaky Royals take on rampaging MI||Rajasthan Royals may need to rejig its line-up when it takes on a supremely confident Mumbai Indians here on Tuesday. Starting with a bang at Sharjah, Royals have suddenly hit a slump on bigger grounds of Dubai and Abu Dhabi. Mumbai Indians, on the other hand, has been solid and is currently on top of the table by virtue of a better net run-rate. Mumbai Indians has ticked all the boxes with skipper Rohit Sharma in good touch and Quinton de Kock also now looking ominous. In contrast, Royals would like to arrest the slide before Ben Stokes completes his quarantine and is available from the October 11 game. Of concern is Jos Buttler’s form (47 runs in three games).
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Divine disposition||In chapter 16 of the Bhagavad Gita, Lord Krishna talks about those who will attain moksha, and those who, because of their qualities, will not be granted this boon. Those who have daivim sampath are people who are divine by nature and they will attain moksha. But those who have asurim sampath, the quality of demons, will be repeatedly born in this world. What qualities do those with asurim sampath have? The Lord elaborates on these, said Valayapet Ramachariar in a discourse. They have dambhah. This means that while they do practise all the prescribed anushtanas, they do so with a view to earning praise. They have darpah. That is they are proud of their possessions, and take pleasure in sense objects. A person worthy of moksha disregards wealth. Kooratazhvan is an example of a person who disregarded material possessions. His attitude to wealth shows us how a jnani is indifferent to riches. Kooratazhvan was a ruler, who gave up everything, and left for Srirangam, with his wife Andal. As they travelled, Andal expressed her fear of being waylaid by robbers. Kooratazhvan said that they owned nothing and so no robber would attack them. Thereupon, she said she had brought with her the gold plate in which Kooratazhvan used to eat. He took the plate from her and flung it away. Such an attitude towards wealth is proof of a divine disposition. A person with asurim sampath has pride (atimaanah). He has krodah — uncontrolled anger. He is guilty of paarusyam — he is rude to sadhus. Ajnana — ignorance about proper conduct and about the Supreme One — is another trait of a person with asurim sampath. Why should the word sampath, meaning wealth, be used to convey negative traits? It is used in a sarcastic tone.
06 October 2020||KOLKATA,||CAB restarts fitness camp||Altogether 15 men and 14 women of elite Bengal cricket teams attended the fitness camp which resumed at the Eden Gardens here on Monday following a 195-day coronavirus-induced break. The men worked out under the guidance of trainer Sanjib Das, while the women trained under Samiran Nath during gym and outdoor sessions amid Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) laid out by the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB).
06 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Bunkerhill is Sporting’s partner||Mohammedan Sporting club announced a collaboration with sports management company Bunkerhill as its official title partner for the upcoming season. The confirmation of the deal was revealed by the club’s newly appointed secretary, Wasim Akram, in an official release program held in the city on Monday.
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Will back our players longer than possible: Fleming||After its 10-wicket win over KXIP on Sunday, CSK coach Stephen Fleming made a case for his team’s strategy of backing players over a long period even if they are not performing. “I think it helps as players know they get more opportunities. We are reticent to change the team,” said Fleming. “Shane [Watson] did not do anything different, which is the strength of a champion player. It was a matter of time before he scored runs.”
06 October 2020||CHENNAI,||TNPL player Rajesh passes away||M.P. Rajesh, a leg-spinner who played in the age-group categories for Tamil Nadu and also in the TNPL, passed away here on Monday. He was 35. His impressive performances in the TNCA league earned Rajesh a place with Lyca Kovai Kings where he picked up 11 wickets in the 2018 season.
06 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,||It’s about regrouping: Smith||Rajasthan Royals’ fortunes have mirrored its skipper Steve Smith’s and he is hoping to regain his touch in Tuesday’s match against Mumbai Indians. “Hopefully I am able to score a few runs tomorrow (Tuesday),” Smith said. “I’ve missed out on the last two games but that happens.” About the lineup for the match, he said: “We’ll see which of our players fit in our plans...and (will) try and get the best match-ups for Mumbai.”
06 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Selection for Oz tour likely next week||The national selection panel, headed by Sunil Joshi, is set to be asked next week to pick India’s squad for the series in Australia, with Cricket Australia (CA) and the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) having all but agreed on the itinerary for the tour. A BCCI official confirmed that after weeks of discussions, both Boards have “virtually decided” on beginning the series on November 27 with the first of three T20Is, followed by three ODIs from December 4. The four-Test series is likely to begin with the Adelaide day-night Test on December 17. It is understood that CA has informed the BCCI that the venues for the Tests will be finalised in approximately a fortnight. The members of India’s touring party, including coaching staff, support staff and Test specialists such as Cheteshwar Pujara and Hanuma Vihari, are likely to leave for the UAE in the last week of October. The national team is set to leave for Australia from the UAE in two batches.
06 October 2020||Dubai,||Bhuvneshwar, Mishra out||Sunrisers Hyderabad pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Delhi Capitals’ leg-spinner Amit Mishra were on Monday ruled out of the IPL with injuries. A thigh muscle injury which could also end Bhuvneshwar’s hopes of being on India’s tour of Australia later this year. Bhuvneshwar sustained the injury while bowling the 19th over of the match against Chennai Super Kings on October 2. He hobbled off the field after just one ball. The 37-year-old Mishra fractured his ring finger while going for a low return catch offered by Knight Riders’ Nitish Rana in the October 3 game. Mishra is the second highest wicket-taker in the IPL with 160 scalps, 10 less than Lasith Malinga, who opted out of this season for personal reasons.
06 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Need to learn from the reverse: VVS||Sunrisers Hyderabad mentor V.V.S. Laxman hopes the batsmen will have learnt something from the defeat to Mumbai Indians in Sharjah on Sunday. “It is important to have wickets in hand when you are chasing big totals. I think we lost David Warner and Kane Williamson at crucial moments of the match,” Laxman said at the post-match media interaction. “I think it was too much for the youngsters to get to the target,” he said.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 10:09 IST,||Sudoku - October 6, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Against the whistleblowers||Watched The Social Dilemma ? Perhaps it has shaken up your household’s perspective of how your offline lives are mediated by the ones you lead online. The Jeff Orlowski-directed documentary, which struck a chord with many netizens upon its global release in September, has already been bookmarked as a favourite among anti-trust regulators who are more than eager to see the downfall of the world’s largest social media entities. The film, serving as a ‘burn book’ of all the big Internet companies, features first-person accounts from several ‘whistleblowers’ who have worked at Facebook, Twitter, Google and more. All of them left these organisations based on ethical concerns. Facebook has now published a rebuttal to The Social Dilemma ; it addresses the platform’s notoriety for bypassing users’ privacy, the rapid spread of misinformation, fake news and hate speech, the advancement of political polarisation, and threats against the inherent values of elections. The report by Facebook, a seven-part breakdown of the corroborated arguments made in The Social Dilemma , was posted on its official website and attributed to no particular spokesperson. “The film’s creators do not include insights from those currently working at the companies or any experts that take a different view of the narrative put forward by the film. They don’t acknowledge the efforts already taken by companies to address many of the issues they raise.,” it states, adding the film is “distorted” in its approach. Mental health and fear Facebook claims its News Feed, is “not incentivised to build features that increase time-spent on our products. Instead, we want to make sure we offer value to people, not just drive usage.” The platform refers to a 2018 change to News Feed wherein they adjusted the ranking in users’ timelines “to prioritise meaningful social interactions and deprioritise things like viral videos. The change led to a decrease of 50 [million] hours a day worth of time spent on Facebook.” The company points out they have been actively working with mental health organisations to further understand the effects social media has on users. For example, in April 2020, Facebook released Quiet Time, a digital well-being feature that helps users spend certain time slots on the platform — but few know of this feature. Probably one of the more mind-boggling arguments Facebook, to its credit, acknowledges is its leveraging of algorithmic power just as Netflix does, “to determine who it thinks should watch The Social Dilemma film.” Facebook seemingly waves off the concern around algorithms. Yes, algorithms are the norm but be aware of the concept’s evolution. While algorithms started out as a way for technology to help rank searches according to the user’s shared data, they have been developed to become one of Internet companies’ favourite surveillance tactics. In this case, Facebook states, “portraying algorithms as ‘mad’ may make good fodder for conspiracy documentaries, but the reality is a lot less entertaining.” However, many who have watched The Social Dilemma would not necessarily categorise it as ‘entertainment’ but more as a reality check. We cannot speak of algorithms without speaking of advertising. Facebook claims they are “funded by advertising so that it remains free for people... We don’t sell your information to anyone.” The platform insists that they “provide advertisers with reports about the kinds of people who are seeing their ads and how their ads are performing, but [they] don’t share information that personally identifies you unless you give [them] permission.” Facebook-owned Instagram, which turns 10 today, has one of the most contentious News Feeds across social networking platforms; its evolution has gone from simply featuring posts in a chronological order in publishing of those in a user’s circle to interspersing algorithm-driven sponsored and recommended posts across the basic News Feed and Explore pages. Sadly, Instagram still tells you what you need to see.  The Social Dilemma makes strong references to the Cambridge Analytica data breach of 2018, which led to Facebook CEO and founder Mark Zuckerberg sitting through a gruelling Senate hearing that same year. Zuckerberg was asked whether or not Facebook would still have access to a user’s information should they delete their information and account from the platform. Zuckerberg responded Facebook will not be able to access any information or content a user shared in the past. However, some third-party apps  may still have access to some of this data. Interestingly, even when users delete their accounts, it can take up to 90 days for Facebook to remove content such photos and updates stored in backup systems. Social media and politics Polarisation and populism have existed long before social media. This point may be a little ‘grey area’ simply because polarisation is still a fairly fluid term, where one can use it in both macro (platform integrity and diversity) and micro (smaller scale partisanship) senses. Notably, The Social Dilemma addresses the scope of radicalisation through social media; in the film’s dramatised parallel storyline, a teen is exposed to a vague form of it through YouTube and Facebook. “The overwhelming majority of the content that people see on Facebook is not polarising or even political — it’s everyday content from people’s friends and family,” Facebook states, “We reduce the amount of content that could drive polarisation, including links to clickbait headlines or misinformation.” In May 2020, The Wall Street Journal published an exposé, based on internal documents and interviews with current and former employees, on how Facebook actually encourages divisiveness across its users. The article ‘Facebook Executives Shut Down Efforts to Make the Site Less Divisive’ states, ‘“Our algorithms exploit the human brain’s attraction to divisiveness,’ read a slide from a 2018 presentation. ‘If left unchecked,’ it warned, Facebook would feed users ‘more and more divisive content to gain user attention and increase time on the platform.’” The aforementioned makes for a natural segue to elections and misinformation. “We’ve acknowledged that we made mistakes in 2016. Yet the film leaves out what we have done since 2016 to build strong defences to stop people from using Facebook to interfere in elections,” says the Facebook report, referring to its use of around 3000 Russian-backed ads. Facebook states they do not benefit from misinformation, adding, “We don’t want hate speech on our platform and work to remove it... We know our systems aren’t perfect and there are things that we miss.” The company adds they have removed over 22 million pieces of hate speech in the second quarter of 2020, over 94% of which they found before someone reported it. They say this is an increase from a quarter earlier when they removed 9.6 million posts, over 88% of which they found before some reported it to the platform.  The Social Dilemma has stirred an online uprising around not just privacy but about mental health, and the power held by these companies. If the film’s mission was to further fracture our trust in the online, it has worked on a great many — and Facebook knows it. To be fair, many have questioned the film’s inherent purpose: ‘do we boycott these platforms altogether (is that even possible?)’, and ‘what can do about it now when erasing a digital footprint is near impossible?’ Facebook’s report aims to serve as a reminder of its positive (albeit slow) change after years of ongoing scandal and their regular statements of ‘we are working to change this’. Despite policy changes and international hearings, The Social Dilemma reminds us we need to perhaps reverse-engineer the situation, and start at home.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Space aces||One of my favourite moments of Star Wars was when Luke Skywalker takes on the Death Star in his X-wing fighter, expertly piloting it into the claustrophobic walls of the shaft with Darth Vader hot on his trail. Lightsabers aside, Star Wars has always been about the giant space battles, as tiny Tie Fighters and X-Wings zip in between Star Destroyers. This was something I’ve always wanted to do and classic games like X-Wing versus Tie Fighter allowed that. Now, Star Wars Squadrons presents a new chance to fly space fighters, both on screens and in VR. In the ensuing chaos after the events of Return of the Jedi , the Empire is in turmoil, and the Republic has a new lease on life, taking the fight to them. The story masterfully jumps between the Empire’s Titan Squadron and the Republic’s Vanguard Squadron as they fight for control and freedom respectively. Yes, you play a relatively unknown pilot, but the characters you encounter are big-screen worth it. Otherworldly details The story is interesting, but the stakes never get high enough to capture you. It is mostly standard fare, and you only get to experience it when you are in the hangar. However, the beauty of the game happens when you are in the seat of your fighter. Squadrons, as a game, captures the feel and scale of a Star Wars space battle perfectly. Your little window out into space from your claustrophobic cockpit makes everything more real; I found just manoeuvring to avoid a star destroyer only to find another massive ship jumping in front of me to be visceral. Those familiar with the films would’ve seen the cockpits of these famous fighters, and the amount of detail that has gone into recreating them for Star Wars Squadrons is astounding. There are even tiny details like your pilot flicking little switches to bring the readouts to life. These details make dog-fighting a quasi-realistic experience as you glance at your readouts while manoeuvring to get your enemy in your sights. Squadrons straddles that fine line between arcade style flying and fight simulation-like complexity. It is interesting how you can reroute power to your lasers or your shields or even your engines in the heat of the battle for that added defence or offense. The throttle is easy to use with the left stick, and things like de-accelerating quickly to make tight turns are critical to you not being blown to smithereens. As you play, you unlock the ability to set your own loadouts which is crucial to winning and finding your identity — especially in multi-player.  The writer is a tech and gaming enthusiast who hopes to one day finish his sci-fi novel   Star Wars: Squadrons   Developer:Motive Studios   Publisher:EA  Price:Rs. 2,499 on Playstation 4, Xbox One and PC
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||New COVID-19 cases below 2,000 as testing dips by 30%||As many as 1,947 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 2,92,560, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. However, only 35,593 tests were done in the past 24 hours which is about 30% less than last week’s average daily tests of 51,004. Bulletins on Mondays usually show lesser number of tests as the data represents tests done on Sundays. Also, 32 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,542. As per the bulletin, 3,588 people have recovered in the past 24 hours and in total, 2,63,938 people have recovered so far. The number of active cases, which fell below the 25,000 mark after almost 25 days on Sunday decreased to 23,080 on Monday. Also, the number of people admitted in hospitals decreased for the seventh consecutive day and the number of people under home quarantine came down for the fourth straight day. Out of the total 15,840 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 63.3% were vacant, as per government data on Monday. However, 59.5% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 66.3% of such beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate was 5.4%, which is lower than September’s average. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.8%. The number of containment zones in the city on Monday jumped to 2,707, which is the highest so far.
06 October 2020||Chandigarh,||China realised PM has weakened India, says Rahul at Punjab rally||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Chinese had dared to enter India and kill soldiers because the BJP-led Union government had weakened the nation with its ‘anti-national’ policies and actions, of which the agriculture sector laws were the latest example. “China had realised that Modi had weakened India, and had taken advantage of this to take control of 1,200 km of our land,” Mr. Gandhi told a gathering at Samana in Patiala, on the second day of his three-day ‘tractor rally’ — Kheti Bachao Yatra — in Punjab. “The Prime Minister had broken the backbone of the country, whose economic growth had plummeted from 9% under Dr. Manmohan Singh to -24%. India was going backward, which the Chinese had seen. Why else would they dare to enter our territory? How could they kill 20 of our soldiers, who were on our side of the LAC, if they did not enter India, as Modi claims?” he stated. Farmers, he said, should understand the dangerous designs of the National Democratic Alliance government as part of a deliberate and malicious agenda to destroy their lives to promote the interests of a handful of industrialists. Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh said his government would pass in the Assembly whatever resolution or bill needed to counter the Central Bills that would have a dangerous impact on the nation. “These laws will result in closure of the ‘mandis’. My government could not let the Union government do that. We will take all steps, including a Vidhan Sabha session, to counter the new legislations, and challenge them in the Supreme Court,” he added. ‘Rahul visit a sham’ Some parties, including the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), termed Mr. Gandhi’s visit a sham in a bid to gain political mileage. AAP’s State unit general secretary Harchand Singh Bursat said the Congress was enacting a drama to torpedo the ongoing farmers’ struggle by holding Mr. Gandhi’s rallies in the State. The Akali Dal accused the Congress of selling the interests of farmers by facilitating the passage of the farm Bills by not standing against them in Parliament.
06 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Regional Plan-2041 a chance to plan better future, says Puri||The forthcoming Regional Plan with 20-year horizon of 2041 would be challenging and also a unique opportunity to plan for a better future, said Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep S. Puri on Monday, speaking at the 39th meeting of the NCR Planning Board. Mr. Puri said the NCR area and population had grown gradually and the forthcoming Regional Plan with 20-year horizon of 2041 would, therefore, be very challenging. “It will also be a unique opportunity for all of us to plan for a better future 2041. Presently, NCRPB Secretariat is engaged in preparation of Regional Plan-2041 as the perspective year of current Regional Plan-2021 is approaching. Planning for a vast and diverse NCR can be achieved only through an inclusive, consultative exercise with active participation of all stakeholders. I am happy to note that a comprehensive consultative exercise of 17 full-day workshops was undertaken by the NCRPB,” said Mr. Puri. The NCR has grown gradually from about 30,242 sqkm in 1989 to 34,144 sq km in 2005 to about 55, 083 sq km at present, with a core of Delhi area being about 1,483 sqkm. The NCR population as per the 2011 census is about 5.81 crore, which is likely to rapidly increase making NCR-Delhi the biggest and the most populous capital region globally by 2030. Haryana CM Manohar Lal; Urban Development Ministers from Delhi, U.P. and Rajasthan; Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Secretary, Durga Shanker Mishra and other representatives were present. Cost of projects The Minister said that the cumulative projects sanctioned so far by the NCR Planning Board were 366, out of which 269 were completed and 97 were under various stages of implementation. The estimated cost of these 366 projects was Rs. 31,853 crore, out of which Rs. 15,393 crore was sanctioned by the Board and Rs. 12,441 crore released so far.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ecosystem services provided by Delhi zoo valued at Rs. 426 cr.||The annual economic value of ecosystem services provided by the Delhi zoo works out to be Rs. 426 crore, an assessment by the The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) and commissioned by the Central Zoo Authority has found. These ‘ecosystem services’ constitute heads such as biodiversity conservation, employment generation, education and research, carbon sequestration and recreational and cultural contributions. When one-time ecosystem services are considered, such as carbon storage, the surrogate value of land and land value of Delhi zoo, their contribution climbs to nearly Rs. 55,209 crore, says the report released by Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday. ‘First-of-its-kind study’ The ‘first-of-its-kind’ study in India gave a “powerful baseline assessment” of the important ecosystem services provided by the zoo. “The way forward is to have an in-depth valuation of those ecosystem services which are not being valued due to limited time and resource,” the report notes. These estimates could be used to compute value provided by zoos across India. To commemorate World Wildlife Week, Mr. Javadekar said the government was working towards upgrading and developing 160 zoos in the PPP mode. The researchers found the number of visitors to Delhi zoo had increased with 20 lakh tourists visiting every year. Costs incurred on travel (distance cost), along with the entrance fee, time spent were adjusted for when estimating the value of recreational service. “The survey revealed that the average per day income of the tourists visiting the zoo is Rs. 655. The per-head average transportation amounted to Rs. 428.”
06 October 2020||JAIPUR,||61% rural consumers unaware of trans fat hazard, says survey||Despite an increase in cardiovascular diseases in the rural areas during the COVID-19 pandemic, 61% of consumers in the villages in Rajasthan are unaware of the hazards of trans fats, which are responsible for heart ailments by raising the cholesterol levels. Very few consumers know about the sources of trans fats, according to a survey. The sample survey, conducted by the Consumer Unity and Trust Society (CUTS)-International in 12 districts of the State recently, has found that the consumption of industrially produced partially hydrogenated vegetable oils had increased by 19% from its pre-lockdown level in the rural areas. CUTS-International Director George Cheriyan said here on Monday that the survey was taken up in the backdrop of the release of World Health Organisation’s second progress report on global trans fat elimination, which had reminded India of its commitment to eliminate trans fats from food supply by 2022. In the urban areas, 46% of the consumers were found unaware of the health harms associated with trans fats, though 21% of them had heard the term. The awareness level was a little higher when the correlation of trans fats was made with ‘Dalda’, which is a brand name of vansapati ghee, but not much of the consumers were aware of the margarine and bakery shortenings.
06 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Man who robbed banks to repay loans arrested||A young man who allegedly robbed two banks to repay his loans, after learning a few tricks from the Internet, was arrested here on Sunday. The man had incurred heavy losses in his business venture in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The accused was identified as Soumya Ranjan Jena, 25, of Tangibanta village on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. He robbed the two bank branches from where he had secured the loan, both located within three kilometres from his house. “He had borrowed Rs. 19 lakh from the banks for an apparel and shoe shop. He was able to pay back Rs. 6 lakh. Our investigation found that his business transaction ranged between Rs. 9 lakh and Rs. 10 lakh per month before the lockdown. However, after the lockdown he found himself in a debt trap,” said Sudhansu Sarangi, Commissioner of Police for Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, on Monday.  ‘Easy target’ “During the lockdown, he started watching videos on YouTube to learn how to carry out bank robberies. He bought an air-gun. Since he knew how the banks functioned, it was easy for him to target the two branches,” said Mr. Sarangi. “He looted Rs. 12.34 lakh from the two banks. We have recovered Rs. 10.76 lakh from him,” said the police chief.
06 October 2020||Srinagar,||‘My son is being framed in Shopian encounter case’||The family of one of the two persons arrested in the Shopian ‘fake’ encounter case on Monday claimed their son “was being framed by the security forces and the family was made to sign on blank pages”. “The Army picked up my son, Tabish Nazir, on August 12. Later, at the District Police Line, Shopian, a DSP, Wajahat Ahmed, tore our missing complaint. Instead I was asked to sign on a blank paper,” Nazir Ahmed Malik, father of Nazir, a farmer by profession, claimed. Mr. Malik, who held a protest in Srinagar on Monday, claimed that the police officer warned that “if they had not signed the blank paper his son would have been branded a militant”. “Now our son is being linked to the July 18 Shopian encounter. It’s said he gave information to the Army [about the presence of three militants]. It is a baseless charge,” Mr. Malik said. Speaking during the protest, Mr. Nazir’s mother also claimed that “her son is being framed”. Mr. Nazir is from Shopian and lives near the Army camp that carried out the operation on July 18. Three persons, described as three unidentified militants after the encounter, turned out to be three missing youth from Rajouri.
06 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT pulls up Haryana over environment norm violations||Following a plea alleging violation of environmental norms by a housing project in Faridabad, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the Haryana government over “repeated serious violations” and directed the Chief Secretary to convene a meeting with authorities concerned and take appropriate action. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “To uphold the rule of law and for protection of environment and public health, the State authorities must take further appropriate action which may be monitored by the Chief Secretary, Haryana, by calling the meeting of statutory authorities concerned within a month.” “This step has become necessary in view of repeated serious violations of the environmental norms by housing projects in the state of Haryana,” the Bench observed. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by Mukund Dhote against a housing project, ‘Vesta Heights’, in Faridabad. The plea had contended that the project was in violation of the conditions specified in environmental clearance.
06 October 2020||October 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Life goes on||
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||Audit team to probe Delhi Waqf Board ‘irregularities’||The Delhi government has launched a special audit into alleged irregularities by former Delhi Waqf Board chairman Amanatullah Khan during his tenure.  “The special audit is concerned with the irregularities committed by Amanatullah Khan in the capacity of the Delhi Waqf Board chairman, with effect from March 2016 to March 2020,” the letter stated. Elected again The AAP Okhla MLA was unanimously elected as Waqf Board member again but his election is yet to be notified by the government. He was the chairman of the Board before the Delhi Assembly elections earlier this year when his term as a member of the Board expired. The letter from the office of Principal Secretary (Revenue) directed the Delhi Waqf Board to provide “all concerned auditable records and information as per scope and period of audit” to the audit team. Mr. Khan previously served as the chairman of the Board for around six months in 2016 before resigning in May, and again from September 2018 to March 2020.
06 October 2020||lucknow,||Under house arrest, claims poet’s daughter||Poet Munawwar Rana’s daughter claimed on Monday that she has been put under house arrest after she tried to put up posters against the alleged gang rape of a woman in Hathras, but the police disputed the charge. “The CM had directed to put up posters of those involved in crime against women at public places. I have some posters on Hathras incident. These posters are to be put near Clock Tower and other areas but police put me under house arrest on Sunday,” Sumaiyya Rana said. “On Sunday, from 7 p.m. till 2.30 a.m., police force was deputed outside my apartment and I was stopped from coming out. On Monday also, some policemen were deployed and they were directed that I should not move out (of the residence),” she claimed.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||AAP attacks civic bodies for not obeying HC order on workers’ salary||The AAP on Monday attacked the BJP-ruled civic bodies for allegedly not complying with a High Court order to pay Rs. 32,000 instead of Rs. 14,000 as salary to about 3,500 employees who help the corporations fight against dengue and malaria. “AAP demands that the BJP-ruled civic bodies must release the fund for these warriors and follow the court order,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak while addressing a press conference.
06 October 2020||New Delhi,||AQI likely to be ‘moderate’ for next two days||Delhi’s air quality is expected to be in the ‘moderate’ category for the next two days, said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). However, there is an increase in fire count in Punjab and Haryana and the air quality is likely to deteriorate later this week.
