07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||PLA pulls back from Galwan clash site||Three weeks after the worst military clashes in decades, India and China have begun the process of disengagement at contentious locations along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC), a government source said on Monday. The disengagement process, a work in progress, commenced after Special Representatives (SRs) Ajit Doval and Wang Yi, tasked to hammer out a solution to the boundary dispute, spoke over telephone on Sunday evening. The Hindu had reported on Sunday that the SRs would hold talks to resolve boundary tensions between the two countries. In the first signs of de-escalation, Chinese troops moved back some distance and dismantled tents at some locations along the LAC. In the Galwan Valley, Chinese troops have shifted 2 kilometres from the site of the June 15 violent clashes while some tents had been removed by the PLA in the Finger 4 area of Pangong Tso, government officials said on Monday. “The PLA was seen removing tents and structures at Patrolling Point (PP) 14. Some rearward movement of vehicles is seen at the general area of Galwan, Hotsprings and Gogra,” the government source said. Without giving the specific distances moved, the source said the pullback at each location would be confirmed after verification. Separate statements from the Indian and Chinese governments after Mr. Doval and Mr. Wang’s talks suggested that both were keen to put an end to the serious troop build-up along their contentious boundary. Both statements stressed the need for a “complete” disengagement along the LAC. At Pangong Tso, some tents have been removed from the Finger 4 area and the PLA has moved back some distance, said a second government source without elaborating, adding that details of the pullback had to be verified on the ground. Pangong Tso issue Pangong Tso is one of the most contentious areas of the current stand-offs, with the PLA moving about 8 km inside up to Finger 4. India’s claim is till Finger 8 as per the alignment of the LAC. “Chinese troops have shifted 2 km from the face-off site in Galwan. Temporary structures being removed by both sides,” a senior government official told The Hindu adding that a physical verification had also been conducted. The PLA had moved well within India’s perception of the LAC in the Galwan Valley after the June 15 incident, when 20 soldiers were killed. India had matched China’s presence with bunkers and temporary structures and the two armies were in “eyeball to eyeball” positions. Corps Commander talks As part of an understanding reached during the June 30 Corps Commander-level talks, on Sunday, a survey was done to verify if China had acted on its assurances. A defence official said on the condition of anonymity that this was just the initial step in the phased disengagement process. It was during the “de-escalation” process on June 15 that the violent clash occurred in the Galwan Valley. The Chinese have given no figures on their dead and wounded. As reported, the two military commanders indicated that at first the de-escalation would take place at all the friction points — Galwan, Pangong Tso, Hot Springs — and then “depth areas” such as Depsang plains in the north, where China had amassed troops, would be looked into. On June 19, China’s Foreign Ministry said “the Galwan Valley was located on the Chinese side of the LAC in the western section of the Sino-Indian border”, suggesting it was making new claims in the area.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 tests cross 1 crore: ICMR||COVID-19 tests in India crossed the one crore mark on Monday with 1,01,35,525 cumulative samples tested so far, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday. In the past 24 hours, about 3,46,459 samples were tested. The Council has now recommended that all laboratproes/hospitals initiating testing through rapid antigen tests should ensure that symptomatic patients, who have tested negative in rapid testing, should be referred for real-time RT-PCR testing also. The Council has also written to all the States/UTs directing all private labs undertaking TrueNat/CBNAAT- based testing for COVID-19 to apply for NABL accreditation to ensure quality testing. The Health Ministry added that it is now advocating widespread testing and has also informed the States that increased focus has to be on the “Test, Trace, Treat” strategy. “India has been able to cross the one crore test mark by the continuously expanding network of testing labs throughout the country. As on date, more than 1,105 labs across the country are offering COVID tests. There are 788 labs in the government sector and 317 private labs,” noted a release issued by the Ministry. The Health Ministry has also released guidelines to deal with mental health concerns during the pandemic: “Mental health in the times of COVID-19 pandemic”.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||All COVID-19 data available on website, says Mamata govt.||The Trinamool Congress leadership on Monday described the allegations made by BJP national president J.P. Nadda at a virtual rally as “politically motivated and far from reality”. Mr. Nadda, in a virtual rally earlier in the day, motivated State BJP workers to remove the Trinamool Congress government from power and accused the government of not sharing COVID-19 data with the Centre. Addressing a meeting on the birth anniversary of Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee, he also said the State has seen a decline in standards of education. “The State is working with all transparency. All data is available on our website. They’re trying to attack and destabilise a democratically elected government,” Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim said. Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said there is “no truth” in the allegations. “ We have changed the syllabus, employed a large number of teachers and there has been a massive spread of education,” he said. During the day, a number of BJP leaders offered floral tributes at the statue of Syama Prasad Mookerjee. Minister Mamata Banerjee also offered her respects to him on social media. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar unveiled a portrait of the leader at the Raj Bhavan. “Birth anniversary of Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee was observed for the first time at Raj Bhavan. It was my privilege to put his portrait at Raj Bhavan for the first time in 2019. A befitting tribute to him would be to make WB a State of his dreams,” Mr. Dhankhar tweeted.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 193 new cases, 2 more deaths take toll to 27||Kerala reported 193 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths on Monday. With 167 recoveries, the number of active cases in the State now is 2,252. With the death of an 82-year-old Saudi returnee in Manjeri Government Medical College Hospital and that of a 66-year-old trader in an Ernakulam market with no travel history at Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, on Monday, the death toll in the State now is 27. A total of 5,622 people have so far tested positive for COVID-19 in the State ever since the outbreak began. Of these, 3,341 people are reported to have recovered. However, local transmission of COVID-19 continues unabated in the State with many resulting in family clusters while in the case of several others the authorities have not been able to establish an epidemiological link. On Monday also, 35 cases out of the newly reported 193 cases were instances of local transmission wherein people with no travel history contracted the disease from the community. The remaining 157 are imported cases of infection. Triple lockdown The capital city remains under triple lockdown since the early hours on Monday following a surge in local transmission. On Monday also, four out of the seven new cases in Thiruvananthapuram were cases that were picked up from the community.
07 July 2020||New York,||Coronavirus is airborne, 239 experts warn in letter to WHO||The coronavirus is finding new victims worldwide, giving rise to clusters of infection that increasingly confirm what many scientists have been saying for months — the virus lingers in the air indoors, infecting those nearby. In an open letter to the World Health Organization (WHO), 239 scientists in 32 countries have outlined the evidence showing that smaller particles can infect people, and are calling for the agency to revise its recommendations. The researchers plan to publish their letter in a scientific journal. If airborne transmission is a significant factor, especially in crowded spaces with poor ventilation, the consequences for containment will be significant. Masks may be needed indoors, even in socially distant settings. Health care workers may need N95 masks that filter out even the smallest respiratory droplets as they care for coronavirus patients. Filters may help Ventilation systems in schools, nursing homes, residences and businesses may need to minimise recirculating air and add powerful new filters. Ultraviolet lights may be needed to kill viral particles floating in tiny droplets indoors. The WHO has long held that the coronavirus is spread primarily by large respiratory droplets that, once expelled by infected people in coughs and sneezes, fall quickly to the floor.NYT
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||With 1,322 new cases, State’s tally crosses the 20,000-mark||The State's COVID-19 tally has crossed the 20,000-mark with the detection of 1,322 new cases during the past 24 hours which also saw the death of seven more patients. It is the biggest single-day spike reported in the State so far and 1,263 cases of the total are of locals while only 59 are imported cases, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. The toll mounted to 239 and the number of active cases increased to 10, 860. With 498 new recoveries, the total number of patients discharged went up to 8,920. Two deaths occurred in Srikakulam and one each occurred in Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam. The recovery rate of patients in the State is currently at 44.56%, while the mortality rate is 1.19%. Only 1.94% of the total 10, 33, 852 samples tested have turned positive so far. The State’s tally has doubled in just 13 days with an average of 783 cases reported per day during the same period. Meanwhile, seven districts reported more than 100 new cases each among the locals. Guntur alone reported a whopping 197 new cases and East Godavari reported 171 cases, Anantapur reported 142 cases, Kurnool reported 136 cases, Chittor reported 120 cases, West Godavari reported 106 cases and Visakhapatnam reported 101 cases. They are followed by Kadapa (96 cases), Krishna (55), Nellore (41), Prakasam (38), Srikakulam (36) and Vizianagaram (24). Among foreign returnees, three persons were detected having COVID and among people from other States, 56 tested positive. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (2,587), Anantapur (2,328), Guntur (2,024), Krishna (1,798), East Godavari (1,778), Chittoor (1,444), Kadapa (1,341), West Godavari (1,270), Visakhapatnam (822), Nellore (771), Prakasam (738), Vizianagaram (239) and Srikakulam (225).
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||1.4 lakh families reach MGNREGA’s annual work limit||At least 1.4 lakh poor rural households have already completed their quota of 100 days of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the first three months of the year, and will not be eligible for further benefits under the scheme for the rest of the year. Another seven lakh households have completed 80 days and are on the verge of running out of work as well, according to the scheme’s database. With COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown resulting in thousands of unemployed migrant workers returning to their villages and now dependent on MGNREGA wages, activists are urging the government to increase the limit to at least 200 days per household. “This is an unprecedented situation where many are clearly desperate for work and dependent on MGNREGA wages. In many areas, monsoon is the hungry season. If you stop providing work at this time, it will be a huge crisis for these families,” said Nikhil Dey, a Rajasthan-based activist with the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan. The MGNREGA scheme contains a provision for districts affected by drought or other natural disasters to request an expansion of the scheme to allow for 150 days of work per household. Given that COVID-19 was declared a national disaster, activists have demanded that this provision be implemented immediately. Overall, 23 lakh households have already completed 60 days of work.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Reopened monuments wear a deserted look on first day||Monuments that reopened to the public on Monday after being closed in March due to the COVID-19 pandemic wore a deserted look on the first day, with more media persons than visitors at the sites. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel had announced on July 2 that all Centrally protected monuments of the Archaeological Survey of India that were located outside containment zones would open starting Monday, subject to the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and Health and Family Welfare Ministry. Keeping in view the safety of visitors and staff, the ASI had announced online-only ticket booking for restricted number of slots at each monument. The ASI’s ticket booking platform showed that only a handful of visitors booked for major tourist attractions like Qutub Minar and Humayun’s Tomb. At Purana Qila, which had 1,000 ticket slots available, no visitors were seen in the first half of the day. An ASI official at the site said two visitors had tried to buy the tickets by scanning the QR code, but had trouble with the online payment. Another couple from Jamia Nagar stood looking at the QR code, but could not buy the tickets as address proof was required to complete the purchase. As a part of the reopening, addresses of visitors are being recorded to help in tracing of COVID-19 patients, in case there are infections connected to the sites. Humayun’s Tomb fared better in comparison, with 16 tickets being sold in the first half of the day, according to an ASI official. However, a majority of those were bought by media persons.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID fatalities cross 300-mark||The number of COVID-19 fatalities crossed the 300-mark on Monday. With 11 more COVID patients succumbing to the deadly virus, the death toll has touched 306. While the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in India is 3.1%, it is 1.18% in Telangana. Deaths of COVID patients were intermittent till May 18. Thereafter, fatalities were are reported daily. The highest number of 14 deaths was recorded on June 7. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 25,733 as 1,831 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. This is the third highest number of cases recorded till date. The highest of 1892 was reported on July 3. The new cases include 1,419 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 160 from Rangareddy, and 117 from Medchal. Of the total 25,733 cases, 10646 are active, 14,781 were discharged, and 306 died. The Test Positivity Rate in the State reached 21.05% which is a new high. Three persons succumbed to coronavirus in Sangareddy district. According to officials, a municipal councillor died due to COVID and his last rites were performed at a grave yard in the district headquarters. A woman from Sadashivapet and another woman died from IDA Bollaram were the other casualties. (With inputs from Our Correspondent in Sangareddy)
07 July 2020||Mumbai,||MVA leaders to meet frequently to iron out communication glitches||The three constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government — the Shiv Sena, the Congress, and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — will now be meeting at regular intervals to sort out problems resulting from the lack of coordination. This decision was taken after NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Monday evening held a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. The meeting came in the backdrop of the sudden cancellation of transfers of 10 Deputy Commissioners of Police from Mumbai. According to sources, the issue of accessibility of the CM to ministers from other parties, which is leading to miscommunication between the three parties, was discussed. “Meeting of leaders of the three parties at regular intervals will be the solution to it. This will ensure a discussion, and also the decisions taken will be fast-tracked,” a senior leader from the NCP said. A discussion on streamlining the pending transfers of officials was also held. “We cannot keep on postponing the transfers. It damages the morale of the administration. Police transfers need to be done on a priority basis for which a time frame will be decided,” he said. The leader said that apart from the Home Department, transfers from other departments are pending, which need to be addressed. In an unprecedented move, the 10 transfers, which were announced on July 2, were cancelled by the Chief Minister Office on Sunday. Even though Mr. Deshmukh claimed of no political tussle in the matter, the meeting between Mr. Pawar and Mr. Thackeray hinted that all is not well within the MVA and the communication between the three allies has not been normalised since the last meeting between the two. Last month, the NCP chief had gone to Mr. Thackeray’s residence Matoshri following complaints by NCP ministers that the bureaucracy was undermining the ministers, and Mr. Thackeray himself was more intent on listening to bureaucrats than political allies.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Focus shifts from Chennai to other districts with high case loads||Shifting its focus outside Chennai and its neighbouring areas, the Tamil Nadu government has instructed the Collectors of 15 districts that have reported a high number of COVID-19 cases in the past few days to consolidate their efforts, actively identify cases of influenza-like illness (ILI)/severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and adopt the successful ‘fever clinics model’. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Monday held a videoconference with the Collectors of Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanniyakumari, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet, Salem, Sivaganga, Theni, Thoothukudi, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, Villupuram and Virudhunagar. When asked why these districts were chosen for the meeting, officials said they had reported a “high load [of cases] in recent times”. “We have asked them to focus on controlling ILI/SARI cases. Several Collectors sounded positive and confident. They needed support to ramp up testing capacity and for the augmentation of health staff. We asked them to reach out to [the residents of] streets and habitations with fresh cases for actively perusing infections through camps,” a senior official told The Hindu . Another official said the Chief Secretary had emphasised containment area management, augmentation of testing and hospital infrastructure, analysis of COVID-19-positive cases, engagement of volunteers in efforts to emphasise physical distancing, wearing of face masks and hand hygiene, and proper implementation of lockdown conditions. While Chennai and neighbouring districts continued to report cases in triple digits, there was a need for preventing fresh infections in districts that had not reported very many cases earlier. “[The situation in] Chennai will be reviewed on Wednesday, and Madurai on Thursday,” the official said. Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy and Public Secretary P. Senthil Kumar were among the senior officials who attended the meeting. When asked about the possibility of setting up fruit/vegetable markets in different areas of the State capital to reduce crowding, an official said the State government was looking at three prospective sites — one at Potheri in Chengalpattu district, one at Madhavaram in Chennai district, and an alternative site at Thirumazhisai in Tiruvallur district.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Final year exams by September-end: UGC||Final year university examinations may be postponed until the end of September, but must be conducted in either online or offline mode, the University Grants Commission (UGC) decided on Monday. Students who are unable to appear for these examinations will be given the opportunity to appear for special examinations which will be conducted later, according to an official statement. Home Ministry’s nod The Home Ministry has also given its approval for the conduct of the examinations in a letter to the Ministry of Human Resources Development, and directed that final term exams must be “compulsorily conducted” as per UGC guidelines. Directive to States There had been a vociferous demand from a section of students and parents to cancel the examinations due to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and use alternative grading mechanisms. At least seven State governments have already announced the cancellation of examinations. However, the UGC decided that it was important to “protect academic quality and credibility”, a member told The Hindu , adding that the State governments would be asked to comply with the new guidelines.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,||1,843 new cases, 30 deaths in State||A total of 1,843 COVID-19 cases and 30 deaths were reported in Karnataka on Monday. With this, the total number of cases stands at 25,317 and deaths at 401, said the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Out of the 1,843 cases, 981 positive cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban. Out of the 30 deaths, 10 of them were from Bengaluru Urban, eight from Bidar, and three from Mysuru. Kodagu, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Ballari, Tumakuru, Chickballapur, and Bagalkot reported one death each. As many as 680 patients walked out of the hospital on Monday, taking the total number of recoveries to 10,527.
07 July 2020||Mangaluru,||Runaway COVID-19 patient caught||The police arrested on Monday an 18-year-old COVID-19 positive man who had escaped from the Government Wenlock Hospital on Sunday soon after he tested positive. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said that a combination of technical surveillance and ground intelligence led to the arrest of Devaraj (18). Devaraj has been booked under Section 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of duty) and other sections of Indian Penal Code, he said. According to the police, Devaraj, who lived in his grandmother’s house in the city, escaped from the hospital at around 4 p.m. on Sunday. The Mangaluru South Police registered a case in this connection. Mr. Vikash said that the police made public the details of the man to ensure that those in contact with him do not get infected. In a tweet appreciating the work of the policemen involved in the arrest, Mr. Vikash said, “Police constables Shankarappa Lamani and Shankarappa Nandyal did a real heroic act of tracing and arresting the runaway COVID-19 positive man. But for their prompt and dedicated act, Devaraj could have infected many, without even knowing it.”
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Face-off||
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Former CEO of Raghavendra bank found dead in his car||M. Vasudeva Maiya, 70, former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank Ltd., which has been in the spotlight over alleged irregularities, was found dead in his car parked by the road in Subramanyapura police limits, away from his home in Chikkalasandra, on Monday night. At the time of going to print, the police were waiting for forensic teams to reach the spot for collection of evidence before the car was opened and body retrieved. While suicide has been suspected, a senior police official said it was too premature to speculate the cause of death. Maiya was among other officials of the bank recently raided by the Anti-Corruption Bureau on June 18 in connection with the alleged largescale irregularities in the bank. Multiple agencies — Enforcement Directorate, Criminal Investigation Department, Reserve Bank of India, and Registrar of Cooperative Societies — are probing the alleged irregularities at the bank. The High Court of Karnataka, hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition by depositors, had pulled up agencies for delay in probe on multiple occasions. The bank has been in the eye of the storm since January when the RBI stopped all banking activity and imposed withdrawal limits for depositors owing to large non-performing assets. A probe by RBI and Registrar of Cooperative Societies had indicated irregularities to the tune of Rs. 1,400 crore in the bank. This included diversion of deposits by banks and disbursal of loans worth Rs. 150 crore to 60 fictitious customers. The probe revealed that while the bank had consistently claimed its NPAs' to be around 1% of its turnover in all its publicity material, it was in fact around 25% to 30%. ( Those is distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani (104) for help .)
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s COVID-19 cases cross 1 lakh mark||The total COVID-19 cases in Delhi crossed one lakh on Monday with 1,379 fresh cases being reported in the past 24 hours. The total number of cases now stands at 1,00,823. Also, 48 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 3,115.
07 July 2020||KANPUR,||Slain officer had alerted senior of SHO-Dubey link||An officer who was among the eight policemen killed in the Kanpur encounter had alerted the district police chief that the Station House Officer of Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, who was suspended after the incident, had been protecting main accused Vikas Dubey, it emerged on Monday.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC sets aside Delhi High Court order on Navlakha||The Supreme Court on Monday set aside a Delhi High Court order questioning the “frantic hurry” with which civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha was shifted from the national capital to Mumbai in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case.
07 July 2020||Kolkata,||nearby 3||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced two schemes for the people. One of them is an app — Self Scan — developed by the State’s IT department. The second scheme is a Rs. 58,000-crore drinking water project for the rural areas. The scheme named Jal Swapno will help two crore families in five years.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||nearby 1||The chorus against the Election Commission’s decision to extend the postal ballot facility to voters who are 65 years or above has grown, with the Trinamool Congress and the Communist Party of India shooting off letters to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora opposing the move. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury was the first to flag the issue.
07 July 2020||Kolkata,||nearby 2||The West Bengal government on Monday gave more relaxations for shootings of film and TV reality shows. “Reality shows cannot have live audiences. But they can shoot with 40 people which is similar to relaxations for television serials,” Ms. Banerjee said after a meeting with representatives of cine-tele industries.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Only home quarantine for those from other States||The State government has done away with mandatory institutional quarantine for those coming from high-risk States, and made only a 14-day home quarantine compulsory for them.
07 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Eight more deaths in Bidar district||After six COVID-19 deaths on Saturday and nine deaths on Sunday, Bidar district reported eight such deaths on Monday. As per information provided by the district administration, all the eight persons died on different dates between June 25 and July 05 and tested positive for the disease later. Six of the eight who died are aged above 60 and some of them had co-morbidities. However, Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R. clarified that two among the new deaths were non-COVID-19 deaths as one of them died in a traffic accident and the other owing to snake bite. The district also reported 44 new cases on Monday, including the dead ones, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 799. There are 194 active cases.
07 July 2020||Pune,||5,368 fresh cases push State tally past 2.1 lakh||Maharashtra recorded 5,368 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the State’s total cases to 2,11,987. As many as 204 deaths were also reported, pushing the death toll past the 9,000 mark to 9,026. Of the total cases, 87,681 are active ones, State Health Department officials said.
07 July 2020||Mumbai,||Now, hotels can open with 33% capacity||As part of Phase V of Mission Begin Again, the State on Monday issued guidelines allowing reopening of hotels, lodges and guest houses with 33% capacity from Wednesday. The move comes a day after the CM held a meeting with hoteliers. The State has, however, kept shopping malls in the prohibited activities category.
07 July 2020||Mumbai,||CM launches Mahajobs portal for local youth||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday stressed that the government was ready to remove any obstacles industry faces to facilitate job creation, after inaugurating a new Mahajobs portal that would act as a bridge between industrialists and unemployed youth in the State. Industries, the CM said, need to avail of the available human resources.
07 July 2020||Chennai,||'Power charges not calculated arbitrarily'||Tangedco has informed the Madras High Court that it had calculated the power charges during the lockdown — when meter readings couldn’t be noted down — in accordance with the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code of 2004, and that there was no arbitrariness in the process.
07 July 2020||Chennai,||Additional rice for cardholders till Nov.||The State government will continue to provide additional rice — 5 kg per person — to all rice cardholders in the State until November, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said on Monday, adding that the Chief Minister had instructed officials to that effect.
07 July 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu records 3,827 fresh COVID-19 cases||After recording 4,000-plus cases a day for four consecutive days, Tamil Nadu reported 3,827 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday. Though the State saw a marginal dip, cases continued to rise in many districts.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||3,827 new COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu||Kerala reported 193 new cases and two deaths from COVID-19 on Monday, while active cases in the State stood at 2,252 with 167 more recoveries. With the death of an 82-year-old Saudi returnee in Manjeri Government Medical College hospital and that of a 66-year-old trader in Ernakulam with no travel history at Ernakulam Government Medical College hospital, the death toll in the State now was 27. A total of 5,622 persons had tested positive for COVID-19 since the outbreak began and 3,341 persons were reported to have recovered. However, local transmission of COVID-19 continued in the State, resulting in some family clusters, while in the case of others, the authorities had not established an epidemiological link. On Monday, 35 out of 193 newly-reported cases were instances of local transmission — of people with no travel history contracting the disease from the community. The rest were imported cases. Thiruvananthapuram remained under triple lockdown on Monday, following a surge in local transmission. Disease transmission was fast and intense here with 22 out of 27 new cases reported on Sunday in this category and 14 of which could not be linked to any known source of infection. On Monday also, four out of seven new cases in Thiruvananthapuram were picked up from the community. The number of persons under quarantine and surveillance now was 1,83,291, of whom 2,075 with mild COVID-like symptoms were in hospitals. The State had steadily been increasing daily testing, and tested 9,927 samples in the last 24 hours. Andhra Pradesh had over 20,000 cases on Monday, with the detection of 1,322 new cases; seven more patients died of the infection. It was the biggest single-day spike and 1,263 cases of the total were those of locals while 59 were imported, a Health Department bulletin said. The toll mounted to 239 and active cases increased to 10,860. With 498 new recoveries, the total number of patients discharged rose to 8,920. Two deaths occurred in Srikakulam and one each in Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam. The recovery rate of patients was 44.56%, while the mortality rate was 1.19%. Only 1.94% of the total 10,33,852 samples tested were positive. The State’s tally doubled in 13 days with an average of 783 cases reported per day during this period. Meanwhile, seven districts reported more than 100 new cases each among the locals. Guntur reported a whopping 197 cases and East Godavari 171, Anantapur 142, Kurnool 136, Chittoor 120, West Godavari 106 and Visakhapatnam 101 cases. They were followed by Kadapa (96), Krishna (55), Nellore (41), Prakasam (38), Srikakulam (36) and Vizianagaram (24). Among foreign returnees, three persons were detected having COVID-19 and among people from other States, 56 tested positive. In Telangana, COVID-19 fatalities crossed the 300-mark on Monday. With 11 more COVID patients succumbing to the virus, the toll touched 306. Total COVID-19 cases touched 25,733 as 1,831 more tested positive. The new cases included 1,419 from Greater Hyderabad, 160 from Rangareddy, and 117 from Medchal. Of the total number of cases, 10,646 were active, 14,781 were discharged, and 306 died. The Test Positivity Rate was 21.05%. In Tamil Nadu After recording 4,000-plus cases a day for four consecutive days, Tamil Nadu reported 3,827 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. Though the State saw a marginal dip, the rise in COVID-19 cases continued in many districts, with all 37 districts reporting new cases. The State’s overall COVID-19 case count rose to 1,14,978 of which 46,833 were active cases. The number of new infections stayed below 2,000 for the third consecutive day in Chennai. The city added 1,747 cases, taking its overall tally past 70,000. As of Monday, 24,052 persons were under treatment. Of the 3,793 persons discharged from hospitals across the State on Monday, 2,573 were in Chennai. Till now, a total of 66,571 persons had been discharged. Chennai accounted for 30 of the 61 deaths (46 in government and 15 in private hospitals) reported across the State from July 2 to 6.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai, and Hyderabad bureaus)
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Davinder used by Pak. as conduit: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has said in a chargesheet that suspended Jammu and Kashmir police officer Davinder Singh, who was caught travelling in a car with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists in January this year, “was being groomed by Pakistani officials for obtaining sensitive information”. The NIA also said Singh was in touch with certain officials of the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi through secure social media platforms. The NIA filed its chargesheet against Singh and five others in a Jammu court on Monday. The other accused are Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu and his brother, Syed Irfan Ahmad; Rafi Ahmad Rather, another Hizbul terrorist; Irfan Shafi Mir, an advocate and Tanveer Ahmad Wani, a businessman, who was active at the Line of Control (LoC) trade points with Pakistan before it was suspended in 2019. Singh was arrested on January 11 with the two wanted Hizbul terrorists Mushtaq, Rather and Irfan Shafi after they were stopped at a check post in South Kashmir’s Kulgam. The accused were travelling in Shafi’s car and were on their way to Jammu. The case was handed over to NIA on January 17. The agency conducted raids at 15 places in the Kashmir Valley and Jammu and subsequently arrested Ahmad, Wani and a former sarpanch, Tariq Ahmad Mir. Mir was arrested in April and a chargesheet is yet to be filed against him. “The investigation has revealed that the accused were part of a deep-rooted conspiracy hatched by the Pakistan-based terrorist organization Hizbul Mujahideen and Pakistani State Agencies to commit violent acts and to wage war against the Union of India… Pakistan-based leadership of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) namely Sayeed Salahudeen and others along with Pakistani establishment is extending support to the cadre and commanders of Hizbul based in Jammu and Kashmir,” the NIA chargesheet said. The agency said officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi were in constant touch with Shafi who was provided with funds to organise seminars in J&K to mobilise the masses against government of India. “Irfan Shafi Mir also used to receive instructions and money from Pakistan High Commission and also facilitated the visa applications for number of Kashmiris for their visit to Pakistan,” NIA said. “…in February, 2019, in order to shield HM Commander Syed Naveed Mushtaq from the heightened surveillance of security agencies, accused Devender Singh, a serving Deputy Superintendent of Police, Irfan Shafi and Irfan Ahmad arranged safe shelter for him and his associate in Jammu. Singh used his own vehicle for the movement of HM terrorists and also assured them help in procuring weapons,” the chargesheet said.
07 July 2020||Chennai/New Delhi,||Call between Doval, Wang led to disengagement||The disengagement between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) announced on Monday came after a long and detailed conversation between National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and Chinese State Councillor Wang Yi on Sunday evening. The high-level political intervention is significant, because Mr. Doval and Mr. Wang are both Special Representatives on the boundary talks, and had last met in December 2019. Mr. Wang is both Foreign Minister and State Councillor, a position which is roughly the equivalent of an NSA. For the past few weeks, through the crisis, Mr. Doval had been monitoring the situation from home despite the fact that he had chosen to self-quarantine after two family members contracted the coronavirus. Sources said that Mr. Doval rejoined work at his office on Saturday, a day before the call with Mr. Wang. Statements on the call issued by India’s Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) both emphasised an agreement to push for an early disengagement, yet differences remained on some issues that point to uncertainties that may lie ahead. On the disengagement, the MEA said both agreed they “should complete the ongoing disengagement process along the LAC expeditiously” and “ensure a phased and stepwise de-escalation in the India-China border areas”. The statement said both “should strictly respect and observe the LAC and should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquillity in border areas.” No mention of LAC China’s statement did not mention the LAC, let alone respecting it. The statement said both sides “welcomed the progress achieved in the recent military and diplomatic meetings, agreed to stay in dialogue and consultation, and stressed the importance to promptly act on the consensus reached in the commander-level talks between Chinese and Indian border troops, and complete [the] disengagement of the front-line troops as soon as possible.” The MEA statement did not mention the cause of the recent tensions, which India said on June 25 was because “the conduct of Chinese forces this year has been in complete disregard of all mutually agreed norms” and they had also crossed the LAC and erected structures on India’s side, in the Galwan Valley. The statement did not mention the Galwan Valley either, but China did. “The right and wrong of what recently happened at the Galwan Valley in the western sector of the China-India boundary is very clear,” the Chinese statement said, adding that “China will continue firmly safeguarding our territorial sovereignty as well as peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” Differing perspectives Both presented differing perspectives of the broader strategic relationship. The MEA said the SRs agreed that “both sides should take guidance from the consensus of the leaders that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas was essential for the further development of our bilateral relations and that two sides should not allow differences to become disputes.” “Therefore, they agreed that it was necessary to ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity,” its statement said. The Chinese statement emphasised the difficulties in the relationship, calling upon both to “adhere to the strategic assessment that instead of posing threats the two countries provide each other with development opportunities” and to “pay great attention to the current complex situation facing China-India bilateral relations, and work together to overcome and turn it around as soon as possible”. “We hope India can work with China to guide public opinion in the right direction, keep and advance bilateral exchanges and cooperation, and avoid amplifying the differences and complicating matters so as to jointly uphold the big picture of China-India relations,” it said. Where both were in agreement was to keep the channels open at the highest levels. The MEA said the SRs agreed to “continue their conversations to ensure full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols.” The Chinese side said both agreed “to strengthen communication through the mechanism of the SRs’ meeting, hold Meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on China-India Border Affairs without interruption, consistently improve and strengthen confidence-building measures and prevent more incidents that undermine peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. While the news of the move to disengage was “positive”, former Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran cautioned there was a need to “wait and see how this translates on the ground.” “I see that in the Chinese statement there is a reaffirmation of its position on Galwan with a commitment to safeguard what China consider its territorial claim,” he told The Hindu . “While tensions may subside but the relationship will never be the same again.”
07 July 2020||KANPUR,||Slain Kanpur policeman alerted senior of SHO’s link to Dubey||A police officer who was among the eight policemen killed in the encounter in Kanpur’s Bikru village had alerted the district police chief that the Station House Officer (SHO) of Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, who was suspended after the incident, had been protecting the main accused Vikas Dubey, it emerged on Monday. Circle Officer (CO) Bilhaur Devendra Mishra had, in March, written to then Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP)-Kanpur and complained about the SHO, saying that he had had extortion charges filed against Dubey removed from an FIR. ‘Doubtful integrity’ Mr. Mishra had accused Mr. Tiwari of being sympathetic to Dubey and displaying “doubtful integrity” by not taking action against the criminal. “If the SHO does not change his ways, a serious incident could take place,” the CO had warned. The report by the CO was sent against the background of an FIR lodged against Dubey on March 13, in which he was accused of extortion, assault, rioting and criminal intimidation. However, the section under extortion was dropped from the charges by the investigating officer on the instructions of the SHO, the CO wrote. CO Mishra had also mentioned that Mr. Tiwari often visited Dubey and was in regular touch with him. SHO suspended Mr. Tiwari was suspended after allegations surfaced that he had been providing help to Dubey on the day of the encounter; his exact role is still under investigation. Inspector General of Police-Kanpur Mohit Agarwal said the files of the report were being summoned from the SSP’s office to check what action had been taken by the then SSP. Mr. Agarwal said the report, which came to his notice through media, was being verified, and that the allegations were “serious”. “We will first understand the entire episode and then take action,” said the officer.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP chief slams Rahul on China face-off remarks||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Monday took on both Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, attacking the former for criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the India-China face-off in Ladakh while not attending a single parliamentary standing committee on defence meeting and Ms. Banerjee’s government over its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Nadda tweeted his remarks on Mr. Gandhi pointing to what he termed the latter’s “dynastic tradition” of where “parliamentary committees don’t matter, only commissions” do, an oblique reference to corruption allegations against the previous Congress-led governments. “Congress has many deserving members who understand parliamentary matters but one dynasty will never let such leaders grow. Really sad,” tweeted Mr. Nadda. He launched a broadside against the Trinamool government in West Bengal accusing it of criminalisation of politics and corruption, while addressing the State unit via video link, on Jan Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s birth anniversary. On one hand we have Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who fought for a united India and always kept his ideals and principles above anything, and on the other we have the present TMC government in Bengal for which clinging to power by any means is everything,” he said. “The West Bengal Chief Minister doesn’t believe in cooperative federalism. She is not keen on sharing COVID data with the Centre,” he alleged. ‘Restore Bengal’s glory’ “Criminalisation of politics has scaled new heights, now we all hear about cut money in Bengal. We need to cut to size these leaders who demand cut money. We need to restore Bengal’s glory and remove this government lock, stock and barrel,” he said. He said it was because of the efforts of the Jana Sangh founder that West Bengal and large parts of Punjab were with India. “It is due to Syama Prasad Mookerjee that Bengal and Punjab are with India. Otherwise they would have gone to Pakistan during Partition. He opposed the appeasement politics of Nehru in post-Independent India, but the Congress has a bad habit of stifling democratic voices.”  Cong. has many deserving members who understand parliamentary matters but one dynasty will never let such leaders grow
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Lesson on de-escalation from Doklam stand-off||The government must not agree to de-escalate the situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh without an agreement on returning to “ status quo ante ” or the situation before the stand-off began, said experts, who pointed to the outcome of the Doklam stand-off in 2017 as a marker. “The lesson for us in Doklam is that disengagement is not enough in order to declare an end to tensions at the LAC. It is necessary that we define end points up to where the troops must withdraw to and no understanding should be reached without the restoration of status quo ante ,” said Ashok Kantha, former Ambassador to China and the Director of the Institute of Chinese Studies. Monday’s statement On Monday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) issued a statement detailing a phone conversation between National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and his Chinese interlocutor Foreign Minister Wang Yi over which it was decided to disengage and de-escalate the military mobilisation at the Galwan Valley and other points of conflict between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that has lasted more than two months. The three-paragraph statement issued was considerably longer than the MEA statement issued after the Doklam stand-off that lasted two-and-a-half months, from June 16 to August 28, 2017. At the time, the “Press statement on Doklam disengagement understanding” had said only that the “expeditious disengagement of border personnel at the face-off site at Doklam has been agreed to and is on-going”, as a result of diplomatic talks. Since then, the MEA has said in response to questions in Parliament, that the “ status quo ” has been maintained at the stand-off point, below the Indian post at Doko-La. According to experts, however, while the disengagement brought an end to hostilities between India and China over China’s attempt to build a road near the India-China-Bhutan tri-junction area, transgressing into Bhutanese territory, it did not stop the PLA’s construction work right across the Doklam plateau. “If the military only agrees on disengagement and de-escalation, it may end up at a disadvantage,” Mr. Kantha told The Hindu . “Today, the PLA has constructed major infrastructure and consolidated its position in Doklam..” “My sense is that the variances in [Indian and Chinese statements] reflects the potential for future trouble for India à la Doklam,” said Lieutenant General (Retd) Prakash Menon, Director, Strategic Studies Programme, at Takshashila Institution, who formerly was a military adviser at the National Security Council Secretariat. Maps accessed from Google Earth show that the development of the road towards the Torsa Nullah, at one end of the Jampheri ridge, which is Bhutanese territory, continued between December 2017- December 2019. The images, part of a study released in May 2020 called “Doklam Update” by scholar Anirudh Kanisetti at the Bangalore-based Takshashila Institution, also traces images from 2009, when there was only vegetation on the plateau and surrounding areas, and now, when roads, buildings and trenches can be seen. Government sources who did not wish to be identified said that the satellite pictures and ground reports show PLA troops had resumed construction activity in the Doklam plateau a few months after the disengagement, and had consolidated positions across the 90 sq. km. Doklam plateau by the end of 2018. The sources said that the PLA has made two “black-top” or asphalt roads inside the disputed territory with Bhutan, which are extensions of two Chinese roads, to the east and to the south. ‘Road work completed’ “The southern one has now reached up to the junction of Amo Chu and Torsa Nullah, thereby extending the Chinese Claim Line well into the territory,” said the sources. Effectively this means that the Chinese have gone around India’s objections and used a more circuitous route, but completed their road building project, the sources said. Given the precedent, China’s latest claim on eastern Bhutan that abuts Arunachal Pradesh, where another tri-junction exists, should be watched closely as well, they said.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||UGC issues fresh guidelines||In fresh guidelines issued on Monday to hold the final year university examinations by the end of September, the University Grants Commission (UGC) said: “The terminal semester/final year examinations [are to] be conducted by universities/institutions by the end of September 2020 in offline (pen and paper)/online/blended (online + offline) mode as per feasibility and suitability. In case a student of terminal semester/final year is unable to appear in the examination conducted by the University for whatever the reason may be, he/she may be given opportunity to appear in special examinations for such courses/papers, which may be conducted by the university as and when feasible, so that the student is not put to any inconvenience/disadvantage. ” Also for backlogs Final year students with backlogs must also be evaluated through online or offline examinations. The rules for intermediate semesters remain unchanged. While noting the importance of health, safety and fair opportunity for students, UGC said it was “very crucial to ensure academic credibility, career opportunities and future progress of students globally”. A UGC member said the situation was compared to the Emergency era, when examinations were cancelled and degrees awarded without examinations, leading to a lot of questions being raised on the quality of education. “We wished to avoid a similar situation,” said the member who did not wish to be named. As the UGC is responsible for academic regulation and policy for the whole country, it will write to State Governors, who are Chancellors of State Universities, as well as State Chief Secretaries and Education Ministers to ask that they comply with the fresh guidelines, said the member.
07 July 2020||KOCHI,||CNG could ease bus operators’ burden||The skyrocketing price of diesel and increasing maintenance cost have catalysed private bus operators to probe the feasibility of retrofitting CNG (compressed natural gas) kits in buses, to rein in operational cost. A private bus from the city returned from New Delhi recently with a retrofitted CNG kit in a bid to overcome the shortfall in revenue following the COVID-19 restrictions and to curtail the daily operational expense. “The retrofitment costs approximately Rs. 4 lakh. Although keen to be part of the upgrade process, most bus operators are not in a position to spare this much money. They will opt for this if the government arranges an incentive in the form of zero-interest loan,” says M.B. Satyan, president, Kerala State Private Bus Operators’ Federation. Electric buses Another cost-effective alternative would be electric buses. But a 25-seater bus would cost around Rs. 1 crore and a 40-seater one, Rs. 1.5 crore. The State government which is keen on promoting electric buses is doing little to encourage a shift to CNG as fuel, despite the relatively low investment in retrofitting CNG kits. Already, the cost of purchasing a brand new diesel bus has risen to Rs. 35 lakh, after the new bus building code took effect in 2018. This has in turn increased the maintenance cost too. Bus operators will be keen on reining in the expense by investing in CNG kits if the government steps in with help, Mr. Satyan says. Bus operators have for long been complaining of inadequate number of CNG retailing outlets as another reason for not opting for a shift to CNG. Officials of the Motor Vehicles Department speak of how the shift to CNG buses augurs well for all stakeholders, considering the noticeable difference in operational cost and air/sound pollution levels. Price difference “I wonder why private buses shied away from CNG for this long. The investment of Rs. 4 lakh in retrofitting a CNG kit can be recouped in a year. This is because there is a price difference of over Rs. 20 between a kg of CNG and a litre of diesel. Moreover, CNG vehicles have higher fuel efficiency. The maintenance cost of components too is low when compared to diesel buses, since CNG leaves lesser wear and tear. This alone would reduce operational expense per bus by around Rs. 1,000 per day,” says a senior MVD official.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Opium seizures: India in top five list||The fourth highest seizure of opium in 2018 was reported from India, after Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan, according to the latest World Drug Report of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). The maximum of 644 tonnes of opium was seized in Iran, followed by 27 tonnes in Afghanistan and 19 tonnes in Pakistan. In India, the figure stood at four tonnes in 2018. In terms of heroin seizure (1.3 tonnes), India was at the 12th position in the world. Again, Iran reported the highest seizure of heroin (25 tonnes), followed by Turkey, United States, China, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Heroin is manufactured from the morphine extracted from the seed pod of opium poppy plants. Opium is illicitly produced in about 50 countries. However, close to 97% of the total global production of opium in the past five years came from only three countries. About 84% of the total opium was produced in Afghanistan, from where it is supplied to neighbouring countries, Europe, west Asia, south Asia and Africa. A small percentage also reaches North America and the Oceania region. Global pattern From Myanmar, which accounts for 7% of the global opium production, and Laos, where 1% of the opium is produced, it is supplied to east and south-east Asia and Oceania. Mexico accounts for 6% of the global opium production, while Colombia and Guatemala account for less than 1% of global production. The report said that the global area under opium poppy cultivation declined for the second year in a row in 2019. It went down by 17% in 2018 and by 30% in 2019. “The global area under opium poppy cultivation is nevertheless still substantially larger than a decade ago and at similar level of the global area under coca cultivation,” the report said. Despite the decline in cultivation, opium production remained stable in 2019, with higher yields reported in the main opium production areas. “Taking opium consumption into account, the estimated global opium production in 2019 would have been sufficient to manufacture 472-722 tonnes of heroin...,” said the report. The opiates seized in the largest quantity in 2018 continued to be opium (704 tonnes), followed by heroin (97 tonnes) and morphine (43 tonnes). “Globally, 47 countries reported opium seizures, 30 countries reported morphine seizures and 103 countries reported heroin seizures in 2018, suggesting that trafficking in heroin continues to be more widespread in geographical terms than trafficking in opium or morphine,” the findings of the report showed. Quantities of seized opiates remained concentrated in Asia, notably in south-west Asia (70%). Most opiates seized were reported in or close to the main opium production areas. Therefore, Asia, which is host to more than 90% of global illicit opium production and the world’s largest consumption market for opiates, accounted for almost 80% of all opiates seized worldwide in 2018. Outside Asia, the largest total quantity of heroin and morphine was seized in Europe (22% of the global total in 2018).
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP is resorting to cheap distractions, says Congress||The Congress on Monday hit back at the BJP for questioning its former chief Rahul Gandhi's attendance in meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, calling it a “cheap distraction”, and “reminded” how the BJP had “unceremoniously” dumped its own leader, Maj. Gen. B.C. Khanduri (retd.), for an adverse parliamentary report on defence preparedness under the Narendra Modi government. In a series of tweets, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the daily “insidious comments” by BJP president J. P. Nadda was making him “look like a poorer version of malicious BJP spokespersons”. The Congress also launched a fresh attack on the government as India reached the third spot in terms of the countries with the highest number of COVID-19 cases, with Mr. Gandhi stating that India’s COVID-19 fight would be one of the three case studies on failures in the Harvard Business School (HBS). Demonetisation and the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) GST would be the other two, he said. In a tweet, Mr. Gandhi also put up a video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing the confidence of winning the corona battle in 21 days and comparing it with the battle of Mahabharata. “Future HBS case studies on failure:1. Covid19. 2. Demonetisation. 3. GST implementation,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted and tagged the 37-second video. At the official briefing, party spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged that when Mr. Gandhi had forewarned the government about its COVID-19 response, BJP leaders ridiculed him. “In his repeated intervention, Rahul Gandhi, in the last three months, kept trying to give constructive suggestions to the government on what a lockdown should... Instead of heeding to good advice, this government ridicules and attacks the person,” he said. In a series of tweets, Mr. Surjewala said if the BJP government spent its energy in fighting China instead of the Congress, then it would not have to “lie and mislead” the country. “Dear Nadda Ji, Pl answer: Did the Standing Committee on Defence headed by Gen BC Khanduri not hold that 68% of our ‘equipment is vintage’ and there are insufficient resources for ‘construction of strategic roads on China Border’? Did Modi Govt listen to Defence Committee?”  His [Nadda] comments are making him look like a poorer version of malicious BJP spokespersons
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Trinamool, CPI oppose postal ballots for 65-plus voters||The chorus against the Election Commission’s decision to extend the postal ballot facility to voters who are 65 years or above has grown with the Trinamool Congress and the Communist Party of India shooting off letters to Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora opposing the move. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury was the first to flag the issue. The Congress too wrote to the Election Commission (EC) last week protesting against the decision. According to informed sources, other Opposition parties too will be sending similar letters in the next few days. The EC notified amendments to the Conduct of Election Rules on June 19, extending the postal ballot facility — that so far was available only for armed forces personnel and government servants posted abroad — to those above 65 years and any one suffering from COVID-19. CPI General Secretary D. Raja in a letter to Mr. Arora said this decision could “jeopardise the democratic process of free and fair elections” and would “lead to malpractices and foul play by those parties which are in power and have resources.” He urged the EC to hold wider consultations and not to act “unilaterally”. Arbitrary: Trinamool The Trinamool Congress called the July 19 amendment “arbitrary, mala fide, unconstitutional” and “ex facie a violation of right to secrecy of vote and right to free and fair elections.” In a letter to the CEC, Trinamool General Secretary Subrata Bakshi pointed out that 6% of the population is 65 years old. He said that with the postal ballot, there was a greater chance of disclosure of voter’s preference to the public at large, which violated the fundamental premise of secrecy of vote.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Centre, Karnataka govt. are benchmarks for credibility’||While the BJP governments both at the Centre and in Karnataka have emerged as benchmarks for credibility while the Opposition parties, especially the Congress, has lost credibility with the people, claimed B.L. Santosh, national general secretary (organisation), BJP. He was addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers in the State marking the conclusion of the month-long ‘Jana Samvada’ campaign to mark one year of the Narendra Modi-led Union government. While Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol was the chief guest at the event, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa joined the rally virtually. Mr. Santosh claimed that the country was courageously facing the COVID-19 crisis and the aggression by China thanks to the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also claimed that the economy, which has taken a hit because of the lockdown, was on the way to a “V-shape recovery” and there were new opportunities and jobs being created in rural areas because of the “local” push from the Prime Minister, aided by the economic package. Speaking of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the State, especially in Bengaluru, he said the crisis would continue to dog the country for the coming three or four months and needed to be faced with courage and personal precaution, not with fear. “While we are concerned of the rising number of cases in Bengaluru, we should be optimistic that Mumbai, Ahmedabad and other cities that had peaked are stabilising or have seen a dip in the number of cases being reported every day,” he said. Praise for Minister Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar also received praise from Mr. Santosh. “While several States backtracked from holding the exam, in our State Minister S. Suresh Kumar took it up as a challenge. Many asked questions like who would be responsible if the children fell ill. We are obviously elected to take responsibility, not run away from it. We cannot run away, we have to create systems to navigate through the crisis.”
07 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Dues with AAI land Air lndia in trouble||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has put Air India in cash-and-carry mode at the Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Chennai and Kolkata airports from July 7 owing to accumulation of dues. It means that Air India will have to make payment on a daily or per-flight basis for parking and landing at these airports. “The competent authority has approved to put the operations of Air India on cash & carry basis.... with effect from 1 hrs [1 a.m.] of 7 July 2020. The above may please be brought to the information of all concerned officials...” the AAI said.. Responding to this, Air India asked AAI to reverse the decision as cash and carry would put additional financial stress on its liquidity. “As you are aware, Air India is in stressed financial condition due to COVID-19. At this stage, cash and carry would bring additional financial stress on Air India liquidity. You are requested to reconsider the above decision and give some more time for release of dues till the situation normalises for our flight operations,” Air India said in a letter. “Air India has made a payment of Rs. 2 crore on July 2, 2020, and you are requested to settle dues for Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Chennai & Kolkata effective July 7, 2020, against the payment of Rs. 2 crore. You are also requested to advise the station-wise adjustments for above Rs. 2 crore to avoid reconciliation issues in future,” the letter added.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC: Navlakha’s plea should be addressed to Bombay HC||The Supreme Court on Monday set aside a Delhi High Court order questioning the “frantic hurry” with which civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha was shifted from the national capital to Mumbai in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra expunged expressions like “inexplicable and frantic hurry” and “unseemly haste” used by High Court judge Justice Anup Bhambhani in his seven-page order on May 27 to describe the manner in which Mr. Navlakha was taken to Mumbai. Moved from Delhi Justice Bhambhani had found it puzzling how the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took Mr. Navlakha out of the national capital a day before his bail hearing was scheduled before the High Court. The top court, however, said the High Court had no jurisdiction to hear the bail application. It should be rightly heard by the Bombay High Court as Mr. Navlakha was within its jurisdiction. “Since the respondent [Navlakha] has been moved to Bombay, he is at liberty to apply before the competent court in Bombay. Thus, we set aside the impugned order [of the Delhi High Court], including the observations and the proceedings which were initiated. It is the courts at Bombay alone having the jurisdiction, which can entertain the application. Thus, the appeal is allowed,” the top court observed in the order. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal said the Delhi High Court had merely sought documents of the transfer of his client, Mr. Navlakha, to Mumbai and this was not exactly a “relief”. Justice Bhambhani had ordered the NIA to provide a “complete copy” of the proceedings for Mr. Navlakha’s production warrant before the Special Judge (NIA), Mumbai. Stay ordered The NIA had appealed the order and the Supreme Court stayed it early in June. On Monday, the court decided in favour of the NIA and set aside the High Court order to produce the production warrant records. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that the NIA had disclosed everything to the court. The production warrant for Mr. Navlakha was processed quickly owing to the uncertainty surrounding the lockdown and availability of inter-State flights. Besides, the other accused persons in the case were tried in Mumbai.
07 July 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal’s zardozi artists hanging by a thread||Craning over a wooden frame, Yousuf Khan, billed as the oldest zardozi craftsperson of the Nadeem Road here, nimbly weaves metallic threads into a cotton cloth stretched across it. This is his first assignment after the lockdown eased a month ago. But as it concluded in two hours, he was left without work once again. “The pandemic has broken us irreparably. For the first time in 30 years, we got no customers during the wedding season,” Mr. Khan, 62, spectacles perched at the edge of his nose, said without looking up. Demonetisation and automation had inflicted a hard blow to the handicraft, said Mr. Khan, but the lockdown had battered both production and demand. Like him, Bhopal’s 200 artists of zardozi — an art patronised by the Mughals that involves weaving metallic threads on fabric to create intricate patterns — stare at mounting losses and joblessness. “I don’t know any other craft or skill to switch over,” said Mr. Khan, adding that he depended mostly on his sons, in other professions, for income now. Nationwide calls to boycott Chinese products has made locally made raw materials costlier. “Nearly half the raw material used in embroidery, including artificial beads and gemstones, are from China. Their supply has stopped now, giving an opportunity to traders to raise prices of locally made products, already expensive and inferior in quality,” said Razi Ali ‘Salim’, 53, another craftsperson. At Paras Zari Arts, the fabric on a frame lies unfinished since March — strewn with beads, thread and needles. “Weddings have been postponed or are less grand now owing to restrictions,” said Mr. Ali, a craftsperson since 1989. Faced with a financial crunch, he has asked four of his workers to stay home for the time being. After reopening, Zari Centre, one of the city’s largest workshops, is scrambling to wind up 10 pending orders received before the lockdown. Fresh orders, however, are nowhere in the offing, said Farah Nadeem, who slashed her staff strength by half to five. “Earlier we had youngsters waiting to learn the craft, but not any more. We are perhaps the last generation of artists practising this waning form,” said Wasim Ansari.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||No dignity in death for COVID warrior||Fifty-eight-year-old Victoria Jayamani, the head nurse of Government Chest Hospital, who became the first among the nursing staff to succumb to COVID-19 after selfless service on June 26, could not get the dignity that is reserved for a deceased person. While officials and the government recalled her services and assured all help to the family, the near and dear ones of the senior nurse are aghast that they could not provide a decent burial for her. She is not alone in suffering even in death. Families of eight other COVID-19 deceased patients from the Christian community too underwent similar ordeal in getting place for burial. Even as the body of Jayamani was lying in Gandhi Hospital mortuary, her family members ran from pillar to post to secure a 6 x 8-foot piece of land for burial. The popular church they attend every Sunday was of no help once it became clear that the deceased was a COVID-19 victim. The cemetery at Narayanguda failed to allow the burial. Several other mainline churches with cemeteries attached to them too refused permission. B. Jakinkanth, son-in-law of the head nurse, said they knocked at the doors of everyone including officials and politicians, but no help came their way. “My mother-in-law gave everything in serving the needy patients and at the end, she was not given the due respect that is reserved for the dead,” he recalled. After much running around, the family members found government-sanctioned burial ground for the Christians at Ahmedguda in Keesara mandal, 20 km from the city. “Even this piece of land did not come free of cost. The family had to pay Rs. 20,000 to conduct the last rites,” those who arranged the last rites on June 27 said. Information gathered from different sources revealed that at least three deceased patients’ bodies were kept in private hospitals for three to four days till place was identified for the burial. If the bodies were in Gandhi Hospital there was pressure to take them for burial immediately. Deceased patients residing in Moulali, Neredmet, Musheerabad, Sanatnagar and Malkajgiri were taken to city outskirts for final rites. Burial delayed Goneh Solomon Raj, Secretary of Christian Burial Grounds for Greater Hyderabad, told The Hindu that since the outbreak of the pandemic nine Christian patients had died of COVID-19. “All the nine families underwent untold misery in performing the last rites,” he said. According to him, of the nine, three were buried at Dommarapochampally village in Dundigul mandal in a place allotted besides a dump yard for Christian burial ground, but after lot of protests by the locals. Two others were buried at Ahmedguda village in Keesara village. Four others were cremated in Hindu crematoriums in the city. Bishop of Church of South India Medak Diocese Reverend A.C. Solomon Raj said that there was no bar on burying the COVID-19 deceased if they belong to the CSI background. “So far we have not got a request for burial of any COVID-19 victim but will surely allow last rites to be performed as per Christian customs,” he said. Vicar General of Archdiocese of Hyderabad Reverend Swarna Bernard too echoed similar sentiments saying that they had systems in place to perform the last rites of any Catholic member whether he/she dies of any ailment including coronavirus. When queried about the denial of permission for burials in cemeteries in the Twin Cities, Kanthi Wesley, Managing Director, Telangana State Christian Minority Finance Corporation, the nodal agency overlooking welfare of the Christians in the State, said they are coordinating with the churches to allow burial for COVID-19 deceased too. Big cemeteries in the Twin Cities lack space so the government had allotted 40 acres for new Christian burial grounds in and around the city, she said.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Undercover operation helps Customs strike gold in Kerala||A protracted undercover operation that spanned international borders has led to the seizure of 30 kg of contraband gold from an air cargo shipment addressed to the consulate of the UAE here. The consulate has denied any wrongdoing even as the fast-unfolding investigation focussed on at least two former employees of the diplomatic mission and laid bare a hitherto undetected method of gold smuggling. Commissioner of Customs Sumit Kumar, who led the operation, told The Hindu that the enforcers had noticed a surge in the availability of smuggled gold in trade quantities in the domestic market. However, they could not pinpoint the source or conduit for the precious metal. Tapping networks The investigators tapped their networks and rumours started trickling in of the existence of a well-entrenched UAE-headquartered racket that sends gold to India, concealed in air cargo shipments, addressed to diplomatic missions. To ferret out actionable intelligence about future consignments, the enforcers monitored the UAE market for suspicious bulk purchases of the metal. They used secret surveillance, informants and plainclothes officers to gather evidence through unorthodox means that went beyond the range of standard Customs enforcement protocol at air and seaports. The law enforcers struck gold when they learned in June that an incoming consignment addressed to the consulate contained the contraband. National security They apprised the Central government of the underlying threat to national security posed by an international racket that used diplomatic goodwill as a cover for gold smuggling. The Union Ministry of External Affairs sought the permission of the UAE government to inspect the shipment. The enforcers found the gold concealed in imported piping in the presence of UAE officials. The Customs has not charged the former consulate officials, both Keralites. It is treating them as witnesses for now. The enforcers were investigating the UAE end of the racket. They said they had no evidence so far to suggest that embassy officials were in the know. The investigators want to find out who processed the paperwork for the shipment and the identity of the persons who funded the multi-crore operation and their local collaborators. The Customs suspects that the racketeers could have used the same route to import gold into India in bulk illegally before. The recent detection was just the tip of the iceberg, an official said.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine pioneer quits THSTI||Gagandeep Kang, Executive Director, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) in Faridabad, resigned from her position at the institute on Monday, multiple sources confirmed to The Hindu . Dr. Kang, 57, informed the faculty members of her decision on Monday morning. She is, however, likely to continue in her post until August-end. She has at least a year to go before her term ends at the institute, an autonomous body under the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology. Dr. Kang is also Professor, Department of Gastrointestinal Sciences, Christian Medical College (CMC) ,Vellore. She was on lien from the institution and that tenure is to expire this August. She told The Hindu that she was resigning for personal reasons. “At THSTI, I’ve been able to set up processes and establish groups that now are independently able to work on several research areas, including vaccine development.” She said she would be at CMC for the “foreseeable future” and would still be closely involved in vaccine development projects. She is the first Indian woman to be elected Fellow, Royal Society, London, and was instrumental in the development of Rotavac, the first vaccine to be made from scratch in India.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) renews demand to make PM-CARES transparent||The CPI(M) has renewed its demand for making the PM-CARES fund, set up in March in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic by the Prime Minister’s Office, transparent and accountable. The party said the money collected with the fund should be immediately transferred to State governments. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau, in a statement here, said the PMO’s “stubborn refusal” to disclose the details of the fund was deeply disturbing. The fund doesn’t come under the ambit of the Right to Information Act because it has been set up as a private trust. But it has the Prime Minister as the Chair and Ministers of Defence, Home Affairs and Finance as trustees. For the same reason, it is beyond the purview of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The CPI(M) pointed out that out of Rs. 10,000 crore collected under the fund, nearly Rs. 4,000 crore was collected by compulsory donations made by government employees. Two years of MPLAD funds had been diverted to this trust fund. The Companies Act, 2013 was amended to allow donations to this fund of a private trust to be eligible under Corporate Social Responsibility contributions. “Till date, there is no answer from the PMO as to why a separate private trust fund had to be created when the official PM’s National Relief Fund has been in existence since Independence, which is transparent, accountable and audited by the CAG,” it said. The party also said the fund liberally used the national emblem, the PM’s image and was backed by official circulars to public sector unit employees to donate.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru/Hassan,||Sumalatha, two other lawmakers test positive for COVID-19||The list of elected representatives who have contracted COVID-19 is growing with actor-turned-MP Sumalatha, Kunigal MLA H.D. Ranganath, and Pranesh, MLC, testing positive. Ms. Sumalatha, who took a test on Saturday after experiencing mild headache and throat pain, said the results were released on Monday. In a statement here, the MP said she had been regularly participating in programmes in her constituency, besides touring areas affected by the virus. “I am on medical treatment and will remain quarantined at home,” she added. The MP also tweeted that her immunity levels were strong and expressed confidence of recovering soon. Is CM a primary contact? Meanwhile, Ms. Sumalatha had come into contact with a number of political leaders, including Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his Cabinet colleagues, besides religious leaders, including Adichunchanagiri Mutt seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami during the days preceding her symptoms. According to her own twitter time-line, Ms. Sumalatha met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa along with film personalities Rockline Venkatesh and Doddanna in Bengaluru on June 29 over the sanction of land at Kanteerava Stadium for construction of Ambareesh Memorial. On June 30, Ms. Sumalatha participated in the launch of a series of development programmes at Brahmadevarahalli in Nagamangala taluk along with the Adichunchanagiri Seer and Suresh Gowda, MLA. On the same day, she also attended a programme with Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar to distribute a honorarium of Rs. 3,000 to ASHA workers of Mandya district. Meanwhile, Kunigal MLA H.D. Ranganath of the Congress has been admitted to Manipal Hospital in Bengaluru after testing positive for COVID-19. Dr. Ranganath, a doctor by profession, participated in the programme where D.K. Shivakumar took charge as KPCC president. BJP leader M.K. Pranesh, MLC, and his wife have also tested positive for COVID-19.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||50% staff attendance norm at TS Secretariat, govt. offices till July 31||With the steep rise in COVID-19 cases in GHMC limits in the past few days, the State government has extended the guidelines pertaining to attendance of staff at different levels at the secretariat and other departments till July 31. The government had initially directed that 50% of the office subordinates, data entry operators and other Class IV employees should attend duties on alternate weeks. Likewise, 50% of the clerical staff/circulating officers were asked to attend duty on alternate day basis while officers having separate chambers allotted to them should continue to attend duties regularly. Section officers, assistant section officers, clerical staff and other categories employees who were not on duty on a particular day should, however, be present in the headquarters under any circumstances as they could be called for work in office on short notice. The same order would continue to be in force till the month-end owing to the rise in COVID-19 cases amid concerns expressed by the employees over their safety. Restrictions on movement of visitors, too, would continue and only people with prior appointments with the officials concerned would be allowed to enter the offices. e-Office in phases At the same time, the government has decided to introduce e-office, a software developed by the National Informatics Centre as part of the Digital India initiative, to put in place a paperless office system. The system would ensure minimal human interface and avoid scope for people-to-people contact in majority of the offices where most work is currently file-based. The e-office system was introduced in some districts on pilot basis a couple of years ago and some government departments too are implementing the system. It would involve uploading the file online at the Section Officer level and its movement could be traced effectively at different levels. It would enable the movement of files irrespective of whether the officer concerned is in office or working from home, and it would enable higher officials to know the status of the file at any given point of time. The system would ensure higher levels of transparency in the file movement and the officials concerned would be informed about the status of the file by alerts that would be sent to their mails or mobile phones from time to time.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Progress made on LAC disengagement: Beijing||China on Monday said there was “progress” towards disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with the first signs of pullback of its troops at the Galwan Valley reported on Monday. Chinese troops have “shifted” two kilometres from the site of the June 15 violent clashes at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, senior Indian officials told The Hindu . In Beijing, the Chinese Foreign Ministry acknowledged there had been progress towards disengagement. “On June 30, Chinese and Indian troops held Commander-level talks. The two sides continued to work to implement the consensus reached at the two previous rounds of talks [on June 6 and June 22],” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. “There is progress made on front-line troops taking effective measures to disengage and ease the tensions,” Mr. Zhao said, adding that it was hoped India would work with China and “through concrete actions implement the consensus, and continue close communication through military and diplomatic channels to jointly push for the de-escalation of the border region”. As The Hindu reported, the PLA had moved within India’s perception of the LAC at the Galwan Valley after the June 15 incident, when 20 soldiers were killed. China has also erected structures on India’s side of the LAC at Pangong Tso and talks are on to resolve the situation there, although some tents near Finger 4 have also been removed, officials said.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Minister appeals to govt. school teachers to help pvt. school counterparts||With reports of teachers of private schools struggling since they were not paid salaries, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar has appealed to the government school teachers’ association to help out. In a message on his social media account, the Minister said he met with the associations of government primary school teachers and high school teachers and urged them to contribute one or two days’ salary. The government would use this contribution to provide some aid to the struggling teachers of private schools in the State. “The members of the two government teachers’ associations have responded positively to my suggestion. President of government primary school teachers’ association Narayanaswamy has agreed to contribute his one month’s salary. I too will contribute,” he said in his post, adding that the government too was exploring the possibility of extending some help to the private school teachers. However, despite his claims, this has not gone down well with either the government school teachers associations or the private school management association. Chandrashekhar Nugli, State general secretary of the Karnataka State Primary School Teachers’ Association, said teachers had contributed during floods in North Karnataka and Kodagu. “Recently, we contributed one day’s salary for COVID-19 relief. Teachers are solely dependent on their salaries. Private school managements take money in the form of capitation and donations,” he said and added that the association would discuss the issue further with members at all district levels before arriving at a decision. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, welcomed the gesture. He, however, said it was the responsibility of the State government and Primary and Secondary Education Department to provide any aid to teachers of private schools. “Already, private schools are branded as charging exorbitant fees. Though it may be true to an extent, the government should announce the relief and not take it from government school teachers instead,” he said. “Private and unaided schools have collected money along with fees for the teachers’ welfare fund. So far, this has not been utilised,” he pointed out.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Coronavirus is airborne, 239 experts warn WHO||Even in its latest update, released June 29, the WHO said airborne transmission of the virus is possible only after medical procedures that produce aerosols, or droplets smaller than 5 microns. But interviews with nearly 20 scientists paint a picture of an organisation that, despite good intentions, is out of step with science. Whether carried aloft by large droplets that zoom through the air after a sneeze, or by much smaller exhaled droplets that may glide the length of a room, these experts said, the coronavirus is borne through air and can infect people when inhaled. In early April, a group of 36 experts on air quality and aerosols urged the WHO to consider the growing evidence on airborne transmission. The agency responded promptly, calling Lidia Morawska, the group’s leader and a longtime WHO consultant, to arrange a meeting. But the discussion was dominated by a few experts who were staunch supporters of handwashing and the committee’s advice remained unchanged. Ms. Morawska and others pointed to several incidents that indicate airborne transmission particularly in poorly ventilated and crowded indoor spaces. They said the WHO was making an artificial distinction between tiny aerosols and larger droplets, even though infected people produce both. “We’ve known since 1946 that coughing and talking generate aerosols,” said Linsey Marr, an expert in airborne transmission of viruses at Virginia Tech. The WHO also is relying on a dated definition of airborne transmission, Ms. Marr said. The agency believes an airborne pathogen, like the measles virus, has to be highly infectious and travel long distances. Experts all agree that the coronavirus does not behave that way. Ms. Marr and others said the coronavirus seemed to be most infectious when people were in prolonged contact at close range, especially indoors, and even more so in superspreader events — exactly what scientists would expect from aerosol transmission. @The New York Times News Service
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka HC initiates PIL on hospital charges||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday initiated a suo motu PIL petition on complaints that COVID-19 positive and other patients were finding it difficult to get admission in hospitals for treatment in Bengaluru city, and that charges fixed for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals were exorbitant. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy issued the directions to treat two separate letters, one by the Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru (AAB), and another by city-based advocate P. Anu Chengappa through e-mail to the Chief Justice, as a PIL petition. In their June 26 letter, AAB president A.P. Ranganatha and general secretary A.S. Gangadharaiah complained that “the package charges prescribed under Government Order dated June 23 was exorbitant and appears as though it was fixed for the benefit of hospitals and not patients.” “The ceiling was fixed for all hospitals across the board, which means even a normal nursing home which otherwise does not charge high will now charge higher with the government’s prescribed ceiling rates,” the letter claimed, while contending that the State government failed to upgrade facilities in its health centres and hospitals in the last four months. In her July 4 letter, citing various newspaper reports, Ms. Chengappa said that COVID-19 patients were not being admitted to hospitals though beds were available. “Non-COVID-19 patients were also being denied treatment for fear of possibility of contracting the infection. Since the last four days, it had become a common grouse for patients to wait for long hours in the hope of being admitted in a hospital, desperately running from one hospital to another in the hope that one of them will be kind enough to admit the patient,” the letter stated. Expressing concern about the “insensitive” manner in which the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) was dealing with suspected patients and their family members, she pointed out that “the BBMP staff arrive at the home of the patient with blaring sirens and made it a point to create a ruckus in shifting, fumigating and cordoning the area, that the patients and their families are ostracised by the neighbourhood. “In fact, it is their experience that rather than COVID-19, it is the handling of the situation that is more traumatic, leaving indelible fear and agony all around,” she claimed.
07 July 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru villagers oppose Bengaluru returnees||People returning to their villages in Mysuru from Bengaluru are facing resistance from local villagers, who fear the spread of COVID-19. A day after residents of Abbooru village in Hunsur near here blocked the entry of a group of people returning from Bengaluru only to relent after the taluk administration officials reached the spot and advised the returnees to maintain home quarantine for seven days, Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Abhiram G. Sankar acknowledged the growing anxiety among the people about the rapidly rise in cases of COVID-19 and the widespread demand for closing the district’s borders to block entry for people returning from Bengaluru. However, Mr. Sankar not only ruled out the possibility of keeping Mysuru out of bounds for people coming from Bengaluru, but also spelt out the practical difficulties of screening people entering the district from the State capital. “Thousands of vehicles are entering Mysuru every day at the rate of more than 100 every minute from the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway. If we begin screening each individual entering Mysuru, there will be a traffic jam for several km on the highway,” he said here on Monday. A large number of people from Bengaluru, that is witnessing a huge spike in the number of COVID-19 cases, had come to Mysuru before the lockdown began on Sunday. A group of about 15 people, who were returning to their village Abbooru in Hunsur taluk near here in the early hours of Sunday in private vehicles, were forced to wait outside the village after locals blocked their entry. The group comprised those who had returned to the village when the lockdown was declared in March this year, but had left for Bengaluru again after the restrictions eased last month. The locals, who learnt about their return, gathered at the village border and refused them entry citing a risk to local villagers from the dreaded COVID-19. The returnees were asked to go back to Bengaluru or bring with them a COVID-19 negative certificate from an authorised laboratory. However, police and other taluk administration officials reached the spot and convinced the villagers to let them in. The villagers relented only after the returnees from Bengaluru were forced to undergo home quarantine for seven days. Quarantine seals have been stamped on the returnees, Hunsur Taluk Health Officer Kirthi Kumar told The Hindu.  Officials said there is no regulation on inter-district movement of people and hence entry cannot be refused to people from other parts of the State.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 tests cross 1 crore, says ICMR||The document tackles the unprecedented challenge to mental health care across all settings in India. The document has been put together by the Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuroscience. “Given the likely magnitude of the pandemic and the patchy availability of specialist mental health care across the country, it has become necessary for all non-psychiatric health care professionals who often form the frontline of the health care response to provide 'whatever is possible',” the guidelines said. “The care of psychiatrically ill takes a back seat in pandemics. While this needs to be addressed, it is necessary that day-to-day psychiatric practice be recalibrated to ensure greater sensitivity regarding infection transmission,” it added. Detailed guidelines The document has two parts; the first is guidelines for non-psychiatric medical professionals to address mental health needs of the community and in COVID-19 treatment centres while the second part provides recommendations for psychiatrists to ensure safety during their day-to-day practice amid the disease outbreak. “Planning and policy-making are critical to ensure program effectiveness. It is essential to ensure that mental health is integrated into the broad framework of COVID-19 health care response to ensure adequate and appropriate care to the many thousands who are psychologically disturbed following the pandemic,” notes the document.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||1.4 lakh families have reached MGNREGA limit||Although these 1.4 lakh families may only be a fraction of the 4.6 crore households who have benefited from the scheme this year, it is the poorest families with no options other than MGNREGA who have already reached their 100 day limit and need an extension. “These are the most vulnerable families. Remember that most States did not even provide MGNREGA work in April during the lockdown,” said Mr Dey. “So these are families who have actually completed 100 days in just May and June. Those who are now at the 60-day or 80-day point will also complete 100 days in the next month, month and a half. It will peak very fast,” warned Mr. Dey. Per adult individual The NREGA Sangharsh Morcha argues that the limit should be imposed per adult individual rather than per household, and has demanded an increase to 200 days per individual at a daily wage rate of Rs. 600. The current wage rate of Rs. 200 per day does not even match up to minimum wage rates in most States. With almost 60,000 households which have completed 100 days of work, Chhattisgarh has the highest rate among States according to central scheme data, followed by Andhra Pradesh with almost 24,500 households in this category. However, the A.P. government maintains its own database showing that 84,000 households, or 8.6% of all beneficiary households in the State, have already completed 100 days of work. (AP has repeatedly complained that the State’s MGNREGA ground reality is not accurately captured in real time in the central database.) “The demand for MGNREGA work almost doubled in June in AP, as there is no other work available for many people. Construction sector, which usually absorbs a large number of workers, has also collapsed. We are seeing a flurry of new job cards being issued,” says Chakraadhar Buddha, an AP-based activist and researcher with Libtech India. “The monsoon seems to be good so far, and for those who can get farm work, that may be an option for the next few months. The worst scenario may be in December when agriculture work is over and the MGNREGA work has also run out. What will people do then?” he said, adding that for women, elderly and disabled, or those in adivasi areas, who cannot get farm work, the situation is even more acute. “This is a national issue. As a very bare minimum, the Centre should expand the limit to 200 days per household this year,” Mr Buddha said.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Curbs in Kerala capital eased to help residents||Day 1 of the week-long triple lockdown in the city was marked by widespread confusion with the public struggling to come to terms with the curbs introduced without putting adequate preparations in place. Taking into account the plight of the large sections that scrambled to stock up on essential commodities, the district administration have announced certain relaxations. Milk booths, vegetable stalls, grocery shops, shops selling cattle feed, poultry feed and veterinary medicine can function from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. The public will be permitted to go to their nearest shops for procuring essential items and should adhere to physical distancing and other norms. While offices exempted from the purview of the lockdown will be required to ensure minimal attendance of employees, IT firms in Technopark must submit applications through the chief executive officer of Technopark to operate during the period. The police sealed most of the 24 border points that led to the State capital and various arterial roads across the 100 wards. While many motorists were permitted to pass through the borders for a short while after 6 a.m., many were turned back later. Entry to city Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Divya V. Gopinath said that access to city is permitted only through the screening points in Pravachambalam, Kazhakuttam- Vetturoad, Kundamankadavu, Peroorkada-Vazhayila and Maruthoor. Cases would be registered and vehicles seized if people were found to travel unnecessarily. While legal action was initiated against 207 people for violating lockdown, 111 vehicles were seized on the first day. However, those requiring medical attention will not face obstructions, provided they displayed the name of the hospital they were headed to on the windshields, Ms. Gopinath said. Replicating the triple lockdowns observed in Kasaragod and Ponnani, the district administration has planned to deploy volunteers to deliver essential commodities at doorsteps, and provided phone numbers too. However, the facility is yet to become operational. The State Secretariat, the seat of power in Kerala, remained completely shut for the first time in recent history. Government offices in the city have also been closed for a week. All examinations scheduled to be held this week have been postponed.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Cosmic forms||The Lord’s cosmic manifestations are as ineffable as His Infinite nature and hence in the puranas and elsewhere, metaphorical descriptions are used in an attempt to fuse the subtle and the tangible, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. For instance, when Maitreya describes the Lord’s appearance in Parkadal, or His Varaha, Kurma or Narasimha avatars in the Bhagavata Purana, the shifts from the literal to the figurative level are noticeable. In the hymn to the Lord addressed by Brahma, the Lord is visualised as a mighty spreading Tree. He manifests as the three main stems, Brahma, Vishnu and Maheswara who are entrusted with the activities of Srishti, Stiti and Laya. The symbolism to the three gunas, satva, rajas and tamas is also striking. The same symbolic effect is also present in the spectacle of the Lord’s Vishwaroopa that is presented in great detail in the Bhagavad Gita. Here, many impossibilities strike the rational mind as for instance, the vision of Duryodhana and others coming in great speed and falling in the Lord’s mouth and getting their heads bitten off to be split like mustard seeds. In a way it also is prophetic about the outcome of the war with victory for the Pandavas and the mass destruction of Duryodhana and others. But the transcendental form of the Lord affirms that He is the support of the entire creation over which He superimposes His Maya. This lends the dreamlike quality to the external world. Brahma says that whatever he is able to grasp at the moment is owing to His grace, for all created beings share this common deficiency, the inability to grasp the Eternal Truth that nothing really exists except the Supreme Brahman. The entire creation is a Leela for the Supreme Brahman.
07 July 2020||Chandigarh,||Dera chief, 3 others booked for sacrilege||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and three others were named in a case relating to theft of the holy book Guru Granth Sahib, the police said on Monday. He was named two days after the arrest of seven Sirsa dera followers by a Punjab police Special Investigation Team probing the 2015 desecration of religious texts. They were held from Faridkot. Five of them were remanded in two-day police custody while two were let off when their counsels claimed they had already secured bail. Later, the two joined the investigation, said the police. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Jalandhar Range) Ranbir Singh Khatra said the three others booked along with Ram Rahim are the dera’s national committee members.
07 July 2020||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||Bengal allows shooting of reality shows||The West Bengal government on Monday gave more relaxations for shootings of film and TV reality shows. “Reality shows cannot have live audiences. But they can shoot with 40 people, which is similar to relaxations for TV serials,” Ms. Banerjee said after a meeting with representatives of cine-tele industries at the State Secretariat. Shooting for television soaps started in the State on June 11. “All over India, shooting for TV channels has started, but here work has started with 35 people. They told me that not a single person involved in shooting has been infected with COVID-19,” she said. The artistes, who were from various associations, also sought relaxation on the cap on 35 people to which she agreed.
07 July 2020||Kochi,||HC notice on expatriates’ plight||The Kerala High Court has issued notices to the State and Central authorities on a writ petition seeking to establish a transitional justice mechanism for documenting and filing the claims and grievances of Indian migrant workers who were repatriated from foreign countries. The public interest litigation was filed by Lawyers Beyond Borders, a network of legal experts advocating the rights of migrant workers. The petitioner contended that the mechanism and documenting the claims was necessary for migrant workers to fight for legal remedies. Such a mechanism was needed to address the issues of reduced or non-payment of wages, and work place discrimination, the petitioner submitted.
07 July 2020||Srinagar,||Roll back media policy: J&K scribes||Reporters and editors associated with the J&K Media Association and the J&K Media Guild held a protest in Srinagar on Monday against the J&K Media Policy-2020 and demanded its roll back. “The new media policy, unfortunately and brazenly, underlines that every report is to be vetted by the police first. This is nothing but an attempt at censorship. The journalist fraternity in Kashmir has lost so many lives in the past 30 years of conflict to uphold journalistic values. The policy is unfair and should be revoked,” Rashid Rahi, Chief Editor of CNS Kashmir, a wire service, told The Hindu . Mr. Rahi said it was ironic that on the one hand the BJP government claimed revocation of Article 370 had ended two constitution systems in India but, on the other, brought in a separate media policy for J&K. “This smacks of duplicity,” he added. The policy was introduced in May this year.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Accused had links with Pak. mission: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which filed its chargesheet on Monday against former J&K police officer Davinder Singh, said: “The investigation has revealed that the accused were part of a deep-rooted conspiracy hatched by the Pakistan-based terrorist organization Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Pakistani State Agencies to commit violent acts and to wage war against the Union of India.” “Pakistan based leadership of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen along with Pakistani establishment is extending support to the cadre and commanders of Hizbul based in Jammu and Kashmir,” the NIA chargesheet said.  The agency said officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi were in constant touch with accused Irfan Shafi who was provided with funds to organise seminars in J&K to mobilise the masses against government of India. “Irfan Shafi Mir also used to receive instructions and money from Pakistan High Commission and also facilitated the visa applications for number of Kashmiris for their visit to Pakistan,” the NIA said in the chargesheet.
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Atchan bail plea: HC ruling tomorrow||The High Court (HC) will be giving its judgement on former Minister K. Atchannaidu’s bail plea on July 8 (Wednesday). The court finished hearing the arguments on Monday and reserved its verdict for the above date.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Congress denies contacting LJP||As speculation is on that the Congress has approached the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) ahead of the Bihar Assembly election, the party’s State in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil said it had not done so. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Gohil said, “The NDA has a history of divorces close to the elections. Everyone knows that the BJP falls at the feet of their allies when they need them and when they don’t, they can even slit their throats open. Look at what happened to the PDP or Shiv Sena.” He said the Mahagathbandhan, an alliance between the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress, the Hindustan Awam Morcha, the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party and the Vikassheel Insaan Party was intact. The LJP is maintaining a studied silence. After the sharp criticism of the Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s administration by both LJP president Chirag Paswan and his father Ramvilas Paswan, it finds itself cornered.
07 July 2020||Ahmedabad,||Ahmedabad SI arrested for taking bribe||A sub-inspector of Ahmedabad was arrested for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs. 35 lakh and accepting a bribe of Rs. 20 lakh from a rape accused. Shweta Jadeja, who was the in-charge of Mahila (women) Police Station in Ahmedabad-West, had allegedly demanded Rs. 35 lakh from the brother of rape accused Kenal Shah. She allegedly demanded the sum for not booking Shah under provisions of the Gujarat Prevention of Anti-social Activities Act.
07 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. hospital staff offers fake reports||After an employee of a private hospital in Meerut was found promising a negative COVID-19 test report from the district hospital in a video clip, the district authorities have initiated an investigation against the hospital and its licence has been revoked. In the video clip, the employee could be seen accepting Rs. 2,000 in cash from a group of people in lieu of the negative report from the district hospital that would be valid for a week. The people could be heard promising to pay Rs. 500 more after the report arrived. A first information report has been registered against Shah Alam, manager of the New Meerut Hospital, under Section 420 of the IPC.
07 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||75% of private jobs for locals in Haryana||The Haryana Cabinet on Monday approved a proposal for drafting the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, to provide 75% reservation to residents of the State in jobs in the private sector. The draft will earmark new jobs with a salary of less than Rs. 50,000 per month to local candidates in privately managed companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms etc. which employ more than 10 persons, said a statement. Employers will have the option to recruit 10% local candidates from one district. Exemption clause will also be provided if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry, it said.
07 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||5 more deaths in Punjab||Punjab on Monday recorded 208 fresh COVID-19 cases and reported five deaths, taking the total fatalities to 169, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 6,491. Those who died were from Ludhiana, Sangrur and Muktsar districts. The major chunk of new cases, 84 and 25, were reported from Jalandhar and Ludhiana districts, respectively. The Health department said active cases were 1,828 and 4,494 patients had so far been cured. After Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ruled out dilution of the 14-day home quarantine norm, the process of e-registration for all travellers to the State has been made mandatory from Monday midnight.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC imposes fine of Rs. 100 on lawyer||A Supreme Court Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra on Monday imposed a fine of Rs. 100 on lawyer Reepak Kansal for accusing its Registry of being biased in favour of big law firms and influential lawyers while listing cases before virtual courts functioning during the lockdown.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Disengagement positive, says Congress||The Congress on Monday described the reports of ‘disengagement and withdrawal’ of Chinese troops from the Galwan Valley as a positive development, and asserted that restoration of status quo was crucial to rebuild trust. “Reports of Chinese troops withdrawal from Galwan Valley is a positive development. Disengagement and de-escalation on Line of Actual Control is a priority. India must insist for pull back in Pangong Tso. There is need for eternal vigil,” tweeted senior Congress leader Anand Sharma. “China needs to realise that stability and peace at borders and restoration of status quo is a must to rebuild trust. Proud of our Army for standing firm in nation’s defence,” he added. The party continued to attack the Modi government and the BJP over their response to China. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked why the Prime Minister had not wished the Tibetan spiritual leader.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Intention was not to ban online classes fully’||The State government on Monday clarified to the High Court of Karnataka that banning online classes completely was not its intention but it was only an interim measure till it decided in what manner online classes will have to be allowed keeping in mind “health” of students. Interestingly, though the government had earlier claimed that it had considered an opinion from NIMHANS before issuing the June 15 order of banning online classes, a letter from a senior professor of NIMHANS, submitted before the court on Monday by the government, disclosed that he was in favour of online classes but had suggested that teaching should not exceed 90 minutes per day for children in the age group of 3 to 6. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy, which heard the arguments on the PIL petitions filed by the parents and educational institutions challenging the ban and the restrictions, said it would pronounce the verdict on July 7. Earlier, State Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi said the orders banning and imposing restrictions would be treated as “Executive Orders” of the State issued under Article 162 of the Constitution, while countering the petitioners’ argument that the government, under the Karnataka Education Act, had no power to issue such orders. The government’s order on online classes is not an interference in education but exercise of power to impose restrictions on all types of schools, including SCSE, CBSE and International Baccalaureate schools, in the interest of “protecting the health” of students, the A-G argued, while contending that the ban imposed was only an interim measure as government did not want to take a hurried decision. The advocates for the petitioners have pointed out that while letter from NIMHANS discloses that it was limited to suggested that children in pre-primary schools cannot be given online education more than 90 minutes a day, the government did not even allow this suggestion but restricted schools to have 30 minutes online interaction with parents of such children once a week.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Only 14-day home quarantine for those from other States||Faced with a sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, the Karnataka government has done away with the system of mandatory institutional quarantine for those coming from high-risk States such as Maharashtra. It has now made only a 14-day home quarantine mandatory for all those coming to Karnataka from elsewhere. The government issued the revised guidelines on Monday. These guidelines also permit re-opening of more activities in a calibrated manner, in areas outside the containment zones, and allow extension of lockdown in containment zones till July 31. The fresh guidelines also permit unrestricted inter-State movement of persons and goods adhering to the standard operating procedures issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, and Revenue. In the order, N. Manjunatha Prasad, Principal Secretary (Revenue), said that persons coming from other States should be placed in home quarantine for 14 days.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Citizens’ participation missing link in fight against COVID-19’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan’s decision to launch a public welfare initiative, curiously titled ‘Naame Theervu’ (We are the solution) on June 4 to tackle COVID-19, has raised many eyebrows. Critics alleged that he was letting the State government off the hook and, instead, putting the onus on the people. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Haasan disagreed with the allegation and said that “citizens’ participation was the missing link” in Tamil Nadu’s fight against COVID-19. “It is not that volunteers could do what the State government can...but it was the missing link. From the Kerala experience, we have realised that whatever amount of success they had is due to citizens’ participation. They had prior experience, not with a pandemic, but with an epidemic. Our healthcare system is superior to even Kerala’s but in spite of that we are behind – this is because of lack of transparency and lack of engagement with the people by the State government. People got mixed signals from the government,” said Mr. Haasan. He underlined that “citizen participation has been internationally successful” in controlling the spread of COVID-19. “Cooperation of the people is better than seeking their obedience. There is no use simply criticising the government. The State government’s decision to keep Koyembedu market and Tasmac shops open was thoughtless. It is important to be transparent, tell people the numbers and what to do,” he said. ‘We need transparency’ On whether ‘Naame Theervu’  is his response to feeling “hopeless” about the State government’s efforts, he said, “Now, we are realising how the State government is functioning. We need clear plans and transparency but the onus is going to fall on the people. Instead of getting angry and negative, this is a pro-active plan undertaken ‘for the people and by the people’. This is about hope — we can and must overcome this.” Mr. Haasan added that the experience of coordinating this welfare initiative had shown that people were also on the look out for psychological help. “We get people requesting all kinds of financial help — the volunteer participation can only do so much and the State government has to step in. After the Tasmac shops reopened, there seems to have been an increase in domestic violence. These were shocking but new learning experiences,” he said. He identified agricultural and labour sectors as the key areas that the State government should focus on to kickstart the economy. ‘Doles not enough’ “We have already released a document — Re-imagining Tamil Nadu — which has a table of contents. Finance those sectors and help them instead of striving for ‘optics of the helping hand’,” he said, adding, “Those who had come from outside the State wouldn’t be so keen to come back to metropolises. Doles alone are not enough — governments shouldn’t just think of this as an opportunity to give away freebees,” he said. Asked about his assessment of the Rs. 20 lakh crore COVID-19 relief package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Haasan said, “I like the numbers — but the numbers alone don’t matter. Like Mahatma Gandhi said, any decision — even the Constitution — must benefit the poorest Indian. Otherwise, it is not a great system.” He also accused the Centre and State government of “trying to stay in power” instead of “serving the people”.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 3,827 fresh cases; Chennai’s tally tops 70,000||After recording 4,000-plus cases a day for four consecutive days, Tamil Nadu reported 3,827 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday. Though the State saw a marginal dip in the number of new infections, the rise in COVID-19 cases continued in many districts, with all 37 districts reporting new cases. With this, the State’s tally increased to 1,14,978*, of which 46,833 were active cases. The number of new infections stayed below 2,000 for the third consecutive day in Chennai. The city added 1,747 cases, taking its tally past 70,000. As of Monday, 24,052 persons were under treatment in the city. Of the 3,793 persons discharged from hospitals across the State on Monday, 2,573 were from Chennai. Till now, a total of 66,571 persons were discharged in the State. The city accounted for 30 of the 61 deaths (46 in government and 15 in private hospitals) reported across the State, from July 2 to 6. The fatalities included a 14-year-old girl from Madurai. Cases in districts Chennai accounted for 45% of the fresh cases, while 10 other districts accounted for a majority of the remaining cases — Madurai (245), Chengalpattu (213), Kancheepuram (182), Tiruvallur (175), Theni (119), Thoothukudi (109), Tirunelveli (84), Virudhunagar (86), Kanyakumari (78) and Ramanathapuram (69). Forty-four returnees also tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. An official from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said that they were stepping up surveillance measures and screening in districts recording a surge in cases. All persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 were being tested as per protocols, he said. Of the 61 persons who succumbed to the infection, 53 had co-morbidities. A 14-year-old girl from Madurai, who had anaemia and Plummer Vinson Syndrome, tested positive for COVID-19 on June 28 and was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on June 30. She died on July 4 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, severe anaemia and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 28-year-old man, who had diabetes and had undergone renal transplant, was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. He died on July 4 due to poorly controlled diabetes, high anion gap metabolic acidosis, aspiration pneumonitis, sepsis, acute kidney injury, septic shock and COVID-19. A 32-year-old man with obesity died at the Tiruvannamalai Medical College Hospital on July 4 due to viral pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 38-year-old man, who had no co-morbidities, had tested positive for COVID-19 on June 27. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on July 1 and died on July 5 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 91-year-old man, who had diabetes and chronic kidney disease, died in a private hospital on July 5 due to cardiopulmonary arrest. A 90-year-old man died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, on July 4, due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, acute respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 34,782 samples were tested during the last 24 hours in the State. With this, a total of 13,76,497 samples have been tested in the State. So far, a total of 13,16,937 individuals have been tested.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
07 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||As complete lockdown is lifted, normalcy returns to city||The lives of city dwellers and those in its adjoining districts slowly got back on track after the complete lockdown restrictions were relaxed on Monday. As police permitted free movement within city limits, a large number of two-wheelers, autorickshaws, call taxis and other private vehicles took to the roads, including the arterial Anna Salai, Kamarajar Road and E.V.R. Salai. Iron barricades, which had been erected during the lockdown to deter free movement, were removed. Flyovers, including Anna flyover, Alwarpet flyover, the grade separator in Guindy and the Padi flyover, were opened for traffic. At main junctions, traffic police were busy releasing vehicles seized during the lockdown as many motorists queued up before police outposts. Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, N. Kannan said, “We had made prior arrangements to ensure smooth flow of traffic from the morning on the roads.” An early start South Chennai roads were abuzz with traffic since the early hours of Monday as soon as the complete lockdown was lifted. All vehicles, except public transport, were seen plying on Velachery Main Road and Taramani Road. The southern arm of the Inner Ring Road Extension, linking Velachery Main Road with GST road, which had remained devoid of activity during the complete lockdown, became busy as morning walkers thronged the road. Most shops, textile and jewellery showrooms were open since morning in T. Nagar, the city’s main commercial hub. People also flocked to Ritchie Street, the main electronics hub, as police regulated them and their vehicles at designated entry points. Constant vigil A senior police officer said, “Our personnel are positioned at vantage points in any busy commercial area and are vigilant. Using a public address system, personnel are frequently appealing to the public to maintain physical distancing.” Meat and Poultry shops which resumed business after 12 days witnessed roaring sales even as customers adhered to social distancing norms. Online meat shops said there was a huge demand for chicken, mutton and fish. Sushil Kanugolu, Managing Director and CEO of Fipola Retail India, said, “We did over 10,000 orders which is higher than the orders that we normally get on Sunday. We had to close our online slots early due to a high volume of orders. We had good walk-ins as well across all our stores in the city.” Back in business Salons and Spas across were completely booked for the entire day. While smaller salons had people waiting in queues to get a haircut, the larger ones serviced customers who had made appointments in advance. “We had good walk-ins. If proper safety measures and hygiene protocols are followed, brands will get their business back,” said Sravan Raghunathan, owner of Spa Senza, and added, “This is an opportunity for brands to reinvent themselves.” Neighbourhood shops, vegetable vending outlets, hotels and restaurants opened their shutters as well. P. Pandiarajan, secretary, Ashok Nagar Traders’ Welfare Association, said though all shops were open on Monday, there was not much crowd. Most reported only 50% of the usual customers. “We are managing with 50% of our employees, since the government has allowed only a minimal workforce,” he added. Many people heaved a sigh of relief as service personnel for air conditioners, reverse osmosis units and gas stoves finally became accessible. S. Saravanan, proprietor, Smart Water Solutions, Teynampet, said his men attended over 15 calls on Monday, in contrast to their usual four to five calls a day. “We have been getting calls even after the lockdown came into force. We could only send men by foot since two-wheelers were not allowed. In one case, we got a call from a home with a COVID-19 case but we told the man not to enter the place,” he added.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 hospital and care centre ready for operation in Guindy||A full-fledged COVID-19 hospital and a care centre are all set to function from a single campus in Guindy. A building of the National Institute of Ageing, located on the premises of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine, has been set up as a 500-bed COVID-19 hospital for patients, while its hostel will function as a COVID-19 Care Centre, accommodating up to 250 patients. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the facility was developed two weeks. “This exclusive COVID-19 facility can cater to patients with mild, moderate and severe cases. The hospital has been planned in such a way that it has wards, including for single and double accommodation and even for four of a family depending on availability. We have developed a software for our internal use to know the bed availability for better coordination,” said V. Anand Kumar, nodal officer of the COVID-19 facility in Guindy. Designed for geriatric care, the National Institute of Ageing was well-ventilated, he said, adding, “We have developed this facility in two weeks, and the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) has readied the CT scan facility within this period. We have a separate oxygen tank supply and have increased the number of beds with oxygen lines from 100 to 300.” Apart from 25 ventilators, high-flow nasal cannulas, mobile and static X-ray machines and ultrasound machines have been readied. An intensive care unit with 70 beds has also been prepared. “The semi-basement triage area has electric cots that were purchased through TNMSC,” Dr. Anand Kumar said. “We have an adequate number of computers and cameras for patients to stay in touch with their families and also interact with psychiatrists through video conferencing,” he said. Recreational facilities A hall for yoga that can accommodate 50 patients at a time has also been set up, as well as a library and movie hall. Dr. Anand Kumar said a dietician would work in collaboration with the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy with regard to the food. A wall-mounted air filter costing Rs. 1 lakh had been installed at the ICU. “This HEPA filter, based on Japanese technology, releases negative ions that do away with viruses and bacteria in the air. This is the first time we have installed such an air filter in a government hospital in the State,” he said.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Power charges calculated in line with Electricity Supply Code, says Tangedco||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) on Monday asserted before the Madras High Court that it had calculated the power charges for the lockdown period — when meter readings couldn’t be noted down — strictly in accordance with the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code (TNESC) of 2004, and that there was no arbitrariness in the process. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha were told by Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian that some domestic consumers were complaining about the charges without understanding that their consumption pattern had changed during the lockdown, when they were staying at home for 18 to 20 hours a day. The submissions were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by M.L. Ravi of the Desiya Makkal Sakthi Katchi. His counsel Kabilan Manoharan accused Tangedco of having followed an “unjust and arbitrary” method of calculating power consumption charges during the lockdown. Refuting the allegation, the AAG told the court that Rule 10 of TNESC provides for the methodology to be followed when meters are not accessible for taking readings. Tangedco had followed that rule in letter and in spirit during the lockdown period, he said. He filed a counter-affidavit on behalf of Tangedco, which said: “The allegation of extraction [of money] by Tangedco is untrue. There is no violation of the approved tariff rates…As such, the allegation of arbitrary exercise of power is unacceptable.” Mr. Pandian said domestic consumers from poorer sections of society, who consume less than 100 units bi-monthly, had nothing to worry as the State government will subsidise the entire charges for them. The litigant’s grievance was that only those who consume between 200 and 500 units bi-monthly would be affected. But such a claim was untenable as Tangedco had followed the rules scrupulously, he added. The judges adjourned the case to Wednesday.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||S. M. Chandramohan, senior surgical gastroenterologist, no more||S.M. Chandramohan, renowned senior surgical gastroenterologist, passed away on Monday morning after he suffered a heart attack. He was 63 years old. Dr. Chandramohan served until his retirement with the government in the department of Surgical Gastrenterology, going on to retire as head of the Institute of Surgical Gastroenterology that he founded. Post-retirement, he was Director, International student programme at Sri Ramachandra Medical college. Dr. Chandramohan was reputed as a surgeon par excellence, but he was equally renowned for his gentleness and kindness, and for going out of his way to help the poor. Doctors save lives but he went out of the way to help the poorest of the poor and facilitate a recovery for them. Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan said, "I am deeply saddened by his death. He was an extremely committed and highly knowledgeable and skilful professor. He was also extremely active in social service and conducted regular awareness programmes." For over two decades Dr. Chandramohan had been treating people who consumed acid either by accident or design. Often, these people had to undergo multiple surgeries leaving them with a compromised gastric system. Hundreds of such survivors are now living a normal life and have been volunteering with him to help rehabilitate other survivors of acid ingestion. Joyce consumed acid in a fit of depression in 2006, and the acid burned through her foodpipe. She came to the Government Royapettah Hospital where Dr. Chandramohan conducted a series of surgeries to enable her lead a normal life. "I am alive because of him. He took care of me so well, I am distraught!" she sobs. School topper Born in a family of modest means, Dr. Chandramohan was a topper in school and college. He graduated from Thanjavur Medical College and served in a rural Primary Health Centre before doing MCh in surgical gasteroenterology under the late N Rangabashyam in MMC. Later, he founded the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology at the Institute of Non Communicable Diseases at the Government Royapettah Hospital and became a professor at Government Kilpauk Medical College in 2000. He had a special interest in managing gastric, oesophageal cancers and GE junction tumours. Founded EsoIndia He described innovative surgical techniques in the management of complex pharyngo oesophago gastric strictures due to corrosives are being followed globally. He founded EsoIndia, a non-profit organisation that not only helps young surgeons, medical professionals in research but also helps them connect with society. R.B. U. Shyam Kumar, also a cancer survivor, has been associated with him since 2007, conducting awareness programmes and marathons for cancer survivors. "He was a friend. More than anything it was his human touch and his kindness that impressed me." If his surgical acumen has drawn admiration from his colleagues who looked up to him for advice, and juniors, he was a great inspiration for students too. J. Amalorpavanathan, vascular surgeon, and a friend of Dr. Chandramohan and his family for 30 years, "Academically, he was sterling in conducting medical research, publishing scientific papers and training students. He chose the oesophagus - a very difficult field because of the very structure of the food pipe, and failures were high. But he told me that it is precisely because no one else took it up that he had to. He went on to become so successful in the field, and saved countless lives. He proved himself to be the best in the world, in his chosen field." Even patients were touched by his excellent bedside manner, and at a personal level by his unassuming, affable nature. Dr. Chandramohan has won several accolades in his long and illustrious career, both at the national and international level, and he served as the secretary of the Indian Association of Surgical Gastroenterology (IASG) and is a member of the International Gastric Cancer Association (IGCA) International Society for Diseases of Esophagus (ISDE). He is survived by his wife Rema Chandramohan who is the Director in-charge of the Institute of Child Health, Chennai, and two daughters who are both doctors. DMK leader M.K. Stalin said he was shocked by the death of Dr. Chandramohan. “I express my condolences to his family, friends and medical fraternity,” he tweeted.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Infection curve flattening, says Health Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the COVID-19 curve is “flattening” in Chennai. He urged people to continue to adhere to safety norms, including wearing masks, although lockdown restrictions had been relaxed in the city. “Due to measures taken by the government, the curve is not peaking but flattening in the city. There is a chance for us to reach a good stage,” he told reporters after a meeting with 43 senior doctors at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Monday. ‘No reason to fear’ Asked about the rising number of deaths in Chennai, he said, “There are deaths caused by COVID-19 and deaths due to comorbidities. There is no need to fear [the virus]. At the same time, it is important to follow the norms laid down by the government.”  With an addition of 20 beds for COVID-19, the RGGGH now has 1,000 beds. “We will be adding 1,000 more beds at RGGGH. So, the hospital will have 2,000 beds for moderate and severe COVID-19 patients. There are 700 in-patients and none of them are on ventilator support. The hospital has saved many persons with comorbidities, who were referred at the last minute,” he said. Work was under way to install oxygen pipelines in Tower 3 while installation of a 20 kl oxygen tank was in progress. “Till now, RGGGH’s Department of Microbiology has tested 70,000 samples, while X-rays were taken for 15,000 COVID-19 patients and CT scan for 5,000 patients,” he added. Colour-coded system The hospital had introduced a colour-coded system with red tags for COVID-19 patients and blue tags for others. A battery-operated car with an oxygen cylinder had been deployed to transport patients. The Minister said permission had been granted for trial of Indian system of medicine — ayurveda — at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and yoga, naturopathy and Siddha at the upcoming COVID-19 facility at the National Institute of Ageing, Guindy.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jail officials accused of delaying treatment to Jayaraj, Benicks||Despite the Kovilpatti sub-jail records showing that trader Jayaraj, 58, and his son Benicks, 31, had bleeding injuries on their gluteal region when produced by the Sattankulam police for judicial custody on June 20 afternoon, there was a significant delay of two days in treating them. A doctor examined them only on June 22 and Benicks died the same night, while his father died the next morning at the Kovilpatti Government Hospital. Human rights activists have questioned why the prison officials despite bringing on record bleeding injuries did not take them to the GH on June 20. The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) and People’s Watch-Tamil Nadu accused jail authorities of negligence and dereliction of duty. However, a prison official contended that there was not much for jail officials to do after a government doctor and judicial magistrate found the accused persons “fit for remand”. Holding the delay in providing treatment as a serious abdication of responsibility, PUCL national general secretary V. Suresh, said, “They were duty-bound to take them to the hospital immediately irrespective of the decision of the doctor or magistrate who might have found them fit for remand. The officials should have acted on what was obvious and visible than merely going by records.” According to him, the Jailor as custodian of the prisoner was fully responsible for their safety. “There were blood stains in the vehicle in which they were taken from the police station to Kovilpatti...they could have probably survived had they been taken to the hospital in time,” he said. Henri Tiphagne of People’s Watch endorsed it. “There is information that a doctor was called in by the jail officials on June 21. But we have to check if it is true. I strongly suspect that the victims had serious internal injuries. A histopathology analysis of the samples taken during post-mortem will provide the correct details on the nature and intensity of injuries. Unfortunately, in an era of Right to Information and Supreme Court rulings, the family is yet to get a copy of the interim report of the post-mortem,” he said. Conscious decision A prison official also denied foul play in remanding Jayaraj and Benicks in Kovilpatti sub-jail, located over 100km away from Sattankulam. He said remand prisoners were lodged in sub-jails before being taken to central prisons as part of the precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Since the Perurani sub-jail, nearer to Sattankulam was fast filling up, a decision was taken to remand them in Kovilpatti sub-jail to avoid congestion, he said. Asked why the two were not taken to hospital despite injuries, the official, contended that a government doctor and a judicial magistrate had seen them before the remand for judicial custody. “Besides the police, two independent authorities certified on record that they were fit for remand. Since a doctor already cleared them, the jail officials would have thought that there is no need to refer them to the GH again,” the official said. He added that a doctor visited the sub-jail on June 22 and prescribed some tests to be conducted on both the next day. However, Benicks developed complications the same evening and had to be rushed to the hospital in an autorickshaw. Later his father also complained of uneasiness and shifted to the hospital where they died, he said. Crime Branch CID officials could not be contacted for their response.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu bucks national trend in rice off-take||Tamil Nadu has bucked the national trend when it comes to rice off-take from the Central pool. Unlike many other States, which had doubled their drawal under various schemes of the Central government, including COVID-19 relief schemes, during April-June 2020 when compared to the corresponding period last year, Tamil Nadu had seen only a marginal increase in rice off-take. Tamil Nadu had lifted 13.08 lakh tonnes of rice during April-June 2019, and its offtake was only 13.5 lakh tonnes during the corresponding period this year, in spite of the State having availed itself of the special schemes announced by the Centre to mitigate the hardship faced by the people due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Andhra Pradesh, a major rice-producing State in the south, lifted one-and-a-half times the quantity of rice it had drawn during the three-month period last year. This year’s off-take included the quantities of rice drawn by T.N. under three special schemes – 5.36 lakh tonnes under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana, and 36,000 tonnes and 1.98 lakh tonnes under schemes for migrant workers and non- priority household (NPHH) cardholders, respectively. Different explanations have been given by officials of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC). As far as the Central agency is concerned, Tamil Nadu’s policy of having a universal public distribution system is a major reason for its current position. As the State does not make any distinction between priority household and NPHH cardholders, if both fall under the category of rice-drawing cardholders, an enormous quantity of rice will be required. This makes the State keep on drawing its usual allocation of rice from the Central pool as early as possible. The FCI also allows States to draw their requirement of rice or wheat up to six months in advance. If and when T.N. exhausts its share of rice in a given year, it buys the commodity from FCI under the Open Market Sales Scheme, or from other States. A TNCSC official said the State’s requirements only determined the pattern of offtake. In the three-month period, the maximum quantity of rice was drawn from the Central agency, apart from procurement from farmers in T.N. In the end, Tamil Nadu’s position should be judged by the way in which it makes use of the rice drawn. In April-June, around 17 lakh tonnes of rice were provided to PDS beneficiaries, the official added.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC must submit data on deaths by July 15||The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has directed the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to send comprehensive data on deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic by July 15. The GCC has so far not officially released any comprehensive data on the total number of deaths during the period from February to June. Stressing the need for “consistency of data on COVID-19 mortality”, the Centre has asked the GCC to compile correct data on all deaths from February to June and also [other deaths] during the corresponding period last year, said official sources. Currently, the GCC and other urban local bodies in the country have been unable to achieve consistency in data on COVID-19 mortality, owing to the absence of a reliable single source of information.  Officials said that reporting of COVID-19 mortality remained a challenge because of the absence of comprehensive data on “residents who died at home” and “patients who were brought dead to hospitals”. Data on residents who died after testing positive for COVID-19 has alo not been properly included in the COVID-19 mortality data. Currently, the GCC compiles most of its data on COVID-19 deaths from the Directorate of Medical Services and the Directorate of Medical Education, which source the numbers from government and private hospitals. Similar discrepancies are likely in other cities too, with officials claiming that the error in COVID-19 mortality is expected to range from 5% to 20% in many cities in the country. While the GCC has now started compiling data from multiple sources, a doctor said that gathering information from more than one source was “leading to double entries”.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four labs temporarily debarred from performing COVID-19 tests||Four laboratories in Coimbatore have been temporarily debarred from performing RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests for COVID-19 following a ‘rapid’ increase in the number of tests performed by them in a short span of time. According to an order issued to this effect by Ajay Yadav, Project Director, Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project (TNHSP), a committee has been formed on the instructions of the Principal Secretary of the Health and Family Welfare project for further inquiry. The four labs - Orbito Asia laboratory, Bioline Laboratory, Microbiology Laboratory, and Krishna Laboratory - came under focus during scrutiny of United India Insurance Company’s (UIIC) reports on payments made to private labs for COVID-19 tests for persons not covered under the Chief Minister’s Health Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). In a letter issued to UIIC in April, the Health and Family Welfare department allowed the company to extend COVID-19 testing coverage similar to CMCHIS in private labs to those referred by public health authorities even if they were not covered under the scheme. UIIC later informed TNHSP that it had made payments for 11,535 tests performed in private labs for non-CMCHIS beneficiaries referred by public health authorities till Jun 15, 2020. Though the company was soon asked to stop this process of releasing payments to labs for non-CMCHIS beneficiaries, it was subsequently decided to allow them for the month of July. They were, however, asked to provide breakup of details on these tests. According to the order, scrutiny of these details showed that the number of samples tested in these four laboratories increased rapidly in a short span of time. They had been asked to stop the tests until the inquiry was complete. The Joint Director of Health Services across the State were also advised to send samples referred by public health authorities to private labs only when government labs were not able to handle them due to increased load.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nano polymer-coated filter for health staff||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) have developed a filter to provide better protection to healthcare workers treating COVID-19 patients. The nylon-based filter uses nano polymer coating on cellulose paper and has been developed using the electro-spinning process. Its coating properties are optimised to efficiently remove sub-micron sized dust particles in the air. The filter media is currently being field tested and once validated through field trials, it will be recommended for bulk manufacturing, the researchers said. The project is being funded by the Defence Research Development Organisation for its application in defence. But the current pandemic has led to it being repositioned in healthcare applications. K. Arul Prakash, Department of Applied Mechanics, said: “The nano polymer-coating, fabricated through electro-spinning, has a fiber diameter of less than a micron, and can be positioned according to need to enhance surface/depth filtration for healthcare workers or public responders.” The project is a collaborative effort with faculty from various departments of IIT-M. The filter media can improve particle filtration efficiency of face masks, respirator devices, air-purification system in operation theatres, aircraft cabins and armoured vehicle engines, among other things.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. plans to withdraw enhanced pension’||The State government has proposed to withdraw its 2018 decision that provided for enhanced pension and family pension for about 1,300 professors and medical officers, who retired from the Health and Family Welfare Department, since it was a “mistake”. The proposal to withdraw the enhanced pension was expected to result in the reduction of between Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 20,000 a month for each of the 1,300 pensioners and also expected to save Rs. 30 crore a year to the State exchequer. It was during a re-examination of a G.O. issued on July 12, 2018, following representations from other applicants seeking similar enhanced pension that the government realised the decision was a mistake on technical grounds. However, the government may not recover the difference amount from the pensioners. Considering various aspects and the estimated recurring expenditure involved, the government recently communicated to each of these pensioners that “it may not be feasible” to sustain the orders issued through the G.O. 236. The enhanced pension/family pension “would be restored to the rates admissible prior to the issue of the G.O.,” it said. However, those who stand to lose the enhanced pension, asked: “How did the government issue a G.O. in 2018, if it says now that it is mistaken. Should the medical officers suffer for the mistake of the State government?” When contacted, a senior official in the government told The Hindu : “The matter is now sub-judice. The G.O. issued in 2018 was a mistake. The government has not taken any decision as yet and we have only sought for responses from the pensioners”. He said though only about 1,300 people are presently getting the enhanced pension, several others are seeking a similar enhanced pension. The financial implications is about Rs. 300 crore a year. “Given the present fiscal situation, the government is not in a position to afford the above financial commitment,” it added.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rules for online classes being prepared: Centre||The Centre on Monday informed the Madras High Court that guidelines were being prepared for the conduct of online classes by schools and colleges. The guidelines would be notified by July 15. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha recorded the submission made by Additional Solicitor General R. Shankaranarayanan and adjourned to July 20 a batch of public interest litigation petitions filed against the conduct of online classes without any regulations. The judges also directed the State government to spell out its stand on the issue, besides filing a report from the Dean of the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology and the Government Ophthalmic Hospital in Egmore, as directed by another Bench. On June 23, a Division Bench comprising Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy had called for a report from the dean on the possible strain that could be caused to the eyes of children due to the prolonged hours spent before computers and mobile phones. Vehement opposition When the cases were taken up on Monday, senior counsel S. Prabakaran and advocates J. Ravindran, Ajay Francis Inigo Loyola and J. Rishikesh, appearing for the PIL petitioners, vehemently opposed the conduct of online classes without any rules and regulations in place. Mr. Loyola insisted that the government should be directed to webcast pre-recorded classes rather than conducting them live. On his part, Mr. Rishikesh said that the State government was yet to make its stand clear on the issue of the conduct of online classes though the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEIT) had filed a counter affidavit in support of the conduct of such classes. Mr. Ravindran said that though the earlier Division Bench had called for a report from the Government Ophthalmic Hospital by June 25, it was yet to be submitted in the court. He also urged the court to stay the conduct of online classes until the next hearing. However, Justice Sundresh refused to pass any interim orders on the batch of cases and decided to await the Centre’s guidelines. In its counter, MEIT had said that extraordinary situations warranted extraordinary solutions and so online education had become a necessity. Ministry’s assurance Stating that it was committed to ensuring that online education was safe for children, the Ministry said that the advancement of technology had provided an alternative mode of learning through virtual classrooms to enable students to continue their studies without any disruption. It also claimed to have put in place a robust administrative framework to regulate video conferencing platforms. The court was further told that the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team had been issuing various advisories from time to time for safe Internet use.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,327 police personnel test positive||Over 1,300 personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city police so far and a constable attached to the Armed Reserve unit succumbed to the disease on Monday. Police Commissioner Mahash Kumar Aggarwal said as many as 1,327 police personnel had tested positive so far in the city police, and 586 had recovered. On Monday, Nagarajan, 32, an Armed Reserve police constable succumbed to COVID-19 in the Government Medical College Hospital at Omandurar Estate. He was a native of Otthakadai, Madurai, and was on deputation at the Vepery police station.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Plus One students must pick 4 core subjects’||The school education department on Monday rolled back its decision to give Plus One students, the option to choose either three or four core subjects from the 2020-21 academic year. In an announcement made last year, the school education department had said that students would have three core subjects and they could opt to study a fourth core subject if they wished to. The education department had released a combination of three core subjects the students could choose from. Several teachers had voiced their concerns regarding this as some of the options available omitted important core subjects. In a government order dated July 6, Principal Secretary Dheeraj Kumar said that the department has taken several representations from parents and teachers into consideration and has reversed its decision, to ensure that students are not put into a disadvantage if their options for higher studies are restricted in the future. With the Class 10 marksheets still under preparation, the admission process for Plus 1 is yet to begin in several schools. As a part of the system in place till the 2019-20 academic year, students across science, commerce and humanities groups in State Board schools have had to study four core subjects in addition to language and english. When the admission process begins later this month, schools have been asked to stick to this system. Stalin welcomes reversal Opposition leader M.K. Stalin on Monday welcomed the state government’s decision to reverse the option given to Plus 1 and Plus II students to choose either three or four core subjects from 2020-21. “It has become the habit of the AIADMK government to make decisions in haste and withdraw them in the wake of protests,” he charged in a Facebook post.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Srinidhi Chidambaram not eligible to benefit from CBDT circular: I-T dept.||The Income Tax department on Monday told the Madras High Court that former Union Minister P. Chidambaram’s daughter-in-law Srinidhi Karti Chidambaram is not eligible to benefit from a circular issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) for non-prosecution of cases in which tax implication was less than Rs. 50 lakh. Justice N. Sathish Kumar was told by M. Sheela and N. Baskaran, Special Public Prosecutors for I-T cases, that the CBDT had issued yet another circular stating that the decision to not prosecute cases with lesser tax implication would not apply to individuals against whom prosecution had already been launched. The submission was made during hearing of individual criminal revision petitions filed by Sivaganga MP Karti Chidambaram and his wife challenging a special court’s refusal to discharge them from prosecution launched in 2018 for alleged non-disclosure of cash receipts in a property transaction in 2015. Senior Counsel P.S. Raman, representing Ms. Srinidhi, told the court that tax implication with respect to his client was around Rs. 21 lakh and hence she was eligible to be relieved from prosecution in view of CBDT’s decision to not prosecute cases with tax implications below Rs. 50 lakh.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court direction to Puducherry government||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Government of Puducherry to respond to a writ petition challenging the appointment of law officers to represent the Union Territory before the High Court without framing any rules for such appointments. Justice V. Parthiban ordered notice returnable by July 24 on the petition filed by Puducherry-based advocate A. Karthik through counsel R. Sreedhar.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Additional rice for cardholders till November’||The State government will continue to provide additional rice — five kg per person — to all rice cardholders in the State until November, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said on Monday. In a statement, the Minister said that the Chief Minister had instructed officials to that effect, which was in line with the recent announcement by the Centre. Since consumers paid for some essential supplies between July 1 and 3 (before the announcement), the sum will be adjusted with ‘toor’ dal, sugar or edible oil in August, he said. The additional rice that the cardholders are entitled to can be received from this month, the Minister added.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will follow safety norms before market reopening’||The State government on Monday informed the Madras High Court that all safety protocols would be followed and necessary disinfection measures would be carried out before reopening the wholesale fruits and vegetables market complex in Koyambedu, Chennai. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha recorded the submission made by State government pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan before disposing of a public interest litigation petition preferred by activist ‘Traffic’ K.R. Ramaswamy for establishment of disinfection tunnels. Stating that the efficacy of the disinfection tunnels was questionable, the SGP told the court that the officials concerned would take all necessary safety protocols into consideration before deciding to reopen the Koyambedu wholesale market.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth hacked to death in Vyasarpadi||The Vyasarpadi police have launched a manhunt to nab the suspects in the murder of a 22-year-old college student on Sunday. The victim, identified as Prasanth, was the son of fish vendors from Vyasarpadi. On Sunday, Prasanth was waylaid and attacked by an unidentified person on Sundaram Powerline Road. He was rushed to the Government Stanley Hospital, where he succumbed.
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rare cyst removed from tongue of infant||Doctors at the Rainbow Children’s Hospital have successfully removed a rare thyroglossal cyst found on the tongue of a six-month-old baby. A statement said the baby was brought to the hospital with a swelling on the tongue that was present since birth. “The swelling occupied the entire mouth, pushing the tongue to the upper palette making it difficult for the baby to swallow,” it said. Medical examination revealed a lymphatic cyst on the tongue and it was resistant to sclerotherapy, a procedure to shrink the size of blood vessels. G. Moorty, consultant, paediatric surgery and urology, said, “We decompressed the cyst and drained the liquid to safely remove the tumour.”
07 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water position in Siruvani Reservoir critical||Water level in the Siruvani Reservoir touched 5.75 feet after the Siruvani catchment received 202 mm rain in the 24 hours that ended 8 a.m. on Monday. The first heavy rain of the 2020 South West Monsoon season saw the water level rise by 3.75 feet to touch 5.75 feet in the Reservoir, whose full reservoir level is 49.5 feet. As of Sunday 8 a.m., water level stood at 2.32 feet, thanks to the 78 mm rainfall the catchment had received in the preceding 24 hours, say sources in the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board. Though the water level rose over the weekend, the situation in Siruvani Reservoir has been one of concern. The water level had almost touched the dead storage level with the first of the four-month monsoon season seeing negligible rain. The poor water level and the consequence of it in Coimbatore city has once again raised question about the Tamil Nadu Government’s efforts to ask the Kerala Government to allow water to touch the full reservoir level. Though the full reservoir level is 49.5 feet, the Kerala Government had not allowed water to reach the level as it had brought down the water storage level by five feet to 44.5 feet following floods across the State a couple of years ago. The loss of five feet water meant that Tamil Nadu lost 15% of its share of water from the Reservoir, assuming that the Tamil Nadu Government through the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board drew around 100 million litres a day. Or, in other words, the loss of water due to reduction in water level equalled 25 days’ water supply to Coimbatore city, the sources point out. Had the Kerala Government allowed water level to touch the full reservoir level, the storage by the end of June 2020 would not have been as critical as it was – just a foot or two above the dead storage level. The source say to prevent the recurrence of such a situation, the Tamil Nadu Government has written to the Kerala Government and indications are that the latter may relent this year. And, if it does, water supply to the city during Summer 2021 will not be a problem, the sources hope.
07 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. asks jewellery showrooms, smithies to close down||The Coimbatore Corporation on Monday ordered the closure of jewellery showrooms in and around Raja Street and Big Bazaar Street and gold smithies in Kembatty Colony after 35 persons working in gold smithies tested positive for COVID-19. A release said the Corporation asked owners of jewellery showrooms and gold smithies on Sullivan Street, Uppara Street, Thomas Street, Edayar Street, Telugu Street, Senthiruamman Street, Marakara Nanjappa Gounder Street, Sundaram Street, Kurumbar Lane, Karuppa Gounder Street, Big Bazaar Street, Raja Street and in Sukhrawarpet and Gandhipark to keep their establishments shut until further orders. Sources in the civic body said 35 of the 130-odd persons from whom it lifted swab samples on July 4 (Saturday) had tested positive. All the 35 worked in gold smithies in and around Kembatty Colony. The sources said the Corporation’s investigation revealed that two of the 35 persons who had tested positive shared a residential compound in Ayyappa Nagar with a person from the Anna Retail Vegetable Market who had tested positive. When the Corporation traced the primary and secondary contacts of the person from the market, it led them to the Ayyappa Nagar compound, from where the Corporation lifted the samples. After the results came on Monday, the Corporation barricaded streets in and around Kembatty Colony to restrict entry into and exit from the affected area. Appeal The Corporation had also appealed to people employed in gold smithies in the vicinity to come forward for testing if they had symptoms such as fever, throat infection or phlegm or report to the nearest urban primary health centre. Collector K. Rajamani visited the affected area to check on the containment measures put in place. Association directive Coimbatore District Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association has asked all the jewellery manufacturing facilities in the Corporation limits to remain closed from Tuesday. “A number of cases were reported from two jewellery factories on Monday. There are challenges, such as maintaining physical distance, at the units. Hence, on instructions of the District Collector, all jewellery making units here will remain closed till further orders. There are about 25,000 units. The jewellery retail outlets will remain open," said B. Muthuvenkatraman, president of the association.
07 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC accused of levying heavy fare for special services||Industries, Information Technology companies, and private firms can hire TNSTC buses to transport their workers and employees to and from the workplace. According to a government order issued last month, the State government allowed the operation of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses for “industries, IT companies or any other private firms at their request” on a contract basis. The State Transport Undertakings (STU) buses were permitted for this “for the next three months” i.e., till August. The hire charges that the private firms had to pay a day for the buses are as follows: for city/town buses and district mofussil buses (non-AC), the fares are Rs. 4,000 for 100 km, Rs. 6,000 for 150 km and Rs. 8,000 for 200 km. For AC buses in both categories, the fares are Rs. 6,000, Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 10,000 for 100 km, 150 km and 200 km respectively. While the ultra deluxe SETC buses are slightly more expensive than the non-AC buses – Rs. 4,500, Rs. 6,750 and Rs. 9,000 – the AC SETC buses have the same rate as that of the AC buses of the first two categories. All these tariff charges are exclusive of taxes, according to the G.O. An official from the TNSTC, Coimbatore Division, said that as the buses for the public were allowed to operate in June, there was no need for operating separate buses for the industries. However, as the State government has suspended all intra-district bus operations till July 15 to curb the spread of COVID-19, the industries and private firms are requesting for the operation of special buses. Operations of these special buses have not been finalised, the official said. Industry sources said TNSTC officials had shared the tariff details and the same have been circulated among the manufacturing units. “This will not be viable for micro units even if the buses are operated for a cluster. Only those who have own vehicles are reporting to work now,” said a small-scale industry owner. “At the SIDCO industrial estate at Kurichi, just one manufacturing unit evinced interest. But, it too found the rates relatively higher,” said a manufacturer at the estate.
07 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||New DIG takes charge||K.S. Narenthiran Nair took charge as the Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Coimbatore range, on Monday. He replaces G. Karthikeyan, who was transferred to the post of Tiruppur city police commissioner. Mr. Nair said efforts would be taken to improve relationship between the police and public in the range that comprises the police limits of Coimbatore rural, Erode, Tiruppur rural and the Nilgiris. Special focus The official stated that special focus would be given for the well-being of the police personnel and their families in the range, while maintaining zero tolerance towards wrongdoings involving police personnel. He said initiatives have been taken so that people with grievances could contact him directly or his office any time. Prompt action would be taken in the case of genuine grievances. Police expect cooperation from the public for smooth policing, he added.
07 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Officials seal gym at Vadavalli||Officials from the Coimbatore North Revenue Division sealed a gymnasium on Marudhamalai Road at Vadavalli on Monday, after it came to light that it’s owner was operating it in violation of the COVID-19 lockdown norms. Gyms are among the establishments that have not yet been permitted by the government to open, as part of measures to prevent the spread of the disease. Revenue Department sources said that when they went to the gym named Lifestyle Fitness Studio on Monday morning, they found more than 10 persons exercising. In the Corporation limits, the flying squads formed to penalise violations slapped a fine of Rs. 100 each on 234 persons for not wearing mask. Owners of 655 commercial establishments paid a total fine of Rs. 56,550 for violating COVID-19 safety guidelines.
07 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life imprisonment for murder||The third additional district court on Monday sentenced a man to life imprisonment for murdering his friend in 2017. Judge C. Sanjai Baba sentenced Sakthivel (34), a resident of Vasuki Street near Thondamuthur, for murdering his friend Giriraj (33) in a brawl, and imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000. Sakthivel and Giriraj used to go for construction and painting works. The murder took place on November 15, 2017, when the two were in an inebriated state. Giriraj allegedly passed derogatory remarks about the family members of Sakthivel. Sakthivel attacked Giriraj with an iron bar and the latter died on the spot. The court had completed hearing in the case before the lockdown. The judgement was reserved for later as courts remained closed for over three months. Sakthivel was produced before the court through video conferencing for the judgment.
07 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Time limit extended to file return of contribution||The Employees State Insurance Corporation has announced that employers are allowed to file the return of contribution up to July 15 for the contribution period of October 2019 to March 2020. The relaxation was provided in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, a release said. For further details, contact the help desk of ESIC Sub Regional Office, Coimbatore at 0422-2362329.
07 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man run over by speeding lorry||A 70-year-old man from Mangarai near Anaikatti was killed in an accident involving his two-wheeler and a lorry on Mangarai – Thadagam road on Monday. The deceased was identified as S. Palanisamy, cashier at a bakery at Thadagam. The accident took place near Mangarai around 6.15 a.m. when Palanisamy was on his way to workplace. The two-wheeler that palanisamay rode was hit by a speeding lorry that was ferrying red earth to a brick kiln, said sources at Thadagam. Thadagam police have booked the lorry driver.
07 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to monthly maintenance works at Karanampettai sub-station, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on July 7 in the following areas: Karanampettai, Paruvai, Sangothipalayam, Perumagoundampalayam, Kadampadi, Aero Nagar and Kangeyampalayam (part).
07 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Death toll rises to 12 in NLCIL blast||The death toll in the boiler blast in Unit V of Thermal Power Station-II in NLC India Ltd (NLCIL), rose to 12 with the deaths of two permanent employees M. Vaithiyanathan and V. Jothi Ramalingam and T. Elango, 49, a worker attached to the Industrial Cooperative Service Society (Indcoserve), at a private hospital in Chennai on Monday. Vaithiyanathan, 45, a foreman and Jothi Ramalingam, 48, a junior engineer were admitted to the hospital along with 14 others including an executive, two supervisors, three non-executive employees and contract workmen following the accident at the unit on Wednesday. The victims were at the site when a boiler exploded, causing burns of various degrees.
07 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||DYFI against FoP||Members of Democratic Youth Federation of India (Dindigul) have opposed the functioning of Friends of Police (FoP) in Tamil Nadu and demanded scrapping of the units in all districts. In a statement, district secretary Balaji and president Vishnuvardhan said after the Sattankulam incident, wherein a trader and his son died after they were allegedly tortured by police, there were reports in social media about the involvement of some FoP members.
07 July 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal Govt. Hospital gets COVID-19 testing lab||The COVID -19 testing laboratory sanctioned for Karaikal by the Puducherry Government will be established at the Government Hospital in the enclave, the district administration has decided. The announcement on start of the facility, a dire need for Karaikal residents, was made by Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy last week after holding a review meeting with officials to take stock of the measures taken to contain the spread of the pandemic. Mr. Narayanasamy said on July 2 that the facility will be established within a fortnight, while acknowledging the difficulty faced by the district administration in carrying out tests. In recent weeks, COVID-19 cases have spread rapidly in the district, which had remained a green zone for months. Now, Karaikal was the most affected when compared to Mahe and Yanam enclaves. As on July 3, the Karaikal district administration had got swab samples of 2,782 persons tested at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. The delay in obtaining the results of the samples has been a hindering factor for the administration in taking quick decisions on isolation of infected people, and on finalising containment zones. For instance, out of the swab samples of 77 persons taken on July 2, two persons had tested positive. But the district administration came to know the results only on July 4. The Karaikal district administration has, so far, identified 45 COVID-19 positive cases. Of the 27 active cases, the process of isolation and treatment at the Government Hospital has been completed for nine patients. Eighteen infected patients are currently undergoing treatment at the government hospital. “The testing laboratory will initially be established at the government hospital. It will be adequate for the population. In case a need arises for a second laboratory arises, starting of another unit in JIPMER will be considered," District Collector Arjun Sharma said. Public welfare entities have been raising the demand for start of testing laboratories in the government hospital as well as JIPMER hospital. Testing laboratories of bio-safety level III were necessary at both places, S. Anandkumar, president of Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption, said. “The samples sent to Tiruvarur may get affected due to road shock, higher temperature, travelling and waiting time, transportation risks, unnecessary repeated handing and associated risks. Even positive cases may turn negative, to the great risk of people at large,” Prof. Anandkumar said. The testing paraphernalia has to be scaled up substantially in the district, he said, emphasising that early testing was vital for better and faster recovery.  In case a need arises for a second laboratory arises, starting of another unit in JIPMER will be considered Arjun Sharma Collector, Karaikal
07 July 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for illegal sand mining||Karur police on Monday arrested 5 persons for illegal mining and transportation of sand from the Cauvery riverbed at Vangal. Acting on a tip off, the police carried out vehicle checks at Kuppuchipalayam, Muniappanur, Melachakkarapalayam and Ellaimedu Pirivu at the early hours. During the drive, four lorries were found to be laden with sand. The carriers did not possess valid documents. Following this, the vehicles were taken to the police station. P. Suresh and N. Kumaresan of Paramathi Velur, K. Siva of Kattuputhur, R. Dharmalingam of Rasipalayam, and V. Ponraj of Natham were remanded in judicial custody. Superintendent of Police R. Pandiarajan said that vigil had been stepped up against illegal sand mining and transportation. Tough action would be taken against those transporting sand without valid documents.
07 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek respite from paying loan dues||Farmers who own tractors have called for a cease and desist order against banks insisting on interest payments against tractor loans in the district. The Tamizhaga Vivasaya Tractor Urimayalargl Nalasangam affiliated to the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam has alleged coercive practices by banks during COVID-19 lockdown forcing farmers to pay up the interest dues against tractor loans. According to the association, farmers were being subjected to abuses by the recovery agents of banks for non-payment of dues. The association has called upon the administration to intervene and direct banks to desist from such practices.
07 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||50 high-flow nasal cannula equipment for Madurai||Madurai will get 50 high-flow nasal cannula equipment, approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to treat COVID-19, said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan here on Monday. Mr. Radhakrishnan was in Madurai to review measures being taken to arrest the surge in COVID-19 positive cases. Along with Revenue Minister R.B. Udayakumar, he inspected the fever clinics, Government Rajaji Hospital, Corporation’s tele-medicine centre and the site where All India Institute of Medical Sciences is to come up in Thoppur. The Health Secretary addressed health workers, conducted a review meeting with doctors and visited patients at a COVID-19 care centre in Melur. He told media persons that the State government had given permission to the GRH to recruit doctors and other healthcare workers on a contract basis in the wake of the surge in COVID-19 positive cases. Increasing bed count and keeping tabs on places where there the spread was high were important, he said. Madurai district had 1,477 tertiary care beds for treating emergencies and severe cases. There were 859 beds in taluk hospitals, and 3,000 more in COVID-19 Care Centres. As many as 475 people were in monitored home quarantine, he said. There were 1,625 streets with less than three cases, 15 streets with three or four cases and 32 with over five cases in the district, he said. A total of 21,148 streets have households that had been contained, he said and 219 had been barricaded, he said. Apart from allopathic treatment, the Health department was attempting to provide wholesome treatment, including yoga and naturopathy, he said. Tamil Nadu continued to have less than 1.5% fatalities. “We are not looking to hide or bury any details of deaths. We have noticed in the South that there are many referrals. The stigma regarding deaths is still high here. In the State, 85% of fatalities are usually because of co-morbidities. We need to look at a targeted means of solving these issues. We are in touch with the National Centre for Disease Control,” he said. The State government was mulling on implementing micro plans in Madurai too, to combat the spread of the disease. “We are testing 10 times the number of positive cases that arrive each day,” he said. To fast-track the AIIMS project, a governing body under Sunil Sharma, joint secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, would be formed by this month-end. The State government was in touch with the Centre and the Japanese International Cooperation Agency to expedite the project.
07 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers body challenges water project||Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam challenged the Rs. 565-crore Sarabanga Lift Irrigation Project, which will see surplus water from Mettur reservoir diverted to the dry lakes in the Sarabanga basin in Salem district, before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday. The petitioner, P.R. Pandian, president of the Sangam, said that the government had passed an order to divert water directly from Mettur dam to develop new ayacuts irrigating 4,238 acres of land in Edappadi, Sankagiri, Omalur and Mettur taluks, which were not covered under Mettur Irrigation Project. The government’s move would affect delta farmers who were already suffering due to lack of adequate water in the Cauvery. Moreover, records on the availability of water in Mettur reservoir in the last few decades would show that there had never been excess water, the petitioner said. He said that the proposed project was vague and would turn the delta region into a desert. The farmers of the region would be deprived of their livelihood. No expert body was constituted to study if the water could be diverted to develop new ayacuts, and also there was no debate in the Assembly to know the views of the members representing the delta region, he said, and sought a stay on the project. Taking up the public interest litigation petition for hearing, a division bench of the high court Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam issued notices to the Central and State governments, and adjourned the case till August 3.
07 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||1,579 tests a day on an average||Since the beginning of the intensified lockdown in Madurai district, the Health department has conducted an average of 1,579 tests to determine COVID-19. According to data obtained from the district administration, between June 25 and July 4, Madurai district began by conducting 1,313 cases and progressively ramped up testing to a little short of 2,000 each day. While the maximum number of tests conducted on a day is 1,985 on June 4, only 813 cases were tested on June 28, a Sunday and complete lockdown day. Based on these figures, the district has averaged a positivity rate of 16.89%. Collector T. G. Vinay said they were working towards achieving the ideal positivity rate of 5% by ensuring targeted testing. During the intensified lockdown that started in the district on June 24, the Collector said the main intention was to ensure that they identified symptoms of COVID-19 and asked patients to get tested at the fever clinics across the district. Any influenza-like illnesses (ILI) cases would immediately be asked to contain themselves, he said. “This way, determining the positive cases became easy. Those with fever, cough, cold and breathlessness only need to inform our health workers. Through this method, we would be able to determine probable positives,” he said. In the following days, tests were bound to rise as more persons with ILI symptoms were being referred to fever clinics for having their samples taken. “Merely increasing the testing will not help determine the disease spread. We must look at potential positive cases through targeted testing and help determine whether or not they have COVID-19,” he said.
07 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP objects to transfer of health official to Chennai||Su. Venkatesan, MO, has impressed upon Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on the need to test at least 3,000 COVID-19 samples a day in Madurai district. In a memorandum, he said around 300 positive cases were being reported in Madurai in the last few days. “Even if each positive patient had four family members and had contact with three outsiders, the number of contacts for these patients would be around 2,100. In this case, testing only 1,500 samples will no way be a match to the given grim situation,” he said. Disputing the claims of the district administration that 1,300 beds were ready for COVID-19 patients in Government Rajaji Hospital, Mr. Venkatesan appealed to the Health Secretary to take efforts to increase the number of beds. The MP said the State government had appointed a District Monitoring Officer and also filled up the post of City Health Officer after repeated representations by him to strengthen the district apparatus to effectively fight against COVID-19 pandemic. ‘He was at the forefront’ However, it was shocking to learn that the State Health Department was trying to transfer a senior health official, who was at the forefront of treating COVID-19 patients in Madurai district, to Chennai, Mr. Venkatesan said. Stating that Madurai district was staring at a big danger due to fast spreading of the infection, he said the Health department should not take such a step that would put Madurai in more distress. The MP also wanted the Health Secretary to increase the number of fever camps conducted every day in the city from 32 to 50.
07 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Finance firms forcing people to repay loans’||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi has urged the district administration to stop non-banking financial companies from threatening people and forcibly collecting money against Reserve Bank of India’s directions on moratorium on repayment of loans. In a memorandum addressed to Collector T.G. Vinay, party spokesperson S. Amuthan said the common man in the district was affected by the COVID-19 lockdown due to lack of economic activities. “When running families itself has become very difficult for the people, how can they repay loans?” Hence, the administration must stop firms from forcing people to repay.
07 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses petition as infructuous||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday dismissed as infructuous a habeas corpus petition filed seeking to rescue four missing Rameswaram fishermen after the court was informed that one was rescued by a group of fishermen and the bodies of the other three had been recovered. The petitioner, Sahaya Denis Reejan of Tamil Nadu Meenavar Urimai Padukappu Iyyakam, had sought a direction to rescue the missing fishermen - Malarvannan, Rajini Baskar, Anand and Sesu. On June 15, the four went missing while fishing in the sea. A group of fishermen rescued Sesu on July 16. However, the rest could not be rescued and their bodies were recovered subsequently. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli dismissed the habeas corpus petition and granted liberty to the respective families to approach the authorities concerned for compensation.
07 July 2020||MADURAI/ THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||245 fresh cases reported in Madurai||Madurai’s tally of COVID-19 positive cases continues to rise, with the district reporting 245 fresh cases on Monday. The number of positive cases is 4,338, and that of active cases is 3,199, the second highest in Tamil Nadu. Twenty-two persons were discharged and seven, including a 14-year-old girl, died. The district’s death toll is 69. A 50-year-old man from Ramanathapuram also died at Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital. Thoothukudi recorded 109 new cases – 108 of them indigenous – and the district now has 401 active cases. Twenty-five of the fresh cases were from Terespuram area, which forced officials to suspend operations of country boats. They also suspended fishing operations of mechanised boats from Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour as several fishermen from Terespuram area have been employed in mechanised boats. Tirunelveli reported 84 cases – all indigenous – which took its tally to 1,114 and the number of active cases to 416. The total number of infections in Kanniyakumari district rose to 638 with the addition of 78 new cases on Monday. There are 373 active cases. Tenkasi recorded 20 new cases. The district’s total case count went up to 468 and the number of active cases to 211. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar reported 86 fresh cases on Monday, which took the tally to 975. The district also saw one death, which pushed the toll to nine. The 76-year-old victim with diabetes mellitus had been admitted to Sivakasi Government Hospital. The number of active cases in the district is 528. Doctor dies Meanwhile, official sources said a doctor at Tiruthangal died at a private hospital in Madurai on Monday. He gave his swab sample at Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital on June 30, and the test turned positive on July 2. Meanwhile, a judicial officer in the district too tested positive, an official said. Theni A total of 119 new cases – 72 women, 39 men and eight children – were reported mainly from Andipatti, Bodinayakkanur, Chinnamanur, Cumbum, Periyakulam and Uthamapalayam in Theni district. Ramanathapuram Sixty-nine fresh cases were reported in Ramanathapuram, which has a tally of 1,454. The district administration said that it had intensified swab tests and the number of cases was likely to go up for at least another one week or 10 days. With 52 more persons testing positive on Monday, Sivaganga’s tally rose to 564. All the fresh cases were indigenous cases. Dindigul Dindigul district recorded 21 new cases from Natham, Kodaikanal, Dindigul, Oddanchatram, Batlagundu and Vadamadurai that took its total count to 725.
07 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi rebuts charge of delaying budget||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has rebutted the charge by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy that she was responsible for delaying the Budget for 2020-21. “It is emphatically stated that there was no delay caused by the office of the L-G in recommending proposals of the UT to the Ministry of Home Affairs,” a statement from Raj Nivas said.
07 July 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Ranees Hospital gets walkie-talkie sets||The Government Ranees Hospital here catering to COVID-19 patients has been provided with walkie-talkie sets by the Pudukottai district police to improve their communication system. Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai, P.Ve. Arun Sakthikumar handed over four walkie talkie sets to the hospital Dean, AL. Meenakshi Sundaram, on Monday based on a request made by the hospital. The equipment has been given on loan basis. An inspector trained the hospital staff on operating the sets. The hospital houses nearly 200 patients in its four floors. Dr. Meenakshi Sundaram said in a press release that the sets could be used for better communication between the patients and healthcare workers.
07 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman found dead at quarantine centre in Salem||A middle-aged woman who was quarantined at a government facility in Salem was found dead at its premises during the early hours of Monday. Officials are investigating. Based on preliminary inquiries, police suspect it to be a case of suicide. According to health officials, the woman, aged about 40 years, was quarantined as she was related to one of the COVID-19 positive patients admitted at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. She was a resident of Moonam Karadu and was brought to the quarantine centre around a week ago. According to officials, the patient was cooperative and did cause any issue at the centre. Sanitary workers who went in for cleaning on Monday morning found her dead. Protest Salem City police have registered a case and are investigating. Villagers gathered in front of the facility and attempted to protest, but the police pacified and dispersed them. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050
07 July 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Officials inspect works at Mettur dam||Senior officials from the Public Works Department inspected the Mettur Dam on Monday and reviewed the maintenance works being carried out on the premises.  The ongoing works include painting of shutters in the 16 sluices of Ellis saddle surplus gates and oiling, greasing of shutter chains. On Monday, the water level in the reservoir stood at 84.77 ft against the full reservoir level of 120 ft and the storage was 46,876 tmcft. The inflow to the dam was 579 cusecs and outflow 15,000 cusecs.
07 July 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||SSI dies in accident||A Special Sub-Inspector working at Ammapet police station died at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Sunday night. According to the police, R.Shaktivel (48) suffered severe injuries in a road accident near Hasthampatti about a week ago. He was taken for treatment to a private hospital in Coimbatore. He died at the hospital on Sunday. Senior police officials condoled his death.
07 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||73-year-old man pedals to Collectorate seeking relief||S. Natesan, 73, of Yenanallur hamlet near Kumbakonam, pedalled his way to the Collectorate on Monday seeking disabled persons identity card and COVID-19 relief given by the government for persons with disability. Natesan, who has a deformity in his leg, left his home at North Street, Yenanallur, at 3 a.m. on Monday. Riding his cycle, he reached the Collectorate at around 11 a.m. He submitted a petition at the Differently Abled Persons Welfare Department (DAPWD) seeking the disability identity card so that he could receive the assistance announced by the State government. Natesan told reporters that he had decided to approach the DAPWD officials since his application for issuance of the ID card submitted at the Kumbakonam Taluk Office two years ago had failed to evoke any response. However, officials at the district headquarters asked him to procure a medical certificate from an orthopedician and submit the application at the taluk office, Kumbakonam.
07 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea to get Cauvery water from Karnataka||The Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee has urged the Tamil Nadu government to initiate steps to get the State’s share of Cauvery from Karnataka. In a statement issued here, P.Maniarasan, coordinator of the committee, said Karnataka should have released 9.23 tmcft of water to Tamil Nadu in June and 7.84 tmcft during the first week of July and a similar quantity in the second week. But, it had not released any water into the Cauvery. As a fall out, the storage level at the Stanley Reservoir had dropped to 84.3 feet as on Monday leaving just 46.45 tmcft of water available for irrigation purposes for the current kuruvai season. The water is being released at a rate of 1.25 tmcft per day has not even reached the tail-end areas of the Delta region, he claimed. Pointing out that water irrigation should be made available for the next 65 days for sustaining the kuruvai crop, Mr.Maniarasan expressed apprehensions that if the water level at the Mettur dam depleted at this rate without any inflow then it would not be possible to save the kuruvai crop cultivated in the Delta region. Though the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) Chairman, R.K. Jain, who chaired a video-conference meeting on June 11, had directed the Karnataka State to release Tamil Nadu’s share in Cauvery water for June and July, nothing tangible has emerged. Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami should take up the issue with the CWMA and the Karnataka State government immediately to get the Tamil Nadu’s share of water, he added.
07 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Minor fire at RMGH||Tension prevailed for some time at Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital in Thanjavur on Sunday night as a minor fire broke out on the construction site of a new building within the premises. According to sources, pits were dug near the maternity block on Saturday for construction of a new block. On Sunday night, patients in the maternity block noticed sparks followed by smoke at the site. As the news spread like wildfire, all patients and their attendants rushed out of the block resulting in a commotion. Immediately, Fire and Rescue Service and Public Works Department personnel rushed to the hospital. On investigation it was ascertained that damage caused to a underground electric cable at the construction site was the root cause of the problem. On Monday, Collector M. Govinda Road visited the hospital and inspected the site. He directed the PWD officials to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the future and directed them to complete the construction work as per schedule.
07 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Investigation on right track, says Vasan||Terming the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj of Sattankulam and his son J. Benicks as an “uncivilised incident”, Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan on Monday said the ongoing probe by CB-CID was on the right track. Speaking to reporters at Sattankulam after handing over Rs. 3 lakh to the family of the deceased, Mr. Vasan said the ongoing legal process to render justice to the family of Jayaraj should continue on the right track as an unbiased probe and consequent fair judgment alone would render justice to the affected family. The ongoing probe initiated by the State Government and monitored by the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court was progressing well on the right track, he felt. Since the investigation so far reflected the sentiments of the public, who were watching it aghast, the accused would get appropriate punishment from the court, Mr. Vasan said. Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, before visiting the family of the deceased at Sattankulam on Monday, told reporters here that CB-CID, which arrested five policemen, including Sridhar, Inspector of Police of Sattankulam police station, should also arrest other police personnel on duty that night and also Friends of Police members, if any, in the police station.
07 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Irrigation canal renovation gathers momentum||Work on the renovation of the Kattalai High-Level Canal (KHLC), a major irrigation canal in Karur and Tiruchi districts, is just gathering momentum after being hit by the exodus of the migrant labourers to their home States during the lockdown. The project has made slow progress so far after the North Indian labourers hired by the contractors left for their home states. The State government had sanctioned the extension, renovation and modernisation of the KHLC at an estimated cost of Rs. 335.50 crore, fulfilling a long-felt need of farmers. The project began around May 15 after Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami laid the foundation stone in March and so far retaining walls have been built only for about 2.50 km and foundation concrete has been laid for about five km, downstream of the Mayanur. Although the project is scheduled to be completed within two years, the non-Mettur season (when the dam is closed) offers the crucial window during a year when the work could be taken up in full swing. With the work being affected over the past two months, one of the two windows has already been lost. Water for irrigation is likely to be released from August 1 in the canal, as farmers have been pressing for the same to enable them take up samba cultivation, and the major part of the works would resume only after the end of the irrigation season by January. While conceding that the COVID 19 pandemic has impacted on the project work by causing a shortage of labour, PWD sources, however, said that the work had now been speeded up after the slowdown and locally available labourers had been mobilised for the purpose. The KHLC, a contour canal built in 1934, carries water from the Cauvery river at Mayanur in Karur district to Thayanur in Tiruchi district, a distance of about 62 km, and irrigates 23,774 acres in Karur and Tiruchi districts. Of this, 20,186 acres were in Karur district and the remaining area came under Tiruchi district. The designed discharge at the head regulator of the canal is 411 cusecs. Farmers dependent on the canal, especially those on the tail-end areas, have been demanding modernisation of the KHLC as they had been facing problems getting water for irrigation every season over the past several years. A PWD note issued at the time of the foundation stone laying ceremony conceded that the water distribution system had become old and needed repair and replacement at many places. “The present condition of the water conveying arrangement and structures was bad and does not fulfill the irrigation water requirements. There is large scale wastage of water and thus the productivity is considerably low. There are considerable amount of erosion of bund leading to wastage of water. Further, the major portion of the channel and its branches got eroded and hence the bed level has gone down. Due to the dilapidated condition of structures, equitable distribution of water to tail end is impossible,” it said. Of the 174 such regulatory structures on the canal, 124 will be modernised and 25 rehabilitated under the project. Apart from construction of retaining walls,concrete bed lining would be provided along the canal, except in leading canals. Once the project was completed, the system efficiency would improve to 60% from the current 40.43%, officials said. “We are very glad that the project has finally taken off; we hope that the project will be executed expeditiously by carrying out the works simultaneously at four places as planned originally. As the pandemic has affected the project now, the PWD should take all necessary steps to execute the project on full swing when it resumes after the irrigation season,” said ‘Koundampatti’ R. Subramanian, deputy secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, who have long been lobbying for the modernisation of the canal. PWD sources said all efforts would be made to complete the project next year by mobilising more labourers once the work resumes after the irrigation season.
07 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a new high with 8 deaths||Tiruchi district saw a new high in the number of deaths with seven COVID-19 patients dying of comorbid complications in the twenty four hours ending on Monday. Thanjavur district too reported a death. Of the seven patients, two- men aged 55 and 58 were brought dead to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, according to the hospital Medical Superintendent R. Yeganathan. “These patients suffered from cardiac arrest on way to the GH. They were later found to be positive for the novel coronavirus,” he said. Among the other five victims was a Siddha doctor from Perambalur, who tested positive for COVID-19 on July 1. He had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Tiruchi after which he was shifted to the Tiruchi GH with breathlessness. “He died at 3.15 pm on Monday evening, with complications including hypertension, cardiac arrest,” Dr. Yeganathan said. The other four patients were three men hailing from Kumbakonam, Ramanathapuram, and Ponmalai, while a 57-year-old woman of East Boulevard Road also died of the infection. All of the patients had pre-existing conditions such as diabetes, heart problems, and hypertension, he said. In Thanjavur, a senior woman obstetrician of Kumbakonam died at a private hospital, where she was reportedly undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection. The woman aged around 70 had tested positive for COVID-19 after she fell ill on July 1. She was admitted to a private hospital here on July 3 and died on Monday afternoon. Following contact tracing, eight persons including the staff working at her clinic were found to be positive for the virus. All eight persons were undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital. Meanwhile,121 persons tested positive in the central region on Monday. Tiruchi saw 32 patients test positive, Nagapattinam 30 and Pudukottai 30. Tiruvarur district recorded 14 cases, Thanjavur and Ariyalur districts seven each and Karur four. Of the 32 patients who tested positive in Tiruchi, many were from containment areas. “These patients are either family members or they are from the same locality,” a senior health official said. Including these patients, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district crossed 1,004. On Monday, 36 patients, including 34 from Tiruchi, and one each from Perambalur and Virudhunagar were discharged from the Tiruchi MGMGH after recovering from the infection. A total of 41 patients, including 37 from Tiruchi, and one each from Kanniyakumari, Dindigul, Karur, and Tenkasi districts who had been admitted to the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged from the facility. Of the 25 patients who tested positive in Pudukottai, 16 men and nine women tested positive. The patients were either immediate contacts of those who had travelled to the district or those who returned to their home town. Forty-five patients were discharged from the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital on Monday after recovering from the infection. Among the 30 patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam are ten local patients, 11 who returned from Chennai, one from Thanjavur, one from Karur, one from Thiruvallur, two from Andhra Pradesh, two from Coimbatore and three who returned from Kuwait. Fourteen patients tested positive in Tiruvarur and seven tested positive in Thanjavur district. In Ariyalur, a one-year-old boy who returned from Muscat, Oman, two sanitary workers from Meensuritti and Jayamkondam, and three locals from the district tested positive. One of the patients had returned from Chennai. While six patients were admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital, the one-year-old boy was admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH. As many as 293 new samples have been lifted from family members of those who tested positive, those in containment zones and those showing symptoms. In Karur, four patients- three men aged 36, 25 and 25 and one woman aged 28, who had returned to their home towns from other districts tested positive. The patients were admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. As on Monday, 43 patients are undergoing treatment at the Karur GH. In Perambalur, both patients who tested positive are employees at the Veppanthattai taluk office. All 73 employees at the office were tested after a Village Administrative Officer (VAO) tested positive last week. Of the 73, one data entry operator aged 24 and a 42-year-old office assistant tested positive and have been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital.
07 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Partially charred body of schoolgirl found||The partially charred body of a 14-year-old girl was found at Adhavathurpalayam on the outskirts of the city on Monday evening sparking tension. The victim, a class IX student, had left home in the afternoon apparently to relieve herself and did not return home. Police suspect that the girl could have been murdered but said that only the post mortem report could establish the cause of her death. Her family members had searched for her after she had failed to return home and found her in a burnt state behind a saw mill in the evening. As news about the death of the girl spread, locals rushed to the spot. According to police, the upper part of the girl’s body was found burnt. Angry villagers resorted to a protest and damaged the windshield of the ambulance that came to the spot to shift the body to the mortuary of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range Z. Annie Vijaya, and Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Ziaul Haque, rushed to the crime scene and conducted inquiries. The DIG said it was a death under suspicious circumstances and added that scientific evidence had to be collected. Special teams led by a woman Deputy Superintendent of Police were probing the case from various angles, Ms. Vijaya said. The girl’s father Periyasamy was running a hardware shop at Ariyavar. This is the third murder of minor girls reported in recent months in the Tiruchi range comprising Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur districts. Two cases were reported in neighbouring Pudukottai district, including the murder of a minor allegedly by her father and a few others in a suspected case of human sacrifice near Gandharavakottai in May. A few days ago, a seven-year-old girl was raped and murdered at Embal village.
07 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Non-inclusion of areas under UGD project deplored||A section of residents of Ammayappa Pillai Nagar and neighbouring residential areas on Vayalur road are sore over non-inclusion of their areas under the underground drainage project even though they have paid the deposits for the UGD connection several years ago. Some of them had paid the deposit to the Tiruchi City Corporation in 2005 in response to the call given by the civic body. The long wait for domestic sewage connections still remains a distant dream for them. Residents, when they took up the matter with the officials of the Corporation, were apparently promised by the officials that the left out areas would be covered in the phase –II of the UGD project. But, the residents complain that a part of Ammayappa Pillai Nagar, Eden Garden and Kallangadu, which were part of 52nd ward, have not been included in the phase-II scheme as well. In the absence of UGD network, some residents have been discharging domestic sewage water into a neighbouring open canal, thereby polluting the environment. It has also led to the growth of water hyacinth in the canal, slowing down the flow of water. “We paid Rs. 6000 towards deposit for UGD connection in June 2005 and we have been making frequent enquiries at the offices of the Corporation since then. But, we have not yet been given the solution,” said A. Karuppaiah, a long time resident of 6th street in Ammayappa Pillai Nagar. Pointing to the ongoing UGD works in neighbouring localities, including Anand Nagar, he said that it was high time that the left out areas were brought under the underground sewer network. When contacted, S. Amuthavalli, City Engineer, Tiruchi Corporation, assured that the issue would be studied and the complaints looked into. Steps would be taken to include the left-out areas in the ongoing scheme.
07 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop employee tests positive||An office superintendent employed at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi has tested positive for COVID-19 necessitating the authorities to shut the stores section he had been working as a precautionary measure. A few employees working in the same section and who had come into contact with the office superintendent have been asked to remain in 14-day quarantine. Disinfectants have been sprayed in the stores section which has been shut for three days as a temporary measure. The employee had last reported to the office on July 3 and his relative serving in the wagon shop within the sprawling workshop campus has also been asked to be in quarantine as a precautionary measure. This is the second COVID-19 positive case at the railway workshop which has been functioning with full strength of around 3,500 employees, both technical and administrative, since early June following the lockdown relaxations announced by the State government. The over 80-year-old workshop which remained completely shut since March-end when the lockdown was clamped to prevent the spread of COVID-19 was reopened for core activities in early-May with 33 per cent attendance. Subsequently, the workforce strength increased to 50 per cent and in early June it began to functioning with full workforce. The authorities said core activities at the workshop such as periodic overhaul of broad gauge passenger coaches and diesel locomotives besides overhaul of steam locomotives of the Nilgiri Mountain Railway were continuing. The workshop has been adhering to the standard operating procedure stipulated by the Central government with employees provided with hand sanitiser and masks besides ensuring personal distancing at the workshop, the Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram told The Hindu on Monday. A workmen special train was being operated by the Tiruchi Railway Division from Thanjavur to Tiruchi and back everyday exclusively for those workshop employees who resided at Thanjavur and its neighbouring places. “All employees entering the workshop were being screened using rapid thermal scanners which sound an alert if anyone had high temperature. The equipment fixed to the pillar is connected to the computer monitor inside a room at the entrances for monitoring by the Railway Protection Force personnel deployed at the gates,” The rapid thermal scanners have been fixed at the Armoury Gate and the West Gate entrances of the workshop. Plans were afoot to install two more at the other entrances of the organisation. The workshop with several shops inside has dispatched 112 broad gauge passenger coaches after carrying out periodic overhaul since May. The coaches were sent for periodic overhaul from various railway divisions within the Southern Zone after it was reopened.
07 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic derails strategy of private schools to attract high scorers||The COVID 19 lockdown effect this year has apparently prevented private schools in the region from scouting for top-notch SSLC scorers from government schools for the purpose of admitting them with enticing scholarships. In the wake of 'all pass' announcement by the State Government, due to the difficulty in conducting exams, the formula mooted by the School Education Department for rating the performance of students has implied that there will be no way to arrive at the definite score of the students. Students are to be rated on the basis of their performance in quarterly, half yearly exams and attendance. While 80% weightage will be given to marks in quarterly and half-yearly assessment tests, 20% weightage will be given to attendance. The marks arrived at will not reflect the actual performance for more reasons than one, according to school heads. The practice of government as well as private schools has all along been to follow a strict methodology for evaluating the answer scripts in quarterly, half yearly and revision exams. The main purpose is to make the students shed the sense of complacency and put them on a sound footing to score well in the public exams. Also, the practice of bright students to not worry much about attendance during the last few weeks before the exams is commonplace. This being the case, the teachers are struggling to arrive at the scores based on which the Plus One admissions are to be made. Private schools have an inclination to admit high scoring students from rural parts by offering even full scholarships that would cover their entire expenses for tuition fee, books, uniform, and accommodation in the hostel for a solid reason. “These students who score well despite the tough circumstances are bound to prove their worth in the Plus Two exams when they are provided with the complete scholarship. Above all, they slog hard with a sense of gratitude,” according to a functionary of a private school management.  It is another matter that the inclination of parents in rural parts to send their wards to private schools has waned this year after the State Cabinet gave its approval last month for providing 10 % horizontal reservation in medical admissions to government school students who clear the NEET examination, a headmaster of a government school in Mannachanallur Union said.
07 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Training police in stress management and containing spread of coronavirus||A two-day programme for police personnel attached to Tiruchi city on maintaining police-public relationship and steps to be taken to check the spread of COVID-19 was held here on Sunday and Monday. Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan conducted the sessions on both days. A total number of 120 police personnel from the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police to Constable attended the programme. Separate sessions on topics such as ways to overcome stress; ways to effectively handle crisis situations; ways to improve policing and ways to legally deal with accused were held. In addition to these, a separate session on the precautionary measures to be taken in the wake of COVID-19 spread and also ways to ensure protection for police personnel and general public was held. Deputy Commissioners of Police N.S. Nisha and R. Vetharathinam participated in the programme, a police press release said.
07 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Partially charred body of schoolgirl found in Tiruchi||The partially charred body of a 14-year-old girl was found at Adhavathurpalayam on the outskirts of the city on Monday, sparking tension. The victim, a Class IX student, had left home in the afternoon to attend to nature’s call and did not return. Police suspect the girl could have been murdered but said only the post-mortem report could establish the cause of death. The girl’s family members searched for her after she failed to return home and found her in a burnt state behind a saw mill in the evening. As news about the death spread, locals rushed to the spot, triggering tension in the area. According to police sources, the upper part of the girl’s body was found in a burnt state. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range, Z. Annie Vijaya and Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Ziaul Haque rushed to the crime scene and conducted inquiries. Ms. Vijaya said it was a death under suspicious circumstances, and added that scientific evidence had to be collected. Special teams, led by a woman Deputy Superintendent of Police, were probing the case from various angles, Ms. Vijaya said after inspecting the crime scene.
07 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam incident: CB-CID to seek custody of accused this week||The CB-CID police, investigating the twin custodial deaths of a trader and his son from Sattankulam, are likely to approach the court this week seeking custody of the accused policemen for interrogation. During an informal chat with reporters here on Monday, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, K. Shankar said COVID–19 volunteers, who were working along with the police during the lockdown and members of ‘Friends of Police’, who were reportedly at the police station on the night of June 19, would be interrogated. The investigators would also interrogate relatives of the deceased during this week. “More importantly, we will approach court during this week to seek custody of the accused to take the investigation to the next stage,” Mr. Shankar said. ‘Friends of Police’ members Raja and Esakki Durai, who were at Sattankulam police station on June 19 night, when the victims, Jayaraj and his son Benicks, were allegedly tortured by police, deposed before the CB-CID in the afternoon. Suresh Kumar of Chennai, actual owner of the car in which Inspector Sridhar tried to flee to Theni district when he was arrested, appeared before the investigators on Monday to get back his car stationed at Gangaikondan police station in Tirunelveli district. Sources in the CB-CID said Mr. Suresh had mortgaged the vehicle to a moneylender from Koyambedu, who gave the car to Sridhar for his personal use. After obtaining a statement from Mr. Suresh and finding the documents of the car to be genuine, the investigators allowed him to take the vehicle from Gangaikondan police station. Now, the investigators are likely to summon Pandian, the moneylender, to understand why he gave the car to Sridhar. Meanwhile, Joint Director of Medical Services Pon Esakki said he had sent a report to Director of Medical Services on the treatment given to Jayaraj and Benicks by Dr. Vinila, when the police brought them to Sattankulam Government Hospital on June 20 to obtain fitness certificate before producing them before the Judicial Magistrate for remanding them in judicial custody. “It is up to the Director to take a final decision on the treatment,” Dr. Pon Esakki said.
07 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Major fire breaks out at garbage yard||A major fire broke out at the Corporation’s garbage yard at Ramaiyanpatti on the city outskirts on Monday evening. The blaze gave tense moments to a few hundred families living nearby and Corporation officials, who tried to douse the flames with the help of fire and rescue services personnel. Since a strong westerly wind was lashing this region, the rapidly spreading fire refused to subside despite the best efforts put in by the firefighters. The corporation collects over 150 tonnes of garbage every day from various areas under its jurisdiction, and a major quantity of trash is dumped at Ramaiyanpatti on the outskirts of Tirunelveli. Asignificant portion of the degradable waste is being converted into manure at micro compost centres across the city. Whenever a fire breaks out in the garbage yard, the Corporation has been forced to mount a firefighting operation for more than two or three days due to accumulation of huge mounds of waste. To provide a permanent solution to this ‘annual event,’ the Corporation has planned to go in for scientific closure of the site. According to the scientific closure planned for Ramaiyanpatti yard, Tirunelveli Corporation, which has heaped the waste on 32.50 acres of the total extent of 180 acres, compacted the entire quantity of 2.02 lakh cubic metres of garbage to just 6 acres in 2017. With technical assistance borrowed from National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, compacted clay liner was provided over the compressed garbage and covered by 1.50 mm High Density Poly Ethylene (HDPE) geo-membrane liner. After providing vegetative soil layer for about 450 mm thickness on the HDPE liner, Doob grass was planted on the vegetative soil to make it look like a ‘grass mound’, which attracts a lot of people. While this project was successful, the urban civic body’s move to convert the non-degradable waste into electricity by roping in a private agency is yet to take off, resulting in fire accidents in the garbage yard. The huge quantity of dry rubbish that was burning violently with the backing of strong wind, kept the fire fighters at a distance. Even the fire tenders had to take an alternative route to reach the spot. The earthmover that was pressed into service to create ‘fire-line’ in the garbage yard could not move forward after a point as the fire was spreading rapidly, forcing the driver to retreat. “With the fire spreading fast due to gusty wind, we could not go near the fire even via alternative routes,” said the fire and rescue services personnel.
07 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Hill vegetable sellers seek alternative site||Traders selling hill vegetables in Melapalayam Farmers’ Market on Monday appealed to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish to provide them with alternative site as the market had closed down in the wake of COVID - 19. The growers from Kodaikanal, who had shops at farmers’ markets here, were badly hit after they downed shutters in view of the pandemic outbreak. While alternative areas were identified for setting up makeshift markets and spaces allocated for vendors bringing vegetables from Kodaikanal and Udhagamandalam, sellers of Melapalayam Farmers’ Market were yet to get an alternative site. In a petition submitted in the Collector’s Office here on Monday, the affected farmers said that on getting vegetables from their farms in Kodaikanal or buying them from Udhagamandalam, they sold the produce at the farmers’ market. Since its closure, their families were in dire straits and the vegetables unsold. “On getting the produce from our farms, we sold it here. The lockdown has derailed our life. Hence, the Collector should find an alternative spot to create a temporary vegetable market from where we should be allowed to sell the vegetables,” the petitioners said. They also cited the examples of Anna Nagar and Chokkikulam Farmers’ Markets, which were functioning as usual. Members of Thamizhaga Makkal Jananayaga Katchi, who staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate, submitted a petition seeking release of prisoners who has already spent 10 years or more in jails after conviction. While the convicts of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case had already spent 30 years in prison, several Muslims were lodged in prisons across Tamil Nadu even after spending 20 years in jail. Considering the pandemic spreading fast everywhere, including prisons in the State, the government should release the prisoners who had already served 10 years of their sentence, they said.
07 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers move court against irrigation project||The Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has filed a petition in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, seeking to ban Mettur Dam-Sarabanga lift irrigation project. Disclosing this in a press release, P.R. Pandian, general secretary of the association, claimed that if the project was implemented, the delta region would be ruined as it envisaged building up the storage at the Stanley Reservoir only after the 100 lakes in Salem district were filled up with water from Mettur. Stating that the project had been conceived in such a manner that the water gets diverted to the canal dug at Thippampatti once the water level at the Mettur dam touches 80 feet, the Mr.Pandian accused the State government of going ahead with the project without consulting the stakeholders of the Cauvery delta. Cauvery not only remains the lifeline of around two crore farmers and farm labourers but also serves as the reliable source for drinking water for more than five crore people living in 25 districts, including Chennai. As the representations to the Tamil Nadu government had failed to evoke any response, the association had filed the petition in the High Court Bench, he said.
07 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nine arrested for consuming deer meat||Forest department officials on Monday arrested nine persons and fined them Rs. 1.8 lakh for consuming Sambar deer meat. Officials said that the nine men, residents of Anaikatty, Siriyur and Masinagudi, had taken the meat from a dead Sambar deer and had distributed it among themselves, cooked and consumed it. Following a tip-off, the forest department arrested the men and imposed a fine of Rs. 20,000 each, resulting in a cumulative fine of Rs. 1.8 lakh. The men, who noticed a pack of wild dogs killing the deer, took the meat from the carcass, officials said. The incident took place in the Sigur Range in buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), officials added.  Two fined for smuggling sandalwood During interrogation, the nine men revealed that another individual, identified as S. Ravi from Siriyur, used to smuggle sandalwood from the forests. When Ravi was questioned, he revealed that he was a shepherd who used to collect small bits of bark and root from dead sandalwood trees while taking his livestock into the forest and would then hand it over to a Bokkapuram resident A. Mohammad Ali. Both Ravi and Mohammad Ali were arrested and let off with a fine of Rs. 20,000 each.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Selvapuram in Coimbatore turns major cluster with 35 cases in single day||With 35 COVID-19 cases being reported from this area alone, Selvapuram has become one of the biggest clusters of the disease in Coimbatore district, which saw 64 fresh cases in total on Monday. Salem and Erode districts reported 40 cases each, followed by the Nilgiris with 26 cases. Tiruppur district saw 16 fresh cases, Dharmapuri 12, Krishnagiri 14 and Namakkal district four. Of the 35 patients from Selvapuram in Coimbatore city, 34 were from Ayyappa Nagar and one from Thiru Nagar. The area was sealed and declared a containment zone. Majority of these case were goldsmiths who worked in jewellery manufacturing units at Selvapuram. Sources said swab samples of at least 200 persons were collected from various places including Ayyappa Nagar and Thiru Nagar. Though rumours were rife that more than 100 persons tested positive, the Health Department said only 35 tested positive on Monday. Other patients hailed from places such as B.R. Puram at Peelamedu, Chinniyampalayam, Veerapandi, Ganapathy,, Singanallur, Othakalmandapam, Saravanamapatti, Thondamuthur, Bharathi Nagar at Sulur, Udumalpet Road at Pollachi, Edayar Street at Townhall, K.K. Puthur, Rathinapuri, CMC Colony at Ukkadam, K.G. Street, Nadar Street, Krishna Nagar at Vellalore, Aishwarya Nagar at Vadavalli, PRS Quarters, Periyanaikanpalayam, TNHB Colony at Singanallur, Ganapathy Managar, Ondiputhur, Karumathampatti and TVR Thottam at P.N. Palayam. On Monday, 40 persons were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. ESI Hospital sources said that efforts were under way to shift asymptomatic patients to the COVID-19 Care Centre at Codissia Trade Fair Complex. However, no patient was shifted to the centre till Monday evening. Bed strength ESI Hospital had 349 patients under its care as on Monday. The bed strength at the hospital could be extended to a maximum of 500, according to its authorities. The care centre was readied in one of the halls of the trade fair complex to accommodate asymptomatic patients and thus admit persons with symptoms and co-morbid conditions to the hospital. The first COVID-19 death was reported in Dharmapuri with a 52-year-old man succumbing to co-morbidities at the Dharmapuri government medical college hospital on Monday. The patient from Paapireddypatty, admitted on July 5, died of cardio vascular disease, and hypothyroidism aggravated by COVID-19. He had returned from Assam. The district reported 12 cases including a 42-year-old man, who attended a wedding, a 55-year-old woman, who took part in a temple puja, and an 8-year-old boy from Chennai. With 14 persons testing positive in Krishnagiri district, the total number of cases touched 200. Of the 40 new cases in Salem district, 37 were indigenous. Two persons came from Chennai and Tirunelveli and one from Andhra Pradesh, health officials said. Four new cases in Namakkal included a 35-year-old police constable who had travelled to Coimbatore. Forty new cases were reported in Erode district taking the number of active cases to 200. Officials said 36 cases were reported in the Corporation limits, including 11 in Periyar Nagar and six in Rajajipuram. One case was reported each at Nambiyur, Perundurai, Kodumudi and Sathyamangalam in the district. In the Nilgiris district, 26 persons tested positive. With this, the total number of cases touched 150. The district administration said eight of the 26 persons were from other districts and those cases would be added to the respective districts’ tally on Tuesday. Tiruppur district saw 16 cases, taking the overall tally to 220. The cases comprised four women, 10 men and two boys aged 12 and 16. Health Department sources said 12 out of the 16 cases were from Tiruppur Corporation limits, three from Palladam Block and one from Uthukuli Block. Store closed Tiruppur Corporation officials ordered the closure of a departmental store belonging to a popular hypermarket retail chain on Avinashi-Tiruppur Road after a 33-year-old saleswoman of Mettupalayam in the Corporation limits, tested positive.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC employees allege unsafe working conditions||After a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) employee tested positive for COVID-19, a section of employees alleged that the working conditions for technical staff remain unsafe across the district. A 38-year-old man, who was one of the technical staff members at Ukkadam Branch – II bus depot in Coimbatore city, was confirmed to be COVID-19 positive on Sunday, following which the Health Department lifted swab samples of other employees in the depot on Monday. According to M. Paramasivam, a senior tradesman at Pollachi Branch – II depot and CITU regional president, nearly 720 technical staff members are employed across the Coimbatore Zone, one of the four zones under TNSTC Coimbatore Division. “There is no possibility to maintain personal distancing among the technical staff while working,” he claimed, adding that many technical staff members do not wear gloves as it allegedly hinders their work. TNSTC has been asking the technical staff to report on a shift basis but did not arrange for any transport facilities for them, Mr. Paramasivam alleged. The staff members are being asked to repair the buses that are not plying in a bid to keep them occupied, he further alleged. “All this further increases the risk of contracting [COVID-19],” he said. General secretary of CITU Coimbatore unit M. Velankanni Raj said that forcing the technical staff to report for duty till July 15 will increase the chances of COVID-19 spreading among TNSTC employees. He demanded action against those officials asking the employees to report for duty in violation of the orders issued by the State government. Mr. Raj, who is one of the bus drivers employed at Ukkadam Branch – II depot, said that he was among the 64 employees whose samples were lifted on Monday. When contacted, a TNSTC official denied these allegations, claiming that personal distancing norms are being implemented in all workplaces. Based on the results of the samples lifted, appropriate decision will be taken regarding the employees, he said.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DIG, SP pay homage to head constable who died after testing positive for COVID-19||Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG – Madurai Range), S. Rajendran, and Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police, P. Perumal, led the police force in paying homage to Head Constable, Ayyanar,who diedafter contracting COVID-19. The officials offered floral tributes to the portrait of the head constable, who was attached to the Seithur Rural police station near Rajapalayam. Meanwhile, the number of police personnel infected with the virus in Virudhunagar district has increased to 21 on Monday. Sivakasi Town police station and Mamsapuram police stations were closed after an Inspector of Police and a Sub-Inspector of police from the respective stations tested positive. “The stations would be opened after three days of disinfection,” the SP said. ‘Take all precautions’ Meanwhile, the DIG convened a meeting with over 40 directly-recruited Sub Inspectors of the district and talked to them about the need to maintain personal hygiene to safeguard themselves against the virus. “I told them that they should not be complacent since they are young, and think that they will not be infected,” Mr. Rajendran said. Stating that wearing of masks was mandatory, he told them to keep safe distance from people. They have been asked to regularly do yoga and other physical exercises to increase their immunity. “The district police have supplied them all medicines prescribed by the State government,” he added. The police personnel were reminded that they need to take care of their family members too and take all precautions while returning home from duty, like washing their clothes and taking a bath before mingling with family members. The SIs were also told be patient while handling members of public and not get provoked by the behaviour of people. “They should not lose their mental balance and should not have a sense of superiority because they are in uniform. They should know that they are public servants in uniform,” Mr. Rajendran said.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held for sexual abuse of woman in Ramanathapuram||Two persons were arrested under charges of conspiracy, threatening, cheating and under sections of the IT Act, 2000 and four mobile phones and a laptop were seized from them on Monday. The accused were remanded to judicial custody. Following a complaint from a woman in Yerwadi, Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar directed the Keelakarai police to register a case. Preliminary investigations revealed that the woman, who was living alone, after separating from her husband, used to visit a mobile recharge outlet near her home. The shopkeeper was also selling mobile handsets and functioning as an e-seva centre, where the public can apply for ration cards, Adhaar cards et al. The shop was owned by two persons identified as Badhusha and his brother Haji of Yerwadi. Another man, Sahabudeen was working in the shop as a salesman. The woman claimed that when she went to the shop about seven months ago and she got her mobile phone recharged. However, the salesman had allegedly lured the woman by speaking to her during odd hours, and at one stage had proposed to her. She believed him and stated that she had been sexually abused by him. Later, she said he had forced her to bring in money, failing which he reportedly threatened to circulate her photographs on social media. At one stage, the woman had decided to end her life as the torture from the shop owner and the salesman increased day by day. At such a point, she dialled the police helpline -- 9489919722 and told them of what had happened. Immediately, a team of women officers led by Inspector of Police Yamuna visited the spot and conducted inquiries. After registering a case under IPC sections 417, 354(B), 120(B), 306 & 67(A) of the IT Act, the two accused were arrested. A senior officer said that the modus operandi of the accused was to note down the mobile numbers of customers, particularly women and later track them on social media networks. If they were active, they would send ‘friend requests’ and share mutually interesting posts. After becoming familiar with the women, they would download some free apps on their mobile phones through which they would send video posts. Appeal The SP appealed to the public to inform them about any such violations on the helpline number, which is directly monitored on a daily basis by a team of officers. He recalled that many callers, whose identity had been kept confidential, helped the police nab liquor sales during the COVID-19 lockdown. Also, the police were able to pin down issues at liquor bars where cases of drunken brawls were reported. Their timely presence ensured against the loss of lives, he added.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK leaders demand transparency in COVID-19 care||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leaders from Coimbatore district met Collector K. Rajamani on Monday demanding transparency in COVID-19 care. In their letters to the Collector, N. Karthik of Coimbatore urban east, Thendral Selvaraj of Coimbatore South and Muthusamy of Coimbatore urban west said though the party had on May 29 sought various details related to COVID-19 care, they were yet to hear from the administration. The leaders said the DMK wanted to know the number of approved COVID-19 testing centres, the process of approval, the number of samples lifted thus far, date-wise, the details of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff attending to the COVID-19 positive persons. They also sought details on the number of containment zones – how many areas the administration had placed under containment zones, how many it had released date-wise. The DMK also asked the Collector to furnish the number of persons who had entered the district and how many of those were from hotspots. Salem R. Rajendran, MLA, along with S.R. Parthibhan, MP, and other party functionaries petitioned Collector S.A. Raman demanding details of COVID-19 preventive measures in Salem district. Krishnagiri Alleging lack of transparency on the part of the district administration in providing COVID-19 related information, DMK MLAs T. Senguttuvan (Krishnagiri), Y. Prakash (Thally), S.A. Sathya (Hosur) and P.A. Murugan (Vepanapalli) arrived at the Collectorate and demanded information on a range of parameters relating to cases, treatment, deaths, and testing centres. Tiruppur DMK leaders from Tiruppur district petitioned Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday with 32 demands on COVID-19. Tiruppur North district secretary K. Selvaraj, Tiruppur South district secretary L. Padmanaban and Madathukulam MLA R. Jayaramakrishnan submitted the petition. Dharmapuri MP tweets Dharmapuri MP S. Senthilkumar indirectly condemned Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan for allegedly disrespecting the DMK leaders on Monday. He shared an image on Twitter of the Collector sitting in his chair and receiving the petition while the leaders were standing, accompanied with the message that “everyone must either be standing or sitting.” However, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan replied to the tweet that the chairs were arranged as per the personal distancing norms and that the leaders sat down in the chairs after submitting the petition, following which Mr. Senthilkumar apologised.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Focus shifts from Chennai to other affected districts||While Chennai and neighbouring districts continued to report cases in triple digits, there was a need for preventing fresh infections in districts that had not reported very many cases earlier. "[The situation in] Chennai will be reviewed on Wednesday, and Madurai on Thursday," the official said. Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy and Public Secretary P. Senthil Kumar were among the senior officials who attended the meeting. Vegetable markets When asked about the possibility of setting up fruit/vegetable markets in different areas of the State capital to reduce crowding, an official said the State government was looking at three prospective sites — one at Potheri in Chengalpattu district, one at Madhavaram in Chennai district, and an alternative site at Thirumazhisai in Tiruvallur district.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 6     Persons tested +ve so far: 802 Indigenous cases: 783 Imported cases: 19 Active cases: 525 Death: 4 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala)    Home quarantined: 3,468 Positive: 220 Discharged: 129 Active cases: 89 Deaths: 2 (Yet to be officially declared in bulletin)
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dedicated facilities for pregnant COVID-19 patients||Amidst a growing number of complaints of patients being refused admission, the city will soon have two facilities dedicated for pregnant women who have tested positive for COVID-19. Revenue Minister R. Ashok directed Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar to set up the dedicated facilities in northern and southern parts of the city. This was following a meeting with a few councillors at the BBMP head office here on Monday. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said councillors across party lines, had been urged to work on the frontline, contact patients who had tested positive for COVID-19, reassure them, ensure those who are symptomatic are admitted to hospitals. He directed the zonal commissioners to coordinate with the councillors in this regard, apart from cleaning and sanitising the areas. Mr. Ashok said that the civic body had set aside Rs. 20 lakh per ward, which could be utilised for providing ambulance and transport facilities to patients, medicines for residents of sealed down areas, etc. The medical fund of Rs. 10 lakh per ward should be prioritised for providing aid to pregnant women and COVID-19 patients, he said and added that councillors had been instructed to ensure that the funerals for the deceased were performed in a dignified manner. “We have had complaints of bodies not being picked up. The councillors will monitor the situation and ensure such incidents do not recur,” he said. Publicity material with do’s and don’ts and contact numbers of councillors, officials in-charge, police, etc., should be distributed. Videos of those who have recovered from COVID-19 should also be shot and shown to residents.  Mr. Ashok, while responding to a question, said those who test positive for COVID-19 should stay at home until BBMP sends an ambulance to pick them up, instead of approaching hospitals directly. He also said criminal proceedings would be initiated against hospitals that refuse treatment to any patient as per the Disaster Management Act.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unions fear threat to bargaining power||The State government notification on changing the Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961 to introduce the concept of “fixed-term workmen” seems to have taken the labour movement by surprise. For the unions that have been opposed to the dilution of major labour laws, fixed-term workmen could threaten the power of collective bargaining itself. In a notification issued on June 30, the Labour Department introduced changes to the model standing orders to enable changes to Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961 that govern the condition of service of labour in various industries and establishments. While the new rules provide flexibility to industries to hire and terminate employees, among the important developments expected following the changes is the hiring of fixed-term workmen for “core jobs” in skilled and semi-skilled industries. For now, only permanent employees could be hired for such jobs. Under the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, contract employees can only be hired for allied jobs, not core jobs. “The changes will help industries hire people when a necessity arises and terminate [their services] when the necessity ceases to exist. It will help labourers with higher salaries since they have to be paid on a par with permanent workers. Currently, industries have to get government nod for retrenchment or closure,” said B.C. Prabhakar, president of Karnataka Employers’ Association. “Wages under the new category will be higher than that of contract workers and they will be eligible for gratuity. This will stop exploitation.”  However, the All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has argued that though the wages for fixed-term workmen could go up in the short term, the sums would be depressed as the workmen lose collective bargaining power in the long term. “Being on a fixed term, the worker will not be part of an organised collective. Over a period of time, when the number of organised permanent workers declines, the salaries of fixed-term workmen will also get depressed, as they will be connected to that of permanent workers with bargaining power,” said M.D. Harigovinda, AITUC generalsecretary, Bengaluru. “This is a unilateral decision taken by the government using the pandemic situation. We have not been consulted or even informed about the change that is aimed at de-unionisation,” another union leader said, adding that the unions were considering legal recourse against the notification.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Elective procedures, OPD in Kidwai shut till Thursday||All elective procedures and non-emergency services at the Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology will be deferred till Thursday after several patients and medical staff tested positive for COVID-19 in the last few weeks. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy sessions have been deferred and the operation theatre has been closed. However, emergency services will remain open. In the last three weeks, 12 cancer patients and 10 staff, including doctors and nurses, tested positive for COVID-19 at the institute. C. Ramachandra, institute director, said: “We have identified around 60 of their primary contacts, who are under quarantine and will be tested for COVID-19. We found that the infection spread through one of the technicians. Besides this, a nursing staff may have contracted it from family.” He added that all patients who enter the hospital have to undergo COVID-19 test at the entrance, and only later get admitted. The director also said that the premises would be disinfected this week. While the patient inflow in the hospital prior to COVID-19 was over 1,500, currently, there are around 1,000 patients and attenders in the institute. 12 positive in NIMHANS Over the last two days, 12 people in National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) have tested positive. This includes four patients and a caretaker, while the remaining are staff. Shashidhara H.N., resident medical officer of the institute, said they were investigating the source of the spread. He also said that patient services remained unaffected as the institute was shifting the departments to other blocks.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. will act against pvt. hospitals that refuse admission to COVID-19 patients’||With complaints pouring in regarding private hospitals refusing to admit COVID-19 patients despite beds being vacant, the State government has decided to initiate action against such hospitals. Speaking at a press conference on Monday, K. Sudhakar, Medical Education Minister, said the license of such hospitals would be revoked. Mr. Sudhakar said that in the first phase, the Out-Patient Department of the hospital will be closed. “We cannot close down the hospital as patients will be admitted. So, we will do things phase-wise and begin by shutting the OPD,” he said. The Minister, however, said their plan was to adopt a cohesive approach and take everyone into confidence in their fight against COVID-19. Mr. Sudhakar said that a nodal officer would be appointed for all private hospitals. They will make a checklist of the beds and ventilators available and so on. “The monitoring will be done in a robust manner within a week,” he said. Notice to Apollo Hospital The Department of Health and Family Welfare issued a notice to Apollo hospital in Seshadripuram after it received a complaint that they were overcharging for COVID-19 testing. The notice states that the hospital had charged Rs. 6,000 for testing, while the cost was capped at Rs. 4,500. It has sought an explanation within two days, failing which action would be initiated. The hospital, in a statement, however, said that they have initiated the refund process and would follow the State Health Department and Indian Council for Medical Research guidelines.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to withhold recruitment||Given the State’s battle against COVID-19 and the severe financial constraints, the government has decided to withhold all direct recruitments, including to backlog posts, during the current financial year (2020-21). A circular issued by Finance Department Additional Chief Secretary I.S.N. Prasad stated that the government had decided to withhold all recruitments to postings in the Kalyana Karnataka region and other direct recruitments in the State. The circular is also applicable to all recruitments that have commenced during this year after being granted permission from the Finance Department. Year’s objective The note stated that the government’s main effort this year was to mobilise resources to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The State government has been facing severe financial constraints because of poor revenue regeneration during the lockdown. Restrictions on movement of goods and services have impacted the revenue sources of the government. Already, the government has issued circulars to cut down non-essential expenditure by various departments.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM asks Siddaramaiah to verify files on purchase of equipment||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday said there was no substance in the allegations made by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah that the government had siphoned off funds during the purchase of COVID-19 equipment. He challenged the former Chief Minister to verify documents by coming to the State Secretariat. “We will make arrangements for Mr. Siddaramaiah to verify documents at the Vidhana Soudha,” Mr. Yediyurappa said, dismissing the allegations as “baseless and far from truth”. Last week, Mr. Siddaramaiah had alleged that the State government had misappropriated funds to the tune of over Rs. 2,000 crore through the purchase of COVID-19 equipment by paying inflated rates. Mr. Yediyurappa told presspersons that the Congress leader had been making allegations without verification of documents and files. However, the government would take stern action against officials if they were found misappropriating funds. Sriramulu reacts Meanwhile, Health Minister B. Sriramulu on Monday responded sharply to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s remarks by asking him to cooperate with the government’s efforts to handle the COVID-19 situation. “The State is in a crisis and people are in trouble. It’s time for working. Work for people of the State and allow us to work. This is the minimum cooperation I seek on behalf of the people,” Mr. Sriramulu tweeted. In another tweet, the Minister took a dig at Congress leaders and said: “Before making allegations against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the B.S. Yediyurappa government, it is better to focus on your party’s Raja-Maharaja (king-prince) about the allegations being faced from Kashmir to Kanyakumari.” The tweets were in response to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s criticism of the government functioning on Sunday. Besides accusing of financial irregularities in COVID-19 related purchases, Mr. Siddaramaiah had slammed the Chief Minister for frequently changing protocols, inefficient management, delayed procurements, and inflated prices that hurt public health and confidence. He also took a dig at three Ministers being allotted specific role in COVID-19 management. ‘False information’ Meanwhile, in another tweet, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar attacked a Congress worker for allegedly spreading false information on social media. “All of us are warriors in the fight against COVID-19. People will never forgive lies being spread for petty politics against the State government and corona warriors, and trying to divide people at a time when society has to remain united,” the Minister tweeted. In another tweet, he asked people not to panic but take precautions. “It’s better to seek medical help in the initial stage. Seek the advice of doctors in any nearby fever clinic. It is also common to experience cold, fever and cough during monsoon,” he tweeted.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM launches relief scheme for weavers||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday launched the Nekara Samman Yojane, under which financial aid of Rs. 2,000 will be transferred to 19,744 handloom weavers through Direct Benefit Transfer in the first phase. A sum of Rs. 10.96 crore has been allocated under the programme. There are about 40,634 handloom weavers registered with the Seva Sindhu portal. Of them, 37,314 applications for financial aid have been approved. The Chief Minister said the remaining beneficiaries would be covered in the coming days. A sum of Rs. 2,000 each would be credited to their bank accounts. Under the fourth national handloom census, the State was found to have 54,789 registered handloom weavers. Silk, cotton, wool and other handloom weavers are eligible under the scheme. The Chief Minister said a total of 1.25 lakh workers were employed in the powerloom sector and they would also get a one-time payment of Rs. 2,000 each. So far, the amount has been credited to the accounts of 8,997 applicants, he said. Textile Minister Shrimant B. Patil said the Nekara Samman Yojane was a boon to handloom weavers.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc. makes headway in osteoarthritis treatment||To treat osteoarthritis, a chronic joint condition, researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), have developed a micro-particle formulation that allows sustained release of drugs. Researchers have designed a polymer matrix made of poly lactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) to encapsulate rapamycin, an immunosuppressant drug. According to an IISc. release, the preliminary studies on cells cultured in the laboratory as well as in mice models had shown results indicating reduced inflammation and cartilage repair due to sustained drug release. Kaamini M. Dhanabalan, PhD student at the Centre for BioSystems Science and Engineering (BSSE), IISc., said, “In cell studies, rapamycin-loaded PLGA microparticles could release the drug for up to 21 days, and in animal studies, PLGA microparticles showed residence time up to 30 days after injecting the microparticles in the mice knee joint.” “The formulation developed by the team, however, has a residence time of up to 30 days at the target site, with no evident signs that it may cause discomfort to patients. Such a sustained release system can improve patient compliance and reduce hospital visits,” the release stated. Rachit Agarwal, Assistant Professor at BSSE, IISc., said that the preliminary studies using the newly designed formulation could potently reduce the frequent medical intervention to once a month. “Detailed studies are in progress to explore the functional potential in mouse models of osteoarthritis,” he said.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ASI dies of COVID-19; Vidhana Soudha sanitised||A 58-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector posted on the first floor of the Vidhana Soudha passed away at a hospital on Monday morning. He was admitted there two days ago. Hours after his death, test reports confirmed that he had contracted COVID-19. This set off alarm bells in the Vidhana Soudha. All employees were given half day leave and the Vidhana Soudha and Vikasa Soudha were sanitised by the civic body. However, it was not sealed down as the ASI had been on leave for over 10 days. The ASI, a resident of Hoskote, had developed fever over the past four days after he got drenched in the recent rain. He was hospitalised in Hoskote when the fever did not subside. He developed respiratory issues and passed away, sources said. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao said with this, the total number of deaths in the police force due to COVID-19 had gone up to five in the city. Till date, 344 police personnel tested positive for COVID-19 in the city, of which 175 cases are active and under treatment or quarantine. As on Monday, 26 police stations have been sealed.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman waits 15 hours in OT||A pregnant woman, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and delivered in a private hospital here on Monday morning, was in the operation theatre for over 15 hours as her husband decided to shift her to a government facility since he was unable to bear the cost of treatment in the private hospital. “I have been trying all evening to get an ambulance. I have called many helplines but have received no response. I want to shift her to a government hospital,” he said. He was forced to take her to a private hospital after a government hospital reportedly said they did not have any beds. The family underwent a harrowing experience after a private hospital she was undergoing treatment in, refused to take her in for delivery after she tested positive for COVID-19. “We finally took her to a private hospital in Mallesaram where she delivered. But we cannot stay here as it is very expensive. I have already spent over Rs. 90,000 for delivery. If she has to be shifted to the ward, we will have to pay more money. So she is sitting on a chair in the OT,” he said.
07 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Office of Jawaid Akthar sealed||The office of Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, in Vikas Soudha has been sealed. Mr. Akthar confirmed to The Hindu that he was under home quarantine. Sources said this was done after he came in contact with a positive patient. Sources said that a government official had visited Mr. Akthar’s office last week and had spent time. Due to this, the office has been sanitised and those working here have been asked to home quarantine.
07 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seat allotment||Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) will conduct the second round of seat allotment to PG Medical and Dental seats, which have remained unfilled, surrendered, or newly added, after the completion of the first round. In a release, the KEA stated that candidates can exercise their options till 11 a.m. on Thursday. Visithttp://kea. kar.nic.infor more details.
07 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Businessmen decide to restrict activities||In the wake of increasing COVID-19 positive cases in Hassan city, shopkeepers and businessmen have decided to restrict business activities between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. every day till Friday and observe total lockdown during the weekend. Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda, who chaired a meeting, said that hotel owners, shopkeepers and street vendors agreed to restrict their activities to 2 p.m. on all days.
07 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Proposal on changes in zonal regulations to be sent to dept.||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that a proposal seeking changes in zonal regulations in the Comprehensive Development Plan (CDP) for Hubballi-Dharwad would be sent to the Department of Urban Development for consideration. Speaking to presspersons after chairing a meeting at Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) here on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that like in other cities in the State, CREDAI had sought certain changes in the zonal regulations under CDP for the twin cities and after going through them, the proposal would be sent to the department for consideration. The Minister said that certain changes had to be made in the regulations pertaining to HDUDA and as per the suggestion of Urban Development Minister Byarati Basavaraj, a resolution seeking requisite changes will be sent to the Ministry for consideration. Mr. Shettar said that as no farmer had yet come forward for giving farmland for the development of residential layouts in the twin cities, the meeting was not sending any such proposal to the government. “As and when we get such a proposal, we will discuss and send it to the government for approval,” he said. Lauding the steps being taken by HDUDA on survey of illegal layouts in the twin cities, he said that elected representatives would support all such steps taken to check development of illegal layouts. “We need a continuous drive to check such illegal layouts. Then only such developers will feel the heat and fall in line,” he said and added that the new Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad had been instructed to take action against illegal structures and encroachments. The Minister, accompanied by MLCs Basavaraj Horatti, Srinivas Mane and Pradeep Shettar, MLAs Prasad Abbayya, Arvind Bellad and C.M. Nimbannavar, handed over site allotment letters to family members of two martyrs Hassan Sab Khudaband and Basappa Bhajantri. HDUDA Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, Commissioner Ningappa Kummannavar and others were present.
07 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Water released from Sonna Barrage into the Bhima||Since the Bhima catchment area in Karnataka and Maharashtra is receiving good rainfall resulting in increased inflow at the Sonna Barrage built across the Bhima in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district, 2,500 cusecs of water was released from the barrage into the river course on Monday. As per information provided by Executive Engineer of Bhima Lift Irrigation Project Ashok R. Kalal, the barrage was receiving 2500 cusecs of water and the same amount was released into the river course as a precautionary measure. He also cautioned people along the river banks against going to the river or letting their cattle into the river for drinking water. The barrage held around 2.8 tmcft water on Monday against its capacity of 3.16 tmcft. The water level is a little higher than that of recorded on the same day last year and equal to what was recorded in the second week of August last year. Mr. Kalal said that the Bhima catchment area was expected to receive good rainfall in July and August and, hence, 2500 cusecs of water was released from the barrage well before it reached the brim. He said that two of the three hydel power plants at the barrage with each having an installed capacity of 3.5 MW were generating power.
07 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||22 families facing the threat of landslips being shifted||Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary on Monday distributed a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the family of two children who died in a landslip in Gurupura on Sunday. The district administration also began shifting 22 families whose houses are facing the threat of landslips in the area to apartments in Yedpadavu and Gurupura town on Monday. Safwan (16) and Sahala (12) lost their lives in Sunday’s landslip in Banglagudde in Gurupura. The revenue authorities carried out a survey and identified 64 houses in an elevated portion in the area facing the threat of landslips. Of the 64 houses, 22 houses have been classified to be in the red zone. Arrangements for shifting the residents in the remaining houses will be made in a month, Mangaluru Tahsildar Guruprasad said. “The residents of the area have been facing the threat of landslips in the last few years. Though advised to shift to safer places, the residents were reluctant to leave their houses. Yesterday’s mishap has made them realise the gravity of the threat and they have now agreed to shift,” Mr. Guruprasad said. The residents will be provided with temporary accommodation at a Government Pre University College and a government hostel, he added. Vice-President of Gurupura Gram Panchayat G.M. Udaya Bhat said that around 70 residents of the area are those who have applied for regularisation of their occupation of revenue land under Section 94 CC of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act. Due to technical issues their applications are pending.
07 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New undertrials of Mangaluru District Prison undergo 21-day quarantine||While an undertrial and two staff members of the Mangaluru District Prison tested positive for COVID-19, there is no let-up in the efforts of the prison administration in ensuring that prison inmates do not get infected from COVID-19. Primary among the steps taken is the mandatory 21-day quarantine for new inmates. “We have been following this norm for the last three months,” Superintendent of Prison Chandan Patel told The Hindu . The old block of the prison is being used for this purpose. “We are just overcautious with the new inmates. If they do not have any symptoms during this period, then they are brought back to the main block,” he said. Among those who are undergoing 21-day quarantine included six of the eight arrested recently by the Ullal Police in an attempt-to-murder case. Six accused were remanded to judicial custody after they tested negative for COVID-19, while two of them who tested positive were moved to an isolation centre. A hands-free sanitiser has been kept at the entrance to the prison. Another sanitiser has been kept for the use of inmates and prison staff entering the main block. They are compulsorily made to wear face masks when going further inside the prison. The prison staff move around the barracks using face shields. The entire prison premises is sanitised three times a day using sodium hypochlorite solution, he said. To ensure social distancing among the inmates, the prison administration in April shifted 80 inmates to the district prisons in Karwar and Chikkamagaluru. The district courts released some of the undertrials on bail. The undertrials are being produced before courts in the district from the prison using video conferencing facility. An undertrial, who was admitted to the Government Wenlock Hospital in the city a few days ago after he suffered a fall in the prison, tested positive for COVID-19. A warder, who was among six prison staff who took the undertrial to hospital, and a jailor, who was the primary contact of the warder, also tested positive. The two are asymptomatic and undergoing treatment. Primary and secondary contacts of the warder are under home quarantine. There are about 50 prison staff to take care of the 222 inmates in the prison, Mr. Patel said.
07 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two more deaths in Dakshina Kannada||The number of COVID-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada rose to 22 on Monday with two more patients losing their lives to the disease. A 52-year-old old man suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiac problems and pneumonia had been admitted to the Government Wenlock Hospital on July 2. The man, who tested positive, died on Monday morning. A 62-year-old man had been admitted to a private hospital in the city on June 27. He died on Monday. In Udupi district, 40 new cases were reported taking the total to 205 on Monday. As many as 18 patients were discharged.
07 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Robotic skillathon competition||Mangalore Institute of Technology and Engineering, Moodbidri, has secured the third position in the All India Robotic Process Automation Skillathon conducted by Guvi and UiPath in June. The recognition ceremony for the top institutions was held on July 3 through a virtual ceremony. The skillathon event was conducted to provide students an opportunity to add a new skill and get exposure to the robotic process automation, a release said.
07 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||ASI-protected monuments in State reopen||Monuments protected by the Archaeological Survey India (ASI) across the State were reopened to the public as part of the graded unlocking amid a protest by local villagers at Somanathapura. The monuments had been out of bounds for visitors, tourists and the general public ever since the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25 to curb the spread of COVID-19. During the first phase of unlocking, the ASI had announced the reopening of 820 monuments, including places of worship, from June 8. The remaining monuments were reopened on Monday. However, at Somanathapura in Mysuru district, there was a protest by locals, who assembled in front of the 13th century Chennakeshava Temple and urged the authorities to shut it down till the pandemic subsided. About 60 people from the village expressed their opposition to the ASI’s move to reopen the monument on the grounds that it could draw visitors and jeopardise the safety of the local community. However, there were no visitors to the site, which was deserted till late in the afternoon though normally the famed Hoysala monument attracts scores of tourists. A local ASI employee said the decision to reopen monuments was that of the Union government, but added that they would communicate the concerns of the villagers to their higher-ups and abide by their decision. The ASI has issued a set of guidelines to be followed, as per which monuments that are not in containment zones can be reopened. The guidelines also state that the protocols issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and all specific orders of the State or the district administration need to be followed. Online tickets The ASI has also discontinued issuing tickets manuallyat counters and is making it mandatory for potential visitors to procure e-tickets from the official ASI website. This is part of the measures in place to minimise contact and ensure social distancing. There are other regulations, including restricting the number of people visiting a monument so as to prevent crowding. There are 747 ASI-protected sites in Karnataka, and 13 of them have ticketed entry.
07 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||State government urged to remove illegal pumpsets along TLBC||Chamaras Malipatil and Raghvendra Kushtagi, farmer leaders, have urged the State government to remove pumpsets illegally connected to the Tungabhadra Left Bank Canal, before releasing water from the Tungabhadra dam. Addressing a press conference in Raichur on Monday, both leaders said that some influential persons in the achhkat areas in Raichur and Koppal districts have installed illegal pumpsets to draw water from the canal to irrigate their land. They said that tail-end farmers in Manvi and some parts of Raichur taluk will not get water for irrigating their dry land due to the illegal connections in the upper reaches as a result of which, crops in these areas will face the threat of withering away. Therefore, the government should take immediate action to remove all illegal pumpsets and ensure proper water supply in the tail-end areas, they added. Mr. Patil and Mr. Kushtagi demanded that the government ask officials of the departments concerned to supervise the project to modernise the Narayanpur Right Bank Canal and ensure proper and quality work as there are allegations of irregularities. Farmers organisations have already taken up these issues and will stage agitations if the government did not fulfill their demands, they said.
07 July 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Remove encroachments and protect tanks, officials told||Taking serious exception to encroachments on tanks, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has directed the officials of the departments concerned to remove such encroachments and protect tanks. He was addressing a meeting of officials in Raichur on Monday. Mr. Venkatesh Kumar, who was particular about protecting tanks, said that the officials of the Urban Development Department and the Urban Development Cell and Minor Irrigation Department should identify tanks encroached upon illegally and remove such illegal encroachments and protect them. He directed the officials to plant trees after developing the tanks and also create awareness among people about the importance of water bodies and their proper usage. At one stage, the Deputy Commissioner came down heavily on Executive Engineer Vinod Kumar Gupta when he failed to give a proper explanation about development of tanks in the district which has a total of 300 tanks and warned that strict action would be taken against officials if they come to meetings without proper preparation and statistical information. He specifically directed the officials to take action to prevent drainage from reaching Mavinakere and Mansalapur tanks. CEO Lakshmikanth Reddy, Additional Deputy Commissioner Durugesh and other officers were present.
07 July 2020||YADGIR/RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||41 fresh cases in Yadgir and Raichur districts||As many as 41 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Monday. Of the 41, 35 are from Yadgir and six from Raichur. With 35 fresh cases, the total number of positive cases in Yadgir has been put at 1,006. As many 869 patients have already been discharged and 136 are getting treatment in the designated hospital. In Raichur, the total number of such cases reached 575 and of these, 422 patients have been discharged. At present, 150 patients are getting treatment. One patient has died in Yadgir, while three have died in Raichur.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Take a train to board a plane||In a move that is expected to benefit airport employees as well as air passengers, the railway halt station on the boundary of Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) will be ready at the end of August. This will enable South Western Railway (SWR) to give a stoppage for trains being operated on the Yelahanka-Bangarpet line. For over a decade, citizens of Bengaluru have been demanding a mass transit network to the KIA. At present, a majority of air passengers rely on road transport, especially taxis and personal cars, to reach the airport, which is located more than 35 km from the CBD. “Work on the halt station is nearing completion. Prior to the imposition of lockdown, three pairs of trains were running on that line. Once the train services resume, we will provide a stoppage at the halt station. BIAL promises to run a free shuttle service every 15 minutes from the station to the airport. They have already repaired the road leading to the halt station. The journey time from the station to the airport is around eight minutes,” said Ashok Kumar Verma, Divisional Railway Manager (Bengaluru). BIAL is bearing the cost of the station, which is Rs. 3 crore. Various amenities for passengers, such as ticket counters and waiting lounge, are coming up. In addition to air passengers, the trains are expected to help hundreds of employees working at the airport. Prajwal Kumar, a rail enthusiast, said, “Hundreds of employees, who are based in Kolar, commute to the airport every day spending over Rs. 200 per day. Once the halt station becomes operational, they can reach there by spending Rs. 25 to Rs. 30.” Under the suburban rail project, the Karnataka Rail Infrastructure Development enterprises (K-RIDE) had planned to build a rail network from KSR Bengaluru to Devenahalli (48 km) via Yeshwantpur and Yelahanka. The project is awaiting final nod from the Centre. Meanwhile, the BMRCL is planning to extend the metro line from K.R. Puram to KIA via Nagawara and Hebbal. It has acquired properties on many stretches of the alignment. The BMRCL is waiting for approval from the Centre to begin work on the project.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Health activists to boycott work from July 10||The Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), who have played a vital role during the COVID-19 pandemic, have decided to boycott work from July 10 alleging that the State government has not listened to their plea to increase their honorarium. Their other demands include sufficient protection when they step out on the field to carry out COVID-19 related activities. D. Nagalakshmi, State secretary, Karnataka Rajya Samyuktha Asha Karyakarteyara Sangha, said although the workers were toiling for long hours on the field, they were not given adequate safety gear. She said that they are demanding adequate compensation for workers if they test positive for COVID-19. “ASHA workers have dedicated themselves in this war against COVID-19 by pledging their lives and risking their livelihood. It is the due responsibility of the government to safeguard the health of ASHA workers who work among the infected every day. The present situation is as if the government has pushed them on the battlefield without any arms and ammunition. We, therefore, urge the government to provide adequate PPEs to protect the health of ASHA workers for their invaluable service in stalling the infection of COVID-19,” Ms. Nagalakshmi said in a release. Doctors wear black band Meanwhile, the 507 contract doctors in PHCs run by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, who have submitted resignations to the Deputy Commissioners and District Health Officers, wore a black band around their arm while performing their duty. On Tuesday, they will fast for an entire day, and will submit their resignations again on Wednesday.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Border safety||standalone border
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man arrested on murder charge||The police arrested a man who allegedly killed his three-month-old baby in a fit of rage in Anekal on Saturday night. Srinivas and Janani, labourers from Tamil Nadu, married two years ago. They were residing in Yedavanahalli in Anekal taluk. On Saturday night, the couple had a tiff during which Srinivas allegedly pushed Janani. She fell on the cradle in which their baby Spandana was asleep. The baby woke up and started crying. Srinivas allegedly threw the baby on the floor. Though the couple rushed the baby to a nearby private hospital, the child was declared brought dead.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Former CEO of Raghavendra bank found dead||Maiya was among other officials of the bank recently raided by the Anti-Corruption Bureau on June 18 in connection with the alleged largescale irregularities in the bank. Multiple agencies — Enforcement Directorate, CID, RBI, and Registrar of Cooperative Societies — are probing alleged irregularities at the bank. The Karnataka HC, hearing a PIL petition by depositors, had pulled up agencies for delay in probe on multiple occasions. The bank has been in the eye of the storm since January when the RBI stopped all banking activity and imposed withdrawal limits for depositors owing to large non-performing assets. A probe by RBI and Registrar of Cooperative Societies had indicated irregularities to the tune of Rs. 1,400 crore in the bank. This included diversion of deposits by banks and disbursal of loans worth Rs. 150 crore to 60 fictitious customers. The probe revealed that while the bank had consistently claimed its NPAs' to be around 1% of its turnover in all its publicity material, it was in fact around 25% to 30%. ( Those is distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani (104) for help .)
07 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||15 cases in Alappuzha||Fifteen people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Of the fresh cases, seven each came from abroad and other States and one contracted the disease through contact. Among the foreign returnees, three had come from Kuwait and one each from Saudi Arabia, Yemen, UAE and Oman. The patients are natives of Muthukulam, Kayamkulam, Devikulangara, Thazhakkara and Chunakkara. Four ITBP personnel Of those who returned from other States, four are personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) unit at Nooranad. They came from Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh and Chattisgarh on June 11, June 8 and June 12. The other patients are natives of Kanjikuzhy and Thanneermukkom. One of the patients is a Kottayam native who was at a COVID-19 care centre in the district after his arrival from Delhi from train.  A 53-year-old man has contracted the disease through contact. He is a relative of a 65-year-old man from Kayamkulam who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 last week while undergoing treatment for other ailments at a hospital in Kollam. Apart from the sexagenarian, 16 of his family and relations have so far contracted the disease through contact. The patients who tested positive on the day have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. Seven cured Meanwhile, seven people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 206.  Seven patients each came from abroad and other States and one got disease through contact.
07 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Ensure compensation, PM urged||A.M. Ariff, MP, has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene to provide appropriate compensation to families of the two fishermen aboard an Indian boat killed by Italian marines of the merchant ship Enrica Lexie in February 2012. Delivering the final verdict in the case, Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) based in The Hague upheld that the two Italian marines were entitled to immunity in relation to the acts of murder and precluded India from exercising its jurisdiction over the marines. “The only solace available to the bereaved families is that the tribunal has kept open the doors of negotiation between the two countries to reach an agreement on the amount of compensation due to India in connection with the loss of life, physical harm, and material damage to property. In this context, I request you to urgently intervene to make available deserving and appropriate compensation to the families of the two fishermen on the basis of negotiations with the Italian government,” Mr. Ariff said in a letter sent to the Prime Minister.
07 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||K.R. Gouri turning 101||Veteran communist K.R. Gouri will turn 101 on Tuesday. There will be no celebration this time as the revolutionary leader is in reverse quarantine at her house at Chathanad in Alappuzha. Relatives said Ambalappuzha palpayasam would be served along with her birthday meal to mark the occasion. Her birthday falls on the Thiruvonam day in the Mithunam month of the Malayalam almanac.
07 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Antigen testing to be ramped up at hospitals||In the wake of people with no travel history and their primary contacts testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district, antigen testing will be ramped up at taluk hospitals for faster detection. People visiting government hospitals with acute respiratory infection will be tested for COVID-19 using antigen tests. A decision to increase sentinel surveillance has also been taken at a meeting convened by Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar. Private hospitals have also been directed to make arrangements for antigen testing. Tests at CIAL Currently, around 100 antigen tests are being done daily for returnees at the Cochin International Airport. Antigen testing would be increased to around 300 to 400 per day soon, health officials said. “It is now important to increase testing among all symptomatic patients irrespective of whether they have a travel history. Since the antigen test is a rapid one, it will help with faster identification and isolation of such patients,” said Dr. Mathews Numpelil, district programme manager, National Health Mission. “As with any rapid test, there could be a few chances of a false negative, but if a positive case is suspected, it can be confirmed with a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, which takes longer to provide results,” he said. Quick result Around 15,000 antigen testing kits, which can give results in 30 minutes, were provided to the district last week. Antigen testing will go up to around 800 daily, once the facilities are increased. Around 200 to 250 RT-PCR tests were being done in the district daily at government facilities, said Dr. N. K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer. At the airport, an antibody test would be done first, and if that returned positive, it would be followed by an antigen test. An antigen test can detect virus particles that might be present in the body at the time of testing, and an antibody test would detect antibodies produced after exposure to the virus. “Even if the test at the airport returns negative, returnees would have to observe the quarantine period. The test is only a measure to determine how many people returning are testing positive,” Dr. Kuttappan said. Including the nearly 100 antigen tests being performed at the airport and roughly another 200 RT-PCR and TrueNat tests at private laboratories and hospitals, around 500 tests might be conducted daily, health officials said. Of these, around 240 can be processed at the Government Medical College Hospital. With two additional RT-PCR machines coming up in the district — one at the Ernakulam Public Health Laboratory and another one at the Kalamassery MCH — the capacity to process the tests would increase by around 240 daily. The new machine at the MCH might be required to process samples sent from the Lakshadweep islands, officials said. Two private laboratory chains and a private hospital are equipped with RT-PCR testing facilities. Additionally, four private hospitals have TrueNat machines.
07 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||No triple lockdown for now, says Minister||There was no plan for imposing a triple lockdown in Kochi despite the COVID-19 situation turning worse, said Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Monday. “We are not thinking in terms of a triple lockdown now,” he said after attending a meeting in Aluva to discuss the situation at the Aluva market where an autorickshaw driver tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. The meeting was attended by representatives of merchants’ associations and other stakeholders. The Minister said that Chambakkara and Aluva wholesale markets would be reopened on Tuesday after disinfecting them. Police and fire force personnel had begun disinfection works from the early hours of Monday, market sources said. Nazeer Babu, president of Aluva Merchants’ Association, said that merchants were ready to abide by safety norms. The Minister said that since the Ernakulam market was already closed down, it was not possible now to keep the Aluva market shut. However, there would be no retail sale in Aluva. It was retail sale that drew large crowd, he said. The market plays a central role in supplying goods to retail traders because there were no big markets in the northern periphery of the city. The Aluva market caters for a large geographical area that go up to the border of Ernakulam with Thrissur. Traders at the market have agreed to close wholesale business at 6 a.m. Lorries bringing goods would not be allowed to roam around. All payments would be complete by 7 a.m. The Minister said that the situation would be watched closely in the coming two days.
07 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Fish auction called off at Varapuzha||After crowding in violation of COVID-19 physical-distancing protocol persisted at the Varapuzha market, the Varapuzha panchayat, along with traders and the police, has decided to implement more stringent measures. “Despite an action plan that was implemented last week onwards to regulate the crowd, the early hours of the morning, beginning from around 3 a.m., have been witnessing large crowds of vendors at the market, mostly for the auction of fish,” said K.S. Muhammed, panchayat president. On Monday, a meeting of panchayat members, police and traders at the market decided to call off the auction from Tuesday onwards. With other duties at hand for a force of only around 25 staff at the Varapuzha station, the police have also been struggling to manage the situation. “The crowd would have to be regulated from within and proper monitoring ensured by members of the market association,” said J.S. Sajeevkumar, Inspector of Police, Varapuzha. He said that three police personnel had been stationed regularly at the market. After an inspection on Monday, K. Karthik, District Police Chief, Ernakulam Rural, has directed traders at the market to mark circles outside shops to ensure that people stand at a 1-metre distance of each other. “Tokens will be given outside to ensure that only hundred people enter the market, which houses some 40 shops, at a time,” Mr. Muhammed said. Each shop has also been directed to maintain a record of names and phone numbers of customers, besides providing hand sanitisers. The crowd was currently being managed by four home guards, and this would soon be increased to eight, he said. As per the action plan prepared earlier, only a single entry and exit point was permitted for vehicles unloading goods at the market and thermal scanners were being used at the entrance. “Crowd at the market is nearly impossible to avoid since there are vegetable, meat and fish shops that are all crammed into a small space,” said Paul B. of the Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Union. “Customers from all over the district visit the market and over a hundred fish vendors depend on it. The crowd can be controlled only to a limited extent. But traders would cooperate with the measures and implement them from Tuesday onwards,” he said.
07 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||50 houses flooded in Chellanam||Around 50 houses in the coastal village of Chellanam were flooded and two of them sustained serious damage in another bout of sea incursion in Bazaar, Saudi, Companyppadi and Velankanni areas on Monday afternoon. An irate group of people, frustrated by the failure of the administration to build effective sea-protection facilities, blocked the flooded Chellanam-Cherthala road as the waters came in. The police intervened to disperse the crowd as some of the areas like South Chellanam faced serious threat of COVID-19 spread. T.A. Dalphine of Paschima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samiti said that the fifty flooded houses were located in the Bazaar area. Two houses were damaged. One of the damaged houses had its sit-out and hall on the verge of collapse. Another two houses, close to the seashore, faced serious threat even as weathermen had predicted four more days of rough seas and heavy winds.
07 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vidhu accuses WCC of double standards||Filmmaker Vidhu Vincent has accused the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) of adopting double standards when it comes to working with those associated directly or indirectly with actor Dileep, an accused in an actress assault case. Ms. Vincent, who resigned from the WCC on Saturday citing personal and political reasons, released her resignation letter on social media on Monday. She alleged that the collective had questioned her about her association with B. Unnikrishnan, general secretary of the Film Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA), who was the joint producer of her latest movie Start Up . Ms. Vincent alleged that WCC members had acted and cooperated with many who had extended their support to Mr. Dileep in the assault case.  ‘Elitist mindset’ There was no confusion among the collective when such associations had taken place, she said. The director accused the collective of having an elitist mindset by not ensuring equal justice to all its members.
07 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vellappally seeks HC directive to officer||SN Trust secretary Vellappally Natesan has moved an interim application in the Kerala High Court seeking to issue directives to the investigation officer probing the alleged misappropriation of funds collected in connection with the golden jubilee celebrations of SN College, Kollam, to consider some evidences and documents regarding financial transactions that have emerged. The petitioner submitted that the investigation officer in the case projected a new allegation of non-accounting of Rs. 20 lakh, which was not in the original complaint or FIR. A verification of the ledger book of the SN Trust revealed that the there was a fixed deposit of Rs. 20 lakh in Dhanalakshm Bank. Though the petitioner brought up the details regarding the discovery of the details of the deposit, the investigation officer refused to receive further statements and documents, he submitted. The petitioner submitted that the officer was proceeding to file the final report without considering the ledger and other documentary evidence on the ground that the court had issued time only till July 8 to file the report.
07 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Writ on risk allowance dismissed||A writ petition seeking to issue directions to the State government to provide special risk allowance and insurance coverage for policemen engaged in the COVID-19 control measures was dismissed by the Kerala High Court on Monday. As the issue of insurance coverage and risk allowances are policy matters of the State government, the court cannot issue any directions, a Division Bench noted. The petitioner sought an insurance scheme for the policemen along the lines of the one introduced for health workers engaged in the pandemic control measures. A large number of policemen were closely interacting with the general public as part of the disease control measures and they were vulnerable to the disease, the petitioner pointed put.
07 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Nine more containment zones declared in district||Nine containment zones have been declared in the district. They include Ward 58 (Konthuruthy) of the Kochi Corporation, Ward 18 of the Aluva municipality, Ward 6 of the Kalloorkad panchayat, Wards 3, 21 and 22 of the Pallipuram panchayat, Wards 3 and 4 of the Edathala panchayat and Ward 5 of the Keezhmad panchayat. Guidelines have been put in place for containment zones. Stand-alone grocery stores are allowed to operate in containment zones between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m., while supermarkets and multi-brand retail outlets will not be allowed. 159 arrested Strict action will be taken against people violating COVID-19 protocol or unnecessarily venturing outside from containment zones. For such violations in the district, 159 people have been arrested in connection with 213 cases. As many as 19 vehicles were confiscated.
07 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||17 get infected through local transmission||The district recorded 17 cases of local transmission of SARS-CoV-2 on Monday, with 15 primary contacts of earlier patients testing positive for the virus. Totally, 25 persons tested positive in the district, of whom eight persons had returned from outside the State. Four family members of a 54-year-old resident of Vennala, who had tested positive on Saturday, contracted the disease. Two of his close contacts have also tested positive. According to police sources, the patient ran a scrap business in Vennala. Three family members of a 64-year-old resident of Chellanam, who had tested positive on Friday, have also tested positive. Her husband and son are workers at the Chellanam harbour, while the patient was an MGNREGA worker. Three close relatives of a lorry driver from Paingottoor have also contracted the virus. Panchayat officials said that the lorry driver had been transporting pineapples from Vazhakkulam to Bengaluru and had returned from his last trip on June 19, after which he had been advised to go into quarantine. A 45-year-old employee from Mulavukad who had been working in the establishment of a trader on T.D. Road has also acquired the infection. The trader, who had a godown near the Ernakulam market, had passed away on Sunday. A 25-year-old family member of an employee at the Naval Base, who had tested positive earlier, along with her close contact from Thevara have also tested positive for the virus.
07 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PWD undertakes survey, soil test to widen road||The development of the Thammanam-Pullepady Road into a four-lane road and its extension towards M.G. Road and NH Bypass have received impetus with a survey undertaken by the Pubic Works Department (Roads Wing) to fine-tune its alignment expected to be completed in another fortnight. The survey by the agency will be followed by consolidation of a report on soil testing that is being done at multiple points in order to widen or rebuild narrow bridges and culverts on the corridor that would augment east-west connectivity in Kochi.
07 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Policeman saves girl from Vembanad||A civil police officer of the Fort Kochi station saved the life of a girl who jumped into the Vembanad lake on Monday. CPO M.V. Lavan was at the Ro-Ro jetty along with Inspector Manuraj G.P. when they spotted the girl trying to jump into the lake. “A person had alerted us about the girl standing near the jetty. We rushed to the spot and tried to stop her. Mr. Lavan and another person jumped into the waters and pulled her out despite the strong undercurrents by holding on to her hair,” said Mr. Manuraj.
07 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two fish vendors, nine others positive||Eleven persons, including two fish vendors, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. While seven persons are from abroad, two had travelled from other States and the other two have no travel history.  A fish vendor from Sasthamcotta used to frequent Kayamkulam, Karuvatta and Azheekkal for buying fish that was sold at Anjilimoodu market. He had visited Navabharat Hospital on June 27 and Sasthamcotta Taluk Hospital on July 4 after he developed symptoms. The second fish vendor, a Puthanchanda resident, had visited Kayamkulam, Neendakara, Ayiramthengu, Puthiyakavu and Edappallykotta with fish. He had sought medical assistance at Molly Hospital on June 28 and Chavara Taluk Hospital before he tested positive. Other patients are from Chithara, Maruthadi, Pathanapuram, Thenmala, Puthur, Thodiyoor, Sasthamcotta, Kadavoor and Karungappally.  The district also reported 10 recoveries on Monday.
07 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Health Department starts running Ponkunnam hospital||The Health Department, in consultation with District Collector M. Anjana, despatched a team of health experts to a private hospital at Ponkunnam on Sunday, the operation of which has been suspended for two weeks after two of its employees tested positive for COVID-19. The closure of the hospital had left several patients undergoing dialysis there in the lurch. The team of experts, including a senior dialysis technician at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, took charge of the hospital and conducted dialysis to three patients on the first day. Dialysis Over the next two weeks, they are scheduled to conduct 48 dialysis on 10 patients using the three machines there. “A direction was issued to run the hospital after sending the primary contacts of the positive cases to quarantine. The entire 140 staff decided to go in quarantine at one go. The sudden move left several patients, including pregnant women and those having kidney ailments, in distress,” said Jacob Varghese, District Medical Officer, Kottayam. The team carries out dialysis to each patient based on a schedule handed over by the hospital authority.
07 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF puts out feelers to KC(M) faction||A couple of senior United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders have approached the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) with an intention to bring the party back to its fold, it is understood. Meanwhile, the faction has postponed a meeting of its steering committee on Wednesday citing COVID-19-related restrictions. Addressing mediapersons in Pala, Mr. Mani said his party would continue as an ally of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) at the Centre. At the same time, he refrained from commenting specifically on a suggestion by CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran that his faction should explore its chances with the LDF after relinquishing the MP and MLA seats that it had won on the UDF ticket. “We have taken a political decision to stand as an independent party post the exclusion. At the same time, we are still part of the UPA, which is based on the national situation. We took this same stance when we had stayed out of the UDF in 2016 as well,” Jose said. Meanwhile, the decision to keep the Mani group out of the coalition for the time being seems to have triggered a tussle between the ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions of the Congress. While the ‘A’ group appears keen on bringing the Mani group back to the coalition, the ‘I’ group is learned to be exploring a few other options including drafting P.C.George, MLA, to its side.
07 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Six cases each in Kottayam, Idukki||Six persons, all of them Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs), tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Eleven persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from various hospitals on the day. The district currently has 109 active cases while 158 have recovered. The persons who tested positive on the day are from Vazhoor, Ayarkunnam, Paippad and Panachikkad. In Idukki A Correspondent writes from Idukki: Six persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Idukki on Monday. A woman and her two-year-old child who came to Thodupuzha from Delhi, a Marayur resident who came from Abu Dhabi, two persons who came to Pampadumpara from Tamil Nadu and an Erattayar resident who came from Bengaluru are the patients. They were shifted hospitals. No one was cured of the disease on the day. The number of active cases in the district is 53.
07 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||More residents of Kozhikode apartment test positive||Six more residents of an apartment near Kozhikode beach have been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, taking the total number of infected cases in the building to 11. Five others, including three children, were tested positive for the virus on Sunday. They are suspected to have contracted the infection from a security guard who had allegedly ended his life and was found to have been infected. The newly infected persons are women aged 70, 45, and 43; men aged 32 and 22, and a 10-year-old boy. The 70-year-old woman is from Perambra, who had reached the city in June last week to meet her daughter. A special screening was conducted in the area after the security guard’s death. The district administration has imposed restrictions on the apartment residents. Meanwhile, the number of active cases in Kozhikode district reached 121, with 15 more testing positive for the virus on Monday. Apart from those belonging to the apartment near Kozhikode beach, the other patients are natives of Kodenchery, Thooneri, Payyoli, Meppayyur, Eramala, and Ayanchery.
07 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Land resource data system in major expansion mode||The Web-based Land Resources Information System (LRIS) developed by the Kerala State Land Use Board employing the possibilities of Geographical Information System (GIS) to secure geospatial data at the click of a mouse is set for a major expansion in the State covering more Assembly constituencies. The financial support of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) will be sought for the Statewide rollout of the scheme. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, who opened an exclusive webinar on Sunday to explain the possibilities of the scheme, said a meeting of NABARD officials would be held at his office soon to discuss the possibilities and realise the possible expansion covering all Assembly constituencies. The main objective of the proposal is to encourage the use of spatial data technologies for local-level planning and to facilitate easy data management, modelling, and associated research for various local development projects. The spatial geo database creation by accurately recording the available extent of land, water resources, and other public assets will be possible through the initiative planned in the Assembly constituencies. At Kattakada A. Nizamuddin, Commissioner of Land Use Board, says the information to be made available with geo-referenced cadastral databases using open source tools and standards will help local bodies to accurately plan development activities and in conservation of available resources. “The Kattakada constituency recently developed such a system, which will be taken as a model for expansion,” he adds. According to him, a number of publicity initiatives to circulate the benefits of this Web tool among local planners, mediapersons, and citizens is on the cards. With the Assembly-level launch of the LRIS, 11 specific areas related to the geo-spatial data and other resources of an Assembly constituency will be available on the portal, which can be even printed for further research activities, he adds.
07 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Further curbs in place in city||More restrictions have been imposed in Kozhikode city in the wake of the recent spurt in COVID-19 cases and the rise in the number of people under observation in the district. The number of the recently infected patients surpassed the 100-mark in the past two weeks. More people are getting infected through contact too. Against this backdrop, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao on Monday issued orders to avoid crowding in public places to counter a possible community spread of the infection. Areas such as Valiyangadi, Palayam, S.M. Street, and Central Market will now be restricted zones, where the police will control public transport and movement of people. Only one entrance and exit will be allowed at Valiyangadi, one of the main markets in the city. Movement of vehicles carrying goods to the market will be controlled, and those coming from other places and States will have to register themselves before entering the area. They will be issued tokens, on which the date of arrival and time will be recorded.
07 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Batting for right information on menstrual health||Akhila (name changed) was sixteen years old when she menstruated for the first time. For at least four years before that, she had been facing questions from her relatives and friends on why she did not have periods. Even at 20, her lack of feminine curves is a butt of jokes among friends. So when the volunteers of The Red Cycle talked about menstruation as a process of a girl turning into a woman, Akhila could not hold back her confusion any more. “It was a realisation for us too, that menstruation meant much more than womanhood or motherhood,” said Sradha Sreejaya, Director of The Red Cycle. “And also that a large majority of girls and women were clueless about what they were going through”. Ms. Sreejaya is now project adviser to Uteri in Kerala Unite (UKU), a campaign launched on July 1, that aims to create public opinion and sway the policy towards making menstrual health education mandatory in State schools from Class 6. “Menstruation is not part of the school syllabus until Class 8. Even then, it is just a vague mention and is of little help to girls,” Ms. Sreejaya said. Many boys and men do not understand why it is so important, says Arjun Unnikrishnan, another director of The Red Cycle and project head of the UKU, explaining the need to impart the science of menstruation to boys as well. Year-long campaign The UKU is a year-long campaign that intends to sway the public opinion on social media in its favour, in the first phase. “In the absence of scientific information, children usually get information on menstruation from either home or friends, who may be misinformed and ultimately confuse the child,” Mr. Unnikrishnan said. The UKU aims to create a safe space for menstruating girls in their school environment where they could openly discuss their problems or seek help from a teacher, he added. The Red Cycle has been holding menstrual health awareness classes in schools and colleges for half a decade and feels it is high time the schools stopped depending on external agencies like them for such classes. “The teachers themselves should handle such classes. It is necessary to create a support system for menstruating girls in schools,” Ms. Sreejaya said.
07 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hunt for driver accused of sexual assault||A special squad of the Kozhikode Rural Police has recorded the statements of around 50 autorickshaw drivers from the Mukkom area as part of an investigation into the incident in which a 65-year-old woman was allegedly robbed and sexually abused by a driver while she was travelling in his autorickshaw. The statements were recorded to cross-check details on the suspected person given by the victim. The local drivers’ union also promised to support the police in identifying the suspect. Police sources said they had collected details of several suspicious phone calls after locating the tower close to the crime scene. CCTV visuals too have been collected from various places to track the suspect, they added. The woman had lost her gold ornaments in the alleged incident that took place last Thursday. According to the police, the driver took her to an isolated area before committing the offence. The incident came to light when the woman was admitted to the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Subsequently, the Medical College police recorded her statement and alerted the Mukkom police.
07 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Action against protocol violation||Kozhikode Mayor Thottathil Raveendran has warned that strict action will be initiated against those who violate the COVID-19 protocol. In the backdrop of the sudden spurt in cases through contact in the city, the Mayor issued directives for those travelling in the city as well as apartment residents. While the Central Market is already under strict surveillance, more commercial centres, including Palayam and S.M. Street, have been added to the list.  “It has been noticed that people are interacting freely with residents in neighbouring flats without following the COVID-19 protocol. This could lead to large-scale community spread,” Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said.
07 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram witnesses 35 positive cases||Thirty-five more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Monday, raising the total number of cases under treatment to 308. While three of the new cases were through local contact, the others are returnees from abroad and other States. Eleven returned from other States and 21 from abroad. All were admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, said District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan. He advised those who had come into contact with the infected persons to go into home quarantine. They should also alert Health officials. As many as 37,742 persons are in quarantine in the district. In Thrissur Fourteen persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur district on Monday. Of them, 12 arrived from abroad, while two came from other States. There was no infection through contact on Monday. As many as 16 persons recovered from the disease. In all, 188 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. As many as 17,393 people are under observation. Meanwhile, nine BSF jawans, who were in contact with jawans who were tested positive, were shifted to a quarantine centre at Guruvayur. In Kannur With 11 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday, 12 more wards were classified as containment zones. Among those tested positive, five returned from abroad and six from other States. Meanwhile, 11 persons were discharged.   In Palakkad Eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Monday. They included a three-year-old boy from Thiruvegappura. Health officials said 33 persons were cured of the disease on Monday. Seven of the new cases were imported ones, while one was the result of local contact. A 65-year-old woman from Kumbidi apparently contracted the virus from a doctor at Edappal. She is under treatment in Malappuram. Pass regulation Minister for Welfare of SC, ST and OBC A.K. Balan said here on Monday that the Centre’s decision to stop pass regulations for entering States would lead to an uncontrolled increase in COVID-19 cases. It will be tough to detect infections among those who come to the State as the Centre had waived the pass regulation at the border, he said. Addressing a meeting of MLAs and people’s representatives in the district, the Minister said ward and panchayat councils should exercise more caution in the wake of the stoppage of border pass regulations. In Wayanad The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Wayanad district as eight more persons tested positive on Monday. All of them had returned either from abroad or from other States. In Kasaragod Six more people tested positive for the Sars-COV-2 virus, on Monday. While four of the affected people arrived from abroad, while two others came from other states in the country.
07 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||HC stays NH survey||The High Court on Monday stayed the survey for the National Highway expansion in Malappuram district following the police action on a physically challenged man who questioned the violation of COVID-19 protocol by the survey team. Noushad Venniyoor, a polio victim, alleged that a group of policemen had roughed him up when he questioned the correctness of conducting the survey by violating the lockdown protocol. A group of officers came with a large team of police personnel and forcibly continued the survey after pushing Mr. Noushad out of his compound.
07 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Gold seized at Karipur||Air Customs officials at the Karipur airport seized 1.12 kg of gold worth more than Rs. 50 lakh from two passengers. Silver-plated gold weighing 582 gm was found hidden in the pedal shaft of a bicycle brought by Mohammed Afsal of Kasaragod who reached Karipur on FlyDubai flight FZ8745 on Monday. Sayyad Abdul Fayiz, another passenger from Kasaragod, was also held with 545 gm of gold compound hidden in his underwear. He reached Karipur from Dubai on Air India Express flight IX 1344 on Sunday.
07 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Driver, student leader among 26 positive cases in Pathanamthitta||A lorry driver from Tamil Nadu who visited the Thiruvalla municipal market and a district office-bearer of the Muslim Students Federation (MSF) are among the 26 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. The health authorities have been left in the dark about the source of infection of the MSF leader. 20 primary contacts District Medical Officer (DMO) A.L. Sheeja told The Hindu that the Health Department had identified 20 primary contacts of the student leader on Monday. She said the contact list of the student leader was likely to be a long one. His party had recently organised a protest meeting in the town. Meanwhile, the district authorities have closed the vegetable markets in Thiruvalla town and at Kavumbhagom with the driver of a lorry that carried vegetables to these places from Cumbom-Theni areas in Tamil Nadu on July 2 testing positive on Monday. Municipal wards 33 (municipal market are) and 28 (Kavumbhagom) have been declared as containment zones following this, according to health authorities. The clinical examination results of the throat and nasal swabs of the lorry driver taken on July 2 reached the DMO on Monday. Address traced The administration here has traced the Tamil driver’s address in Theni district and recommended the district administration there to hospitalise him, sources said. Localities Others who tested positive on the day are natives of Peringara, Thiruvalla, Naranammoozhy, Pathanamthitta, Mallappally, Eraviperoor, Mele Vettipram, Pullad, Manakkala, Thekkuthodu, Thannithode, Pandalam, Konni, Aruvapulam, Ranni, Enadimangalam, Kottangal, Kidangannur, Mallappally, Thiruvalla, Vayyattupuzha, Kallooppara and Kulashekharapathi.
07 July 2020||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||NoRK who jumped quarantine hospitalised||A 47-year-old Non-Resident Keralite (NoRK) who was in home quarantine created embarrassing moments for the law-enforcing agency on Monday afternoon after he strayed out of his home. The man who reached his home at Chenneerkara, near here, from Riyadh three days ago was sent in quarantine at his home since then. A police team carrying out a routine vehicle check at St. Peter’s Junction in the afternoon identified the man. The police detained the man and informed the General Hospital authorities who sent a team of health-care workers in an ambulance to the spot in a few minutes. After a chase The police and the health-care personnel managed to catch the man who fell down while running away from them. He was admitted to the isolation ward at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry and the Fire and Rescue Services personnel sanitised the St. Peter’s Junction later.  According to the police, the NoRK reportedly showed symptoms of mental stress and came out of his home after quarrelling with his kin there.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only less than 1% cases untraceable, says CM||Even as local transmission of COVID-19 cases across the State has been showing a rising trend, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that it was only in less than 1% of the total COVID-19 cases in the State that authorities were unable to establish an epidemiological link. He said that in many cases where initially the source of infection could not be established, the Health Department, through contact tracing exercise, had managed to find the possible epidemiological links. In less than 2% cases, the authorities were unable to trace a source of infection in the beginning. In India, the proportion of cases with no known source of infection was 40%, he said. Till July 5, of the 5,429 COVID-19 cases in the State, 674 cases had occurred through local transmission while the remaining 4,755 were all imported cases of infection. Kannur (109) has reported the maximum number of local transmission cases, followed by Kasaragod (93), Thrissur (72), Malappuram (69), and Thiruvananthapuram (72). Till June 30, of the 4,442 cases reported, in 166 cases the epidemiological link could not be established initially. In 125 of these cases, source of infection could be traced and it is only in 41 cases that a plausible link to a source could not be found, Mr. Vijayan said. Of these 41 cases with no epidemiological link, 23 were currently under investigation and in the case of 18, the authorities were very much in the dark about how those persons had contracted the diseases. Mr. Vijayan said the Health, Police, and Local Self-Government Departments were hard at work doing the contact-tracing exercise but the public needed to cooperate better with the authorities for the investigations to be fruitful. The government’s approach to the problem of local transmission was multipronged. 0.4 % cases positive He said the triple lockdown declared at Ponnani a week ago, following the reporting of intense local transmission, was being lifted at midnight. The Health Secretary had informed that following mass testing in the community at Ponnani, only 0.4 % cases had tested positive for COVID-19, he added. However, the vigil will continue and then restrictions required in a containment zone will continue to be strictly implemented.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Not aware of suspect’s appointment, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said he was not aware of the circumstances that led to the appointment of gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh as marketing liaison officer of the Space Park project under the IT Department’s Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited (KSITIL). When pressed, Mr. Vijayan, who holds the IT portfolio, said: “It was without my knowledge and will endeavour to understand the facts in the matter.” Mr. Vijayan did not attempt to defend IT Secretary M. Sivasankar, who reportedly takes the final call on appointments in the KSITIL. Mr. Sivasankar had, arguably, come under a cloud after Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and BJP State president K. Surendran questioned his alleged association with Ms. Swapna. The leaders had sought clarity from Mr. Vijayan on whether Mr. Sivasankar had inducted Ms. Suresh into the IT Department subsidiary after she quit her job as an executive secretary at the UAE consulate here and despite adverse reports from the police intelligence and Crime Branch. (The IT Department has terminated her assignment after the controversy broke.) Sivasankar clarifies Mr. Sivasankar told The Hindu that the offence was serious and he had a duty as a citizen to help the investigators unravel the crime. “I happened to know the woman but have absolutely nothing to do with the offence. At some stage, if the investigators required to speak to me, I would oblige,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Surendran’s allegation that the CM’s Office had attempted to save Ms. Swapna would not pass muster with the public. The Customs probe was foolproof. The State government has extended full support to the investigators. “The guilty would not escape the law,” he said. The gold seizure had erupted on the political stage as a major controversy with Mr. Chennithala and Mr. Surendran holding back-to-back press conferences. The controversydominated the news cycle throughout the day.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Janakeeya restaurants make a comeback||The Janakeeya restaurants, which along with the community kitchens had become a lifeline for many during the extended lockdown from March, are making a comeback during the triple lockdown in the capital city. The Kudumbashree district mission will open 10 Janakeeya restaurants in the city on Tuesday. The city Corporation has extended its support for the distribution of food packets across the city. On Monday, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran and Kudumbashree Mission officials held a meeting with Mayor K. Sreekumar on the arrangements to be made for the purpose. In April, soon after the lockdown began, the first such Janakeeya restaurant was opened at the Corporation’s jubilee building near Overbridge Junction, with meal parcels priced at Rs. 25. The Kudumbashree has now set up a temporary call centre with block co-ordinators for receiving the food orders. Orders till 8 a.m. Orders for a particular day can be placed from the previous day till 8 a.m. on the day. The food packets as per the orders would be delivered to the respective zonal office of the Corporation, from where it will be delivered to the specific location. In addition to the existing restaurant at Overbridge, restaurants will be opened at Overbridge, Vallakkadavu, Nettayam, Jagathy, Nalanchira, Nemom, Vazhuthacaud, Medical College, Kazhakuttam and Mannanthala. During the lockdown too, five Janakeeya restaurants were opened, but were closed later due to fall in demand. For bookings, contact – 9061917457, 8921663642, 9400939914, 9020078480, 7012389098. Those eligible Those eligible for food supply service are aged people above 65 and living alone, differently abled persons living alone, persons living in hostels, lodges or institutions without canteen facility. Not more than two food packets will be distributed to a house or family. The surprise announcement of the triple lockdown on Monday night left quite a few in the city stranded without arrangements for food. Those hit included security personnel in flats and institutions and those staying in single-room apartments without kitchen facilities. The opening of the Janakeeya restaurants could solve some of the issues faced by them.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) to discuss KC(M) entry into LDF||The CPI(M) State leadership will soon initiate bilateral discussions with Left Democratic Front allies for clearing the impasse over the entry of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) into the front. Party sources told The Hindu that the parleys are expected to begin only after the faction specifies its future political course. Moreover, it will be held only at the behest of the CPI(M) State leadership and have to be endorsed by the central committee and Polit Bureau in due course. Reports of the central leadership’s intervention to clear the air in the wake of the dissent registered by the CPI are unfounded, sources said, and added that before the LDF takes up the issue for a full-fledged discussion, a consensus would be evolved through bilateral engagement. The CPI(M) State leadership has held a preliminary discussion with the CPI. Talks with other allies too would begin soon. But the sources reiterated that the party leadership would tread cautiously to avert differences of opinion with the partners. Cadres’ demand Meanwhile, CPI(M) cadres in Kottayam, Idukki, Pathanamthitta and certain regions in northern Kerala, where settler farmers wield considerable clout in determining the electoral fortunes of parties, especially in local body elections, are understood to have expressed their desire for the party and the LDF having an alliance with the KC(M) Mani faction in the ensuing elections. This was learnt to have been substantiated by citing the winning margin of UDF and the LDF candidates in grama panchayats in these districts in the last elections. Since the electoral fortunes in local bodies are determined on wafer-thin margins of less than 50 votes, striking a deal with the KC(M) Mani faction is pointed out to be beneficial for the LDF in a number of local body wards. This is also expected to deeply impact the prospects of the UDF in such segments in the electionss, the sources said.  CPI(M) cadres in several places are understood to have expressed their desire for the party having an alliance with the KC(M) faction.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Six KSRTC depots closed||The triple lockdown imposed on the Corporation limits from Monday affected the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) services, with Thiruvananthapuram Central, the hub of the bus operations, and six KSRTC depots remaining closed. The schedules from Thiruvananthapuram Central at Thampanoor, including those plying to other districts, came to a halt from 6 a.m. as public transport is banned as part of the containment strategy. The newly launched hourly relay services for long distance passengers up to and from Thrissur operated from Kollam to Alappuzha. Although the KSRTC operated inter-district services from bus depots outside the city Corporation limits, the patronage was less for schedules along the NH and M.C. Road as the government offices in the State capital had been shut. The buses that came from Kollam ended their journey at Attingal and those that came via the M.C. Road at the Venjaramoodu bus station. Private buses keep off In addition to Thiruvananthapuram city, the bus depots at Peroorkada, Vikas Bhavan, Pappanamcode and Vizhinjam were closed due to triple lockdown. Vellanad bus depot in the district had been closed from Saturday as it falls under the containment zone. The Bus on Demand (BoND) non-stop services from Neyyattinkara to the capital, launched on Friday, have been suspended and will resume after the triple lockdown is lifted. The 100-odd private buses operating in the city limits also stayed off the roads. Rail station, airport The KSRTC also operated 28 buses for those who came in four trains in Thiruvananthapuram Central and 18 buses for those who landed in three flights in the airport on Monday as per the request of the district administration, he said.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||4 infected through local contact||Local transmission of SARS-CoV-2 remained prevalent in the capital district as four of the seven people diagnosed with COVID-19 on Monday were found to have contracted the infection through contact. The source of infection in a 55-year-old Parassala resident, who has no recent history of travel, is unknown. The case is an addition to the 30 cases of unknown sources that were reported in the district during the last month. Two-year-old infected Among the other cases, the two-year-old son of a woman from Parassala, who tested positive for the infection on July 3, has been diagnosed with the infection. The Poonthura cluster that came into being with a fish merchant contracting the disease continued to grow as a 33-year-old head load worker, hailing from Poonthura, who works in the Kumarichantha fish market, and a 22-year-old Assamese hotel employee who had visited the same locality two weeks ago tested positive. The imported cases are a 49-year-old Vakkom native and a 33-year-old Mariyanad native who came from Qatar via Kochi on June 27, and a 29-year-old Karamana native who came from Saudi Arabia on July 5. The district administration has stepped up rapid antigen detection tests in various parts including Poonthura, Valiyathura, Fort, Attukal and Manacaud.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milma’s demand||The Kerala Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) has requested the district administration’s permission to keep milk booths open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. during the triple lockdown in the capital city. On Monday, the first day of the lockdown, many booths remained shut due to the lockdown announced late Sunday night. Following this, Milma managing director Patil Suyog Subhash Rao held discussions with District Collector Navjot Khosa. Although the orders pertaining to the lockdown issued on Sunday did mention that milk booths would remain open from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., staff running milk booths and the Milma dairy at Ambalathara had faced travel difficulties.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Supermarkets sealed||The city Corporation’s health squad sealed a supermarket at Pattom for functioning in violation of the lockdown restrictions. A team led by Mayor K. Sreekumar sealed the Giant supermarket near Vydyuthi Bhavan on Tuesday noon. A medical store run by the same group adjacent to the supermarket was not functioning. The health team also sealed the Kunnil supermarket near Government Medical College Hospital for similar violations. Mr. Sreekumar said the public should co-operate with the restrictions being imposed to arrest the spread of COVID-19.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ganja and hashish oil seized||Excise officers on Monday seized marijuana and hashish oil valued at Rs. 1.5 crore from an inter-State lorry they intercepted on the outskirts of the capital city. A special team led by Circle Inspector, Excise, T. Anikumar, also arrested Eldo Abraham, 28, of Kochi and Sebin Kunjan of Kundara in Kollam district, on the charge of drug smuggling. They were remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Treatment rates in private sector||The Health Department, which has been negotiating with hospitals in the private health sector regarding COVID-19 treatment cost packages, has now issued orders fixing the package rates that may be charged by private hospitals The rates would be the same for treating people under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati as well as for patients who would be referred by the government to private hospitals for COVID-19 care. Accordingly, the rates that may be charged per patient per day have been fixed at Rs. 2,300 for general ward, Rs. 3,300 for care in high-dependency unit, Rs. 6,500 for ICU care without ventilator and Rs. 11,500 for ICU care with ventilator. Standardisation The government had entered into a negotiation with the private hospitals regarding standardisation of treatment costs as the steady rise in the number of hospitalisations of COVID 19 cases had made it evident that sooner rather than later the private health sector would have to step in to aid the government in pandemic management The new rates are exactly the same that had been proposed by the private hospitals’ representatives themselves, during their meetings with the government. They had also said that the COVID-19 rates for treatment under KASP’s pneumonia care package was too low for them to be viable as the cost of PPE required for COVID care itself added significantly to the overall costs. The government has also allowed private hospitals to charge an additional amount as PPE costs.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor’s tweet raises eyebrows||A tweet from Raj Bhavan on Monday appeared to put the government on the defence momentarily. The twitter handle of Governor Arif Mohammed Khan showed a picture of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sitting alongside gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh presumably at a function during the latter’s official visit to the United Arab Emirates. The tweet raised quite a few eyebrows. A Raj Bhavan official told The Hindu it was an accidental tweet. The person who managed the twitter handle for Mr. Khan was updating his mobile phone when the picture in the archives got transmitted inadvertently, the official said. The tweet was withdrawn within minutes.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Former consulate employee held||A former UAE consulate employee was arrested late Monday in the case relating to the smuggling of gold allegedly through the diplomatic channel of the consulate here. An officer identified the suspect as Sarith, a former employee in the public relations wing of the consulate. He was produced at an economic offences court in Kochi and remanded in judical custody for 14 days. However, investigators have named another former employee, Swapna Suresh, as a suspect and ‘person of interest’ in the case. Investigators inspected her flat in the city and the woman was believed to be absconding.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus Two results postponed||The declaration of results of the Plus Two and Vocational Higher Secondary Education examinations has been postponed to next week. The results were to be announced on July 10. The declaration has been put off owing to the imposition of triple lockdown for a week in the State capital. The examination board that was to meet on Monday to approve the results could not get together owing to the lockdown. The board will now meet after the lockdown is lifted. After the exam board meets, the results are processed again to incorporate any changes decided at the meeting. These could relate to award of grace marks or issues related to question papers for a subject, and take a couple of days. A final check by the National Informatic Centre is also done during this time. The new date for announcement of results has not been finalised. Meanwhile, the 61 missing Mathematics answer scripts of students of Government Higher Secondary School, Muttara, Kollam, that went missing while being sent for valuation through post have been found. The answer scripts that were found at the Railway Mail Service godown at the Shoranur railway station reached the Directorate of General Education on Monday. The Postal Department had been attempting to locate the answer papers. Though sent to the Palakkad valuation camp, the answer scripts instead reached Coimbatore where they languished for days.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||70 lakh seed packets to be distributed||The Agriculture Department will distribute 70 lakh seed sachets this month as part of the ‘Onathinorumuram Pachchakkari’ initiative under Subhiksha Keralam, the food security programme of the State government. Inauguration today Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar will inaugurate the programme via videoconferencing on Tuesday. In April, the government had distributed 65 lakh sachets and saplings as part of Subhiksha Keralam.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Capital in a vulnerable position, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing media, said here on Monday that the government had decided to impose triple lockdown in the city Corporation limits as the steady increase in cases acquired from the community could have serious consequences, including “community transmission”. He said the capital city was especially in a vulnerable position because of the presence of many government offices and the Secretariat, which was visited daily by people from all across the State, who could unknowingly transmit the infection far and wide. Proximity to T.N. Being the border district to Tamil Nadu did not help at all as several people travelled across the border every day for work or health care. One fish vendor in Poonthura alone has been confirmed as having transmitted the disease to nine people and possibly many more, he said. Mr. Vijayan said that till May 3, the capital district had only 17 COVID-19 cases, of which 12 were imported ones. Since May 4, the district has had 277 positive cases, of which 61 have been cases of local transmission.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fish seed production centre inaugurated||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated a freshwater fish seed production centre and hatchery at the Neyyar dam through videoconference on Monday. The centre has been established at a cost of Rs. 13 crore. One crore fish seeds would be produced here.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Page 4 must||The Kerala Financial Corporation’s webinar on Business Continuity for Start-ups in COVID-19 Crisis scheduled for July 7 has been postponed to July 14 owing to the triple lockdown in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits. The event will take place at the scheduled time on July 14.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KEAM to go ahead as scheduled||The KEAM 2020 entrance examinations for various professional courses will go ahead as scheduled on July 16. The decision to persist with the existing schedule was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Monday. As per the existing schedule, Paper 1 — Physics and Chemistry — will be conducted from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and Paper 2 — Mathematics — from 2.30 p.m. to 5 p.m.
07 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Movie piracy||The Cyberdome and the high tech cell has initiated an inquiry regarding a complaint from Allen Rajan Mathew, producer of the movie Musical chair that pirated versions of his movie are being uploaded on social media platforms. State Police Chief Loknath Behera has directed the police to get the movie removed from all platforms and identify the uploaders. The movie was released on the Mainstream TV streaming application on Monday night. A case has been registered under the IT Act.
07 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Internship programme at IMG||The Institute of Management in Government (IMG) is offering a two-month internship programme for final-year students of MBA and PGDM courses. For details, visit the IMG official website.
07 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Heavy wind, rain wreak havoc in Koratty||Heavy wind and rain that lashed Koratty and neighbouring areas on Sunday night caused heavy losses. Houses were damaged, trees uprooted, and vehicles overturned in the wind which lasted a few minutes at Vaparambu, West Koratty, Pongam, Chirangara, Mudappuzha, and Chettarikkal. The tin roofs of many houses were blown away in the wind. A Tamil Nadu registration lorry parked at Chirangara overturned in the wind. The power connection was also snapped in many areas. The impact of the rain an wind was such that the people were in panic fearing that an earthquake had hit the area. Meanwhile, the District Collector declared a red alert along the banks of the Chalakudy river as the water level in the Peringalkuthu reservoir upstream increased to 419 m. As the shutters of the dam have been kept open, the excess water will flow into the river once the water level reaches 419.41 m. The water level in the dam reached 419 m by 5 p.m. on Monday. People have been banned from bathing and washing in the river. Fishing in the river has also been banned. Strict control has been imposed on tourists at centres along the river. The rural and city police and the DFOs of Chalakudy and Vazhachal divisions have been given directions to be on the alert for dealing with any emergency situation. Meanwhile, the district administration has arranged 819 camps to accommodate people in case floods or sea erosion in the coastal areas worsens.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fun and frolic||
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||High vigil||
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Educational journey||
07 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly most affected in Anantapur district||A sentinel surveillance of COVID cases on 17 groups of people of different ages, health conditions, economic strata, geographical area, healthcare personnel etc., showed that those with influenza like illness (ILI), severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and people aged above 60 were the most affected. Releasing the results of the surveillance conducted on 5,254 persons of different groups, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said 45 of them turned out to be positive in the district and out of these 45, 14 were aged above 60 and had comorbidities, and 11 were SARI and ILI patients. In all, 74,929 tests were conducted till Monday and of them, 2,328 (of Anantapur origin) tested positive and 1,359 discharged. The death toll stood at 30. Currently, 956 patients were being treated in four hospitals, five COVID Care Centres and some others in home isolation. The number of patients from other States or countries is close to 300 in the district.  ‘No lockdown’ While the district is in the second position in the State’s list of cumulative cases, it occupies the sixth position in the number of active cases as on Monday. There was no lockdown in the district and no restriction of movement too, in places other than the containment zones, said Mr. Gandham Chandrudu. The shops would be allowed to open only up to 11 a.m., but if the situation improved, more would be allowed to remain open, he added. The discharge strategy for the patients with mild symptoms, moderate symptoms (in COVID Care Centres) and severe symptoms (in hospitals) has been changed based on the directive of the Union Health Ministry, he pointed out.
07 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 constables suspended on disciplinary grounds||A constable and two head constables of Hindupur II Town police station were suspended on Monday after a CCTV footage of the police station showing all three of them consuming liquor on the premises went viral. The footage was leaked on to the social media platforms on Sunday night . Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu immediately suspended the two head constables Tirumalesh and Noor Mohammed and constable Gopal Naik on disciplinary grounds. Inquiry ordered An inquiry has been ordered into the incident.
07 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor SP talks tough on illicit liquor trade||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Monday warned that those involved in brewing of illicit liquor and their export, import and transportation would be dealt with sternly in accordance with the A.P. Excise Act 1968 and A.P. Prohibition Act 1995. Addressing the media here, SP Senthil Kumar said that as per the new provisions provided in the two Acts, the district police had conducted a series of raids and arrested several persons involved in excise violations. The SP said that as per the newly-inducted provisions of the Acts, those violating the norms would be liable for imprisonment, the tenure of which is increased from five to eight years. The penalties would be Rs. 2 lakh for those caught for the first time and Rs. 5 lakh when booked for the second time.
07 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Markfed begins procuring tobacco||In an unprecedented move, the Government of Andhra Pradesh has begun purchasing Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco from auction platforms on the southern light soils and southern black soils in Prakasam district. Since July 1, the State government through the AP Markfed has started buying tobacco in a bid to bail out crisis-hit tobacco farmers. FCV tobacco auctions have begun on a dull note this year and as on previous Friday, 48.44 million kg of tobacco was sold, as against 72.98 million kg sold on the same day in 2019. The outbreak of COVID-19 has further dampened the mood at the auction platforms and with fewer exporters turning up, the AP Markfed has decided to jump into the fray.  Buyers stay away While ITC continues to be a major player in tobacco purchases, the other big players too have shied away from auctions this year. FCV tobacco is still a remunerative crop for farmers in spite of vagaries of nature and, recently, the Tobacco Board has started encouraging farmers to switch to natural farming. CM’s assurance Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had convened a meeting with the Executive Director of the Tobacco Board and senior officers and said that the State government was ready to bail out tobacco farmers. Active at 5 platforms “The Markfed is now operating in five auction platforms, Ongole-1, Ongole-11, Kondepi in southern black soils and Podili and DC Palli in SLS region. The average price is in the range of Rs. 85 to Rs. 140 and by July 4, the Markfed had purchased 1.75 lakh kg,” said a senior official. The target for procuring FCV tobacco this year is 137.81 million kg. Prices increase On a bright note, the average prices of all varieties – NBS, SBS, SLS and NLS – have shown some increase with the crop grown on northern black soils fetching Rs. 150.06 per kg as an average price followed by Rs. 156.64 per kg in NLS compared with Rs. 132.76 and Rs. 148.67 the previous year.
07 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur city records 80 new cases||With the largest single-day spike of 80 cases registered on Monday, Guntur city has emerged as a hotspot for COVID-19 infection. Most residential areas are under containment and restrictions are still in place in many zones. The district recorded 244 new cases and areas in Bapatla, Piduguralla and Rentachintala have been declared as containment zones by the District Collector. The unlock -2 phase during the month of June, has seen a spike in cases. While, cases were less than 500 during the four phases of the lockdown till May 31, they jumped to 1,500 on June 30. Now during Unlock-2 , the number of cases touched 1,847 cases. District Collector I Samuel Ananda Kumar said that the situation is alarming and said that containment strategy would be followed in strict adherence with the State and the Central government guidelines. Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha said that aggressive containment strategy would be continued in areas where more than 15 cases were reported. More number of health and medical staff were being deployed to ensure that all suspects were tested and treated. The residential areas in Brodiepet, Lakshmipuram and Amaravathi Road continued to be out of bounds. The police put up barricades and the control rooms. “We urge people to follow basic safety precautions like use of hand sanitisers, face masks and follow social distancing protocols. We still urge people not to come out unless they have some essential work,” said the Collector. Further, the district administration is gearing up to meet any medical emergency by scaling up the hospital bed capacity to 5,000 out of which 2,000 beds are allotted for emergencies. The discharge rate has too gone up with 916 patients getting discharged while 930 persons are still being treated. “We urge people not to show any discrimination agaisnt affected persons . We have medical evidence pointing that the virus stays only till 5-6 hours after the death,” said the Collector.
07 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to pay tributes to YSR at Idupulapaya||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will pay tributes to his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at his ‘Samadhi’ at Idupulapaya on the latter’s birth anniversary on July 8 (Wednesday). Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will fly to Kadapa from Gannavaram on Tuesday and reach the YSR Estates at Idupulapaya by a helicopter. He is scheduled to pray at YSR Ghat on Wednesday and visit Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) in the adjoining RK Valley. At the campus, he will inaugurate a new academic complex, a 3 MW solar plant and lay foundation stone for various development works. The Chief Minister will leave for Kadapa airport and fly back to Gannavaram, a release said.
07 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 children drown in water tank||Two children, aged five and seven, drowned in a water tank dug for agriculture operations at Kappatralla in Devanakonda mandal of the district on Monday. The deceased, identified as Talari Vijay(7) and Talari Shiva(5), were cousins and had gone to the agriculture field along with their fathers. While they were occupied with work, the children went close to the pond and accidentally fell into it and could not come out. By the time their fathers realised their absence, and found them, the children had drowned in the tank. Pathikonda Rural Inspector of police retrieved the bodies and sent them for autopsy .
07 July 2020||MACHILIPATAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘issuing fake e-passes’||An private employee, M. Pavan Kumar, who was allegedly issuing e-passes for inter-State travel, was arrested by the Chilakalapudi police on Monday. A native of Prakasam district, Pavan Kumar was working in a consultancy at Uppal in Hyderabad. He allegedly collected money from the public and issued 73 passes for travelling from A.P. to the neighbouring States and vice versa. The accused forged the signatures of the officials of the DGP’s Office and gave the passes. When the racket came to light, SP M. Ravindranath Babu ordered investigation, which led to the arrest,” said Chilakalapudi CI Venkata Narayana.
07 July 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||103 test positive in Nellore, Prakasam||The south coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh continued to reel under the pandemic as 103 patients, 62 in Nellore and 41 in Prakasam tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. With this, Prakasam’s tally rose to 1,004 out of which 447 are active cases and Nellore’s to 1,070 of which 474 were active, health officials said. In a welcome sign, 103 patients, 60 in Nellore and 43 in Prakasam, were discharged from hospitals. The lockdown was implemented strictly in Ongole and Chirala, which were declared as integrated containment clusters by the authorities. The number of cases went up to 120 in the handloom town of Chirala with 11 fresh cases and in the district headquarters, it went up to 226 with six new cases. Six of the newly-infected persons had returned to the district from Telangana and two each from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The condition of 241 patients was stable, a report compiled by the Medical and Health department said. Meanwhile, in the neigbouring district, Nellore city accounted for a maximum of 24 fresh cases followed by Venkatagiri with nine, Chejerla with five, Kavali and Tada with four and Sitaramapuram with three. One case each was registered in Varikondapadu, Kaligiri, Muthukur, Kodavalur, Buchreddipalem, Dakkali. Five patients from Prakasam district and one each from Kadapa district and Hyderabad also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu along with Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan conducted a surprise visit to shopping malls to assess their preparedness to ensure a safe and secure environment for the denizens.
07 July 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plot hatched at Kollu’s house: police||The Robertsonpet police probing the murder of Moka Bhaskar Rao (57) said the accused reportedly hatched the conspiracy at the residence of former TDP Minister Kollu Ravindra. “Chinta Chinni and Chinta Nancharayya alias Nani, who are A 1 and A 2 in the case and attacked the YSRCP leader around 11.30 a.m, on June 29, discussed the murder plan with Ravindra in his house, located at Ullangipalem in the town,” an investigation officer preferring anonymity said. The TDP leaders, who gathered at Ravindra’s house before the murder, discussed the plan in detail for about an hour. The former Minister reportedly promised to extend all support to the gang, but asked them to ensure that his name did not come out. He also asked them to contact him only through his personal assistant, said Krishna district SP M. Ravindranath Babu. ‘Recce conducted’ “Chinni, Nancharayya, Ravindra and others, who decided to eliminate Bhaskar Rao, reportedly discussed the day, time and spot for executing their plan. The gang conducted a recce and were in regular touch with the former Minister. They made an attempt on June 28,” police said. The next day, three persons, including a minor, attacked the ruling party leader indiscriminately and fled the spot on a bike, which was recorded on CCTV. After some time, the accused spoke to Ravindra through his PA’s phone and confirmed that they had carried out the operation, the investigation officers said. “During questioning, we grilled Ravindra on his role in the murder. We have also verified the call data of all the arrested. The role of other TDP activists and followers of the former Minister is being probed,” the Robertsonpet police said.
07 July 2020||T. Appala NaiduUPPADA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 176-crore plan on the anvil to check coastal erosion||The Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS), Pune, has offered a geo solution of raising a six-meter seawall along the five km of Uppada coast. The Department of Transport, Roads and Buildings has submitted Rs. 176-crore proposal to the State government to build a seawall with a five-layer geo material for the protection of the Uppada coast from erosion. A plan has been chalked out to prevent the coastal erosion, after the 1,463-meter length of geo-tube installed in 2010 was completely broken due to tidal waves and erosion during the two cyclones - Vardah (2016) and Fani (2019). P. D. Vijaya Kumar, Superintendent Engineer, Department of Transport, Roads and Buildings (DTRB-East Godavari district), told The Hindu that the CWPRS experts have recommended use of the geo equipment that costs Rs. 176 crore to build a wall along the coastline at Uppada to prevent soil erosion. In early June, the proposal was submitted to the State government. In February, the CWPRS carried out a one-week study on the Uppada beach profile, tidal waves, and its strength. DTRB Divisional Engineer V. Srinivas said: “The CWPRS experts’ solution is to build a protection wall with five layers -- geo fabric, tube, sand, stone belt, and concrete layer. The State government is likely to take a final call on the proposal by early August.”  IIT-Madras plan Mr. Srinivas said the IIT-Madras offered another solution that costs Rs. 211 crore. It was also submitted to the State government. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy recently reviewed the two proposals. Delay in the protection of this patch of the Uppada coastline will lead to further erosion of the coast.
07 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements in place for Sundarakanda recitation||Elaborate arrangements are in place for the grand conduct of Akhanda Prathama Sarga Sundarakanda Pathanam at Nada neerajana mandapam in front of the main temple complex on Tuesday. As many as 211 extracts from the sacred Ramayana will be recited by Vedic scholars invoking the blessings of the presiding deity Lord Venkateswara for global health and prosperity. According to TTD Additional Eexecutive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, the temple administration has embarked on the novel feat for relieving mankind from the clutches of the COVID-19 pandemic. The unique feat was initiated on June 8, the day the hill temple was re-opened to the devotees and about 6.5 crore devotees from across the globe have been following the programme being aired by the Sri Venkateswara Bhakthi Channel every day. The programme has more than a crore viewers from both Telugu-speaking States. The devotees can access TTD websitewww.svbcttd.comfor the slokas made available in the PDF format.
07 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Video of COVID patient’s burial goes viral||The video of the burial of a COVID-19 patient in Tirupati allegedly using an earthmover went viral on social media on Monday. It also triggered a political row after TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh expressing dismay over the incident. The body was taken to ‘Govindadhamam’, the gas-fired crematorium. However, as the body weighed 180 kg, it could not be pushed into the furnace and it was returned to SVIMS COVID hospital. As no other vehicle was available to shift it to ‘Harischandra Smasanavatika,, the regular burial ground, the municipal corporation staff allegedly hired an earthmover with the consent of the family members. Since COVID-19 protocols mandate burial of a body in a pit as deep as 14 feet to prevent the spread of infection, an earthmover was reportedly used for the purpose. The same was used later to pick up the body from the ambulance to the spot, as the civic staff found it difficult to physically shift the body weighing nearly 180 kg. However, the issue attained a political hue when Mr. Lokesh posted the video footage on Twitter. “Yet another shocking instance of how the body of a COVID-19 patient is treated in AP. Authorities in Tirupati are seen using an earthmover to dump the body in a pit. Does the government have the guts to show this video to the grieving loved ones? Can’t they respect the dead?,” the tweet said. MCT clarifies Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) Commissioner P.S. Gireesha dismissed the criticism making rounds on social media and clarified on the issue to the media later.
07 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing to be enhanced for TTD staff||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management has decided to make its Tirumala-based employees undergo COVID testing more frequently and also to provide them immunity-boosting diet prepared at its canteen. A meeting was held where Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal and Additional EO A.V.Dharma Reddy, Joint EO P. Basant Kumar and District Collector Bharat Narayan Gupta reviewed the COVID situation. The meeting became necessary in the wake of some on-duty security personnel at Tirumala testing positive. The meeting decided to provide individual rooms to every employee discharging duty at Tirumala hills so as to avoid crowding and provide private space to them. “None of the devotees who have visited Tirumala have developed symptoms. Our staff telephoned the visiting pilgrims at random later and found that they are healthy,” Mr. Singhal said. In Tirupati, it was decided to hand over the kitchen at ‘Srinivasam’ pilgrims complex to the district administration for the quarantine centre.
07 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Undue pressure for vaccine release: Chinta||The pharmaceutical industry is mounting undue pressure on research institutions and the fraternity of medical scientists, said former union minister Chinta Mohan. Citing the announcement on release of Covid-19 vaccine on Independence Day, he called it an ‘unrealistic target’. While pointing out that vaccine research was going on in various countries like the USA, the UK and China, he wondered how it was only in India that tall claims by private companies outnumbered official statements. “From saints to scientific companies, everyone claims to be making a vaccine for corona and setting a deadline that is far from reality”, said Dr. Mohan, himself a medical practitioner, adding that such ‘pompous statements’ were meant only to influence the stock exchange. He called it unfortunate for the Central government to use the vaccine trials for achieving political ends.
07 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD takes serious view of propaganda against it||Taking serious objection to the propaganda pertaining to an alien faith by using its monthly magazine ‘Sapthagiri’, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) lodged a police complaint. The officials were shocked to receive a complaint recently that a subscriber in Guntur had received the magazine along with propaganda material of an alien faith. The incident was condemned as the handiwork of some mischievous elements that are out to defame the world-famous religious organisation. It is the Postal Department that packs, weighs the magazines, affixes the address slips and dispatches them to the respective subscribers, for which it receives Rs. 1.05 from the TTD for every copy. Since the copies are delivered through ‘Book Post’, the packs are not sealed, giving scope for possible mischief. When the issue saw light, the TTD staff made a random check with subscribers. Though it was believed to be a solitary incident, the officials lodged a police complaint.
07 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lawyers seek their due||The legal fraternity demanded the government to fulfil the promises made to them in the past, which are all the more essential during the current lockdown period. Though the state government allocated Rs. 100 crore towards the welfare of lawyers last year, not a single paisa has spent so far. In the absence of practice during the lockdown period, release of funds from the allocation would go a long way in helping the beleaguered community. Similarly, the stipend promised under ‘YSR Law Nestham’ for junior advocates has made no headway. “
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 450-crore FIDF loan for 3 fishing harbours in A.P.||The government is going to enter into a tripartite agreement with the Department of Fisheries of the Government of India and the National Bank For Agriculture & Rural Development (NABARD) for sanctioning a Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF) loan of Rs. 450 crore for the construction of three fishing harbours — Uppada in East Godavari district, Machilipatnam Phase-II and Nizampatnam Phase-II, according to G.O No. 116 issued by Special Chief secretary (Fisheries) Poonam Malakondaiah. It was stated that each one of the projects will be provided Rs. 150 crore. The total project cost is nearly Rs. 1,016 crore — Uppada Rs. 350 crore, Machilipatnam Rs. 286 crore and Nizampatnam Rs. 379 crore). The Infrastructure and Investment Department is the implementing agency and the Fisheries Department has been permitted to avail NIDA (NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance) loan for 90% of gap funding (over and above the FIDF loan) to the tune of approximately Rs. 509 crore. The government of Andhra Pradesh will be sanctioning Rs. 56 crore towards 10% gap funding as its share in the total project cost.  Administrative sanction The State government had earlier given administrative sanction for Rs. 1,016 crore to take up the three projects and permitted fund-raising from the Government of India for meeting a part of the expenditure, after the Commissioner of Fisheries wrote a letter in May seeking necessary clearances from the State government.
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. school teachers told to hold bridge courses||Commissioner of School Education V. Chinaveerabhadrudu has ordered that all headmasters and teachers of primary and upper primary and high schools under government management should report for duty once a week (every Tuesday) and twice a week (every Monday and Thursday) respectively from July 13 for conducting bridge courses till the schools reopen. He said all headmasters and teaching and non-teaching staff of the schools where Naadu-Nedu had been taken up in Phase-I had to continue their duties and the headmasters should distribute the work in such a manner that it would be completed by July 31. All the headmasters had been instructed to draw up school development plans in consultation with parents committees, and academic plans for carrying out bridge courses and other hi-tech, low-tech and no-tech strategies to engage the children till the schools were reopened. Help for students It had been suggested that formation of WhatsApp groups be encouraged where the children had online devices (computers and android phones) for monitoring their work through such groups. The teachers were directed to adopt 10 to 20 students each (students who did not have any digital infrastructure) and engage them academically till the schools were reopened, the officer said. Mr. Chinaveerabhadrudu requested the headmasters and teachers to ensure that TV lessons conducted in the Sapthagiri channel were watched by all students and the subjects grasped by them.
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu playing BC card for political gain, says Minister||Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar has accused TDP president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu of playing the BC card to divert the public attention from numerous welfare schemes being implemented by the government and to cover up “the misdeeds” of his party activists. Mr. Anil Kumar was reacting to Mr. Naidu’s allegation that former Minister Kollu Ravindra was implicated in the murder case of YSR Congress leader M. Bhaskar Rao. The Minister said Mr. Ravindra was arrested on the basis of prima facie evidence and questioned why was Mr. Naidu silent on the anguish of the bereaved family who also belong to the Backward Classes. He sought to know why Mr. Ravindra tried to escape if he was not involved in the murder. Mr. Anil Kumar said the government proceeded against former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu for abusing a public servant. Action was taken against MLA K. Atchannaidu for “committing irregularities” in the procurement of medical supplies and equipment for ESI hospitals, but Mr. Naidu resorted to caste politics as part of his divisive agenda. ‘Paltry allocation’ The Minister said Mr. Naidu had failed to deliver the promises he made to BCs during his term. Only Rs. 15,000 crore was spent on BCs against the Rs. 50,000 crore that was promised to be distributed under various schemes. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has spent Rs. 20,000 crore on the welfare of BCs in just one year, he said.
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Group clash: 6 more, including Intermediate student, held||The Patamata police investigating the group clash which created a sensation, at Thotavari Veedhi on May 30, arrested six more accused on Monday. Two groups headed by Thota Sandeep and Koduru Manikanta alias Pandu, attacked each other with lethal weapons over a settlement regarding sharing of flats between two builders. Sandeep, who runs an iron shop, suffered critical injuries and died in a private hospital after a few hours. Manikanta and his gang members too suffered injuries and were arrested later. Differences cropped up between the two realtors, who constructed an apartment in seven cents of land in Yenamalakuduru. They approached Manikanta and Sandeep, who were fighting for supremacy in the area. A day before the street fight, Sandeep visited Pandu’s house located at Sanathnagar, under Penamaluru police station limits and warned Pandu’s mother, Padmavathi, on his behaviour. Pandu, who took the warning as a prestige issue, called up Sandeep, and they had a heated exchange. They later decided to meet. The members of both groups, who were in an inebriated condition and under the influence of ganja, clashed with sticks, knives, iron rods and boulders soon after they met, which created panic in the area. Central Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police P. Nagaraja Reddy and Patamata CI R. Suresh Reddy, who are investigating the case said that 40 persons, including the two realtors, had been arrested in the case so far. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, who is monitoring the investigation of the case, said P. Chaitanya, M. Sagar, P. J. Prabhukanth, K. Anil Kumar, Y. Seshu Babu and M. Kumara Swamy, all residents of Vijayawada were arrested today.
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more held in YSRCP leader murder case||The Krishna district police, who are investigating the murder case of YSRCP leader and former market yard Committee chairman Moka Bhaskar Rao, took two more persons into custody on Monday. The ruling party leader, who was a follower of Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani), was killed allegedly by his rivals and TDP workers at the fish market in Machilipatnam on June 29. Two days after the daylight murder, the Robertsonpet police arrested Chinta Chinni, Ch. Nancharayya and a minor. Later, they picked up former BC Welfare Minister Kollu Ravindra and two others for allegedly plotting the murder. Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu told The Hindu that two others – Kolla Ramu and Tammu Dhana Babu – who were rivals of Bhaskar Rao, were arrested. “So far, we have arrested eight persons in the case, and Ramu and Dhana Babu, who are A 7 and A 8 and were part of the murder plot. The trio, who attacked the YSRCP leader near Koneru Centre, called up A 7 and A 8, who were arrested today,” the SP said.  ‘Security reasons’ Meanwhile, police shifted Ravindra to Rajamahendravaram Central Prison on Monday after the court granted permission. On July 4, the former Minister was shifted to Machilipatnam District Jail as per the directions of the court. “Mr. Ravindra is being shifted to the Central Prison due to security reasons amid tight security,” Mr. Ravindranath said.
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers lay stone for projects in city||Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana and P. Anil Kumar Yadav laid the foundation stone for various development projects, including the transformation of the dumping yard in Ajith Singh Nagar into a park at a cost of Rs. 10 crore, here on Monday. They also laid stones for the development of infrastructure in the CVR municipal school and the park at Lenin Centre. Mr. Satyanarayana said the park in Ajith Singh Nagar would have features like sports zones, amusement rides and an amphitheatre. Central MLA Malladi Vishnu and VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh were among those present.
07 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online mock EAMCET on July 19||The Computer Society of India (CSI) and Xplore.co.in are jointly conducting free mock EAMCET online on July 19. Education Minister Audimulapu Suresh released a poster containing the exam details, on Monday. Mr. Suresh said the test would be conducted from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and results would be declared the next day. Interested students have to register on www.csihyderabad.org/eamcet or www.eamcet.xplore.co.in before July 18.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Negligence, safety lapses led to styrene leak at LG Polymers’||The high-power committee (HPC) formed by the government to probe into the styrene vapour leak from LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam, in its report, has stated that human negligence and serious lapses in safety and security had led to the accident. The panel submitted a 4,000-page report to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at Amaravati on Monday. Styrene monomer vapour leaked out from a storage tank in the plant in the wee hours of May 7, killing 12 and hospitalising hundreds. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy visited Visakhapatnam on the same day and interacted with the injured undergoing treatment at the hospital. Panel members The Chief Minister also set up the high-power panel led by Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad to probe into the incident. The other members of the panels included Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce Department) R. Karikal Valaven, Visakhapatnam Collector V. Vinay Chand, City Police Commissioner R.K. Meena, Andhra Padesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) member-secretary Vivek Yadav, Directorate General, Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes (DGFASLI) Director General R.K. Elangovan, and Bharat Kumar Sharma, Regional Director of CPCB, Pune. The panel, which probed into the circumstances that led to the styrene leak, found fault with the LG Polymers management for the lack of proper safety response preparedness at the plant. “Poor design of the storage tank, inadequate refrigeration and faulty cooling system, absence of circulation and mixing systems, inadequate measures and parameters, poor safety protocol, inadequate safety awareness were found to be reasons that led to the accident,” said Mr. Neerabh Prasad. The panel chairman also pointed fingers towards inadequate risk assessment response, poor process safety management system, insufficient knowledge among staff about the chemical properties of styrene during storage conditions. “The protocols pertaining to emergency response and safety were not followed by the authorities during the lockdown period,” he said. Mr. Neerabh Prasad further said that major changes in the design of the storage tank were done in December 2019, which led to disruption in the circulation and mixing system in the tank. ‘No corrective action’ “On April 24, the tank gave initial signs of polymerisation. Had the plant management taken it as a warning sign and corrective action taken, the accident could have been averted,” said Mr. Neerabh Prasad, adding that no special protocol was followed during the lockdown period. The report also mentioned that the company had failed in activating the emergency siren system, despite having 36 siren points including one at the entrance gate. “Had the plant management sounded the siren in time, it would have warned the people in the vicinity,” observed Mr. Neerabh Kumar. ‘Lack of inhibitors’ Further, the report said that the company did not keep sufficient stock of inhibitors and other terminating chemicals to control the runaway reaction. The styrene vapour leaked due to auto polymerisation in the tank. Put report in public domain: CM Meanwhile, the Chief Minister accepted the report and ordered that entire document should be placed in public domain for people to access and inform respective authorities to take necessary legal action against those responsible under relevant sections. During the course of investigation, the high-power committee held several meetings with the officials of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), petrochemical experts, technical committee members formed by the HPC, citizens, political parties, journalists and besides others. The committee also sent a questionnaire to the management of LG Polymers through the Factories Department.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Is Vizag witnessing community spread?||In the last five days (June 1 to 5), the city has recorded over 370 COVID-19 positive cases. Out of a total of about 1,270 recorded so far, the last five days accounted for about 30% of the cases. Since opening up of the lockdown, the cases have been on the rise and from 143 cases in the first of June, the cases have shot up to 1,270, within a span of four weeks. The containment clusters have also risen from 30 to over 220, including 98 very active and over 120 active clusters, during the same period. This gives an indication that community spread of the virus is taking over the city. It is no longer limited to primary contacts or those identified under the contact list of primary contacts. The spread is now regular and across different areas and profiles of the city and that is why we have over 220 containment clusters, said Director of Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences K. Satya Varaprasad. Community spread is categorised under the third phase of spread of the virus and is said to be the most dangerous and crucial phase and both Visakhapatnam city and the district is now going through this phase, said a senior officer from the Department of Health. Community spread is the phase where people contract the virus despite not being listed in the contact list of primary or secondary contacts or coming in contact with a symptomatic or a positive person. The spread is no longer limited to a certain containment cluster but it is now across the city and this suggests that such people might have contracted the virus from an asymptomatic person or from a place visited by an asymptomatic, said Kothakota Raju, pulmonologist at GITAM Institute of Medical Science and Research, a government-nominated COVID hospital. According to Dr. Satya Varaprasad, there is no scientific estimate on the number of asymptomatic persons, but as per the ICMR, there are close to four crore in India and in lakhs in our State. “The figure is also high in the city and district and after opening up of the lockdown, unknowingly they are infecting hundreds on a daily basis,” he said. The infection need not be from droplets of a symptomatic or an asymptomatic person. The virus can get into any person if he or she holds anything that was touched by a symptomatic or asymptomatic person, including cellphones, door bolts, doorknobs or tabletops. The virus reportedly stays alive on the surface from couple of hours to couple of days depending on the object, said Dr. Raju.  Personal hygiene Acknowledging that the district and the city may be entering the third phase, District Collector V. Vinay Chand said, “We are entering a crucial phase and there is going to be a spike in cases. But this is also the time that people start following the prescribed protocols such as wearing mask, sanitising the hands often, maintaining social distancing and staying at home.”
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag district sees 4 more deaths||The district recorded highest number of COVID-19 positive cases since its outbreak, on Monday. It also recorded four deaths, which is the highest so far. The number of positive cases recorded was 117, taking the total count to 1,395. With four deaths on Monday, the total count goes to 11. Of the 11 deaths recorded so far, two were from other districts who were undergoing treatment here, which makes nine from the city/district alone. The number of active cases are 862 and 27 patients who were undergoing treatment were discharged on Monday, after testing negative. With the 27 discharges the total number of discharges goes up to 522. According to P.V. Sudhakar, district COVID-19 Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College, 21 new clusters were added on Monday, taking the total number of very active clusters to 111, active clusters to 126, dormant to 67 and denotified to 30.  192 new cases Meanwhile, 41% of total COVID-19 cases reported in East Godavari district in July are from the district headquarters of Kakinada. A total of 301 persons among the 751 persons, tested positive in July till Monday morning, belong to Kakinada city and rural. In the last 24 hours ending Monday morning, the single-day highest spike of 104 cases has been reported in the Kakinada city and rural. “A record number of 81 persons have been infected with the virus since Sunday morning in Kakinada,” according to the district health bulletin. In the district, the tally crossed the 2,000-mark as the total number of cases was 2,147 by Monday morning with 192 new cases reported over the past 24 hours. “Fourteen per cent of the cases among the district total of 2,147 cases are from Kakinadada city and rural,” according to the health bulletins. Since the beginning, Kakinada witnessed 225 cases. District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy recently said that negligence of people was the prime reason for the spread of virus in the district.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers demand cancellation of stone crusher licence||The villagers of Mondipalem in Visahkapatnam district staged a protest following social distancing norms on Monday demanding the cancellation of licence of Annapurna Devi Stone Crusher, which they alleged, was polluting their village. They also demanded that the district Collector visit the village or appoint a committee to look into the pollution issue. ‘No response’ Yerramsetty Nookaratnam, a villager, said that 316 people from Mondipalem village submitted a memorandum to the Collector through the Anakapalle RDO on June 8, but there has been no response till date.. Pilla Naggeswara Rao, another villager, lamented that they were facing air and water pollution due to the crushing unit. P.S. Ajay Kumar, general secretary, All India Agricultural Rural Labour Association, who was present at the protest, said that Mondipalem has become like Palasa in Srikakulam, which gained notoriety for chronic kidney disease.  Investigation sought When already the villagers are demanding protection from water and air pollution, how could the government give permission to such a unit, he questioned. The permission was given in May when the entire country was under lockdown and this matter should be investigated. Leaders from other Opposition parties were present.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||North Andhra: Koyya dares Sabbam for debate||The decision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to make Visakhapatnam as executive capital of the State, is being welcomed by all sections of the people, except Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders, YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leader Koyya Prasad Reddy has alleged. North Andhra has been neglected for the past several decades and the Chief Minister was planning to develop it like never before. In just one year after assuming power, the YSRCP government has initiated the process of setting up three medical colleges, a skill development university and three fishing harbours in the region, Mr. Prasad Reddy said. The YSRCP leader challenged TDP leader Sabbam Hari for a public debate on development in north Andhra during the Chandrababu Naidu rule and under the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. The YSRCP leader alleged that TDP leaders Sabbam Hari, Kala Venkata Rao and Rammohan Naidu were thwarting development in the region.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Mangalampalli||Minister for Tourism and Culture Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has described Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna as one of the greatest classical singers, who brought laurels to Telugus across the globe. He participated as a chief guest at the 90th birth anniversary celebrations of Dr. Balamuralikrishna at the Collectorate here on Monday.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl allegedly gang-raped for months||A minor girl was found to be pregnant in a village under Yelamanchili police station limits in Visakhapatnam district. The 15-year-old girl was allegedly repeatedly gang-raped by three youngsters from the same area. A week ago, the girl’s grandparents observed a growing bump on the girl and they took the girl to a hospital at Tuni of East Godavari district, where she was confirmed to be six-months-pregnant. The girl along with her grandparents had lodged a complaint with the Yelamanchili police seeking action against the accused. The girl’s parents died a few years ago due to ill-health. The girl has been staying with her grandparents, who are farmers, for the past six years. The girl is a Class-IX dropout. The police said that the girl’s grandparents used to go to their agriculture field and return home in the evening, whereas the girl stayed alone in the home during that period. Noticing that the girl was alone in the home, three youngsters of the same area allegedly befriended her and later reportedly raped her. She was allegedly threatened of dire consequences if she disclosed this matter to anyone. The police said that a case was registered against the trio under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC and relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The girl was admitted to a government hospital at Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district for medical examination. The police have launched a manhunt for the trio.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quarantine hospitals lack hygiene: MLA||Lack of hygiene, poor quality of food and non-availability of masks were plaguing the quarantine hospitals in the district, alleged Visakhapatnam East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu. Speaking to the media here on Monday, he attributed the rising number of COVID-19 cases in his constituency to the indifference of the State government. He also alleged that the family members of patients were not being tested promptly. The bedsheets at quarantine hospitals were not being changed regularly and the food was not being supplied as per the menu announced by the State government for the patients. He said the District Collector should visit the quarantine hospitals and initiate remedial measures.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counselling for nurses, technicians today||A preparatory meeting was conducted at the King George Hospital on Monday ahead of the counselling of staff nurses and anesthesia technicians, scheduled on July 7. The merit list with roster was displayed on the KGH website. All the eligible candidates are directed to attend for counselling along with their original certificates. The counselling for the post of 139 staff nurses and 50 posts of anaesthesia technicians will be held at the Office of the Superintendent of KGH from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.
07 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rythu Sangham seeks justice for farmer||The AP Rythu Sangham, an affiliate of All India Kisan Sabha, has demanded justice to a farmer, who was allegedly evicted by a real estate dealer in Survey No. 365/9 of Chouduwada village of K. Kotapadu mandal in the district. B. Sanyasi Naidu, the aggrieved farmer, had been cultivating crops in 1.02 acres of land in the said village for the past 16 years and was paying taxes. B. Jagadish, a former Sarpanch and real estate dealer, got him evicted by threatening him and has now converted the land into plots and sold them, sangham district president G. Nayana Babu and general secretary K. Appa Rao said in a statement on Monday. They said that complaints were lodged at the K. Kotapadu Police Station, Endowments Department, the District Collector and the Chief Minister’s office in the past but no action has been initiated so far.
07 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 protocol compulsory in all apartments, say officials||With the rapid spread of coronavirus in Vizianagaram, the municipal officials are taking steps to control the pandemic. Apart from focussing on streets, they also urged residents of apartments to follow COVID-19 protocol strictly. Social distancing and wearing of masks have been reportedly ignored in a majority of apartments. Free movement of servant maids, milk vendors and other persons is being observed in several apartments. Many parents are allowing children to play in their premises. Community gatherings have also been the order of the day at many places. Initially, lockdown was implemented strictly in apartments too. However, the relaxation from lockdown and lack of fear of coronavirus posed threat to residents of many apartments. As many as 800 apartments are located in and around Vizianagaram and more than 26,000 people are living in them. “One COVID-19 case lead to many problems for other dwellers. Almost all apartment residents will have to be in quarantine if rules are not followed. Such incidents occurred in neighbouring Visakhapatnam. That is why, we are advising everyone to follow social distancing within the premises. We also advised them not to use lifts frequently,” said D.S.P. Lingam, former president of Sai Aditya Residency of Cantonment, Vizianagaram. Vizianagaram Municipal Commissioner S.S. Varma, Municipal Health Officer B. Praneetha have directed the officials to chlorinate all the premises of apartments to prevent spread of the virus.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Polavaram spillway works may be completed by September’||The work pertaining to the erection of 196 girders on a stretch of 1.054 km of the spillway of the Polavaram irrigation project in West Godavari district began on Monday. The work commenced from the 45th and 46th blocks of the spillway. The two-month task was launched after performing bhumi puja by Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) general manager A. Satish Babu and engineers at the spillway.  110 girders “As many as 110 girders are being erected with the target of completion of the spillway works by early September. The construction of 52 blocks on the spillway is nearing completion. The spillway work will be completed, once 196 girders are erected. Each girder weighs around 62 tonne. Simultaneously, the casting of the remaining girders is in full swing,” said Mr. Satish Babu. Rockfill dam He said once the girders were erected it would clear the decks for the earth-cum -rockfill dam work . “We have prepared the ground to continue the work during the monsoon,” he said. A team of Executive Engineers P. Adireddy and K. Balakrishna Murthy, and Divisional Engineer K. Mallikarjuna participated in the bhumi puja.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||This mango is diabetic-friendly||When the sweet aroma of mangoes spreads, diabetics are in a dilemma whether to savour it or not. “Will my sugar level shoot up? Should I skip a meal?” These are the common questions that cross their minds, and more often than not, they avoid eating the king of fruit. Well, here is a good news for diabetics. Kongara Ramesh, a progressive farmer of Tarluwada village, near Anandapuram on the outskirts of the city, has developed a mango variety with low levels of sugar. “The total soluble sugar (TSS) of this variety is only 16 as against 20 and 25 that of common mango varieties. Despite being low in sugar, the taste is fine,” he told The Hindu at his farm recently. The tree, which grows up to a height of 10 feet, can be grown even on a rooftop by pruning the branches. Despite its small size, each tree yields 300 to 400 fruits. The seed is small, like that of an almond, the skin is thin and the pulp quantity ranges between 80% and 85%, occupying a greater part of the fruit. Cross breeding “We have developed this fruit by crossing Rumani variety (grown in Puttur region) with a cross-bred variety, we had developed at our farm. We have a single tree, and the maiden yield, last year, was 300 mangoes. The fruits are yellow in colour and weighs 200 gram each,” he said. The Horticulture Research Station at Sangareddy has certified that this variety has only 16 TSS. Some of the other varieties, developed by Mr. Ramesh, have also been certified by the ICRISAT (International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics) and Murali Mohan Challa, an Associate Professor of Biotechnology at GITAM Deemed to be University, in the past. “We are trying to develop a few other varieties of mangoes with red colour while keeping the TSS low and ensuring ripening of the fruit on the tree itself to avoid artificial ripening. At present, we are marketing Swagatham and Amrutham varieties,” said Mr. Ramesh. “The Swagatam and Amrutam varieties of mangoes are being marketed for a long time and command a very good price in the market. Amrutam, a cross between Amrapalli and Chinna Rasalu, is very sweet, but can be stored at freezing temperature for four to five months. A stick can be pierced into the fruit and eaten like an ice cream. We sold this variety for Rs. 700 a kg in New Delhi in the past,” said Mr. Ramesh.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM asks officials to complete testing process in 90 days||Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the health officials to reach out to the people living in containment clusters and the primary, secondary contacts of the COVID-19 positive patients, and complete the testing process within 90 days. At a review meeting on the pandemic situation in the State at his camp office with senior officials, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the health officials to complete the mandatory testing of all suspected cases and record their travel history to other States and countries in any, migrant labourers and people with comorbid conditions. The decision came when the State is witnessing a steep spike in COVID-19 positive cases since the Unlock-2 began in the first week of July. Andhra Pradesh has recorded close to 20,000 cases till date, with the largest single day spike of 998 cases on Sunday. “The government wants to complete the testing process quickly so that the COVID-19 cases are identify early and and treated. We will ensure that all COVID care centres and quarantine facilities are equipped as per the global standards and in tune with guidelines issued by World Health Organisation (WHO),” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister also reviewed the preparedness of the State for the pandemic. “There will be no compromise while ensuring that COVID care centres are equipped with the best facilities,” he said. Emergency response The officials informed the Chief Minister that on an average, each district has 3,000 to 4,000 beds for COVID-19 patients. “The district medical centres are equipped with ventilators. Emergency medical response teams have been formed in every district,” they said.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Having a field day!||
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green cover||
07 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Irrigation Dept. AEE in ACB net||An Assistant Executive Engineer (AEE) of the Irrigation Department landed in the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB)’s dragnet while allegedly receiving a bribe of Rs. 1.20 lakh from a contractor in Yellandu town on Monday for processing his application for payment of a pending bill under Mission Kakatiya scheme. A team of ACB sleuths headed by Warangal range DSP Madhusudhan laid a trap and caught AEE of Yellandu Section, Sriram Naveen Kumar, while allegedly accepting the bribe.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to protect, develop 9 lakes in Kukatpally||Mayor B. Rammohan has announced on Monday that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will be taking up restoration and comprehensive development of ‘Boin Cheruvu’ in Hasmatpet of Kukatpally constituency at a cost of Rs. 14.45 crore. Altogether nine lakes have been identified for protection and beautification in the constituency and it will be taken up as part of the Rs. 282.83 crore sanctioned by the government under ‘Mission Kakatiya’ programme where 19 water bodies are to be restored. The Mayor reviewed the works at a meeting in the presence of GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar, MLA M. Krishna Rao and others where he was informed that the full tank level of all the water bodies have been identified with fencing for six of them completed while three others are to be developed as ponds for Ganesh idols immersion. Selected lakes Lakes being covered are: Rangadamuni Cheruvu (lDL Lake) - bund area development has to be taken up, Khaja Kunta - fencing work was done and de-silting is in progress, Kamuni Cheruvu - development is yet to begin, Maisamma Cheruvu - fencing work done but main bund work held up due to litigation, Sunnam Cheruvu - fencing work completed, Kaitalapur Kunta - fencing work done, Nalla Cheruvu - work held up due to objections raised by Housing Board and patta holders. The Mayor wanted the remaining works to be expedited and requested corporators M. Srinivas Rao, P. Kavya Reddy, Sabeeha Begum, T. Shravan Kumar, P. Satish Babu, M. Narsing Yadav, K. Narender and J. Satyanarayana to extend their cooperation.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress cadre stage protests against power bills||The Congress party rank and file staged protests in front of power utilities’ offices across Telangana on Monday demanding that the State government waive power bills of at least below poverty line (BPL) families and small traders for the lockdown period, and reintroduce the telescopic billing system. In Hyderabad, a protest march planned by the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) from Gandhi Bhavan, the TPCC headquarters, to Vidyut Soudha by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, former minister Md. Ali Shabbir, former MP M. Anjan Kumar Yadav and others was foiled by the police, deployed in large numbers at Gandhi Bhavan. As they were not allowed to take out the protest march, the Congress leaders led by Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy staged a dharna at Gandhi Bhavan itself by sporting black badges. Speaking at the dharna, Mr. Reddy the poor and middle class had to suffer badly during the lockdown period, and it was the responsibility of the government to waive the power bills of these sections for the lockdown period as they had no livelihood activities. However, instead of providing any relief, the government (power utilities) slapped very high power bills with change of billing slabs due to collection, and computing the energy consumption data for three months together. Similar was the fate of small traders as they had no business during the lockdown period, but they too were slapped huge bills. It is inhuman and shocking, he noted. He pointed out that bills would come down with the implementation of telescoping billing system again. Later, a delegation of the TPCC led by Mr. Reddy went to Vidyut Soudha and submitted a memorandum of their demands to Joint Managing Director of TS-Transco C. Srinivasa Rao. As per the call given by the party TPCC general secretary, G Vinod Reddy along with Mohd. Ayub and others protested at the electricity office near Old MLA quarters and submitted a memorandum to the ADE, Ram Singh. He requested the CM to consider waiving off the bills. In Karimnagar, Congress workers led by TPCC working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar staged a protest in front of Northern Discom office there. He sought to know from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as to why waving power bills for the lockdown period did not come to his mind when he had asked the house owners not to pressurise tenants to pay rents during the lockdown period. At Madhira in Khammam district, Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka staged a protest, and at Amanagal in Rangareddy district, former Member of Parliament Mallu Ravi, former MLA Challa Vamshichand Reddy and other took out a protest march holding black flags and sporting black badges.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Despite good rains no safe drinking water for Chenchus||They live right in the womb of nature at its best, yet they are deprived of basic needs such as safe drinking water even in the middle of monsoon season. It’s not the problem that has cropped up overnight but one that recurs every year. What’s needed is not huge funding since taking up regular drinking water schemes, including the ongoing Mission Bhagiratha scheme, are not feasible due to the high-altitude and hilly terrain of the sparse habitations in the forest but a little bit of humane approach among the officials concerned. Yes, they are none other than the primitive tribal group, Chenchus, in the Nallamala forest areas in Nagarkurnool district. The primitive tribe is either on the verge of extinction or in for complete transformation with the influence of the life in the plains. About 2,000 people in 15 Chenchu habitations — known as ‘pentas’ locally — in Amrabad, Balmoor and Lingala areas are facing drinking water problem even in the middle of monsoon season that has already brought good rains. With the tubewells sunk for providing drinking water to the tribes turning defunct due to tree-root mass jamming either the motor inside or plugging or obstructing the water flow, the Chenchus have been forced to depend on unsafe natural water sources — streams, ponds and small fresh water springs (‘chelimalu’). Chenchu pentas such as Appapur, Pullayapalli, Rampur, Medimolkala, Bhowrapur, Thangidi Gundala, Eendla Penta, Linga Bhodi, Mallapur and others are forced to depend on a couple solar-power pumps fitted to borewells to get the safe water or the unsafe water as the solar pumps function only when there’s sufficient sunlight. However, even the sunlight is scarce now in monsoon season with the skies covered with clouds most of the day-time. “With most of the borewells have gone defunct and lack of water supply through tankers, we are forced fend ourselves on unsafe water, which is available even at 2-3 km away for some pentas,” says Patnama Guravaiah of Appapur. He goes on to add that their small number is a bane and reason for their neglect by the elected representatives or even those in the opposition. Adding to the views of Mr. Guravaiah, Ravi of Pullayapalli said: “Since the total votes of these Chenchu pentas are hardly 700, no politician is interested in sparing their time or thought for us. What we need is supply of water through tankers and installation of new solar pump-sets since they have become defunct in most of the habitations for about two years now.” When contacted, in-charge Project Officer of Mannanur ITDA Akhilesh Reddy, District Tribal Welfare Officer of Nagarkurnool, admitted to the existence of the problem in some Chenchu pentas. “The ITDA has no funds meant for drinking water needs and it’s the Rural Water Supply Department/Mission Bhagiratha that would handle the matter. It has already ordered for 15 new solar pumps and they would installed as soon as possible,” he explained. The official said one tanker was already pressed into service on Monday. However, the movement of tankers too is difficult in the rainy season since there are no motorable roads in the forests.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jobless, daily wager takes to lifting victims’ bodies||Loss of jobs and salary cuts following the spread of COVID-19 have pushed many people into financial distress. Sheikh Sharif, a daily wage labourer, is one such person who has not been able to find work for the past few months and make ends meet. So he started to lift the bodies of COVID-19 victims from Gandhi Hospital, Musheerabad, to earn a livelihood. The 21-year-old man lives with his family under a bus shelter a few feet away from Gandhi Hospital — which is the largest COVID isolation centre in the State. Despite rising number of COVID-19 cases, they continue to live there. Sharif got married to Pallavi (around 22 years) over two years ago. The couple have a male child and they live along with three other families under the small bus shelter and footpath. When asked how and where they met, Sharif pointed to Musheerabad crossroads and said, “There.” After restrictions on entry into the government hospital were implemented from April first week, barricades were placed on one side of the road that runs alongside the bus shelter. Children from the family play on the road where vehicles do not ply now. Lockdown woes Sharif used to be part of a band troupe who played music at functions in the city. He and Pallavi worked at function halls too to earn money. After lockdown was implemented to contain coronavirus, the family lost their livelihood options. “People used to donate food during the complete lockdown. But no one does that now,” Pallavi said. Paid Rs. 500 per body Devoid of means to earn money, Sharif started to lift dead bodies from the mortuary. “We carry the bodies to the graveyard after taking all precautions such as wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). We are paid around Rs. 500 per body. In a day, we lift two or three bodies,” he said. Two more persons, Srikanth and Chintu, who live there lift bodies of the COVID-19 victims. While people now shudder to even stand for a few minutes anywhere near the hospital, these families have stayed put there even after the pandemic broke, and they are involved in the high-risk work. Some of them have been living there from over seven years. ‘Not scared’ When asked if any of them tested positive for coronavirus or showed symptoms of COVID-19, Srikanth says none fell sick in the past four months. “If not coronavirus, something else might claim our lives. We are not scared,” said Srikanth, sitting under the bus shelter. A woman who was trying to pacify her child sleeping in a makeshift hammock made out of saree tied to two ends of an advertisement board, listened intently to what he said. Pallavi hopes that the State government would allots them a two-bedroom house which will put a roof over their heads. “It would be of great help to us,” she said.  People used to donate food during the complete lockdown. But no one does that now... I hope the State government allots us a two-bedroom house, which will put a roof over our heads. Pallavi, Wife of the daily wager
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Newly-recruited nurses given a raw deal||Around 100 nurses have claimed that they were offered contractual jobs at the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli, but were asked to join duty on outsourcing basis at Gandhi Hospital instead. They had gathered opposite the Gandhi Hospital on Monday to stage a protest but were stopped by the police. Stating that they are ready to join duty, the nurses have requested authorities to issue appointment orders. Salary, insurance “Now we don’t even know our salaries. We will be attending COVID-19 patients. If we contract the infection, we do not even know if there is any health insurance provided by the government. Besides, the appointment order is needed for us to proceed with formalities while exiting our previous jobs,” a nurse, who works at a private health establishment, said. The nurses showed messages which stated that they are requested to visit TIMS for certificate verification and join duty on contract basis on July 3, provided they fit in respective roster. They completed the formalities and applied for posts of staff nurse and head nurse at TIMS. “However, we received another message on Sunday informing us that we were selected for the posts at Gandhi Hospital and that we must report to the hospital superintendent on Monday morning. We are being outsourced although we applied for contractual jobs. When we asked for appointment orders, officials said nothing of that sort will be issued. We wanted to join on contract as there will be hope for job regularisation at some point,” said another nurse. The nurses said they met senior Health officials, who clarified that the posts at TIMS have been filled and only outsourcing jobs are available.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waiting for a small memorial||Crestfallen after the death of his wife V. Vasantha (57), ex-Army personnel G. Vijay Kumar, along with his family, has had to undergo harrowing time in performing her last rites due to refusal to bury her at a Christian burial ground in the twin cities. Left with no other option and pressure from authorities at Gandhi Hospital to shift the body for last rites, the family agreed to have her cremated at the crematorium beside the ESI Hospital in Erragadda on June 27. “As per our faith, a dead person is buried but here was a situation where we had no choice but to cremate her. The ashes are still lying in a urn in the crematorium in Erragadda as we are still in home quarantine,” bemoaned Mr. Vijay Kumar, 60, who is presently working as a security guard of a national bank in Secunderabad. Deprived of land “I am yet to get out of the house to take the urn containing my wife’s ashes. We do not have a small piece of land to even construct a memorial,” he said wiping his tears. “All I want is for Christian elders to come to my rescue and give me a small place to construct a memorial for my wife. My son working in the USA too is shattered that the family was deprived of a small bit of land to bury her,” he said. Ms. Vasantha was not the only Christian to be cremated in the past one month. On July 4, a 56-year-old employee of Agriculture University in Rajendranagar also died of COVID-19 and was cremated at Erragadda. On Monday, a pastor from Rajendranagar died at Gandhi Hospital and the family was advised to go for cremation. With churches not coming forward to provide burial place, families are left to fend for themselves to perform the last rites.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP asks govt. to improve health infra on war footing||Launching an attack on the State government, the Telangana unit of BJP has said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao must “wake up from deep slumber and act on expanding hospital bed count in the State, especially in the GHMC area since there has been steep increase in the infection rate and COVID-19 cases are spiking on a daily basis”. Chief spokesperson K. Krishna Saagar Rao pointed out on Monday that there are an average of over 1,000 COVID-19 positive cases per day across Telangana and called for admission of the virus-affected patients into Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences, Gachibowli with immediate effect. Mr. Rao charged that due to heavy rush of patients at all government and private hospitals, the health infrastructure is “clearly crumbling under the in-patient demand”. The government should make arrangements on war footing to expand the bed count in the GHMC area to ensure no patient is denied medical support and hospital beds. Former Telangana BJP president and senior leader K. Laxman, in an open letter to the Chief Minister, accused him of leaving Pragati Bhavan and resting in the farmhouse even as the general public have been waiting in vain for the government to take up an effective containment strategy. ‘False statements’ Meanwhile, party president B. Sanjay called for filing a case against the Chief Minister for making ‘false statements’ on coronavirus management rather than against reporters for publishing news.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Furnish maps relating to Khajaguda tank, HC tells govt.||Lawyer M.V. Pratap Kumar, who was appointed as amicus curiae by Telangana High Court in a PIL plea over water bodies in and around the State capital, told the High Court on Monday that the area of Khajaguda tank shrunk by over an acre. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing the PIL petition, directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to furnish different maps relating to Khajaguda tank for the perusal of the court. Socialist Party of India State general secretary Lubna Sawath sent a letter to the HC Chief Justice through e-mail a month ago stating that a ‘development project’ taken up by Municipal Administration and Urban Development Ministry was shrinking the Khajaguda lake. The HC took up the letter as PIL petition and issued notices to the State government. The amicus curiae, after perusal of documents, presented to the bench that the government submitted two maps relating to the tank. One dated February 25, 2014, was signed by the officials. The second one was not signed by the officers concerned. The first map showed the extent of area of the tank as 38.04 acres. There was a third map dated September 18, 2019, uploaded on the website of HMDA. It presented the area of the tank as 37 acres. This suggested there was a difference in the area of the tank compared to the maps of 2014 and 2019. The petitioner contended that the government was laying road in the Full Tank Level area of the tank. While doing so, they changed maps of the tank, the petitioner alleged. The matter was posted to July 21 for next hearing.
07 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four members of inter-State gang of cheats arrested||The sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (East zone) on Monday nabbed four members of an inter-State attention diversion gang and recovered Rs. 1,00,000, eight mobile phones and 300 Saudi dirhams from their possession. They committed the offence in Afzalgunj police station limits. The accused are Rafik (28), Ruksana Shaik (29) from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh, Shaik Atif (29) and Nazmul Sattar Shaik (24) from Thane in Maharashtra. Police said that the gang members would reccee various areas and keep a watch on innocent people. “Accordingly, they targeted a person and showed him 300 Saudi dirhams and told him that they have 12,000 dirhams, which they got through friends working in Saudi. To gain the trust of the victim, the accused gave him 50 dirhams as sample and offered to exchange rest of the currency valued at Rs. 2.40 lakh for Rs. 1 lakh,” Additional DCP (Task Force) G. Chakravarthy said. On July 4, the accused contacted the victim and asked him to come near Bagga wines in Afzalgunj, and took Rs. 1 lakh and in return they gave a bundle wrapped in newspaper. “They concealed a detergent soap with blue polythene cover saying they are 12,000 Saudi dirhams and fled away from the spot,” the officer said, following which the victim lodged a complaint with Afzalgunj police. Acting on a tip-off, the Task Force team apprehended the accused.
07 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||60 kg ganja seized, one held||The Petbasheerabad police on Monday arrested an inter-State Cannabis supplier and seized 60 kg of contraband being smuggled in a mini-van , all worth Rs. 10 lakh. The accused Md. Shirajuddin (38), a lorry driver from Jeedimetla, along with his friend Madan went to Anakapalle of Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and picked up the consignment and loaded it in Orange Cargo carriers claiming it is poultry medicine. “Both of them followed the cargo vehicle in their mini-van from Anakapalle to Dulapally on the outskirts of Hyderabad, and collected the contraband,” police said. On a tip-off, the police intervened their vehicle and arrested Shirajuddin while Madan escaped from the place.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Veteran industrialist is new chairman of EEPC India||Founder of the Hyderabad-based Meera Group of engineering firms Mahesh K. Desai has taken over as new chairman of EEPC India, the apex organisation of the country’s engineering exporters. Welcoming him, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal urged the exporters to be more competitive and play on their comparative strength. He also expressed confidence of the exports coming back on track with unlocking of the economy, a release from EEPC India said. Mr. Desai said in a global market, disrupted by the unprecedented health crisis, the Indian industry and exporters are adapting fast with new strategies, product differentiation and pricing. The new chairman assured the Minister that the engineering industry is committed to supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for AatmaNirbhar Bharat. “We are encouraging our members to increasingly use the indigenous raw material and the intermediate products,” Mr. Desai said. He also pointed out to the Minister that some of the capital goods consignments from Taiwan, crucial for manufacturer-exporters, are being held by the Customs authorities. Mr. Desai also discussed with the Minister other issues like formal launch of the Nirvik Scheme, need for export credit being made available at Repo plus two percentage points.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||94-year-old COVID survivor goes home||A 94-year-old woman, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Gandhi Hospital, was discharged on Monday after recovering. P. Vijayalakshmi from Hyderabad is presumed to be the oldest COVID patient in the State to have recovered. However, officials said they can confirm the same only after cross-checking records. She was admitted to the hospital on June 17 after developing mild symptoms such as cough and fever. “Though the patient initially had mild symptoms, she recovered in a few days. However, she was kept under observation for a few more days considering her age. She was discharged on Monday,” said T. Prabhakar Reddy, nodal officer for COVID-19 at the government hospital, which is the largest COVID isolation centre in the State.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DRDO, IIT-H ink pact to set up research cell||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is going to establish a research cell at the Indian Institute of Technology-Hyderabad (IIT-H) to meet the future defence technological requirements of the country by undertaking basic and applied research programs. Envisaged to become a ‘Centre of Excellence’, it is being established as an extension of the DRDO Research and Innovation Centre (RIC), Chennai. An agreement to establish the research cell was signed by director of Directorate of Futuristic Technology Management, DRDO, K.K. Pathak, director-general of Missiles and Strategic Systems, DRDO, M.S.R. Prasad and IIT-H director B.S. Murty through a virtual event recently. “This MoU is aimed at bringing together DRDO and IIT-H to achieve greater heights in indigenous technology through collaborative research. The research cell will ensure seamless execution of different projects between both organisations as IIT-H has a strong research base in advanced technologies,” said DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy, through a video call. The cell is to help tap knowledge resources in basic science and technology industries that are interdisciplinary in nature and spread across multiple institutions. The initiative aims to help the country become self-reliant in select defence technologies and by engaging faculty and researchers at academic institutions, technology centres and other renowned institutes through research programmes, informed a press statement on Monday.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SLBC unveils Rs. 1.61 lakh cr. annual credit plan||Telangana’s annual credit plan for 2020-21 with an outlay of Rs. 1,61,620 crore, that in comparison to previous fiscal, is an increase of 10.52%, was unveiled at the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) meeting here on Monday. Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy launched the plan in the presence of senior bankers and officials from the State government, including SBI Hyderabad Circle Chief General Manager and SLBC President Om Prakash Mishra and Principal Secretary Finance K. Ramakrishna Rao. A release from SLBC said the share of priority sector in the credit plan is Rs. 1,22,720 crore or 75.93% of the outlay. As against the priority sector advances of Rs. 1,11,288.22 crore in 2019-20, this is 10.27% higher. The annual plan projects disbursals under agricultural sector to be Rs. 75,141.71 crore or 9.54% more than the previous fiscal’s Rs. 68,596.71 crore. Short term production credit disbursals are pegged at be Rs. 53,222.51 crore in 2020-21, an increase of 9.20% from the Rs. 48,740.43 crore in 2019-20. Investment credit (agriculture term loans, including for allied activities) are projected to be Rs. 12,061.07 crore. This is an increase of 5.38% from the Rs. 11,445.36 crore of 2019-20. For micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), the projected disbursal at Rs. 35,196.87 crore is an increase of 12.25% over the Rs. 31,355.25 crore in the previous fiscal, the release said. The annual credit plan was launched at the 26th quarterly review meeting of the SLBC that reviewed the performance of the banks for the quarter ended December 2019 and March, 2020. Sharing details of the performance of the banks in Telangana during 2019-20, Mr. Mishra said total deposits grew Rs. 30,168 crore (6.64% growth) during the year to Rs. 4,84,440 crore. Total advances of the banks increased by Rs. 36,544 crore (6.84% growth) during the year to Rs. 5,70,418 crore. During the last financial year, banks lent Rs. 37,109 crore under Kharif and Rabi and achieved 76.13% of short term production loan target.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bifurcation of Labour Dept. posts finally heading for resolution||The division of the State cadre posts in the Labour Department between the successor States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh appears to be heading for a resolution. The Andhra Pradesh government drafted a tentative list of 87 assistant commissioners of labour (ACL) who would be covered in division from the two States. The department has a total 106 posts of ACL rank officers of which 19 had been reserved for direct recruits. The State Reorganisation wing of the neighbouring State is understood to have sent the report with its comments to Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, who is also handling the State Reorganisation Affairs, for his concurrence. “Once Mr. Ramakrishna Rao gives his consent, the process of bifurcation of the employees will commence,” a senior official of the AP government said. The integrated seniority list of the officers of the two States had been prepared in consultation with the officials concerned of Telangana. The process of division between the two States would start once the consent of the Telangana government is received. A section of Telangana officials are however contending that the list has been prepared unilaterally and the government needs to keep the interests of the State employees in view before giving its consent for the bifurcation. A resolution had been pending for the issue following the orders given by the government of the erstwhile united State designating the Labour Officer posts as multi-zonal and the post of assistant commissioner of labour as State cadre posts. The posts of Labour Officers has been upgraded as ACL later and promotions were given to the latter treating them as multi-zonal posts. This was however challenged in the AP Administrative Tribunal by a section of officers and the Tribunal said designating ACLs as multi-zonal posts is not in accordance with the Presidential Orders and wanted the posts to be treated as State cadre posts. The APAT’s observation was upheld by the High Court which directed the officials concerned to treat the post as State cadre posts for allocation between the two States.
07 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Editor, staff arrested for ‘fake news’ on CM’s health status||The editor and a reporter of a Telugu newspaper were arrested by the Jubilee Hills police on charges of publishing false news and spreading rumours about the health status of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The newspaper Aaadab Hyderabad recently published a news report that Mr. Rao had tested positive for coronavirus and is admitted in a corporate hospital. One Mohammed Illyas of Rahmathnagar in Jubilee Hills on Sunday, lodged a complaint stating that the published news article on Mr. Rao was ‘fake’, and created panic among the general public. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case under Section 505 (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any rumour or report) of Indian Penal Code and Section 54 of Disaster Management Act, against the publication and the editor. On Monday, a team of police officials arrested reporter Venkateshwara Rao from Khammam, editor Veeramalla Satyam and sub-editor Shiva from Hyderabad. Venkateshwara Rao, a resident of Tarnaka, had recently gone to Khammam.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pensioners’ JAC seeks COVID inclusion in EHS||The Telangana Government Pensioners’ Joint Action Committee has urged the State government to include treatment for COVID-19 under the Employees Health Scheme (EHS). Treatment at Gandhi The government should also take steps to ensure that pensioners affected by the novel coronavirus are given treatment at Gandhi Hospital, a designated COVID-19 treatment centre. In a representation sent to Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, JAC chairman K. Lakshmaiah said the infection was posing a threat mostly to the senior citizens who were suffering from blood pressure, diabetes and other ailments. The novel coronavirus that had gripped the world, however, was not included in the list of ailments covered under EHS. ‘Take steps’ The government should, therefore, take steps to enable pensioners to avail treatment for the pandemic through the scheme at designated hospitals.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Safety kits distributed||Minister for Municipal Administraion and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao distributed PPE safety kits to the sanitation, entomology and veterinary workers at the Animal Care Centre of Fathullaguda. He applauded their efforts in keeping the city clean and in controlling the spread of COVID-19. GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar said about 1.80 lakh cloth face masks, 27,000 pairs of gloves and 25,000 litres of sanitizers were distributed to the sanitation and other staff working on the field at their circle office areas. Over 24,500 safety kits would be distributed, he added.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Price of sacrificial animal may be given to needy’||With Eid-ul-Adha, popularly known as Bakrid, less than a month away, Hyderabad-based Islamic seminary Jamia Nizamia has held that a sum of money equivalent to the price of the animal meant for ritual sacrifice may be given instead to lesser privileged relatives and the poor. The Nizamia’s Darul Ifta issued a fatwa in which it stated that ritual sacrifice is most preferred, and those on whom it is obligatory should make it from 10th Zulhijja to 12th Zulhijja of the Islamic calendar. In case the ritual sacrifice cannot be made on these days, then instead of it “the price of the animal meant for sacrifice can be given to non-Syed Muslims, relatives, the poor, and to those who are seeking religious education.”
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Issue fresh notices to polluting industries: HC||Telangana High Court on Monday gave the liberty to the GHMC to issue notices afresh to industrial units causing pollution or violating other provisions of any law in Tatanagar and Shastripuram industrial areas. The 20 writ petitions filed by different industry owners of these areas were declared as infructuous since the GHMC had already decided to recall the closure notices issued by it to all industrial units in Tatanagar and Shastripuram. Earlier, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan had directed the GHMC to close down all the industrial units in Tatanagar and Shastripuram which were responsible for polluting the environment by releasing wastage while hearing a PIL petition. Following the HC directions, the GHMC issued notices to 345 industrial units to close them. Owners of these units moved the HC by filing writ petitions challenging the closure notices. The HC found that the GHMC presented before the court some reasons, but issued notices on different grounds to the industries. This had resulted in huge litigation with the industrial unit owners flooding the HC with writ petitions, the bench said. Hence, the bench suggested to the GHMC to review the notices it had issued, recall the same and issue fresh notices after examining each industrial unit. The bench made it clear that fresh notices should not be issued till the entire COVID-19 had come down.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PV memorial design by month-end||P.V. Narasimha Rao Centenary Celebrations Committee met here on Monday at the residence of its chairman and MP K. Keshava Rao and examined some designs furnished by architects for the PV memorial to be established in PV Gnana Bhoomi. It was attended by Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The panel would meet again in a week’s time and is likely to finalise the design for the memorial by the month-end.
07 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SEC officials in ACB net||Two officials working in the office of School Education Commissioner were arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau officials for demanding and accepting a bribe from the complainant for showing official favour. The Superintendent Ranchamalla Laxman Kumar, and Junior Assistant Manaji Vipin Raj of Planning Section took Rs. 40,000 as a bribe from K Srinivas of Musheerabad to process a file and issued No Objection Certification, according to ACB oficials.
07 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Musi project’s regulatory gate installation in 3 days: Minister||The Musi project which has been on a temporary stoplog, following washing away of one of its regulatory gates in October 2019 due to heavy inflows, is all set for replacement this week. Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy broke a coconut as inaugural ritual, starting the installation works on Monday. The project, situated in Kethepally mandal in Nalgonda, was completed by 1963 to provide irrigation for 41, 000 acres. Since 1973, the ayacut was changed to 30,000 acres – 15,230 acres on the left canal in Suryapet, and 14,770 acres in Miryalaguda and Nalgonda. Post-2014, as part of the project’s modernisation works, its 12 crest gates and eight regulatory gates were replaced, among other works. However, within a few years, in October 2019, when the project recorded maximum inflows from the upstream, one of its regulatory gate failed and got washed away. The water level in the project on the fateful day was around 644 feet, just short of its full reservoir level of 645 feet and 4.43 tmc storage capacity. Mr. Reddy, speaking at the project site said the TRS government is committed to the welfare of farmers in providing irrigation for two crop seasons in a year. “Within three days the works will be complete, and not a drop from the project will go waste. Even when the gate failed in October, we did not let water go waste as a stoplog gate was put in place soon,” he said. Mr. Reddy blamed the previous governments for the gate fail. He said the project was neglected for decades, which led to rusting of components, leakages and eventually drainage of water and loss to farmers in the ayacut.
07 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||State to encourage sandalwood cultivation||In a move to benefit farmers, the government has decided to encourage farmers to plant srigandham (sandalwood) saplings. In this regard, srigandham cultivation will be taken up on about 2,500 acres, with each village planting the saplings on about 50 acres. As the NREGS is linked with the Horticulture Department, farmers can hire labour to dig pits, plant saplings and use fertilizer.
07 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Fish ponds: a viable alternative for farmers||Nalla Rajaiah is a farmer in his 60s having about three acres land at Narayanaraopet mandal. During last year Mr. Rajaiah divided his land into two parts and dug four fish ponds in 1.5 acres land while paddy was sown in another 1.5 acre. For about nine months Mr. Rajaiah along with his wife Kanakavva worked hard. His day started early in the morning and ended late in the evening. After nine months, he has reaped rich dividends, literally. He earned Rs. 2.7 lakh from fish farming only. Since he has to clear the water in the pond every 10 days, he used the water from the fish pond in his paddy field, which resulted in almost zero use of fertilizers thereby saving a considerable amount. While the revenue from four fish ponds was Rs. 2.7 lakh it was only Rs. 40,000 from the paddy field spread on the same extent of land. Working at fish ponds and taking care of them is nothing new to Mr. Rajaiah. He worked in fish ponds in Gujarat for about 18 years before returning to his native place. He learnt all about feeding the fish in time, scanning health condition of fish and releasing and filling of water in the tanks. As a farmer with hands-on experience in handling fish ponds in Gujarat, Mr. Rajaiah approached the officials who offered to help set up the ponds and supply fish seed. Four fish ponds were dug in his field, each costing about Rs. 3 lakh, under the MG National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and he has already sold the yield from three ponds. One more pond has fish, which will bring him some more money. “I am ready to guide any number of farmers in the district in working on fish ponds. This will give better earnings than paddy and other crops. The only thing is we have to do is to work hard and be alert,” Mr. Rajaiah told The Hindu . He has earned Rs. 2.4 lakh for nine months work Taking a cue from him, fish ponds have been dug at Ensanpally. Recently, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has appreciated the efforts made by the local representatives in getting the fish ponds dug.
07 July 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||CM launches Mahajobs portal for unemployed local youth||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday stressed that the government was ready to remove any obstacles industry faces to facilitate job creation, after inaugurating a new Mahajobs portal that would act as a bridge between industrialists and unemployed youth in the State. “There are jobs created in Maharashtra on the one hand, while on the other (hand), some industries are going for retrenchment. The State government was ready to remove the hurdles faced by industry but it was not proper on their part to go for retrenchment,” Mr. Thackeray said, urging firms to avoid pink slips. Industries, the CM said, need to avail of the available human resources and youngsters should avail employment opportunities, for the State to achieve speedy development. The portal (http://mahajobs.maharashtra.gov.in) has identified 17 sectors including engineering, logistics, and chemicals, and provides for selecting jobs across 950 trades mainly for local youth who would need to produce domicile certificates. Stressing on the need to make the portal user-friendly and handy, Mr. Thackeray said, “Previously, the employment exchange used to provide information on the unemployed, but not on how many youngsters actually received jobs. The same should not happen here.” There should be regular reviews of the jobs provided, he said, mooting the need for a study on the kind of problems faced by employers as well as youth seeking employment. He said the new portal should not just be a facility to register those who are unemployed, but also needs to become a portal providing jobs to them.
07 July 2020||Mumbai,||Now, hotels can open with 33% capacity||As part of Phase V of Mission Begin Again, the State government on Monday issued guidelines allowing reopening of hotels, lodges and guest houses with 33% capacity from Wednesday. The move comes a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with hoteliers. As per the guidelines, the establishments can operate only outside containment zones in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nasik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amaravati and Nagpur. In other districts, these establishments can be opened in all areas. Malls still prohibited The State government has, however, kept shopping malls in the prohibited activities category. It clarified that in case any establishment is presently being used as quarantine facility, it can continue to be used as one unless decided otherwise by the district administration. The administration can also continue using remaining 67% capacity of the establishments for quarantine purposes. The guidelines also said all establishments must display all precautionary measures against the spread of COVID-19. Proper crowd management must be ensured inside the hotel and at parking lots. Specific markings should be used to manage the queue and seating arrangement while maintaining physical distancing. “There must be thermal screening provisions at the entrance while the reception table will have a protective glass. Hand sanitisers will be made available freely. Hotel staff must wear protective gear like masks and gloves,” the guidelines said. They also encouraged hotels to use contactless payment methods and restrict the number of guests using elevators. “Air-conditioning devices should work in the range of 24-30 degrees centigrade,” said the guidelines. Further, only asymptomatic guests will be allowed if they are wearing masks, which must be worn at all times inside the hotel as well. Details of the guest, ID and self-declaration form must be provided at the reception and use of Aarogya Setu app is mandatory. Guidelines were also issued encouraging the use of e-menus and disposable paper napkins. Gaming arcades, children play areas, swimming pools and gyms will remain close. No large gatherings will be allowed and meeting places can have only 33% capacity. Room sanitisation Hotels and guest houses have been instructed to sanitise rooms completely after they are vacated by the guest. Cleaning and regular disinfection of frequently touched surfaces such as doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, benches and washroom fixtures has been made mandatory. In case any person shows symptoms of COVID-19, they must be housed in a room or area where they are isolated from others.  Air-conditioning devices should work in the range of 24-30 degrees centigrade State guidelines
07 July 2020||Pune,||State reports over 5,000 new cases; tally surges past 2.1 lakh||Maharashtra recorded 5,368 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the State’s total cases to 2,11,987. As many as 204 deaths were also reported, pushing the death toll past the 9,000 mark to 9,026. On Wednesday (July 1), the State had reported 5,537 cases. Since then, it has been bedevilled by four consecutive spikes of 6,000-plus cases a day, which climaxed on Saturday with 7,047 cases — the highest surge yet. Of the total case tally, 87,681 are active ones, said State Health Department officials. As many as 3,522 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries till date to 1,15,262. Mumbai crosses 85,000 With 1,200 new cases, Mumbai’s tally has reached 85,724 of whom 23,624 are active. The city’s death toll has risen to 4,938 with 39 new deaths reported today. Besides Mumbai, significant fatality surges were reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), with Navi Mumbai reporting 28 deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 243, Thane reporting 16 to take its toll to 579, and Vasai-Virar recording 13 fatalities as its death count rose to 123. Seventeen deaths were reported from Pune district as its death toll surged to 889. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said that the State’s recovery rate stood at 54.37 while its case fatality stands at 4.26%. Pune reported the second-highest surge in cases with over 804 new cases as its total case tally soared to 29, 403. Of these, 14,106 are active cases as given by the State health Department even though district administration authorities said only 11,199 cases were active. Along with Mumbai and Pune, big surges were reported across the MMR. Thane reported 551 new case, taking its tally beyond 18,800 while Kalyan-Dombivli reported 454 new cases, taking its tally to 10,854. Navi Mumbai added 165 fresh cases taking its tally to 9,300. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar, too, recorded sharp spikes, reporting 123 and 283 new cases respectively to take their case tallies to 4,855 and 6,317. Spike in Jalgaon, Nashik Meanwhile, Jalgaon and Nashik districts saw massive spikes of 237 and 262 new cases respectively. Nashik’s case tally stands at 5,478 of whom 2,077 were active while Jalgaon’s stood at 4,473 with 1,673 active cases. Aurangabad district, a virus hotspot in the Marathwada, saw a rise of 244 cases, taking its case tally to 6,812 of whom 3,505 are active cases. With 11 fatalities, the district’s total death toll reached 301. “Till date, of 11,32,447 laboratory samples, 2,11,987 (18.67%) have tested positive with aover 23,000 samples across the State tested on Monday,” Dr. Awate said.
07 July 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||BMC introduces robotic trolley for COVID-19||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) introduced a robotic trolley on Monday to minimise contact between health care workers and COVID-19 patients. The robotic trolley will deliver food and medicines to patients at Poddar Hospital. Aaditya Thackeray, State’s Minister for Tourism and Environment, announced the launch of this robotic trolley on Twitter. He said the trolley will help reduce contact between patients and healthcare staff, and also reduce the quantity of PPEs used during routine activities such as the provision of food in COVID-19 wards. Meanwhile, Tata Sons donated 20 ambulances, 100 ventilators and Rs. 10 crore for plasma trials in Mumbai. The BMC had said in mid-March that it had 3,500 beds and 291 ICU beds. This has now gone up to 14,000 beds with 1,540 ICU beds to cater to the needs of patients.
07 July 2020||Surat,||Polishing units shut in Surat till July 13||Diamond polishing units in Surat will remain shut till July 13 while the diamond trading markets will be non-operational till July 9 in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak. An order to this effect was issued on Monday by Surat Municipal Corporation commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani. Mr. Pani said permission for resumption of operations would be given to these units if they follow the civic body’s COVID-19 guidelines and standard operating procedures. In another notification, Mr. Pani said a textile making unit or textile market will be shut for seven days if one or more cases emerge from them.
07 July 2020||Pskov,||Russian scribe found guilty of ‘justifying terrorism’||A Russian journalist was found guilty on Monday and handed a hefty fine for “justifying terrorism” in a case that sparked an outcry among her allies at home and rights groups abroad. Svetlana Prokopyeva, who is based in the northwestern city of Pskov, works for the Russian service of the U.S.-funded Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) as a freelance contributor. The 40-year-old was charged with publicly justifying terrorism over a column she wrote about a attack that targeted Russian security services in the north of the country in 2018. The judge found Ms. Prokopyeva guilty, an AFP journalist in the Pskov courtroom reported, and ordered her to pay a fine of 500,000 rubles ($6,950). Her supporters in the courtroom shouted “shame” and “she is not guilty” as the judge read out the verdict. Bombing incident Prosecutors last week had asked the judge to jail Ms. Prokopyeva for six years and ban her from working in journalism for four years on the charges that carry a maximum sentence of seven years. The case has its origins in a November 2018 bombing carried out by a 17-year-old anarchist who blew himself up in a Federal Security Service (FSB) building in Arkhangelsk in northern Russia, injuring three service members. In her opinion piece, published by the Pskov affiliate of the Echo of Moscow radio station, Ms. Prokopyeva linked the teenager’s suicide bombing to the political climate under President Vladimir Putin. Dozens of human rights defenders signed a statement published by the Memorial rights group on Monday denouncing the case as “openly political” with the goal of “intimidating Russian journalists”.  Human Rights Watch on Monday said the ruling “creates another dangerous precedent.” More than 30 prominent Russian journalists spoke out in support of Ms. Prokopyeva in statements published online this month, and more than a dozen of her supporters were briefly detained last week.
07 July 2020||Beijing,||Chinese region reports bubonic plague case||Authorities in China’s northern Inner Mongolia region have stepped up precautions after a herdsman was confirmed at the weekend to have the bubonic plague. The man was in stable condition at a hospital in Bayannur, the city health commission said in a statement. The commission has forbidden the hunting and eating animals that could carry plague until the end of the year, and urged people to report any dead or diseased rodents. Though the highly-contagious plague is rare in China and can be treated, at least five people have died from it since 2014, according to China’s National Health Commission. Another suspected case involving a 15-year-old was reported on Monday in neighbouring Mongolia, state news agency Xinhua said.
07 July 2020||Tehran,||Iran confirms significant damage at nuclear complex||An accident at a nuclear complex in Iran caused significant damage and could slow the production of centrifuges used to enrich uranium, the country’s atomic energy spokesman said. The incident happened on Thursday at a warehouse under construction at the Natanz complex in central Iran, but caused no casualties or radioactive pollution, according to the Islamic republic’s nuclear body. Security officials called it an accident. “There were no victims... but the damage is significant on a financial level,” Iranian Atomic Energy Organisation spokesman Behrouz Kamalvandi said on Sunday. “In the medium term, this accident could slow down the development and production” of advanced centrifuges, he said. Natanz is one of Iran’s main uranium enrichment plants.
07 July 2020||Kabul,||Ghani pushes for consensus on talks||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani pushed on Monday for a global consensus on peace talks with the Taliban, even as his spokesman slammed the militants for a spike in violence. Mr. Ghani is hosting three online conferences with representatives of some 20 countries this week. They aim to “build a consensus” for the peace talks at regional and international level, said Gran Hewad, a spokesman for the foreign ministry. Countries participating include U.S., Russia Pakistan, India, Iran, China, Egypt and Qatar, officials said. But just hours ahead of the first online meeting, Mr. Ghani’s spokesman slammed the Taliban for an uptick in violence in recent weeks. “There is no obstacle on our side for the peace process, but we see that the Taliban are not serious,” Sediq Sediqqi told reporters.
07 July 2020||Nairobi,||Kenya to have a phased reopening||Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday announced a “phased reopening” of the country, with the resumption of international flights from August 1 as well as the lifting of internal travel restrictions. Kenya has recorded just over 8,000 cases of the virus and 164 deaths — the highest official figures in East Africa. Fewer than 2,00,000 people have been tested in the population of 47 million people.
07 July 2020||Addis Ababa,||Addis Ababa, July 6, 2020 (AFP) -||A leading Opposition party representing Ethiopia’s Oromo ethnic group said Monday that five senior members had been detained following violence last week that claimed at least 166 lives. The political crackdown deepens fears of a large-scale round-up of government critics as Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed seeks to keep a lid on ethnic tensions.AFP
07 July 2020||Bayonne,||Bayonne, France, July 6, 2020 (AFP) -||A bus driver in France was declared brain dead on Monday after being attacked by several people he refused to let aboard because they were not wearing face masks as required during the COVID-19 outbreak. A source in Bayonne, southwestern France, said one person was in custody and other suspects were being sought.AFP
07 July 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan’s Health Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Pakistan’s Health Minister Dr. Zafar Mirza said on Monday that he was tested positive for COVID-19. “I have tested positive for COVID-19. Under med advice I have isolated myself at home & taking all precautions. I have mild symptoms. Please keep me in your kind prayers,” tweeted Dr. Mirza.PTI
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s foreign relations and the course of history||The Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s public and undisguised reference to China’s expansionism in his address to Indian troops last week, on July 3 in Ladakh was so obvious that the Chinese lost no time in rejecting the allegation. As proof of China’s non-expansionism, their spokesman, denying the charge, said that China had signed boundary agreements with all but two of its neighbours; in a Tweet, the spokesperson said: “#China has demarcated boundary with 12 of its 14 neighboring countries through peaceful negotiations, turning land borders into bonds of friendly cooperation.” Down memory lane Mr. Modi’s deliberate and no doubt well-thought-out speech does raise a question in one’s mind. Did he realise China’s expansionism only after what has happened in eastern Ladakh in recent weeks? Or, has he had such thoughts about China all along and decided to give expression to them only now? One can expect that Mr. Modi must have had the measure of China’s President Xi Jinping during his many meetings with him over the years. The Prime Minister’s talk of Chinese expansionism reminded me of what Mrs. Indira Gandhi told me more than once during the time I served in her Prime Minister’s Office. She said: “I can think of a time down the road in future when we might have normal, peaceful relations with Pakistan, but never with China because China basically is an expansionist power.” She distrusted China as she did other countries including the Soviet Union. She surely did not trust Pakistan. Perhaps her basic approach in foreign policy was that in international relations, there is no such thing as trust. U.S. President Ronald Reagan talked of ‘Trust, but verify”; Mrs. Gandhi’s approach seemed to be: “Verify and still not trust”. Nehru, China and Kashmir Jawaharlal Nehru, on the other hand, had convinced himself that China will not attack India. His Defence Minister, V.K. Krishna Menon, likely played a big part in inclining Nehru towards this conviction. Regrettably, none of his advisers cautioned him against this miscalculation; most of them had no experience in foreign relations. Nehru was not guided by any ideological considerations. Yes, he dreamt of India, and him, playing a big role on the world stage and believed that China could be a partner in that endeavour. Even the present government sees India acting as “Vishwaguru”. Whatever his reasons, there is no doubt that his China policy was hugely faulty. It would be healthy for all of us admirers of Nehru — a rapidly dwindling tribe — including the Indian National Congress party, to acknowledge this. But Nehru did not commit any Himalayan blunder in Kashmir. When a ceasefire was called for in January 1949, it was not because he was pacifist by nature or that he trusted the United Nations or any other country to label Pakistan as aggressor and persuade it to vacate the aggression. By that time, he had seen enough of British duplicity and America’s leaving the lead on the Kashmir issue to the British. The reality on the ground was that the Indian Army was in no position to run over the whole of Jammu and Kashmir at that time. This has been definitively and conclusively brought out by respected scholars as well as in the official history of the war published by the Defence Ministry several years later, after thorough research and interviews with all the relevant players, including seniormost Indian military officers, at the time. Nor was Nehru influenced by any ideological bias. I do not know for a fact that he was a leftist. I do know that he believed strongly that in foreign policy, national interest was the only guiding principle. In his response to a letter Albert Einstein wrote to him a few weeks before Independence, Nehru described foreign policy as essentially “selfish”. He was also clear in his mind that India’s interest lay with the West. India needed technology and other assistance which he was convinced could be obtained only from America. The Soviets, he believed, were of no use in this matter. It was only after the Americans concluded the military agreement with Pakistan and started giving it massive quantities of arms that Nehru began looking to the Soviet Union. The mistakes and even the blunder over China that he committed were caused by wrong assessments and not due to any ideological factors. Handling Pakistan Mrs. Gandhi has been similarly accused of being naive and too trusting when she allowed Pakistan’s 90,000 prisoners of war (POWs) to return to their country without getting anything in return. Nobody is mentioning what she could have asked as quid pro quo . Should she have asked Pakistan to vacate all the territory it had occupied in Jammu and Kashmir? And for how long should she have kept the POWs in our country, until Pakistan returned our territory? Again, at Simla, nobody could state with conviction if she really believed that Pakistan’s Zulfikar Ali Bhutto would live up to his commitment, oral as it was, to transform the ceasefire line into an international border. And if Bhutto did give such promise — which Pakistan denies — and implemented it, would the Indian Parliament have accepted it? Today’s ruling party wants to reclaim (by what means has not been clarified) even Aksai Chin from China. It is nobody’s idea that India should give up its claims to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir or Aksai Chin; the question is only about reiterating the claims publicly and in a charged atmosphere. As they say, all foreign policy is essentially domestic policy and this is true of all governments everywhere and at all times. The purpose in mentioning all of the above is not to exonerate any of the previous generation of leadership. They must be held accountable for the mistakes or blunders they might have committed. They acted, in the prevailing circumstances, as best as they could, according to their perception of national interest. After all, national interest is that which the government of the day decides it is. One government might conclude that the civil nuclear deal with the United States served India’s national interest; some other government ruled by some other party or even the same party but at another time and in different circumstances may think otherwise. By the same token, Mr. Modi, in the conduct of India’s foreign policy, surely does not allow any extraneous considerations to influence his thinking, and is basing his approach by what he perceives as furthering our national interests. History will pronounce its analysis in due course. Chinmaya R. Gharekhan, a former Indian Ambassador to the United Nations, was Special Envoy for West Asia in the Manmohan Singh government
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||There’s no one to fill Mahalanobis’s shoes||In Poverty and Famines (1981), Amartya Sen argued that poor distribution of food, wartime inflation, speculative buying and panic hoarding were important reasons for the devastating Bengal famine of 1943, while Madhusree Mukerjee, in her 2010 book, Churchill’s Secret War , wrote of the role of British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, his wartime Cabinet’s decisions and “denial policy” in exacerbating the famine. Survey of the Bengal famine Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, India’s ‘Plan Man’ and the architect of the country’s statistical system, conducted a large-scale sample survey of Bengal’s famine-ravaged villages between July 1944 and February 1945 for causal analysis, and to assess the extent of the disaster and an estimate of the number of people affected. The planning, preparations, challenges and findings of the survey are documented in an article in Sankhyā , and in another article in The Asiatic Review , both published in 1946, among others. This survey provided very useful findings. It showed that one-fourth of the number of families (1.5 million people) who had owned rice land before the famine had either sold in full or in part their rice land or had mortgaged it. It also showed that the economic position of nearly four million people deteriorated during the famine. Economic differences became further accentuated during the famine. However, roughly 85% of the families maintained their status quo, showing that a large degree of economic inertia had persisted even under famine conditions. Bengal’s famine survey reminds us that we need estimates of the millions who will lose jobs or livelihoods and of the hundreds of millions whose economic conditions will deteriorate in today’s COVID-19-hit India. The extent of feasibility, success and problem of online access, for example, also needs to be properly estimated in this new dawn. Mahalanobis is perhaps more relevant today when the accuracy of different sorts of data — from economic data to COVID-19 data — is under the scanner. Starting from the first area sample in the whole world for jute forecast in 1934, Mahalanobis built up a strong and trustworthy statistical heritage in India through his tireless efforts over the years, supplemented by his efficiency, wisdom, leadership, innovative ideas and brilliance. Mahalanobis envisaged large-scale sample surveys as statistical engineering rather than pure theory of sampling. He was instrumental in establishing the National Sample Survey (NSS) in 1950 and the Central Statistical Organization in 1951. Importance of accurate data Mahalanobis was very careful about data accuracy in his surveys. In Kautilya’s Arthashastra , there is mention of the need for cross-checking by an independent set of agents for data collection  : “Spies under disguise of householders (Grihapatika, cultivators), who shall be deputed by the Collector-General for espionage, shall ascertain the validity of accounts (of Gopas, the village officers and Sthanikas, the district officers) regarding the fields, right of ownership and remission of taxes with regard to houses, and the caste and profession regarding families...” (Chapter XXXV). This, according to Mahalanobis, was the “striking feature in the Arthashastra ”. This might have prompted him to have an independent supervisory staff during the conduct of field operations by the NSS for collection of reliable data. Mahalanobis was “a physicist by training, a statistician by instinct and an economist by conviction”. His initial training in Physics might have made him conscious about errors in measurement and observation. Students even called him the Professor of Counting and Measurement, using the initials of his name. The desire to have built-in cross-checks and to get an estimate of errors in sampling led him to introduce the Inter-Penetrating Network of Subsamples, which is now considered as the curtain-raiser for re-sampling procedures like Bootstrap, a revolutionary concept of statistics indeed. However, even Mahalanobis could have faced hardship had he wished to conduct surveys now. First, even in pre-COVID-19 India, it’s widely reported that surveyors were facing tremendous resistance from people due to some sociopolitical reasons. None other than Pronab Sen, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Economic Statistics, and former Chief Statistician, expressed his concern that the survey system is already in “deep trouble”, and conducting household surveys with the Census as the frame would be “very tough” going ahead. The problem will intensify due to COVID-19. It was not easy to conduct surveys in famine-hit Bengal either. Through August 1944, 80 field workers were beset by malaria; half of them later dropped out of the project. However, conducting a survey in the age of contagion is understandably much harder. Use of technology What would Mahalanobis have done in this situation? Would he have devised some instrument, like crop-cutting concentric circles, in addition to using masks and sanitisers and sending investigators for a socioeconomic survey? Or would he have used different sorts of secondary data instead? It’s difficult to guess. Who knows, he might have efficiently churned ‘big data’ for this — he could certainly have done a smarter job than most of the present-day big data analysts. Note that Mahalanobis never shied away from technology, whether in bringing statistical technology through volumes of Biometrika in his voyage from England, or even bringing computers to India. The Mahalanobis-led Indian Statistical Institute procured India’s first computer in 1956 and the second in 1959. At the end of his 1946 article in The Asiatic Review , Mahalanobis wrote: “Statistics are a minor detail, but they do help.” This is an eternal truth. What Mahalanobis didn’t spell out is that one needs a top statistician for listening to the heartbeats of data and for framing data-based policy decisions for human welfare and national development. And unfortunately, there’s no one to fill Mahalanobis’s shoes, even about half a century after his demise. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Rolling back the induced livelihood shock||For most regions across the country, the long lockdown has just got over. As the “unlocking” begins, it is becoming increasingly apparent how the Indian state had chosen its sides and revealed its elitist bias during one of the most stringently enforced lockdowns worldwide. Several news reports and surveys on the plight of India’s less-privileged workforce during the lockdown have highlighted the massive scale of falling incomes and loss of means of livelihood. Many have been pushed into various depths of poverty depending on how vulnerable their occupations were. Quantifying the likely scale of the poverty impacts of the lockdown, we use most recent workforce survey data on India to estimate what the lockdown-induced livelihood shock might have meant economically for different categories of workers. We suggest some potential policy measures to prevent the shocks from further snowballing into chronic poverty.  Pre-shock conundrum India’s poverty line has been a matter of contention for long for its unrealistically low thresholds leading to conservative poverty numbers. Irregular updating of official poverty lines and unavailability of data on consumption expenditure from National Sample Surveys in recent years have added to the ambiguity around poverty estimation in India. According to the household consumption expenditure reported in the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), 2017-18 (which replaces the employment-unemployment surveys of the National Sample Survey Office) and applying State-specific poverty lines (used by the erstwhile Planning Commission in 2011 based on the Tendulkar Committee recommendations, adjusted with current price indices), about 42% or around 56 crore people were ‘officially’ poor before the lockdown was announced. Highlighting how closely packed people are towards the lower half of the consumption expenditure distribution, another 20 crore people were within a narrow band 20% above the poverty line. In most parts of the country, this amounts to a few hundred rupees over the poverty line threshold. A modest dip in earnings — and hence a fall in consumption spending — would push a majority of them into the vortex of poverty and hunger. Sucking up large or entire chunks of the modest incomes, the lockdown gave a shove. A poverty deepening Our estimates from the PLFS data extrapolated for the year 2020 suggest that about an additional 40 crore people were pushed below the poverty line due to the lockdown. Around 12 crore of this lockdown-induced newly poor are in urban areas and another 28 crore people in rural areas. Those who were already poor are going to suffer a further worsening in their quality of life, a phenomenon known as poverty deepening. Before the lockdown, around 16% of the population had per capita consumption expenditure of about a third of the poverty line, managing their daily expenses with Rs. 30 per day or less. After the lockdown this could swell to more than 62 crore (47%) people pushed to such extreme poverty. A shock of such a scale to an overwhelming majority of Indians is unprecedented in the nation’s living memory. Inadequate state responses At such a juncture, formal responses of the state have been mostly inadequate and poorly conceived. The second economic stimulus package announced by the Finance Minister exposes the class nature of the current political dispensation more than ever. A token increase of National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) wage by Rs. 20 (Rs. 182 to Rs. 202) seems like a joke in the light of the overall magnitude of the crisis. Undoubtedly, a revamped, expanded NREGA needs to be made the fulcrum of the rural recharge. The demand for work is anticipated to increase by 25% with reverse migration-fuelled increase in rural labour supply. The revamped scheme would require providing 90 million workers guaranteed employment of 20 days of work/month for at least the next six months. This means an additional financial stimulus of Rs. 1.6-lakh crore. Universalisation of the Public Distribution System has been widely talked about but needs better equity focus in implementation. Recent experience of expanding food coupons to non-ration card holders in Delhi suggests that such measures are likely to exclude marginalised communities including Dalits and Muslims at the lowest strata of the work hierarchy. At the local level, this would mean identification of the most vulnerable and including them into the programme before expanding it to the relatively better-off. The exclusion errors of IT-based attempts to coverage have huge social costs in the form of accentuated hunger. Stabilising urban economy Massive reverse migration flows out of the urban informal sector will force grinding halts and hiccups for the economy limping back towards normalcy in the post-lockdown scenarios. Given the magnitude of the destabilisation, an urban employment guarantee programme becomes a dire necessity to stabilise the urban economy. A ‘direct’ employment programme implemented through municipal corporations could be introduced to guarantee 20 days of work. This can be used to develop key social infrastructure in urban areas including slum development, drinking water supply, toilet construction, parks and common areas, urban afforestation and social forestry. Such facelift public works programmes can make a major difference in both the condition of public utilities and absorbing the spurt in demand for work in district towns and smaller cities in the traditional outmigration hotspots across the country. The wages could be fixed with 30% premium over prevalent MNREGA benchmark average wage in the State. An ‘indirect’ branch of this programme can be used to encourage a revival of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the most prominent clusters. This could include employer-contractor facilitated programmes to provide wage subsidy of an equivalent amount as in the direct programme to employers of urban SMEs, other business establishments and construction sector projects. The neo-liberal growth that we have experienced since the 1990s has been largely through breaking the back of the labouring class. The economy grew by paying less and less to workers and allowing surplus to accumulate in the hands of the owners of the means of production, with the expectation that this would be reinvested. The state worked systematically to let this model flourish. A series of policies made the labouring class increasingly vulnerable, weakening their collective bargaining power, pushing them away from their native towns out of desperation, forcing them to accept any wage that is offered to them, making them live in conditions which take away their sense of dignity, and curtailing any social security benefit that could help them survive in times of difficulties. If we do not alter the course of economic progress and reorient development programmes, the implications could be severe with increasing hunger-related deaths and destitution, leading to social unrest and crime. Sumit Mazumdar is Research Fellow, Centre for Health Economics, University of York, U.K. Indranil is Associate Professor, School of Government and Public Policy, O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||No more Sattankulams||The dust is slowly settling on the controversy surrounding the alleged torture of a father-son duo in police custody in Sattankulam, Thoothukudi district. The two men died in hospital. The case is being investigated by the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID). The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and the Director General of Police did not delay the decision to hand over the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). This means that the state has nothing to hide from the families of the deceased or the general public. The investigation The Madras High Court has shown remarkable sensitivity as it should in such horrific incidents. It was an innovative move by the court to ask revenue authorities to take control of the Sattankulam police station lest crucial evidence be destroyed or damaged. Of course, some may believe that the High Court’s action was unwarranted and will demoralise the police force. The revenue authorities have since withdrawn, and the investigation is wholly with the CB-CID. Coming so soon after the George Floyd incident in the U.S., the Sattankulam episode should shock our conscience. Police brutality is universal and internal cover-ups are common. There is informal trade unionism and a code of silence among the police, as in other professions, that militates against objective inquiries into police conduct. There is evidence of this in Sattankulam. In a report, the Judicial Magistrate of Kovilpatti submitted to the court that the Sattankulam police did not cooperate during the inquiry. The CCTV footage at the police station has been erased. There is no assurance that evidence has not already been tampered with. There is obvious discomfort among some policemen over a CBI probe. This should not degenerate into culpable obstruction of the investigation. This is a danger that can be averted if the police leadership demonstrates its resolve to punish even the slightest act of sabotage intended to help a few criminals masquerading as the police. The CBI will also not permit any police licentiousness. It is a welcome development that a few arrests have already been made in the case, including of the Inspector. If necessary, a few more may be effected to ferret out the truth. If it’s ultimately proved that the two victims were in fact tortured to death, attention then shifts to unraveling the motive. Any vendetta will have to be confirmed by the CBI when it takes over the investigation. If no motive is established, the case against the policemen will weaken. However, if there is clear evidence of the beatings of the victims, that evidence will speak for itself. Post-mortem reports reveal the injuries inflicted and the weapons used. Some unscrupulous policemen have the expertise to resort to bodily violence without leaving a trace of the methods/weapons used. Doctors conducting the post-mortem are often intimidated into giving false reports. The intensity of public furore in this incident is a guarantee against such unethical behaviour. Finally, I am concerned over the loss of image suffered by the Tamil Nadu Police. The tendency to paint the whole force with the same brush is inevitable. But the brutality here is so blatant that the public will realise that this was at worst an aberration on the part of a few policemen. This is no consolation, however. Whether the guilty are individual policemen or the entire force, it is a blot which the Tamil Nadu Police will have to live with for decades. Reducing incidence of police violence Can such incidents can be prevented in the future? I am cynical about this. We will continue to witness random policemen misbehaviour. These are men who are inclined to indulge in brutality at the drop of a hat. The suggestion that every recruit should be subjected to a psychology test has little relevance as such a test may not always identify men with a disturbed mind. Many recruits become perpetrators after a few years in the field. Work pressure and unfair treatment by supervisors lead to gross misconduct and assaults on the unarmed and unprotected. Technology can help a little but its utility cannot be exaggerated. Body cameras, such as the ones used in the U.S. and the U.K., on beat policeman can ensure police restraint. India could experiment with such devices. The police culture of each country is different. A democratic government is no guarantee that the police will act in a civilised manner. In the U.S., for instance, there are many reports of abuses by policemen against non-whites. India cannot afford any more Sattankulams. We may not be able put a complete end to police violence, but we can reduce its incidence. A lot will depend on the leadership, which has a sacred duty to foster a culture of obedience to the law. The media has its task cut out to identify and highlight unethical leadership. R.K. Raghavan is a former CBI Director
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Before the next health crisis||Stalking the efforts of the government and the private sector to revive the economy in the time of COVID-19 are two dangers to people’s health — air pollution and greenhouse gases — and a weak public health system. The respite from the air pollution that blankets Indian cities is transitory. India must heed scientists’ warnings tying health disasters to air pollution as well as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions causing global warming. A noxious cocktail Strikingly, the avoided number of early deaths from dirty air quality in recent months in China is estimated to have exceeded the number of those who have died from COVID-19. In Europe, 11,000 air-pollution related deaths were estimated to have been averted since the start of lockdowns. There is an association between pollution levels in cities (despite the improvements during the pandemic) and COVID-19 infections and death rates, a link observed in New York City and the northern provinces of Italy. Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu, in the top tier of pollution concentration, have also seen high deaths and infections per thousand people. Of course, other factors too decide morbidity and mortality. COVID-19’s toll has differed considerably across States — Kerala and Tamil Nadu, for example, have a lower COVID-19 mortality rate. These States stand out with good healthcare systems. Globally some 9 million premature deaths a year are associated with air pollutants, such as fine particulate matter, known as PM 2.5. Regrettably, 14 of the world’s 20 most polluted cities are in India. The air in Ghaziabad, Delhi, and Noida is particularly hazardous. Last year, a public health emergency was declared as post-Diwali New Delhi’s air quality index approached 500, the “severe plus emergency” category. Adding to this noxious cocktail are GHGs like carbon dioxide, causing global warming and damaging health. Despite the plunge during the lockdown, atmospheric carbon emissions are a record high because of past accumulation. Ranked as the world’s fifth most vulnerable country to climate change, India must respond to alerts on communicable diseases linked to GHGs. Global warming intensifies heat waves and worsens respiratory illnesses. Locust swarms in Jaipur and Gurugram have been linked to climate change. Evidence is also emerging on a link between global warming and the emergence of diseases. Mosquito-borne diseases in India have been connected to global warming through both increased rainfall and heat waves. Europe reported its first local transmissions of dengue in 2010. Need for a new plan So, India must not scramble to return to bad old ways of boosting short-term growth at any cost but capitalise on the tantalising glimpse of a healthier and cleaner world. Spending on reducing air pollution and GHGs provides estimated health benefits of 1.4 to 2.5 times more than the cost of the actions. Delhi, set to overtake Tokyo as the most populous city by 2030, needs to deal with transport, responsible for two-fifth of the PM 2.5 in the skies. Reforms should encourage public transportation in place of the 10 million vehicles, expand electric vehicles, and provide inter-connectivity between the metro and buses. In managing health risks, emission reduction should be coupled with a stronger public health system. Right now, government spending on health is just 1.6% of GDP, low for a lower middle-income country. Most countries, including India, fail the test of readiness for health disasters, according to the 2019 Global Health Security Index. The cleaner air the country is still breathing during the pandemic should be a powerful motivation. Scientific warnings do not indicate the time and place of calamities but do call for confronting air pollution and global warming and strengthening health systems before the next health emergency that is surely going to happen. Vinod Thomas is Visiting Professor at the National University of Singapore and a former senior vice president at the World Bank.@vthomas14
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Gangster of Kanpur||The killing of eight policemen by a criminal gang in Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh on Friday bears the violent signature of a dysfunctional society and an alarming emaciation of governance in India’s most populous State. A history-sheeter who has at least five dozen cases of murder, extortion, kidnapping and other violent crimes against him, waited in ambush at his own home for the arrival of the police party that was seeking to arrest him. One of the dead was in his early 20s and had just started his career; another one was nearing retirement. These were needless and avoidable deaths: reports suggest that the gangster had received information about the impending raid from his sources within the police. The administration responded to the tragic setback by bulldozing the gang leader’s house and vehicles parked in the premises. Straddling the worlds of government contracts, politics and crime, the gangster Vikas Dubey is emblematic of the nexus between politics, crime and policing in many parts of the country. The circumstances that went into the making of this incident and the response of the administration all point to the same morbid affliction that can be fatal to any democratic society — the collapse of the rule of law. Criminal gangs shielded by politics and police forces that bend to caste, communal and political vested interests form a malevolent circuit that perpetuates itself and rewards its patrons. These individuals in uniform ended up paying with their lives for this. The police force is the coercive arm of the state often in direct contact with ordinary citizens. The quality of policing therefore has an outsized impact on the overall quality of governance. Poor training, an alienating and dehumanising work environment, corruption and a lack of resources add to the crisis in policing. Politicians in power often use the police the same way politicians out of power use gangsters. Not surprisingly, there are times when the police mirror in character the criminal gangs they chase down. U.P. is not unique, but these maladies reveal themselves on a petrifying scale in the State. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has a declared ‘tough on crime’ policy but this has sometimes meant that the police resort to shortcuts that subvert the legal course. The State has had 5,178 encounters in which 103 suspects were killed and 17,745 surrendered in a little over the last two years. Questionable coercive measures such as collective punishment and criminalisation of political protest and suppression of freedom of expression have also been mainstreamed as regular policing tools. This tragic loss of their own personnel in what should have been a routine law enforcement operation must fire up the U.P. police to uphold professionalism, cleanse its ranks of the corrupt and the inefficient, and liberate the State from the fear of gangsters.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||What about WHO?||In a bid to cover up his own failures in COVID-19 containment and limit the number of deaths in the country, U.S. President Donald Trump has been accusing China of “secrecy, deception and cover-up” in the outbreak and the World Health Organization of being “China-centric”. Mr. Trump could not have known it, but there is now evidence that WHO had not been fully transparent during the early stages of the outbreak in Wuhan, and China had indeed been more opaque than already known. If WHO gave an impression that on December 31 China had alerted it, the June 29 revised timeline of the world body clarifies the facts to a great degree. WHO’s country office in China had apparently been alerted by a media statement by the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission about cases of viral pneumonia. It got the same news from another independent source too. China confirmed to WHO of the cluster of cases of ‘viral pneumonia of unknown cause’ on January 3 only after the global body twice reached out to the Chinese authorities on January 1-2. Following the confirmation, WHO on January 4 tweeted to say, “China has reported to the WHO a cluster of pneumonia cases, with no deaths, in Wuhan, Hubei Province.…” Also, if the earlier timeline had mentioned that on December 31 a “novel coronavirus was eventually identified” as the cause of pneumonia cases, the revised information posted on the WHO website mentions that the cause of illness was not known till January 2, and China did not confirm novel coronavirus as the cause even on January 3 when it confirmed a cluster of pneumonia cases. At least on three occasions, including on January 30 when the health emergency of international concern was declared, WHO had publicly praised China for its commitment to transparency. While it also said China was “setting a new standard for outbreak response” and called the quick sharing of whole genome sequence data of the virus as “very impressive”, independent investigation revealed a different situation — China was not very forthcoming. The world knew of human-to-human transmission in China only on January 20, and the global body was often kept in the dark. Scientific evidence strongly suggests that the outbreak began at least by early November. Apparently, WHO had to keep praising China so that it shared information. Surely, powerful nations cannot be allowed to endanger lives around the world by shirking responsibility. China has evidently refused to learn lessons from the disastrous handling of the 2002 SARS outbreak. The current pandemic continues to infect millions, killing more than 5,30,000, and destroying livelihoods and the world economy. At least some of the impact could have been lessened by more proactive action on the part of China, and by less reverential attitude on the part of WHO.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Does the World Progress? (From an editorial)||Of all the concepts of modern higher thought the idea of progress has perhaps the firmest hold on men’s minds. The strength of belief has invested it with the universality of an axiom: it would almost be heresy to deny that the world is every minute in a process of continuous betterment. It was the upsurge of the French Revolution, with its evangel of perfectability, that shot up the idea into prominence. Rightly or wrongly, it borrowed colour from the theory of evolution propounded by Darwin and in a world whose faith in Providence was fast crumbling under the onslaught of science, the doctrine of progress easily found itself enunciated as a law of nature. The fascination of the idea commanded its easy assimilation but the optimists that preached the doctrine failed to give a definition of its content with any degree of precision or finality. Naturally, when the holocaust of the war drove men into second thoughts, thinkers began to realise that the charm of vagueness had made them believe too much and that it was necesary to verify the belief by fresh investigation. It was probably this rebound, and not merely the lead of a philosophical criticalness that made the Rev. Dr. W.B. Inge, Dean of St. Paul’s, choose the idea of progress as his text for the Romance lecture at Oxford.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||No U.S. personnel in West Asia||President Nixon has now let it be known through his inner circle of advisers that the U.S. has no intention of sending American personnel to West Asia to counteract the growing Soviet presence in the area. This clarification, originating from the Western White House in San Clemente where the President is vacationing, is the latest in a steady stream of statements which have been coming out of President Nixon’s headquarters during the last one week. The most significant of them, and one which had ominous overtones, came a day after Mr. Nixon told a nation-wide television audience on July 1 that he considered the West Asian situation to be far more dangerous than the Vietnam war because it carried the seeds of a potential Big Power clash. That statement said that the U.S. wished to see the Soviet personnel stationed in Egypt “expelled” from that country. It was not specified how this was going to be achieved.
07 July 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Means a hell of a lot to us’||International cricket is set to return after a pandemic-enforced break of almost four months, with England hosting West Indies in a bio-secure environment for a three-Test series starting Wednesday. In addition to the usual pre-match matters such as team combination and opposition assessment, West Indies has plenty to ponder. The touring side will have to contend with the reality of playing in empty stadia and not using saliva to shine the ball — something England will have to deal with as well. But Jason Holder’s men are also mulling over the means at their disposal to support the ‘Black Lives Matter’ movement when the first Test begins in Southampton. Head coach Phil Simmons wasn’t sure whether his team would kneel to pay its respects to George Floyd, a victim of police brutality in Minneapolis, USA. But he was confident the squad would express solidarity in some fashion on Wednesday. “It means a hell of a lot to all the players, all the support staff on the tour,” Simmons said during a media interaction on Monday. “It’s something that is not just about now. It’s about life as a whole. We as a group don’t need to say, ‘Look, this is going to motivate us’. It motivates us all the time. “That’s a part of our life. I am not sure whether we are going to touch our knee [to the ground]. We’ll make a decision tonight [Monday] as to what we can do, but we’re definitely doing something. We’ve already had the logo put on the collar of our shirts, so that’s a start.” Simmons stated that the team is not too bothered about playing in front of empty stands since Tests “back home don’t really see too much attendance” and said that the two warm-up matches had helped the bowlers cope with the regulation of not using saliva to shine the ball. “Not being able to put saliva on the ball is a huge thing because that’s what we’ve grown up with. But you must find other ways to do it. A couple of days in the practice game were hard, but now we don’t have that headache. We have found other ways to shine the ball and keep the ball in shape,” he said.  The England vs. West Indies series will be telecast live on Sony Six channels
07 July 2020||CHENNAI,||When Indians made a beeline for Wimbledon, courtesy Krishnan||Like most people his age, Ramanathan Krishnan, 83, isn't venturing out, even casually, due to COVID-19. “Just like anybody else in the world, I am sitting at home, watching television and movies. Due to my age, I can’t afford to go out. I hope things get better soon as everybody is getting fed up,” he told The Hindu . When it comes to recalling events, Krishnan truly belies his age. The moment you tell him that it has been 60 years since he reached the Wimbledon singles semifinals in 1960, words flow like a beautiful river. No other Indian, before or since, has reached the last four in singles at a Major. Fresh memories “It is 60 years ago [but] my memories are fresh. I remember everything. In those days, Wimbledon used to give seedings only to the top eight in a draw of 128 and I was seeded seventh for the first time. “That way, I didn’t have to meet a seeded player till the quarterfinals. That was a big advantage,” said the Padma Bhushan awardee. Krishnan said the first two rounds at Wimbledon were tough and that helped him get to peak form. He further said that he hadn’t practised well prior to the tournament as he was suffering from chickenpox and was forced to miss nearly two months of action in April and May. “Due to chickenpox, I was quarantined for three weeks. I went to England without playing much tennis. Actually, I practised only for 2-3 days before Queen’s Club [Championships]. “My first two matches [at Wimbledon] against [Australia’s] John Hillebrand and [Spain’s] Andes Gimeno went to five sets. I just scraped through. But that gave me confidence,” said Krishnan. The maestro proudly said that he got more Indians to come to Wimbledon.  “I remember more Indians started coming to Wimbledon courts when I was winning match after match. I saw a lot of Indian faces, Indians living in England. “The Indian crowd went up in numbers. I got all the Indians to Wimbledon,” he said.
07 July 2020||Chennai,||Remembering a run-machine||Dattajirao Gaekwad is the only living Indian cricketer to have played against the immortal ‘Three Ws’ of West Indies cricket. A compact batsman and a brilliant fielder, Dattajirao, who captained India in 1959 and is the father of former India opener Aunshuman Gaekwad, was part of the Indian team that toured the West Indies in 1953. Now 92, his memory still sharp, Dattajirao spoke about Everton Weekes, who passed away recently. Insatiable appetite Dattajirao told The Hindu , “India had a good attack. We had Dattu Phadkar, Vinoo Mankad and Subhash Gupte. But the West Indians were formidable with the three Ws. In particular, Weekes had an insatiable appetite for runs.” On Weekes’ batting, Dattajirao said, “Even against the great Subhash Gupte, who had a vicious leg-break, a deceptive googly, and plenty of variations in flight, Weekes would stay inside the crease and take runs off him. He rarely stepped out. He was an organised player against both pace and spin.” In the first Test of that series, in Port of Spain, Weekes came up with an innings of 207. Dattajirao said, “One thing I noticed was that he wanted to get off the mark immediately. A couple of times I tried to run him out from covers but missed narrowly. I remember him giving me a menacing look. He loved to square-drive on one knee. That was his favourite shot. And it was very attractive.” Turning to the West Indian batting line-up, Dattajirao noted, “You had Allan Rae and skipper Jeffery Stollmeyer opening the innings. Then arrived the three Ws. Frank Worrell at No. 3, Weekes at 4 and Clyde Walcott at No. 5. The Ws symbolised West Indian cricket.” Delving deeper into their methods, Dattajirao said, “Worrell was the most stylish of the lot, Weekes was a run machine. Both rarely hit sixes. All their strokes would be along the ground. But Walcott was different, He was the hardest hitter. Hit big sixes.” Treasure trove At a personal level, Dattajirao found Worrell easy to interact with. “He was a classy man. We became good friends.” When Dattajirao returned from that tour he brought back a treasure trove of memories. On top of the list was duelling it out with the three Ws.
07 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Chess all set to return to normal world||Big time chess will soon be back over the board. On July 18, to be precise — when the Biel International Chess Festival kicks off in Switzerland. It is one of the major events on the chess circuit — with a history of more than half-a-century — and the previous winners include Magnus Carlsen, Viswanathan Anand and Anatoly Karpov, all of whom have been the World champions. Harikrishna to play India will be represented by World No. 26 P. Harikrishna. “I was glad when I got the invitation a few days ago,” he told The Hindu from Prague, his residence for the last couple of years. “It feels great to know that I can play a competitive game on an actual chessboard after playing all these online events.” He had won the Masters Open tournament at Biel in 2013. “This time around, there are some restrictions because of the pandemic,” he said. “Players from certain countries — which are deemed high risk — cannot compete.” The tournament, which concludes on July 29, will still feature prominent players like Radolsaw Wojtaszek, Michael Adams, Anton David and Salem Saleh. India’s Vidit Gujrathi had won the Grandmasters event last year.
07 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Ramesh monitoring Dutee online||The Athletics Federation of Pakistan conducted a three-day online course on strength and endurance training in which 13 coaches from India, including Hyderabad-based SAI coach Nagapuri Ramesh, attended. The course, which ended on Monday, essentially focussed on ensuring intensity in preparations for middle and long-distance events and to ensure the endurance level of athletes, especially women who face different kind of issues, said the 54-year-old Ramesh in a chat with The Hindu . “The fact that Sebastian Coe formally launched the course and many experts from Asian countries were there to conduct the classes is testimony to the efficacy of such classes,” said Ramesh, who trains Dutee Chand, among other athletes. Ramesh said he is monitoring the Asian Games silver medallist’s training schedule on a day-to-day basis with the Odisha Government letting her use the entire athletics track in Bhubaneshwar to train after taking all necessary precautions. “She is being given the facility and the help of support staff to keep training,” he added.
07 July 2020||KOLKATA,||Panghal at the pinnacle||World championships silver medallist Amit Panghal is ranked No. 1 in the men’s 52kg weight class, according to the latest world rankings released by the International Boxing Association (AIBA). Panghal is the only Indian boxer to claim the top spot in the rankings, prepared on the basis of performances up to the World championships last year. “For any athlete reaching the pinnacle in the rankings is a dream. I am motivated and looking forward to starting my training at the National camp and working with coaches,” said Panghal. Asian silver medallist Kavinder Bisht (56kg) at fourth, Deepak (49kg) and Worlds bronze medal winner Manish Kaushik (63kg) at sixth, were the other male boxers from the country to be placed within the top-10. Among women, Worlds silver medallist Manju Rani (48kg) was the highest-ranked at second. “The last one-and-a-half years have been great for me and becoming World No. 2 has given me more motivation,” said Manju. Six-time World champion M.C. Mary Kom (51kg) and Worlds bronze medallist Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) were third in their respective weight categories.
07 July 2020||MADRID,||Barca wins big||Barcelona responded to a trying week by thrashing Villarreal 4-1 to stay alive in the LaLiga title race, producing one of its best displays under coach Quique Setien. After an own goal from Pau Torres, the visitors got their other three from Luis Suarez, Antoine Griezmann and 17-year-old Ansu Fati. Fati’s goal was Barcelona’s 9,000th goal in all official competitions. Stunning strike In the Premier League, Che Adams’ stunning long-range strike helped Southampton condemn Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City side to a third successive away loss. Liverpool made it 17 wins out of 17 at Anfield with a 2-0 win over Aston Villa.  The results:   LaLiga: Espanyol 0 lost to Leganes 1 (Silva 53); Osasuna 0 drew with Getafe 0; Villarreal 1 (Gerard 14) lost to Barcelona 4 (Torres 3-og, Suarez 20, Griezmann 45, Fati 86).   Premier League: Liverpool 2 (Mane 71, Jones 89) bt Aston Villa 0; Southampton 1 (Adams 16) bt Manchester City 0.   Serie A: Inter Milan 1 (Lukaku 22) lost to Bologna 2 (Juwara 74, Barrow 80); Brescia 2 (Papetti 52, Donnarumma 90+6) bt Hellas Verona 0; Cagliari 0 lost to Atalanta 1 (Muriel 27-pen); Parma 1 (Kucka 49-pen) lost to Fiorentina 2 (Pulgar 19-pen, 31-pen); Sampdoria 3 (Linetty 12, 45+3, Gabbiadini 45) bt SPAL 0.   Udinese 2 (Fofana 44, Lasagna 73) drew with Genoa 2 (Pandev 81, Pinamonti 90+7); Napoli 2 (Callejon 55, Insigne 82) bt Roma 1 (Mkhitaryan 60).
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||ISL: four foreigners rule approved||The Indian Super League on Monday approved the 3+1 foreign player regulation, bringing it down from the existing five to boost “increased participation” of local players. The regulation will become part of the competition guidelines from the eighth season in 2021-22. The decision was taken during a Football Sports Development Ltd. (FSDL) meeting and is being communicated to the stakeholders, including clubs and the All India Football Federation (AIFF). Behind closed doors Meanwhile, the seventh edition is set to be held behind closed doors from November to March and it is likely to be restricted to two states with Goa and Kerala emerging as frontrunners. “The league will be held behind closed doors for sure and the dates are from November to March. “Kerala, Goa, West Bengal and Northeast were discussed as the likely states but Goa and Kerala can be said as the frontrunners at this point of time,” said a source close to the ISL.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||NZ offers to host IPL||New Zealand is the latest country, after the UAE and Sri Lanka, which has offered to host the IPL in case the billion dollar league can’t be held in India due to rising cases of coronavirus. “Staging the event in India has to be the first choice but in case it is not safe to have it, then we will look at the overseas options. After UAE and Sri Lanka, New Zealand has also offered to host the IPL,” informed a senior BCCI official.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 08:03 IST,||Sudoku - July 7, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||WFH, meet VPN||Streaming marathons, gaming sessions, hours of work-from-home and study-from-home routines, and umpteen video-calls — the goal is to stay connected with the outside world. As usage skyrockets, however, we grow more conscious of the networks upon which we rely — not just whether or not the bandwidth is able to handle the increased traffic in our households, but more so the security. It is a legitimate worry, after all, given the increased traffic has been easy bait for hackers to plant malware, launch phishing attacks and engage in other nefarious activities. One of the simplest solutions to abate these worries is to use a trustworthy VPN or virtual private network. VPNs create a safe and encrypted connection over a less secure network, i.e. the Internet. In fact, since the lockdowns kicked in across the country, bandwidth throttling has been on the rise; some Internet Service Providers slow down users’ traffic when they do not have adequate resources to meet the spike in demand. We also often do not notice when website URLs lack an https extension which uses Transport Layer Security protocol to encrypt data travelling between users and a website. How to choose the right VPN A simple Google search reveals some of the most reliable and popular VPNs have been NordVPN, ExpressVPN and SurfShark — but buying a VPN is not as simple as popping into the hardware for an accessory; the process requires a little more technical surety. First, different VPNs have various functions often prioritising one need over others, so take a stock of what you mostly do online: what takes up the most bandwidth in your home? For example, if you are doing a lot of transaction-based work with a lot of sensitive data (such as banking details or stock trading), your priority will be a VPN with a tough-to-crack security framework; if you are streaming and gaming a lot, you will lean towards a high-speed VPN. When you find matches of VPNs to your primary needs, it helps to gauge the respective traits. If you like streaming outside your geographical location, some sites have VPN blocks, so be mindful of the fine print for the service that catches your eye. Ideally, a VPN should be compatible with your devices, be it your laptop, tablet, smartphone, streaming sticks, or router. Also check the maximum device compatibility for your chosen VPN, given WFH environments entail multiple simultaneous connections. For those who are not-so technologically savvy but want the power of a VPN, pick one with a simple UX. Most VPNs are created to be as easy-to-use so as to appeal to as many users as possible. Also check out customer service reviews for your favoured VPNs; if something glitches, they would be your point-of-contact rather than your Internet Service Provider. One would think payment plans would be at the top of this guide, but now with the increased demands for VPNs, providers have opened up payment plans for those who are on a tight budget during the pandemic. Plus, a money-back guarantee does not hurt either. However, do not think that a VPN replaces a security system. You will still need a reliable anti-virus network that works well alongside the VPN, and regular vigilant behaviours of the user are still a priority. Happy browsing, everyone!
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Bot’ luck in lockdown||At the mere sight of a bot, we cannot help but roll our eyes and prepare to close the chat window in which it appeared. However, during the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been some helpful versions created by reputed organisations — such as WHO’s WhatsApp bot and Google Rapid Response Virtual Agent — to help people find verified information. And then there are the bots made by young innovators including 13-year-old Joshita Neelam, a Class IX student and a State chess player from Unduru in Andhra Pradesh. Neelam used the lockdown to enhance her e-learning and create bots. Using her father Babji Neelam’s account, she completed an advanced certification course on RPA (Robotic Process Automation) from Automation Anywhere University. According to a release, she is the youngest in the world to complete the RPA advanced course on the platform. Speaking to The Hindu over phone, Neelam shares her interest in emerging technology RPA. “Working on a computer is interesting, but watching a computer work all by itself is even more interesting,” she says. Says Milan Sheth, executive vice president for India, Middle East, and Africa, Automation Anywhere, “Children of the current age are aware of their surroundings and technology has a profound impact on them. Due to the global pandemic, they have the opportunity to explore unknown avenues which intrigued them earlier. The simplicity of any technology makes it far more accessible and has the power of penetrating across various social demographics.” Bots for good Some of the bots crafted by the Lakshya International School student include COVID-19 Tracker Bot which tracks the number of cases. She leveraged a bot to go to Worldometre, a Dadax-operated real-time statistics site, download the data and use a message box to display the number of cases. Price Alert Bot checks the price of an object. “I used a web recorder to extract data from Amazon and use an Excel bot to verify the price. A message box tells if the price is higher or lower,” she explains. Her Grade Analysis Bot not only checks students’ scores but also informs them whether they have passed or failed. Realising her interest in computers, Neelam’s father discussed different types of technologies with her including Artificial Intelligence, Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality and Internet of Things. Having a father in IT helped as she could go to him when she encountered errors. Neelam says she hopes to be a ‘technology doctor’ eventually. In the meantime, she wants to create more bots including one for her school. She says, “it is difficult for schools to give progress reports by hand now and sending many emails at a time creates problems. I want to create a bot to do this.”
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||through screens and apps||Meenakshi Senthamizh is the third-generation owner of New Mahalakshmi Stores in Dasanaickenpatti, a village in Salem, Tamil Nadu. When her grandfather started the shop about 60 years ago, it was one of the district’s biggest shops, she says. “Supermarkets didn’t exist back then. So, even the people from the town used to come to our village for groceries.” The store — thanks to its reputation and goodwill earned over half a century — does steady business. But there was a blip from March to May because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. Many regular customers could not access the store. And, most transactions happened in person. Credit accounts were kept using pen and paper. Until then, the store had not deviated much from the ways of doing business since Senthamizh’s grandfather’s time. Last month, however, Senthamizh saw an article in a local daily about duNow, an app that digitises billing, credit management and customer communication among other operations of a local store. “Business has been better ever since,” says Senthamizh. “We get orders from the town via the app. And, in the village, we are asking our regular customers to install it and teaching them how to use it.” Launched in Chennai in 2019, duNow is among the latest e-commerce startups that focus on kirana stores. Not too long ago, shopkeepers saw an imminent danger of being swallowed by the e-commerce wave that led to the emergence of new players like Flipkart and Amazon. Abhishek Chauhan, an associate partner at RedSeer Consulting reckons the ‘kiranas versus e-commerce’ battle barely exists. “E-commerce companies want to co-exist with kiranas, not bypass them,” he says. This is because India’s nearly $500 billion grocery market is mostly dominated by the 13 million small shops (according to RedSeer) — the share of online grocers, admittedly in their infancy, is less than 0.5%. “There are millions of small businesses operating in India; our potential for growth is enormous,” says Srivathsan Krishnamurthy, duNow’s founder. He is targeting to get to bring 20,000 of them on board in the next two years. It is not an unlikely goal; he has already managed to get 500 retailers across India. Khatabook, a free book-keeping app launched in 2018, has over 10 million downloads on the Google Play Store. The Bengaluru-based startup serves over 80,000 customers across the country. SnapBizz, another Bengaluru-based retail-tech company launched in 2013, provides hardware and software support to over 10,000 shops. According to founder Prem Kumar, it has seen a 40-50% increase in its consumer base in the last two years. The emergence of these e-commerce entities is perhaps due to a fast increasing demand for digitisation. According to RedSeer, less than 3.5 million of 13 million kirana stores are using “some sort of a tech platform”. And, the Internet’s rapid penetration even in low-income states will encourage the rest to adopt digital tools that will increase their ease of doing business. Chauhan says this pandemic, despite largely wreaking havoc in many spheres of business, has increased the pace of digitisation among kiranas.  The COVID-19 effect  There has been a significant rise among kiranas in adopting digital tools. According to a RedSeer survey conducted this May, their willingness to work with retail tech providers increased from 7% (pre-COVID days) to about 60% now. There is also a surge (45% to 60%) in mobile-based transactions at points of sale among kiranas that have been using digital payment methods. SnapBizz founder Kumar says his company acquired 1,000 new customers in May and June. “We are expecting to add 10,000 more in the next three months. [If that happens], we will be doubling the number of customers we gathered over the last few years.” Meanwhile, KhataBook CEO Ravish Naresh and duNow’s Krishnamurthy also observe this post-pandemic rush among shop owners to digitise their businesses. “The last three months, we have been observing a behavioural change among customers as well as kirana shop owners,” says Krishnamurthy. “People don’t want or cannot step out for groceries. So, these shops don’t get enough footfall. This has forced previously reluctant owners to adapt technology now. We had a 30% growth during the lockdown.” Blurred lines Online retailers’ arrival created two factions: tech companies like Amazon and Flipkart that fell under e-commerce and the neighbourhood mom-and-pop stores that continued traditional commerce. That line of division is blurring. E-commerce now encompasses our neighbourhood grocery stores too. Meanwhile, even online retailers are embracing kiranas. Amazon India, in April, launched the ‘Local Shop on Amazon’ programme that added over 5,000 local shops and retailers from more than 100 cities. “We will use our technology, training and enablement capabilities to power local shops across India to sell online,” it said. The launch of Reliance-owned JioMart is likely to be a game-changer, according to Chauhan. Facebook, which owns WhatsApp, signed a $5.7 billion deal with Jio in April. This will allow JioMart to reach millions of local vendors via WhatsApp, which has over 400 million Indian subscribers. “The launch of JioMart has certainly got kiranas to the centre-stage. We anticipate them reaching about 1,00,000 stores by the end of this year,” says Chauhan. “Kiranas are a critical part of the JioMart value chain as it would leverage them to serve consumers at a hyper-local level.” The entry of JioMart, however, will not wipe out the competition, he adds. “On the whole, their entry will benefit other players too, as kiranas in Tier-2 areas will be more aware of the benefits of eB2B and will be open to try more digital platforms.” Soon, millions of shops in India will receive orders on apps, maintain a digital ledger and send special offers via push notifications like New Mahalakshmi Store in Salem.  Speaking the local language   Apart from creating user-friendly interfaces and providing good technological support, retail tech startups realise the significance of making their product available in vernacular languages.   Abhishek of RedSeer consulting estimates that 80% of kirana shops are outside metros and Tier-1 cities in India. Reaching out to potential customers in the regional language is, hence, important.   KhataBook knows this too well. For, it has made its product available in 13 languages. “When we launched, we had three languages. But we soon added more languages as we catered to more cities,” says its CEO Ravish.   KhataBook also used the now-banned TikTok, which had plenty of regional influencers, to market their product.  SnapBizz, too, is making its app available in more languages. It launched with English, Hindi and Tamil. It has added Telugu, Kannada and Bengali now.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘If trend of low cases continues, Delhi may have passed peak’||The total number of COVID-19 cases in the city crossed one lakh on Monday with 1,379 new infections being reported in the past 24 hours, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The total number of cases now stands at 1,00,823. Also, 48 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 3,115. After the daily new cases almost touched 4,000 on June 23, it has been below 3,000 for the 10th consecutive day on Monday. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria told The Hindu that if the trend of comparatively low new cases continues for the next 5-7 days, then Delhi could have passed the peak of COVID-19 cases. “If this trend continues, then we could say that we have had a peak and now we are on the downward side. Cases have come down from almost 4,000 to 2,500,” he said. Over 25,000 active cases Of the total cases, 72,088 people have recovered and there are 25,620 active cases. Though the new cases fell below the 2,000 mark after 20 days on Monday, the number of samples tested on Monday was also low. While 13,879 samples were tested on Monday, the last three days had reported more than 23,000 tests per day.   Explaining the possible reasons for the drop in cases, Mr. Guleria said: “Once you reach a saturation point and a large number of people get infected and you are strict in contact tracing and isolation, then you do two things: one, you break the chain of transmission; and second, if you have significant number of people who have recovered, they cannot spread the disease to someone else, as their chance of reinfection is low. They are like an immune group.” Herd immunity Mr. Guleria added that in areas of dense population where a high number of cases were reported “some degree of herd immunity possibly has been developed”. He said that the number of cases seems to have stabilised in the city, despite the number of tests going up over the past 20 days. “This suggests that we are plateauing off in terms of number of cases. There is a flattening of the curve, but we still need to monitor it till the 15th and 20th of this month,” he said. “We have to be aggressive in testing, contact tracing, isolation and maintaining social distancing. If we let our guard down, then cases will come back in a big manner,” he warned. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia visited the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital to review its preparedness to treat COVID-19 patients. “As the city observes a steady increase in the number of cases, the government has ramped up installation of ICU beds in RGSS hospital from 45 to 200, and in LNJP Hospital from 60 to 180,” Mr. Kejriwal said.
07 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana Cabinet nod for draft to reserve 75% jobs for locals||The Haryana Cabinet on Monday approved a proposal for drafting the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020, to provide 75% reservation to residents of the State in jobs in the private sector.  New jobs The draft will earmark new jobs with a salary of less than Rs. 50,000 per month to local candidates in privately managed companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms etc. which employ more than 10 persons, said a statement. Employers will have the option to recruit 10% local candidates from one district. Exemption clause will also be provided if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry, it said. The meeting was chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal, in which Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala presented the proposal. Mr. Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party had promised the step during the 2019 Assembly election campaign. Mr. Chautala said those industries or units which hide information about the employees would face severe consequences. “The rules would apply to recruitment after the date of notification of this ordinance,” he said. Domicile certificate The Deputy Chief Minister said domicile certificate would be mandatory for the candidate to take the benefit under this scheme which would be implemented by the Labour Department. He said all those companies coming under the Act must register the entire data of employees on a web portal. The Cabinet also gave approval for another ordinance to amend the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and the Factories Act, 1948, for empowering the State government to grant exemption from certain provisions for 1,000 days to a new establishment and undertaking or any class of new establishments, said the statement. To extend relief for the real estate industry in the wake of the disruptions caused by COVID-19, the government has decided to grant moratorium on compliances and interest payments for seven months from March 1, 2020, to September 30, 2020, for all existing projects of change of land use, licences etc, added the statement.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU teachers’ body asks UGC to cancel online open book exams||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Monday wrote to the University Grants Commission (UGC) seeking immediate cancellation of online open book examinations (OBE), which are scheduled to begin from July 10. Following complaints from hundreds of students regarding glitches faced in the ongoing mock online OBE, the teachers’ body wrote to the UGC seeking “timely intervention” in the matter. “We hope that your timely intervention will prevent DU from going ahead with this fault-ridden proposal and creating unwarranted stress and trauma for students. Any further delay has the potential to destroy lives and careers of several lakhs of students,” the letter read. “The entire [mock OBE] process was marred by technical glitches and faults which have been widely reported. This shows the complete unpreparedness of the university to conduct these exams on such a large scale and has given rise to severe anxiety for thousands of students,” the letter further said. Amid strong reservations from students and teachers, the university had announced that OBE will be held for terminal-year students this year due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The mock exams began from July 4 and over the weekend hundreds of students complained of not being able to access the portal, with issues ranging from problems with registrations to incorrect question papers. In its response to the issues raised by students, the university has issued a clarification. DU said students might have faced difficulties in downloading the question paper due to the fact that they were searching for specific question papers or searching with titles of subjects or courses, which were not fed into the system. “Students are advised that this is purely a mock test and any sample paper may be used for writing and they can take any paper of their choice. Students may be assured that on the day of examination, all question papers shall be available as mentioned in the datesheet,” the response read. As for complaints pertaining to students not being able to register, the university said that it was due to “unmatched data as filled out by students”. DU also clarified that for uploading answer sheets, students can upload one file of 5 MB, and that multiple files can be uploaded. “All students belonging to the PWD category who have registered for OBE mode have been mapped in the system and the time of five hours has been kept for them to log out for examinations,” the response added.  Insensitive order Meanwhile, DUTA has termed an MHA notification permitting the conduct of examinations in universities as “insensitive”. DUTA president Rajib Ray said, “Contradictory MHA orders in a gap of few days, even as there is no change in the COVID-19 graph, shows that mental and physical well-being of lakh of students have been compromised.” “There is no answer yet on how non-terminal-year students can get degrees without exam for a semester while final year students’ degrees become less valuable without exam every semester. Is an exam that has no mechanism at all to monitor malpractice an acceptable basis for award of degrees?” Mr. Ray said.
07 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal sharpens attack on Cong., AAP over ordinances||With Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announcing to lead an all-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue surrounding the Centre’s agriculture-related ordinances, the Shiromani Akali Dal has sharpened its attack on the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party. Senior Akali Dal leader Daljeet Singh Cheema has accused the Chief Minister of trying to divert his governments failures by misleading people on the ordinances, despite knowing that these had nothing to do with Minimum Support Price. “I request the Chief Minister to shun politics on the Central agricultural ordinances in the interest of the Punjabis. Is it not a fact that you amended the State APMC Act in 2017 to include all the provisions contained in the Farmers Produce and Trade Ordinance such as allowing creation of private yards, direct marketing and e-trading?,” Mr. Cheema asked while briefing journalists. He said the State government had also participated in the consultation process on the agricultural ordinances. “Now after doing all this, the Chief Minister is misleading farmers and farmer unions in league with the Aam Aadmi Party for petty political gains”. Mr. Cheema accused AAP of failing to perform its role as the principle opposition party and instead has become subservient to the Congress party. “With AAP giving up all scruples against the Congress, all that remaines is a formal merger with the latter,” he said.  CM’s accusation Captain Amarinder had last week accused the Shiromani Akali Dal of supporting the Central ordinances in a bid to protect their political interests. The Chief Minister had also said that he would be writing soon to the Prime Minister for an appointment for the all-party delegation on the issue.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parlour employee thrashed after asking for salary dues||A 40-year-old woman working in a massage parlour was allegedly thrashed by her employer and attacked by the pet dog when she went to ask for her salary dues. The victim identified as Sapna, a resident of Hauz Rani, alleged that she worked in the parlour for a month and a half before the lockdown was announced. “She [employer] was unreachable for a few days. Eventually, I spoke to her over the phone and asked for my dues. She called me to her house in Khirki Extension,” she said. Ms. Sapna went to the employer’s residence on June 11. “The woman said that I will have to work first and then only she will clear my dues. When I refused, she said she would not give me the money and started thrashing me. She then let her dog loose to attack me,” said Ms. Sapna, adding that her face was severely injured after the attack. The employer allegedly told the victim not to shout to prevent locals from gathering. However, when Ms. Sapna screamed in pain, other employees of the owner gathered and took her to a private hospital in Malviya Nagar. She was then referred to Safdarjung Hospital. “After returning home, I called up the police control room and they told me file a complaint at the police station. I didn’t as I was scared,” she said. She called up the employer a few times again asking to pay her the dues. However, she was denied. Approached MLA Ms. Sapna then approached area MLA Somnath Bharti who, along with an NGO, helped her approach the police. Mr. Bharti also took to social media after which the matter came to light. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said that a case has been registered and further investigation is under way.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No social distancing in Mandoli jail’||Family members of inmates lodged in Mandoli jail have alleged lack of social distancing and medical care inside the premises. Jail authorities, however, have denied such allegation and assured that they are fully prepared to deal with any situation. On Sunday, 70-year-old Mahender Yadav, a former MLA from Palam constituency, who was lodged in jail no. 14 of the prison, died of COVID-19. Another convict, Kanwar Singh (62), who died last month and had tested positive for the virus, was also lodged in jail no. 14. Yadav’s son Raghuvindra Yadav said the jail authorities did not take care of his father and also did not inform the family about his admission to hospital after he tested positive for the deadly virus. “The jail authorities did not give him proper and timely medical help. I kept requesting them to shift my father to a private hospital but they delayed it and by the time he was shifted to a hospital in Dwarka, his health deteriorated,” Mr. Raghuvindra said. Mohammad Abdul, a relative of inmate Salman, said he has not met his son-in-law for the last three months since meetings have been suspended in jail till next notice because of the outbreak situation. “Over the phone, my son-in-law told me that things are not better inside the jail. He said the barracks are overcrowded and no one follows social distancing. Doctor visits are not regular. I am worried about him. I have applied for his bail... let us see what happens,” said Mr. Abdul. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel refuted any such allegations and said that facilities in Mandoli jail are much better than in other prisons. Isolation ward “We have converted two barracks into isolation ward to meet any situation. We are following ICMR guidelines and taking extra care of barracks meant for senior citizens. The inmates, who tested positive, have been shifted to a separate barrack,” he said. Whenever any inmate tests positive for the deadly virus, he is either treated inside the premises or is shifted to a hospital, depending on health condition, he added. “The doctors regularly visit barracks to screen inmates. If any inmate complains of any COVID-19 symptom then the inmate is immediately shifted to an isolation ward,” said Mr. Goel.
07 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan farmers seek full procurement of crop at MSP||The farmers in Rajasthan have demanded procurement of full quantities of agricultural produce on minimum support prices (MSP) in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic to resolve the agrarian distress caused by crop losses and debt burden. Farmers expect a hand-holding support from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and other State agencies for getting remunerative prices. The FCI has since accepted one of the demands for extension of date for wheat procurement to July 7. The Hadoti Kisan Union has sought procurement of full quantity of wheat, at the rate of Rs. 1,925 per quintal, brought to the purchase centres. Hadoti Kisan Union general secretary Dashrath Kumar said on Monday that while about 6 lakh tonnes of wheat was purchased at the procurement centres in Kota division, the farmers were forced to sell 4 lakh tonnes in the local mandis at lower prices. This had led to a loss ranging between Rs. 80 crore and Rs. 100 crore to the farmers, he said.  Lockdown effect Though the procurement had started on April 15, very few farmers could reach the purchase centres because of the COVID-19 lockdown. Mr. Kumar said the FCI should speed up procurement at its 150 centres in Kota division and purchase the remaining quantity of wheat through a campaign. The farmers led by Kisan Mahapanchayat president Rampal Jat launched a march to Delhi from Dudu in Jaipur district on Sunday to protest against the stoppage of procurement of chickpeas on MSP. The procession of 160 tractor trolleys carrying the sacks of chickpeas was stopped by the administration at Mahla, 30 km from Jaipur. Mr. Jat said the farmers had requested the Rajasthan Cooperative Marketing Federation to start the procurement at the earliest and warned that they would march to Delhi to submit a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi if their demand was not met. A fresh round of talks between Kisan Mahapanchayat and the State government is expected shortly. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had last month asked the Centre to increase the limit of MSP procurement from 25% of the agricultural produce to at least 50% under the Price Stabilisation Scheme in view of hardships being faced by farmers due to the pandemic.
07 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Ghaziabad fire: candle factory owner held||The Ghaziabad police on Monday morning arrested the owner of an illegal candle-making factory in Modinagar where eight people were killed in a fire, officials said. The blaze at the factory, located in Modinagar’s Bakhrwa village, was reported around 4 p.m. on Sunday after an explosion that brought down the roof and gutted the building. The factory had stockpiled highly inflammable material used in small quantities to make special candles generally used for decorating birthday cakes, they said. The factory owner, Nitin Chaudhary, is being questioned, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani said. “An FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint by local villagers. The prime suspect and owner of the factory, Nitin Chaudhary, has been arrested. He told the police that the candles were stocked in the factory and were being packed when the blaze broke out,” SSP Naithani said. The accused, who was on the run for 18 hours, is in police custody, he added. Seven women workers and a 16-year-old boy were killed in the fire at the factory that was being run in a rented house. Another eight people were injured in the incident, the police said.   Policeman suspended The in-charge of the police post in the area was suspended for alleged dereliction of duty and a magisterial inquiry was ordered into the incident. The administration has announced a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each for the families of the dead workers.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Clarify stand on status of final-year undergraduate students, HC tells DU||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Delhi University to clarify its stand on the status of final-year undergraduate students, seeking admission in the postgraduate courses in the event they are not in the position to take the examinations through the open book examination (OBE) system. Avoid ambiguity A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said it wanted to “avoid any ambiguity” with regard to the fate of the students who instead of the OBE opt to await the physical examination proposed to be conducted in September, 2020. Senior advocate Sachin Dutta, appearing for Delhi University, said that such students will be provisionally granted admission in the postgraduate courses, subject to the condition that they meet the eligibility norms after the results of the undergraduate course are declared and subject to their appearing for the entrance examination. To have more clarity on the issue, the High Court directed the university to submit an affidavit clarifying its stand as stated by Mr. Dutta and posted the case for further hearing on July 9. Contempt notice The Bench had on the last hearing issued contempt notice to the university and its officers for withholding material information from the court and trying to mislead the court over deferment of the open book exams, scheduled on July 1 by another 10 days. Professor Vinay Gupta, working as Dean (Examination) in University of Delhi has filed an affidavit, offering an explanation for failing to inform the court about the exam rescheduling. Mock exam Mr. Dutta stated that as a run-up to the main examination, the mock examinations have commenced on July 4 and shall conclude on July 8. Thereafter, the open book examinations shall commence from July 10, he also said. Mr. Dutta said that if, for any reason, the students are not in a position to sit for the commencing open book examination, all the students, whether in the PWD (persons with disabilities) category or otherwise will be afforded an opportunity to sit in the examinations physically, in September 2020, subject to conditions normalising. “This is irrespective of the fact that they [students] have filled up their applications online or otherwise, for sitting in the examinations and even reached the stage of downloading the question papers for participating in the OBE but could not upload their answer sheets for any reason,” Mr. Dutta assured.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||ECA quota: HC seeks response from DU on petition by two artists||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response from the Delhi University on a petition by two young artists challenging its decision to scrap the extracurricular activities (ECA) category quota for art and culture from the academic year 2020-21. The court asked the varsity to reply to the petition filed jointly by Hritika Aneesh and Gokul C.R., both seeking admission in undergraduate courses, and posted it for further hearing on July 22. The petition filed by advocate Manoj V. George has urged for a direction to the university not to discontinue admission based on 14 categories of the ECA in undergraduate courses. Delhi University, till the last year, was admitting students under the ECA category and about 15% of the grace marks were provided for the students who qualified from the category. However, Mr. George said that the university has recently announced that the entire ECA category for art and cultural forms have been discarded as the trials could not be conducted due to COVID-19 pandemic. He argued that the university, while giving credit for ECA, has only included National Cadet Corp (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS) and sports category and all other categories of extracurricular troupe have been “arbitrarily ignored”. “This exclusion of a particular category of students in Art and Culture will actually result in absolute injustice to the students and entire group of art and culture [ECA]. Eligible students will be wiped off from the university system for an entire year for no fault of theirs, and the same per se violates Article 14 of the Constitution,” the petition said. The plea stated that the two young artists have completed their Class 12 board examinations and have more than a decade of training in Bharatanatyam, Mohiniyattam and Kathakali, which are recognised traditional art forms practised in the country. They asked for an order to the university to organise the trials of candidates under all ECA categories on virtual platforms. “If necessary, call students after uploading videos of performances in small batches for trials after maintaining social distancing and ensuring COVID-19 guidelines issued by the government,” the plea said. They also asked for the university to carry out decentralised verifications through the colleges to conduct their own trials while maintaining social distancing. The plea said students “similarly placed” like them have been undergoing training for many years in their school programmes with the legitimate expectation that they would be able to score certain extra percentage of marks while seeking admission in the university. They said that the university’s decision has affected more than 1,000 students.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Recovery rate of COVID-19 patients now up to 72%: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in the city has gone up to 72% and more people were recovering from the virus on a daily basis. There has also been a considerable dip in the positivity ratio and the death rate in Delhi, he added. Mr. Kejriwal further said that the plasma bank set up by the government had yielded positive results. Indicating that the demand for plasma is more than its supply, Mr. Kejriwal appealed to recovered patients to donate plasma. “In the last three months, the total number of COVID-19 patients in Delhi has reached approximately 1 lakh. But there is no need to worry as out of the total cases, 72,000 have recovered. The recovery rate in Delhi has gone up to 72%,” he said. “We started the country’s first COVID-19 plasma bank. There was chaos until now and people who wanted plasma were running from pillar to post as they did not know where to go. People are now getting plasma through the bank at the ILBS Hospital,” he added. Since the plasma bank started last Wednesday, there has been a mismatch between demand, which is huge, and the supply, which is less, he said. Appealing for donations, the CM said, “There is no need to worry, there is no pain or weakness and transportation too will be arranged by the government. A team of doctors is currently calling up recovered patients and appealing to them to donate plasma. “If you receive any such call please say yes,” he said. Two audios of the CM’s conversation with such donors were also played during the briefing. He said such donors were were heroes.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi petrol dealers ask govt. to reduce VAT on fuel||Heavy loss of sales has made over 200 fuel pumps in the city unviable due to price differences resulting from increased value added tax (VAT), making petrol and diesel more expensive in the Capital compared to the neighbouring cities, a body of fuel pump owners said here on Monday. The Delhi Petrol Dealers Association (DPDA), which is a body of petrol pump owners and has 400 fuel pumps, employing more than 50,000 workers as its members, urged the Delhi government to reduce VAT on petroleum products in the city. On May 5, the Delhi government had increased VAT on petrol to 30% from 27% and, in the case of diesel, almost doubled it to 30% from 16.75%. “This increase in VAT has resulted in a price difference of more than Rs. 8 per litre in diesel with the neighbouring States,” DPDA president Anil Bijlani said. “Despite our several requests and representations, mails and tweets, the Delhi government has shown no empathy towards the 400 petrol dealers and their 50,000 employees and the family members of these employees in these distressed times,” Mr. Bijlani said. Dealers who had begun to find their respective pumps unviable would have to resort to cost cutting for survival, the DPDA said.
07 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Three leading Odisha govt. hospitals decide to treat serious patients only||With COVID-19 infection on medical institute premises spiralling out of control, Odisha’s three leading State-run hospitals in Cuttack asked people not to approach for consultations if their health condition was not serious enough. The SCB Medical College Hospital, Acharya Harihar Post Graduate Institute of Cancer (AHPGIC) and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Post Graduate Institute of Paediatrics (SVPGIP) have announced to regulate patient inflow following detection of COVID-19 cases during past one week.  100 virus cases The AHPGIC has been the worst hit in the pandemic with over 100 patients and their attendants testing positive. The SCB Medical College Hospital, which is considered a lifeline as referral hospital for people of coastal, interior and northern districts, will take up cases of patients with serious health implications only. After a child in SVPGIP, popularly known as Sishu Bhawan, tested positive, doctors as well as authorities huddled to prevent further deterioration in the situation. Now all patients coming to these hospitals will have to undergo tests for the infection. The rapid antigen tests will be conducted for every patient before their admission in the ward.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for cheating IB officer||A man has been arrested for allegedly cheating an Intelligence Bureau officer by posing as his senior and taking money on pretext of his ailing wife, the police said on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said that the accused has been identified as Ravi Kumar, a resident of Mathura. Monetary aid The police said that a complaint was received by IB officer, Raj, who said that on April 30, he received a message on Facebook Messenger from his senior’s account. The message read that the senior needed Rs. 60,000 for his wife’s treatment. The complainant then transferred Rs. 58,000 in Paytm wallet provided using his credit card. The police said that the victim then called the senior to enquire about his wife’s health and was informed that no such message was sent by the senior. The complainant then approached the police after which a case under Section 420 (cheating) was registered and investigation was taken up. The police said that during the course of investigation, technical surveillance was mounted and on the basis of that, the accused was zeroed in and his location was found to be in Lohawan, Mathura, from where he was arrested. The police said that Ravi used to run a mobile repair shop and subsequently came in contact with one Kanhaiya who indulged in online fraud and taught him the tricks.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Jamia violence: police object to statements in plea||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the city police before the Delhi High Court on Monday, raised strong objections to certain statements made against the Home Minister by a petitioner seeking action against the police over violence in Jamia Millia Islamia in December last year. The Solicitor General highlighted the rejoinder filed by one Nabila Hasan in which it was alleged that the order to “mercilessly beat” the students and “break their bones” as they began to assemble outside JMI to begin a peaceful march to the Parliament came from the Home Minister. “What is the source of your information? You cannot malign a constitutional authority,” Mr. Mehta said. “Irresponsible pleading is becoming the order of the day,” he remarked. Following the objections raised by the Solicitor General, a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, representing Ms. Hasan, as to why such allegations against the Home Minister was made. The Bench asked Mr. Golsalves to decide if he can remove them. Responding to the court’s query, Mr. Gonsalves said he will delete the particular lines from the rejoinder and submit it afresh. The court was hearing petitions seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the JMI violence and registration of FIRs against “erring” police officers. It has listed the petitions for further hearing on July 13.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Compensation scheme should cover healthcare staff not on COVID-19 duty’||The High Court on Monday sought the Centre and Delhi government’s reply on a plea seeking an extension of the compensation scheme to cover the death of healthcare workers who were not on COVID-19-related duty — on a “case-by-case basis”. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan remarked that “an individual assessment on a case-by-case basis will have to be made whether the healthcare worker contracted the disease because of his or her duties”. This comes after advocate Manoj V. George, appearing for Distress Management Collective, urged that instead of “absolutely” leaving healthcare workers who are not on COVID-19-related duty out of the compensation scheme, it could be considered on a case-by-case basis. Mr. George said many healthcare workers have died of COVID-19 who were not on virus-related duty. He cited the example of a blood bank worker and a nurse. “This could be because of symptomatic patients visiting hospitals,” he contended. Helpline for workers The court also asked the Delhi government to respond to suggestion for setting up an exclusive helpline for healthcare workers to complain against private hospitals for failing to provide N-95 masks, personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and other protective gear. The Delhi government will also respond to suggestions to extend insurance protection, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, to nurses working in private hospitals and nursing homes; and that the insurance premium be paid by authorities at least for the limited period during the COVID-19 situation.   The court has listed the case for further hearing on July 17.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Compulsory rapid antigen testing for high-risk groups begins in some hospitals||Some healthcare facilities in the city have started carrying out “compulsory” rapid antigen tests on “high-risk groups” visiting hospitals, including elderly patients with co-morbidities and asymptomatic persons undergoing aerosol-generating interventions, after a Delhi government order on Sunday. Other facilities are currently making arrangements for the same. Spokesperson of Max Hospital said they have started following the government directions and the patients will have to pay Rs. 1,450 for a test. Medical Director of the Delhi government’s Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital (a non-COVID-19 treatment facility), Dr. P.S. Khatana, said the test will be free here. “When a patient comes to the hospital, she/he first goes to the flu clinic and if he/she falls under the ‘high-risk groups’ then we test him/her at a sampling centre next to the flu clinic. The test gives the result in half an hour and the patient is admitted only after they test negative,” Mr. Khatana told The Hindu . “All asymptomatic patients admitted or seeking admission of the following high-risk groups — patients undergoing chemotherapy, immunosuppressed patient [including HIV, patients with malignant disease, transplant patients, elderly patients [>65 years] with co-morbidities,” read some of the categories mentioned in Sunday’s order. But many hospital are yet to procure the testing kits. “Procurement of the COVID-19 rapid antigen kit for in-house testing by the hospital is already in process. Till the kits are procured, various diagnostic laboratories are being contacted regarding feasibility of conducting the test by them within the hospital premises among the high-risk category patients,” said Pallavi Banerjee, Microbiologist and Infection Control Officer Indian Spinal Injuries Center, a private hospital. Though the Ministry of Home Affair on June 21 had directed to conduct a comprehensive survey of Delhi by July 6 and the MHA later extended the date for the “door to door survey” , it is not happening, said officials. “We have been told that the door to door survey would yield desired result and asked to concentrate on contact tracing of positive cases,” a Delhi government official said. “We have been asked to do the survey in isolated cases and not in the whole of Delhi. Have not got an exact protocol,” a District Magistrate, who did not wish to be named, said.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Continuous assessment helped AUD declare results’||Ambedkar University Delhi on Monday said that it had declared results for all its programmes and would release its admission brochure for the upcoming academic session on July 11. Depending on declaration of board exam results, the varsity said, it would start the admission process in the last week of July or the first week of August. V-C Anu Singh Lather said the admission process would be in accordance with the timeline as proposed by UGC/MHRD for fresh admission and added that AUD has successfully completed the academic year 2019-20 for most of its students despite the challenges that the pandemic and lockdown brought about. “AUD is one of the few educational institutions that declared results for all its programmes across all semesters,” she said. Ms. Lather said that because of a continuous assessment AUD managed to finish the winter semester by June 12 and declare results for most programmes.
07 July 2020||July 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Food for thought||
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Worksheets on WhatsApp, classes on YouTube begin||The Delhi government on Monday rolled out its remote teaching programme in schools so that students do not lose out on learning due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Students from Class KG to Class VIII were sent worksheets via WhatsApp and students of Class XII attended live classes streamed on YouTube. The government said that over four lakh students accessed the worksheets sent on class-level WhatsApp groups on Day 1 and over 1.35 lakh students of Class XII accessed the live YouTube classes taken by the teachers. “Students from KG to Class VIII received their first worksheet which they will now receive everyday. It contains engaging, syllabus agnostic activities to promote reading, writing, basic numeracy and happiness among children,” the government said. Students in Class IX and X received worksheets for Hindi, science and maths on Monday and will receive two-three worksheets everyday, the government added. For those students who do not have access to WhatsApp, teachers will handover printouts of worksheets to the parents on a weekly basis.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Baijal holds review meet||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal held a review meeting with CM Arvind Kejriwal and officials on Monday to assess the availability of medical infrastructure and human resources for COVID-19 management. He directed officials to make efforts to reduce mortality rate due to the virus, which is currently at 3.09%. Mr. Baijal was also told that medical infrastructure had been “significantly” ramped up in the last fortnight. At present there are 15,301 dedicated COVID beds in the city. The L-G was also informed that the serological survey had been completed and 22,823 samples had been collected.
07 July 2020||Guwahati,||Assam flood situation improves||The flood situation in Assam improved considerably on Monday even though one more person lost his life in the deluge, which has affected nearly four lakh people across 15 districts, officials said. According to the daily flood report of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), one person was killed in the flood at Raha in Nagaon district. With this, the total number of people losing their lives in this year’s flooding and landslide has gone up to 62 across the State, of whom 38 persons were killed by flood and 24 died due to landslides. The ASDMA said more than 3.86 lakh people are affected due to floods in fifteen districts of the State.
07 July 2020||New Delhi,||Scribe with COVID-19 found dead at AIIMS||A 37-year-old journalist undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at AIIMS Trauma Centre died on Monday after allegedly jumping off the fourth floor of the hospital, said the police. The journalist, a resident of north-east Delhi’s Bhajanpura, was working with a Hindi daily. The incident took place around 2 p.m. at the Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated COVID-19 facility, said Devender Arya, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West). AIIMS said the journalist was admitted on June 24 with COVID-19. He was stable on Monday. He earlier had a surgery for a type of brain tumourat G.B. Pant Hospital here in March. “The family members were regularly being counselled regarding his condition,” the hospital said.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.
07 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Curb marine pollution, NGT tells States||Following a plea seeking remedial measures to restore sea water quality along the coastal areas, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed all States and Union Territories to take appropriate steps and furnish a report on the same. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel observed, “remedial action by way of prosecution, recovery of compensation and stopping polluting activities need to be taken with regard to marine pollution. Accordingly let the State Pollution Control Boards and committees and Chief Secretaries take further remedial action and furnish an action taken report.” Authorities were directed to furnish the report to the Central Pollution Control Board.
