07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi seeks Ministers’ views on calibrated exit from lockdown||After an interaction with Chief Ministers via a videoconference last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday sought suggestions from his Council of Ministers for a calibrated exit from the 21-day lockdown, imposed from March 25 to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. He also sought measures to bolster domestic manufacturing as the pandemic had brought home the fact that essential goods manufacture within the country is very important. Mr. Modi asked the Ministers to coordinate with the district authorities for not just harvesting and procuring agricultural produce but also preparing business continuity plans to address the economic situation once the containment ends. At a meeting of the Council of Ministers, just before a first-ever Cabinet meeting via videoconference, he asked for the suggestions, leaving no doubt in anyone’s mind that any rollback of the lockdown on April 14 will be in a very calibrated manner. “Prime Minister Modi asked all of us for suggestions, including after speaking to district-level officials and stakeholders on how the rollback of the lockdown could be effected without a huge impact on positive cases,” said a minister who was at the meeting. “Actually, the calculations of our peak cases and its timing are now awry as they have to factor in the Tablighi Jamaat cases, which are still being followed up,” he added. “The peak, which was supposed to have manifested itself this week has now been pushed to the next week or more because we are still tracking the contact chain of the Tablighi Jamaat cases,” the source said but pointed out that the PM did not mention these issues. “We were asked to think in terms of micro plans for districts and specifically focus on the harvest season now on as well as how best procurement can be done from farmers. He spoke about coming up with innovative ideas for getting the harvest to the mandis for sale, like starting a “truck aggregator” system just like a cab aggregator system in urban areas,” the source said.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||47% of patients below 40, says govt.||India has registered the largest single-day rise in COVID-19 cases and deaths in the past 24 hours with 704 new cases and over 30 deaths reported. The tally on Monday stood at 4,281 confirmed cases and 111 deaths, according to the Union Health Ministry.  According to reports from State Health Departments, the number of confirmed cases nationwide was 4,664, with 4,164 active cases. The death toll rose to 141 since Sunday, while 359 persons had been discharged after recovery. The highest number of active cases were reported from Maharashtra at 868, with 52 deaths — 21 in the past 24 hours. Andhra Pradesh reported two more deaths, while Punjab, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh reported one fatality each. Giving a break up of the data so far at the daily press briefing, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said, 76% of the confirmed cases were male and 24% female; 47% were below 40 years of age, 34% between 40 to 60 years and 19% above 60 years. In terms of fatalities, 73% of the victims were male, Mr. Agarwal said. In terms of age, 63% were above the age of 60, 30% between 40 and 60 years and 7% below 40 years. The official added that as of now, 86% of those who succumbed to the disease exhibited pre-existing health problems, including diabetes, chronic kidney issues and heart related problems. “With 19% confirmed cases among the elderly, and 63% deaths observed among them, elderly people form a high risk population, Mr. Agarwal pointed out. “Further, with 37% deaths reported from people below 60 years, approximately 86% of deaths amongst people with co-morbidities indicate that young people with co-morbidities are also at high risk,” he said. Meanwhile, 52 staff members of a private hospital in Mumbai, including nurses, doctors and others, tested positive for the disease on Monday.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||MPLADS suspended; PM, MPs to take 30% salary cut||The Union Cabinet on Monday approved a 30% cut in the salaries of all Members of Parliament and a two-year suspension of the MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) scheme so that the amount saved can go to the Consolidated Fund of India to fight COVID-19, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday. Addressing a press conference after a Cabinet meeting, Mr. Javadekar said the Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved an ordinance to amend the Salaries, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954, to cut the salaries of MPs by 30%. He said all MPs, including the Prime Minister and his Council of Ministers, would take the salary cut for financial year 2020-2021. In addition, the Cabinet had decided to suspend the MPLAD funds for 2020-2021 and 2021-2022. Many MPs had already pledged to use their MPLAD funds, Rs. 5 crore a year, for efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic. “All MPs were feeling that charity begins at home. Therefore, we have decided on an ordinance...Many MPs had contributed their MPLAD funds for COVID-19 related measures. So, instead of piecemeal efforts, a comprehensive decision was taken to suspend MPLADS for two years,” he said, adding that the amount saved from the scheme would be Rs. 7,900 crore. Mr. Javadekar said President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, as well as all Governors, had decided of their own volition to take a 30% salary cut. All the amount saved would go to the Consolidated Fund of India. When asked about how much would be saved from the MPs’ salary cut, he said: “It’s not about the amount, it’s about the message it sends to the country about the will of MPs.” Later, government spokesperson K.S. Dhatwalia clarified via a tweet that only the MPs’ salaries would be cut, not allowances or the pensions of ex-MPs. According to the Act, as amended in April 2018, MPs are entitled to a monthly salary of Rs. 1 lakh, apart from various allowances. Congress reaction Reacting to the Cabinet decisions, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a tweet that the Congress supported the salary cut for MPs. However, suspending the MPLAD scheme would undermine the role of MPs, he observed. “Dear PM, INC supports the salary cut for MP’s! Please note that MPLAD is meant to execute developmental works in the constituency. Suspending it is a huge disservice to the constituents & will undermine the role & functions of MP,” he tweeted.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||13 more test positive, CM says disease spread under control||Kerala has been able to contain disease transmission extremely well so far, Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday. However, even as the State was maintaining extreme vigil, news reports about the death of several non-resident Keralites following COVID-19 from across the world was very disturbing, he said. Briefing mediapersons, he said that according to the latest reports, 18 Keralites residing outside the State had died of COVID-19. Nizamuddin link On Monday, 13 new positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in the State, including three cases linked to Nizamuddin. Of these, nine were from Kasaragod. While Malappuram reported two cases, Kollam and Pathanamthitta reported one each. Six of the cases in Kasaragod were people who came from abroad, while three were contacts of imported cases. The case in Pathanamthitta was also a person with a history of foreign travel. The two cases in Malappuram and one case in Kollam were of people who had travelled to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting at Nizamudddin. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the State linked to Nizamudden had risen to 13. Total cases As on Monday, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the State stood at 327, out of which 266 were currently under treatment in hospitals. Of the 1,52,804 persons under surveillance in the State, 795 with symptoms had been isolated in hospitals, while the rest were being monitored in home quarantine. Well prepared The State was prepared to meet any possible exigencies involving an escalation in COVID- 19. It had identified over 1.25 lakh isolation beds in both public and private sector hospitals. The Health Department had drawn up a three-tier plan for COVID-19 containment and mitigation Additional 17,461 isolation beds had been arranged in the 517 corona care centres. The State had also converted 38 hospitals into dedicated COVID care centres.  Even as the State is maintaining vigil, reports about the death of several NoRKs from across the world are very disturbing. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister
07 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Tally reaches 303 as 51 new cases emerge||The spike in the number of COVID-19 cases is continuing at an alarming rate in the State with 51 more persons testing positive in the last 24 hours. The tally has gone up to 303 cases with three casualties, according to the 6 p.m. bulletin by the Health Department on Monday. Over 92% (280) of the total cases were reported during the last one week ever since the authorities began testing hundreds of samples of persons who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi and their contacts every day. During the first two weeks since the first positive case was reported in the State on March 12, only 23 cases were reported and the number grew exponentially later. Kurnool reported 21 new cases, a day after it reported 49 cases on Sunday. Nellore reported eight new cases followed by West Godavari with six cases, Visakhapatnam (5), Kadapa (4), Anantapur (3), Guntur (2) and Krishna and Prakasam with one new case each. So far, Kurnool district which has the highest number of Delhi returnees, has reported 74 cases and Nellore reported 42 cases. They are followed by Guntur (32), Krishna (29), Kadapa (27), Prakasam (24), West Godavari (21), Visakhapatnam (20), Chittoor (17), East Godavari (11), and Anantapur (6). Close to 3,500 samples have been tested till date and results of hundreds of samples were awaited. Meanwhile, the Kurnool Collector issued orders under the Essential Services Maintenance Act. Aarogyasri cover In a release, the Department of Health requested private doctors, Indian Medical Association members, members of various speciality associations, junior doctors and nurses to enrol voluntarily to supplement the existing workforce at the State and district-level COVID hospitals. It said the government was procuring large quantities of protective gear. Meanwhile, the government brought 15 types of procedures related to suspected and confirmed cases of COVID-19 under the purview of the Dr. YSR Aarogyasri scheme by issuing a GO.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pench tiger death raises COVID-19 fears||The spectre of COVID-19 has made its appearance in one of India’s most storied tiger reserves. The death of a 10-year-old ailing male tiger, in the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) — the country’s most munificent reserve —that succumbed to a ‘respiratory illness’ last Saturday would have been a routine affair. But a report of a confirmed COVID-19 infection in a tiger at the Bronx Zoo, in New York, United States and advisories by divisions of the Environment Ministry that deal with the protection of the cats in zoos, as well as in Tiger Reserves has officials in the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA)— the organisation that manages the protection of India’s 3,000-odd tigers — puzzling on whether the tiger should be tested for the novel coronavirus disease. The people who handled the dead tiger and were involved in its post-mortem would be tested for the infection, PTR Field Director, Vikram Singh Parihar told The Hindu . The viscera samples collected as part of the standard protocol have been preserved and will be sent to the veterinary research college in Jabalpur as well as the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. “The animal came to the pond frequently for water possibly because it was running a high fever. We gave him antibiotics on Friday but that didn’t show much improvement. Finally, it died on Saturday morning. We still don’t have a confirmed cause of death,” he said. Swabs from the throat and nose to test for rhinotracheitis, a viral infection that afflicts cats and causes respiratory illness were collected, an official at the NTCA, Delhi said. However, it was unlikely to be enough to test for COVID and given the remoteness of the forests and lockdown in effect, would likely degrade and be unsuitable for testing.  “We’ve also been approached by molecular biologists who’ve offered to conduct a DNA analysis and possibly unearth evidence of the virus,” Anup Kumar Nayak, Director General, NTCA said.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,||One death, 50 new cases in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported its sixth COVID-19 death, and added 50 new cases to its tally on Monday. With this, the State now has 621 cases. The victim was a 57-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital at 8 p.m. on Sunday with severe acute respiratory infection. “She had high diabetes and hypertension. We lifted samples for COVID-19 testing. She died on Monday morning, and her sample returned positive for COVID-19. She had travelled to Tiruchi by train. We are tracing her source of infection. All her family members and high-risk contacts have been put under home quarantine,” Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters on Monday. Of the 50 persons who tested positive for COVID-19, 48 were from a “single source event” (the Delhi conference), including contacts. Dr. Rajesh added that so far 1,475 persons who attended the event had been tested. However, there was no clarity on how many of them tested positive. Till Sunday, the official figure was 522. According to details available in the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, four persons were added to the tally based on an inquiry, taking the total to 526. Taking the 48 who tested positive on Monday into account, the count now stands at 574. Dr. Rajesh, during the press conference, said that 573 of those who attended the Delhi event had tested positive, 858 tested negative and 44 samples were under process. Apart from those who participated in the event, testing of 250 of their contacts was under way. Nine persons - five women and four men - from Chennai, who were contacts of a COVID-19 patient, have tested positive. Two other men from the city with a contact history have also tested positive. Three women from Namakkal - who are contacts of a patient - are positive. In addition, two men from Kancheepuram - also contacts of a patient - tested positive. Another man from Coimbatore has also tested positive. Apart from them, 13 persons from Tiruchi, four from Tiruppur, three from Chennai and Thanjavur, two each from Cuddalore and Chengalpattu, and one each from Ariyalur, Tirupattur, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram - all of whom travelled to Delhi - have tested positive. One woman from Cuddalore, who had a travel history to Andamans, has tested positive. A total of 5,015 samples have been tested till date. Of this, 295 samples are under process. A total of 72,791 persons are under home quarantine, while 19,060 persons have completed the 28-day quarantine period. Another 205 persons are in government quarantine facilities. Chennai cases The number of COVID-19 cases went up in the city. Chennai has 110 cases as on date. On Monday alone, there were 15 cases in the city. Coimbatore is next with 59 cases, while Dindigul has 45 cases. So far, 32 districts have been covered under containment activities. A total of 11,59,284 households and a population of 40,71,230 have been covered. In all, 26,953 field staff were involved, she added. The Health Secretary said the State had obtained 21 RT-PCRs and installation was under way at government medical college hospitals. They had sought Indian Council of Medical Research’s approval for the facilities. These facilities would be operationalised soon. One lakh rapid testing kits were expected by April 10. The testing process would then take about 30 minutes.
07 April 2020||Gurugram/New Delhi,||Rumours fuel attacks on minority community||In two separate incidents, a Muslim family was attacked by some youths in Gurugram minutes after the 9 p.m. lights-out on Sunday, while a 30-year-old man from the community was thrashed by a group of men in Harewali village in Bawana in outer-north Delhi over suspicion that he was part of a “conspiracy” to spread COVID-19. Atif Warsi, the complainant from Gurugram, alleged that around 9.15 p.m., four persons, including his neighbours Sonu and Bhutta, climbed up the stairs to his house and accused his family of shooting a video of them. They allegedly abused Mr. Warsi’s mother and threatened them to leave the locality. A little later, Sonu returned and allegedly hit Mr. Warsi and his cousin Mubeen Khan with bricks. Mr. Warsi’s father then made a PCR call and rushed the two to Civil Hospital in Sector 10. A case has been registered on charges of promoting enmity on grounds of religion and criminal intimidation and six persons have been arrested, said the police. In Harewali village, three residents — Naveen, Prashant and Pramod — have been arrested and sent to judicial custody for allegedly beating up a man, Shamshad Ali, who had returned home after spending 45 days at a religious gathering in Raisen district, Madhya Pradesh. Mr. Ali tried to reach the village by hiding inside a truck transporting vegetables. The truck was inspected at Azadpur market and he was detained. Mr. Ali was released after a medical screening. “When Ali reached the village, some miscreants spread a rumour that he was a part of a group planning to spread COVID-19 in the village. He was held by some youths and taken to a farm on the outskirts and thrashed,” a police officer said. The incident took place on Sunday afternoon and was recorded by one of the accused on his mobile phone. In yet another incident, four persons were arrested in Gurugram for allegedly opening fire outside Jama Masjid in Dhankot village.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR for further extension of lockdown||While confirming that he was all for extension of lockdown after the April 14 deadline even if the Centre relented, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said he proposed that lockdown be extended by one to two weeks but left it to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consult all Chief Ministers and take a conscious decision. “I am for it, we continue (lockdown)”, Mr. Rao told a press conference here on Monday evening. There was no need of any hesitation in continuing the lockdown, Mr. Rao said adding that the good work done by the country so far in checking the spread of coronavirus will come to a naught if extension was not made. The same was conveyed by him to the Prime Minister in his daily telephonic contact, he added. Making a strong case, he said the issue boiled down to differentiating between the services that needed to be stopped and those that should be continued if the lockdown had to be ended. Crowds will throng shops like liquor outlets which will be uncontrollable. He referred to an article in the latest publication of US based Boston Consulting Group which suggested that India continue lockdown till June 3 as COVID-19 will peak till then. He said he had impressed on the Prime Minister that the country could recover from the beating that the economy took due to lockdown but not the loss of human life which could leave a trail of destruction in individual families. For Telangana, the loss of revenue was enormous. Against Rs. 2,400 crore that the State was to earn in the first six days of April, the earnings were a mere Rs. 6 crore per day. Moreover, the State was in no position to meet its debt service of Rs. 30,000 crore and, therefore, will seek its recast. Mr. Rao warned that India could not risk relaxing lockdown with poor infrastructure and a huge workforce as it would put human life in danger. The country was saved from a catastrophe only because of lockdown. When a developed country like the US with large resources at its command could not withstand the fallout of the virus, imagine the plight of India with such large population. It would have meant death of thousands of people but for lockdown. He appealed to people to overcome the feeling that they were restrained as lockdown was the only option.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,||12 new COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka||Twelve new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State on Monday, taking the total to 163. While four people have succumbed to the infection so far, 20 have been discharged. The new cases include one Tablighi Jamaat congregation participant from Bengaluru Rural, seven people from Mysuru, two from Bagalkot, and another from Bengaluru Urban who is the son of a patient who had tested positive earlier. Among the cases in Mysuru, one is an employee of a pharma company in Nanjangud and three have a travel history to Delhi. However, officials said they came from Delhi in January and an investigation on how they contracted the infection was on. In Bagalkot, the wife and brother of the 75-year-old man who succumbed to the infection last week have tested positive. A resident of Kerala, who has a history of travel to Germany and is a contact of two patients who tested positive earlier, has also tested positive. Out of the 163 positive cases detected in Karnataka, nine are transit passengers from Kerala.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Criminal case registered against 10 Indonesians||Karimnagar police have registered a criminal case against 10 Indonesians who participated in religious-related activities in Karimnagar having attended Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi. All these foreigners tested positive for COVID-19 and are presently undergoing treatment in Gandhi Hospital here. Another case was registered against some residents of Karimnagar who allegedly provided shelter to these foreigners or assisted them in moving in Karimnagar and participate in religious activities. This is the first case registered against foreigners in the State in the backdrop of coronavirus incidence. After the issue of 10 Indonesian nationals’ movement in Karimnagar came to light, the government started identifying the participants of TJ meeting in Delhi and sending them to quarantine wards. Sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant), 269 (indulging in acts that can spread infection of any disease) and 270 (acts spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code were invoked against the foreigners. The First Information Report stated that Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act and Section 51-B of Disaster Management Act and Section 14B of Foreigners Act were also invoked against these foreigners. “These foreigners came to Delhi on March 9. On the evening of March 13 they started for Ramagundam in Sampark Kranthi Express train. Their contacts in Karimnagar picked them up them in a car and a seven-seater auto-rickshaw from Ramagundam on March 14,” a police officer unwilling to be named said. They were provided accommodation at a mosque in the town. On learning about their arrival, the Karimnagar police shifted them to Hyderabad to conduct tests. Their reports emerged positive for COVID-19. Two Karimnagar residents, who helped them move in the town and assisted in participating in prayer meetings, and two of their woman family members also tested positive for coronavirus subsequently. “These 10 foreigners came on tourist visa. As per law, they are not supposed to participate in religious meetings. On arrival in Karimnagar, they should have informed the local administration about their movements which they didn’t do,” the police said. Interestingly, investigators found that before these 10 Indonesian nationals, another team of foreigners too arrived in Karimnagar. They went to Jagityal, Korutla and Salehnagar in Karimnagar before leaving the place on March 8.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Lockdown not being followed properly: BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday expressed unhappiness over “not even 75%” of the State’s population strictly following the lockdown rules. He warned that this could mean the extension of lockdown beyond April 14 in parts of the State. In an interview with a Kannada news channel on Monday, he said, “We have been doing our best to lock down the State. But it is sadly true that people have not been cooperating with us to the extent we want them to.” He said no one should be under the impression that the situation will be resolved by April 14. “We are thinking of relaxing restrictions in districts that have not reported any COVID-19 cases. But restrictions may have to continue in districts that have reported cases, especially in the five that have been identified as hotspots,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa also said that the relaxing of restrictions will depend on the people of the State and the spread of the virus. “We will review the situation on April 14, when the Prime Minister will also take a call on the situation nationally. But life will not be back to normal on April 15. Some restrictions in certain pockets are inevitable for some more time,” he said. He said he has directed the Finance Department to ensure salaries are paid to all government employees in April, notwithstanding the other difficulties. “But next month, we will review the situation and decide if we need to cut salaries or withhold or postpone payments, and to what extent we can,” he said.
07 April 2020||YADGIR,||A big relief for Yadgir as 21 test negative||There was a big relief for Yadgir district as all 21 samples, including those of the five who attended a religious programme at Nizamuddin, have tested negative. In a release here on Monday, Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput stated that officials collected a total of 21 samples from those who were suspected to have COVID-19 symptoms and sent them for medical examination. “Reports of all samples have come as negative,” he added. He said that of the 21, five samples were collected from those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat and they have tested negative. “Also, their samples were sent for a second test and they again tested negative,” he said.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Telangana CM for extension||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown beyond April 14, saying it was essential to save lives. Mr. Rao said it would be difficult to contain the spread of the virus in view of the country’s “poor health infrastructure”. “We can recover from the economic problem but we cannot recover lives,” he said.page 5
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Thorough wash||
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Karnataka refused to lift blockade’||Kerala on Monday informed the Supreme Court that Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa had “openly declared” that the blockade imposed by his government on the inter-State border will not be removed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Kerala, in an affidavit, said the CM’s declaration came despite a SC order on April 3 to the two States and the Centre to formulate a mechanism by which patients from Kerala, in dire need of medical care, and flow of essential food and medicines are not blocked at the border by the Karnataka authorities. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao is scheduled to hear the issue via video conferencing on April 7.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Lockdown must continue: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that the State government extend the current lockdown by another 21 days to sustain the gains of the current spell. The IMA said here on Monday that it had held detailed discussions with epidemiologists and public health experts from across the globe and it had reached a conclusion that an extension of the lockdown was necessary to prevent a second wave of the disease. The association said that once the lockdown is lifted on April 14, Kerala could have a huge influx of Malayalis from other States and countries into the State.
07 April 2020||Madurai,||People fortify||People of a number of villages in Melur taluk have blocked main roads with thorny shrubs to prevent entry of outsiders in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. These barricaded could be found in villages like K. Kallampatti, Kachirayampatti, Boothamangalam, Attapatti and Malampatti, say people from these villages. G. Purushottaman, Panchayat Union Councillor, K. Kallampatti, says in Kallampatti and Kachirayampatti, barricades were placed to ensure that the villagers are not affected. “We are hearing of a number of COVID-19 positive cases in Melur. So, this measure.”
07 April 2020||Coimbatore,||Five recover from COVID-19, discharged||Five persons, including a 10-month-old child, who tested positive for COVID-19 and remained in isolation at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, were discharged after recovering from the disease on Monday. They have been advised to remain in home quarantine for 28 days.
07 April 2020||Chennai,||CM non-committal on extension of lockdown||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday declined to comment on the possibility of the lockdown and the prohibitory orders being extended beyond April 14.
07 April 2020||Belagavi,||Indonesians booked for violations in Belagavi||Belagavi Police have booked some Indonesians quarantined in Belagavi who had come to the city after participating in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, on the charge of Visa rules violations. As per a case registered at the Mal Maruti Police Station, they have been booked for violating tourist Visa provisions, Police Commissioner Lokesh Kumar told The Hindu . Earlier, the district administration had identified these couples from Indonesia in Belagavi and quarantined them, based on their travel history. They had come here on March 16, to preach in village mosques. None of them have any symptoms nor have they tested positive.
07 April 2020||UDUPI,||Four with symptoms admitted in Udupi||As many as four persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Monday. A press release issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare here said that of the four persons, three were male and one female. All the four were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI).
07 April 2020||bengaluru,||Infrastructure projects at a standstill in city||The lockdown following the COVID-19 outbreak has brought to a halt a number of big-ticket projects in the city. The deadlines for many are likely to be extended by a few months. With the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike at the frontline of the fight against the pandemic in the city, all other civic works have taken a back seat.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Attack on volunteers||Some of the family members of Zareen Taj, an activist associated with Swaraj Abhiyan, were attacked while distributing relief material at Dasarahalli, allegedly by members of a right wing group. An inquiry is on. In another incident, in Belagavi, 22 people were arrested for heckling people in mosques for not switching off lights at 9 p.m. on Sunday as advised by the Prime Minister.
07 April 2020||KASAN,||Migrants in Haryana worry about rent, wages||Migrant workers from Bihar living in Kasan village, which abuts the Manesar industrial township in Haryana, are living in fear of losing their jobs. Most of them have already seen pay cuts due to the lockdown. “It is better if the government sends us to our villages,” said Ramesh, 47. Their future is locked in with the lockdown.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||22 new cases in city, 9 from Nizamuddin centre||Twenty-two new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Monday, taking the total number to 525. Of the new cases, nine are from the centre run by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin. A total of 329 people from the centre have tested positive for COVID-19 in Delhi so far. Seven people have died of the infection, 19 have been discharged, and 498 are still in hospitals in the city.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. to take care of 1.9 lakh migrant workers||Nearly 1.95 lakh migrant workers, rendered jobless following the lockdown, have been brought under a surveillance system, which senior bureaucrats will use to directly monitor their accommodation, food and healthcare. A majority of the workers are engaged in the textile industry, brick kilns and construction work.
07 April 2020||Chennai,||People unwilling to share health details: Officials||Many residents reported not having symptoms of COVID-19, in the survey carried out by Chennai Corporation workers, in the past two days. Officials said that “most of the 15 zones have reported only around 100 fever cases. Each zone has more than one lakh households. This is primarily because residents are unwilling to share details with Corporation workers who come to check on them.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Online learning out of reach for many||For 10-year-old Yash, the lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic is exposing the divide between him and his peers. His classmates at Apeejay School, Panchsheel Park, are beginning their new academic year through online classes, logging into a school portal on laptops and tablets. In the two-room home that Yash shares with his widowed mother and elder brother Karthik in Jagdamba Camp, a basti near Sheikh Sarai, Yash knows there is no money for such devices. “They are starting online classes through Zoom because we cannot go to school. The school has told us how to log in to the portal, there is a password. But I don’t have any way to take part. My mother doesn’t even have a smartphone,” says the Class 5 student who was admitted to the prestigious private school under the quota for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS). Since his father died two years ago, the family has been dependent on his mother Santosh’s widow pension of Rs. 2,500 a month and the goodwill of relatives. “Because of this lockdown, the rest of the family is also facing financial hardship, so I feel guilty for depending on them. When I am worrying about their food, I cannot even afford to charge my phone,” says Santosh. “Normally, because they are EWS students, their fees and uniform is taken care of, but there is always some extra expense, some project or function, and I manage to pay for it. But now, I can’t even give them an education because it has gone online,” she says. EWS quota students may be facing the starkest consequences of the digital divide, at a time when many schools are into some form of distance education. Innovating content Students in government schools and rural students without access to the slew of new education apps are also at a disadvantage. The Central and State governments have announced that lessons will be taught on television and radio, but some NGOs and educational technology firms are looking for innovations that will also bring online content into poorer homes. “We need to rethink how to reach children in ways that are equitable. The whole nature of education is surely going to change due to COVID-19 and we need to find new modes of delivery,” says Sourav Banerjee, country director of Room to Read. He says the rise in smartphone penetration means that good tech resources could actually help level the playing field if it were not for poor connectivity in many parts of rural India. “It’s much easier for people to access WhatsApp than a portal or a website, so we need to develop content that can be pushed through that medium,” he suggested. Room to Read, which works with over 9,000 government schools, has created content for parents, who are key to education now that teachers are inaccessible. The NGO Pratham has created small neighbourhood groups in 5,000 villages and distributed tablets with its Anganshala app to encourage students to self-learn during the lockdown. “Learning without teachers may also mean recruiting community volunteers to teach children in small groups using online resources,” says Pratham co-founder and president Madhav Chavan. Hindi apps Central Square Foundation (CSF), which focuses on foundational literacy and numeracy for young children aged 3-8, has also created a Hindi language app aimed at low income parents, and is working with the governments of Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Chhattisgarh to launch it across those States. The organisation is also working to improve content on the Centre’s Diksha app, in association with Google.org. “More than 90% of the edtech products in the market are built with middle and higher income families in mind. So even if those products are being made available for free during the lockdown, they are not contextualised for a poorer or rural audience,” says Gouri Gupta, CSF director. “For example, if you explain fractions using the slices of a pizza, that is simply not accessible for those who have never eaten pizza.”
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Hydro power regulated to support lights out||The total reduction in all-India demand during the lights out at 9 p.m. on Sunday was 31,089 MW, which is more than 25% of the demand on a typical Sunday, according to the Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO). The lowest demand recorded was 85,799 MW at 9.10 p.m. after which the demand started picking up and settled at 1,14,400 MW at 10.10 p.m. Grid frequencies varied from 50.26 Hz to 49.70 Hz. In the run-up to the event, POSOCO had expected a demand variation of 12,000 MW to 14,000 MW over a shorter period of time. POSOCO data showed regional variations in the demand dip from 8.45 p.m. to 9.10 p.m. The dip was 30% in the northern region, 32% in western region, 17% in the south, 39% in the east and 40% in the north-east. Demand variations Just as the power managers had planned, the generation from hydro power plants toed the dip and surge pattern of lighting loads. Hydro generation was maximised by 8.45 p.m. to 25,559 MW. From then it was reduced to 8,016 MW at 9.10 p.m. This meant the 75% reduction in hydro generation achieved in 25 minutes took on the bulk of demand variations. Simultaneously, a reduction of 10,950 MW was achieved through thermal (6,992 MW), gas (1,951 MW), and wind (2,007 MW) between 8.45 p.m. and 9.10 p.m. Advance actions such as switching off transmission lines and taking reactors in service were undertaken to keep voltages and line loads within permissible limits, POSOCO said in a release, adding that the event was managed smoothly without any untoward incident. Hydro and gas-powered plants can support fast changes in load. Gas turbines can ramp up or ramp down rather quickly and, world over, they are often used to support the grid supplied with fluctuating wind power. Similarly, water can be stored in dams and reservoirs and can be released in a planned manner to achieve a sharp increase or decrease in hydro power. Coal plants have a more limited ability to handle sharp load variations. Nuclear plants even lesser. On Sunday, the changes in load, though swift, happened over a more prolonged period of time than the 2 to 4 minutes expected by power managers. The coming back to normal took longer, probably indicating that people eased out of the lights out more gradually than expected. They took longer to switch on their house lights, likely spending more time on rooftops and balconies. The exercise showed that the Indian grid could handle large load changes if done in a planned way. Blackouts are a different matter and typically happen unplanned. Blackouts at one place can spread to other places when power plants that are not designed to take sharp load changes are forced to take those changes. ( The author is an   independent journalist )
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR to get 10 lakh RT-PCR testing kits||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday that it was procuring 10 lakh reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kits used for COVID-19 diagnosis. Seven depots have been established for uninterrupted supply of reagents across the nation for efficient distribution to government testing laboratories, it added. Addressing the Union Health Ministry’s daily press briefing, the ICMR’s Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, R. Gangakhedkar, said the existing 136 government laboratories and 56 private laboratories had a testing capacity of 18,000 tests a day. “If the labs start working in two shifts, testing capacity will go up to 25,000 but more important is to choose who you are testing,” Dr. Gangakhedkar said. The ICMR has prepared a data portal for streamlining the data collection from all the laboratories on a real-time basis, he added. Constant vigil “The ICMR has a constant vigil on the national testing strategy in line with the current trend of the outbreak. RT-PCR is the gold standard testing method for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis and is in place in all the laboratories for diagnosing the disease,” he said. Giving details of how ICMR is preparing for worst-case scenario, a press release said interventions were being actively considered to scale up testing capacity to one lakh tests a day in the coming months. “ICMR is now considering scaling-up interventions such as moving to 24x7 working model at existing labs, coordinating with states to increase manpower for various functions including data-entry, redeploying automated and manual RT-PCR machines already in the country to aid COVID-19 testing effort, and optimising in-lab processes such as RNA extraction to reduce turnaround time between sample receipt and testing,” the release added. Evaluation of kits New RT-PCR kits are being validated by four ICMR institutes for their use. “Till now, 19 non-U.S. FDA EUA/CE IVD real-time RT-PCR kits have been validated of which five have been recommended based on 100% concordance with positive and negative samples. The recommendations have been shared with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for taking it forward,” a release from the ICMR said. Apart from this, antibody-based tests have also been made available for sero-surveillance. The ICMR has developed guidelines ranging from preparation of network of government and private laboratories to ensure efficient validation/evaluation of new diagnostic kits. “ICMR has validated Truenat beta CoV test on Truelab workstation as a screening test. All positives through this platform will need to be reconfirmed by confirmatory assays for SARS-CoV-2,” the release said. “We have recommended the empiric use of hydroxychloroquine for prophylaxis of SARS-CoV-2 infection in both asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of COVID-19 and asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed COVID-19 cases,” Dr. Gangakhedkar said.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Affected districts rose from 62 to 257 in 15 days||The total number of districts that reported COVID-19 positive cases across the country jumped from 62 to 257 in a span of 15 days, a presentation made by the Union Health Ministry to the Cabinet Secretary has said. In all, there are 718 districts in the country spread over 28 States and eight Union Territories. The presentation made by Kuldeep Singh of the Health Ministry before Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday showed that as on March 20, there was only one district in Maharashtra where more than 10 cases were reported. By April 4, the number of such districts spiked to 70. The cases also soared from 195 to 2,769 in the same period. From 62 districts on March 20, the number of affected districts almost doubled to 117 on March 25. The country was put under a 21-day lockdown on March 25 after a day-long ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 22. The rate of testing also increased during this period. The presentation, “COVID-19 — orientation on containment strategy”, made during a videoconference of the Chief Secretaries of the States and Union Territories (UTs) projected the figures till April 4. On the “graded response” of the government to control the spread of the pandemic, the Ministry official said that on January 17, flights from China and Hong Kong were placed on surveillance at three airports and screening of passengers arriving from all international flights began on March 4, when the number of positive case jumped from 6 to 24. The first case was reported on January 30. The chart showed that the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared COVID-19 a “pandemic” on March 11 and the first-ever advisory on social distancing was issued on March 17, the day 126 positive cases were found. All international passenger flights were banned on March 22, the day the “Janata Curfew” was observed. On Sunday, Mr. Gauba asked all the States and UTs to formulate a containment plan as part of the strategy to deal with the spread of COVID-19 and ensure its effective implementation on ground to avoid a community transmission stage. The lockdown period provides the country a window of opportunities to act positively and be prepared to face any eventuality, Mr. Gauba said at the videoconference. The presentation said that “COVID-19 originated as a cluster of atypical pneumonia from Wuhan, China, in December 2019” and “possibly jumped species barrier and infected humans in a seafood market”, after which it developed capacity for “person-to-person transmission”. On March 27, Mr. Gauba wrote to all the States to monitor 15 lakh passengers who arrived at international airports from January 18 to March 23. The details of all the passengers were shared with the States.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘A second Budget may be required to deal with COVID-19 aftermath’||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached out to Opposition leaders, including former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said Mr. Modi should have taken the initiative earlier. Mr. Ramesh said the government would now have to completely rework the Budget numbers to deal with the aftermath of the lockdown.  The Congress Working Committee pledged “unstinted support” to the government, but some of your colleagues have called Prime Minister Narendra Modi a showman and a “Photo-Op PM”. Is there confusion among leaders on their approach to the government? Absolutely not. There is neither confusion nor contradiction. The Congress’s support to the Union government, as it leads the national campaign to deal with this truly unprecedented situation, has been, and will continue to be, unstinting and unqualified. The Congress leadership has written to the Prime Minister, giving a number of very constructive suggestions, especially to deal with the consequences of the lockdown. The Congress Chief Ministers too have done the same. The CWC resolution too is in the spirit of constructive engagement. But the fact remains that it took the Prime Minister 13 days to have a conversation with the Congress president and leaders of other political parties. He should have done this on the night of March 22. The manner in which Parliament was allowed to continue till the Kamal Nath government fell in Bhopal was absolutely cynical. The Prime Minister has not seen it fit to respond to the suggestions made by the Congress leadership and CMs. Even so, I think this is not the time for political grandstanding and one-upmanship by anyone, even though our Prime Minister has done so by needlessly undercutting the existing Prime Minister’s Relief Fund by setting up a parallel PM-CARES, as if nobody else cares, and his taali bajao, diya jalao call that subverts the very spirit of a scientific temper and is a distraction, even though it may well have a cultural resonance. And don’t forget that in the midst of the crisis, the government notified the Central Vista Redevelopment project in the nation’s capital — the Prime Minister’s dream project — which will cost over Rs. 20,000 crore, estimated conservatively, and which shows a shockingly callous sense of priorities at such a time of national distress. In a democracy of our size (1.3 billion people), it is difficult to keep people under a lockdown for three weeks. Would you not acknowledge that Mr. Modi has managed to do this with reasonable success? It is the people of our country who have to be congratulated, if congratulations are due. Just see the economic and social havoc the unplanned and sudden lockdown has caused across the country and just see the millions upon millions of livelihoods lost all of a sudden. What I personally find completely disgusting is that the government can spend time, energy and money evacuating Indians from abroad but is insensitive to the plight of migrant workers within the country. This will have very adverse long-term consequences and may even lead to stigmatisation. Internal remittances are about a sixth of external remittances but, given the socio-economic background of the migrants, have great local-level impacts. This is bound to be dislocated. But an exodus of migrant workers from places such as Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra also happened under the watch of the State governments. In some of these States, you either rule or are in alliance. Can one blame only the Centre? I think the primary responsibility was that of the Union government, but let us not spend time apportioning blame. It is a shameful blot on our collective conscience. The system moved, if at all, only after harrowingly painful and depressing images appeared in sections of the media. Relief moved, but only after a while and even now it is niggardly. You have criticised the lockdown saying that many decisions of the Modi government follow an “Act first, think later” approach. What could the government have done differently? It is ‘first act, second think’ (FAST), actually — an acronym that should appeal to the PM’s acronym-coining team. Actually it should be ‘first announce, second think’. Think about demonetisation. Think of the rushed manner in which GST was pushed through. Think of the numerous clarifications that had to be issued before the shutting off of lights on Sunday at 9 p.m. for nine minutes. Even before the coronavirus pandemic, the economy was sputtering and we were in growth recession. Now, of course, the Prime Minister has the perfect excuse to evade his responsibility for the continuously declining GDP growth. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi talked about an Indian model to fighting the corona pandemic. What is this Indian model? I think what he must have meant is that around 90% of employment in India is in the unorganised sector, that migrant workers are the mainstay of economies in a number of States, that this was also the time for procurement, that density of habitation and population impose limitations on social distancing as the primary instrument of combating the pandemic, that a very large section of our population is composed of daily wage earners and so on, that we are not a command and control society and so on. Congress president Sonia Gandhi talked about cash transfers to Jan Dhan accounts, advance payments to MGNREGA workers, agriculture workers and relief for the middle class. But unless the government kick-starts the industrial sector and revives growth, don’t you think these measures will be grossly inadequate to bring the economy back on track? Do you think the Budget estimates will now have to revised completely? The Budget, when presented on February 1, was based on a whole set of unrealistic assumptions — on tax revenues, on disinvestment revenues, on investment and consumption recovery, etc. This had been pointed out even then. Now, of course, everything has been turned upside down. There may well be a need for another Budget, in July perhaps. And of course, the much-derided, the much-ridiculed public investment will be key to the extent and speed of recovery. I agree with Abhijit Banerjee that now is not the time to make a fetish of the fiscal deficit. Now the over-riding priority is all-round economic recovery and direct cash transfers. I do not think that recovery will be quick but this is an opportunity for massive reform like what happened in July 1991. That reform rolled back the state, which was the need of the times. Now the state may well have to re-enter, which is the need of these times. But public investment with old public systems of delivery will just not do. It will have to be vastly restructured and reformed public systems of delivery. In many ways, experts argue, the world will change the way it conducts business. What changes do you foresee for us as a country? This is not just a public health crisis but a crisis that is far deeper, the nature and ramifications of which we need to understand more fully. I can only hope that the political class in our country rises to the challenge. Given the mandate he received a year back, the Prime Minister has a special responsibility in reaching out and creating a new and more collegial and conducive political environment — an environment that existed in the 1950s, for instance. He has nothing to lose and everything to gain by giving up this Aham Brahma Asmi attitude and approach to governance.  The PM has a special responsibility in reaching out and creating a more collegial political environment
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Restrictions on court hearings lawful: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday deemed all restrictions imposed on people from entering, attending or taking part in court hearings as lawful in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde said these restrictions were in tune with the social distancing norms and best public health practices advocated to contain the contagion. ‘Matter of duty’ The court invoked its extraordinary constitutional powers under Article 142 to step away from the convention of open court hearings. The open court system ensures transparency in administration of justice. “Every individual and institution is expected to cooperate in the implementation of measures designed to reduce the transmission of the virus. The scaling down of conventional operations within the precincts of courts is a measure in that direction... it is necessary that courts at all levels respond to the call of social distancing and ensure that court premises do not contribute to the spread of virus. This is not a matter of discretion but of duty,” a three-judge Bench led by the CJI observed in a seven-page order. The court made it clear that public health takes precedence over conventions. Judiciary would have to improvise and continue to bank heavily on “videoconferencing technologies” in the wake of this “unprecedented and extraordinary outbreak of a pandemic”. “Access to justice is fundamental to preserve the rule of law in the democracy envisaged by the Constitution of India. The challenges occasioned by the outbreak of COVID-19 have to be addressed while preserving the constitutional commitment to ensuring the delivery of and access to justice to those who seek it... Indian courts have been proactive in embracing advancement in technology in judicial proceedings,” the order said. Open court hearings would mean a congregation of large number of people. This would prove detrimental to the fight against the virus. In the past few days, the SC and the High Courts had stopped open court hearings. Cases were heard via videoconferencing to ensure social distancing. The Supreme Court premises was completely shutdown. Videoconferencing The CJI Bench assembled on Monday to suo motu streamline the videoconferencing guidelines for courts. In a series of directions, the apex court allowed the High Courts to decide the modalities for the temporary transition to the use of videoconferencing technologies in their respective States. District courts in each State would adopt the mode of videoconferencing prescribed by the respective High Courts. Helplines would be set up to receive and rectify technical complaints. The courts should make available videoconferencing facility for litigants who do not have it or appoint an amicus curiae. Until appropriate rules are framed by the High Courts, videoconferencing should be employed for hearing arguments. “In no case shall evidence be recorded without the mutual consent of both the parties by videoconferencing. If it is necessary to record evidence in a courtroom, the presiding officer shall ensure that appropriate distance is maintained between any two individuals in the court,” the apex court order said.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Class dimension to COVID-19 needs to be understood’||K. Sujatha Rao served as Union Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for the Indian government, until 2010, where she was involved in the process for a national policy for use of antibiotics, introducing vaccines in public health, and the first-ever national programme for non-communicable diseases. Her extensive experience in government puts her at the very heart of the debate on the global COVID-19 pandemic, especially questions surrounding system preparedness in India. Edited excerpts:  Do you think that there is a higher risk of infection cases surging in rural areas after the lockdown was announced and large numbers of migrants moved out of the cities? It is normally believed that since migrants have gone into rural areas, they are likely to be spreading the infection there. If, as the government says the virus hasn’t penetrated the community yet, continues to be a locally transmitted infection, and is very much in a containment phase around hotspots, then the source of infection assumes importance. It has come mainly from those middle-class people who have been abroad and come back to India. The probability of these middle-class individuals could have had these symptoms and the infection intermingling with informal workers suggests a class dimension to this infection that needs to be understood. Regarding India’s preparedness in terms of public health infrastructure, especially in rural areas, how ready are we to deal with cases there? The answer depends on how many people get infected. Whatever the number be — and not just in rural but also in urban areas — the health system will be overwhelmed. I don’t think we can handle a big number of critical cases even in the urban, metro areas. We don’t have that infrastructure. There is also a substitution effect going on. That means, if there are many people coming in, the rooms must be vacated, and isolation wards set up. It is not that we have spare capacity in our government or private hospitals – we are substituting other patients, people who have come in for elective surgery, and non-serious cases. In rural areas, the PHCs cannot handle such stress. It requires massive training and information dissemination to tell each healthcare worker and doctor what protective measures to take. The concern is that if we are looking at a large total number of cases, even 5-10% of that total as hospitalisation cases overwhelm whatever health infrastructure is available. In that context, has the government’s preparedness moved in tandem with the disease? There are two levels of preparedness. One is to get the health infrastructure into shape, and that is exactly what the public health systems at the Central and State levels are focusing on right now, during the lockdown period. In fact, part of the rationale for the lockdown was to pause and take time out to sort out the infrastructure challenges, in case of a surge. That is the reason why the government has now placed orders for ventilators and PPEs. In places like the well-known Gangaram Hospital in New Delhi, 110 doctors are already in quarantine. We cannot afford to have the few doctors and nurses that we have, who can give the kind of specialised treatment that the Coronavirus infection necessitates, to get infected and be sent off into quarantine. Another important dimension is testing, which should be our focus right now. This is a race against time to stop the transmission, so they need to test madly. Rapid-test kits are coming but they only test antibodies, which it can only show a person’s infection after the seventh day. I also believe the tests should be made free. It is ridiculous to price the test at Rs.4,500 at a time when testing is the only positive solution for checking this epidemic. Do we have a broader pandemic preparedness policy in terms of procurement of excess capacity in ventilators, ICU beds, to deploy in a future pandemic? No, not at all. There have been reports that at a meeting attended by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, it was said that potentially up to 30,000 ventilators may be lying dysfunctional across the country. We are not even keeping the few that we have in good working order. What is the disaster management authority doing? We have our act together for tsunamis and cyclones, as we have seen in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. But we never really thought about a disease spreading on this scale. This is not the first instance of a disease of this virulence coming out of China in particular — there was SARS too. Do you think the lessons will be learned to better tackle future outbreaks? In India, we have seen SARS, bird flu, swine flu, and traces of Zika, over the past decade or so. But health is given such low priority among the political and development agendas, that even this government, which has emphasised the importance of health, has focused more on Ayushman Bharat and on non-communicable diseases. I’m hoping that this outbreak will carry some lessons to our political leadership in creating a Department of Public Health, in focusing on surveillance, epidemiology, biostatistics and other crucial public health disciplines.  Whatever the number be — and not just in rural but also in urban areas — the health system will be overwhelmed
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fight against virus ‘like a war’: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday likened the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic to a war. India’s efforts to combat the virus had been lauded around the world, he told BJP workers on the 40th anniversary of the its foundation day. Mr. Modi’s address took place via a video link on the 14th day of a nationwide lockdown announced by him to control the spread of COVID-19. He lauded the people of the country for the “maturity and discipline” they had shown in maintaining the lockdown in such a vast and diverse population. He termed it “unprecedented.” “We got to see our collective strength on Sunday evening,” he said referring to the countrywide exercise of switching off lights and lighting diyas and candles for nine minutes. ‘Follow agenda’ Mr. Modi urged BJP workers to follow a five-point agenda, including working to ensure that no poor goes hungry. He asked them to follow the guidelines issued by party president J.P. Nadda. The BJP has asked its workers to follow a five-point agenda during the times of COVID-19: to feed at least five families, all workers to give up one meal today, deliver at least two face masks to every booth worker of the party, every person to try and get at least 40 donors for PM CARES Fund, and send ‘thank you’ letters for those in the front line of the fight against COVID-19. ‘Contribute to fund’ Mr. Modi asked the party workers to donate and encourage others to contribute to the PM-CARES Fund. “Over and above all, please remember that the one strategy that has worked to contain this disease has been social distancing. I urge all of you to take care of those less fortunate around you but also maintain social distancing and wear masks as a matter of habit,” he said.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Smart Cities’ command centres turn into war rooms||Municipalities implementing the Smart Cities Mission have started using their Integrated Command and Control Centres (ICCCs) as “war rooms” for COVID-19 response, including carrying out CCTV surveillance of public spaces, using heat maps to set up virus containment zones and real-time tracking of ambulances. Senior officials of the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, which oversees the Smart Cities Mission, have been coordinating the efforts of the cities, an official said. Of the 100 municipalities in the Smart Cities Mission, the ICCCs of 45 cities are “online” or operational, another official said. The ICCCs set up under the Mission are meant to coordinate traffic management, surveillance, utilities and grievance redressal. Now, they are being used as a part of the government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, the official said. Virtual training “As COVID-19 war rooms, the ICCCs are implementing initiatives such as CCTV surveillance of public places, GIS mapping of COVID-positive cases, GPS tracking of healthcare workers, predictive analytics (heat maps) for virus containment across different zones of the city, virtual training to doctors and healthcare professionals, real-time tracking of ambulances and disinfection services and medical services through videoconferencing, tele-counselling and tele-medicine,” a statement from the Ministry said. For example, Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said in a tweet, Varanasi was using its ICCC as a war room for “24/7 surveillance, tracking and for making important announcements across the city.” The Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited and the Pune Municipal Corporation had come together to develop an integrated data dashboard to map COVID-19 cases using geo-spatial systems. They then started monitoring the areas around the infected people and setting up buffer zones, it said.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tablighi Jamaat could have called off event: RSS||RSS joint general secretary Manmohan Vaidya on Monday said the Tablighi Jamaat could have responded to government orders on not having public gatherings “sensibly” and that the organisation now stood exposed even among Muslims, as “figures tell the truth.” Mr. Vaidya was referring to the spike in all India figures of COVID-19 patients due to a linkage with the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi in March and the subsequent travel of its preachers across the country. He, however, pointed out that Muslims were helping government officials in tracing the contacts of the members of Tablighi Jamaat which, he said, should be appreciated. The Health Ministry on Sunday said the rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases was 4.1 days, but if the cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event would not have happened, it would have been 7.4 days. Mr. Vaidya lauded the government’s handling of the pandemic so far. “To tackle COVID-19 outbreak, India's leadership took some decisive steps, which got public support as well,” he said. The RSS workers helped 25.5 lakh people during the lockdown, fed the poor and daily wagers and started a helpline, the RSS joint general secretary noted. ‘No Pratinidhi Sabha’ Citing the RSS’s decision to call off the annual meeting of its highest decision-making body — ‘Pratinidhi Sabha’ in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak — he said the Tablighi Jamaat could have also called off their congregation. “The RSS cancelled its ‘Pratinidhi Sabha’ in Bengaluru scheduled to be start from March 15. The Sangh members numbering 1,500 were asked to get off trains or cancel flight tickets. Others who had reached were immediately sent back,” he said. Mr. Vaidya announced that all RSS programmes scheduled till June, including Sangh Shiksha vargs (annual training programmes for its workers) are cancelled for now. Economic impact On the question of the economic impact of the 21-day lockdown, he stated that the first priority should be to tackle COVID-19 and save lives. I am hopeful that the government will take the necessary steps to minimise the impact of the lockdown on the economy, Mr. Vaidya added.
07 April 2020||KASAN,||Migrant workers in Haryana worry about rent and wages||Most workers who lived in Kasan village, which abuts the Manesar industrial township in Haryana, have left for home. Only those from Bihar remain. It would take far too long to walk to their villages in Bihar. Their colleagues from Uttar Pradesh were luckier as their homes were closer. The Maruti factory is about a kilometre away. Many of the workers live in rows of rooms, akin to “lines” in tea gardens. Three or four people occupy tiny rooms. They are surrounded by open drains. Flies are constant companions. Kundan Kumar Mahto, clad in shorts and vest and wearing a mask of sorts, is from Saran district in Bihar. “I have a stark choice... either I starve here, or in my village. We don’t know whether we will get our jobs back once the lockdown lifts.” Mr. Mahto has been paid Rs. 6,100, instead of the monthly Rs. 9,025 he makes working for a contractor who supplies workers for an online shopping firm. “My wages since March 23 have been cut. I won’t be paid till April 14 at least. God knows what will happen after that,” he tells The Hindu.  Mr. Mahto and other workers in Kasan said they cooked separately earlier, but had now started a community kitchen. “It saves time and resources. We have been provided some ration by the Workers Unity, a YouTube channel. For vegetables, we pool the money,” he said. Shivaji, who works with an automotive company, said he tried to return to his village in Bihar last Sunday, but the police had sealed the borders by then. The 23-year-old said he worked for 16 days, but was paid only for eight days. “Only Rs. 3,900 has been credited to my salary account,” he said. Another group of workers, mostly working in garment units, fear the lockdown would be extended further. “It will not be possible for us to pay rent and survive if the lockdown is extended. It is better if the government sends us to our native villages,” said Ramesh, 47.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Priyanka demands more testing||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday asked prominent people to raise their voice to demand more testing for coronavirus, while her brother and former party chief Rahul Gandhi said the pandemic also offered an opportunity to people to put aside their differences and fight as one. “The #Coronavirus is an opportunity for India to unite as one people, putting aside differences of religion, caste & class; to forge one common purpose: the defeat of this deadly virus. Compassion, empathy& self sacrifice are central to this idea. Together we will win this battle,” he tweeted. The tweet comes a day after the Union government said the number of COVID-19 positive cases doubled in 4.1 days after the Tablighi Jamaat event. In a two-and-half minute video message posted on twitter, Ms. Vadra said the only way to prevent the infection of coronavirus was through more and more testing. “Testing not only enables us to determine who has the coronavirus, it also gives us the extremely valuable information about the severity of the disease, disease clusters and th areas that need to be isolated,” she said. She appealed to political leaders, party workers, media, scientists and celebrities “to raise their voice and convince our government to increase testing now”.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Brazil seeks lifting of curbs on drug||A day after U.S. President Donald Trump said he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro announced that he had also requested India to allow the supply of the drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), now being used as a possible treatment for the Coronavirus or COVID-19. As requests to supply the drug pile up from other countries as well, officials said the government may reconsider its notification on Saturday that banned all exports of the drug. The External Affairs Ministry declined comment, but an official who asked not to be named, said the Ministry was “hopeful” that the Health Ministry and the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) that put out the notification (01/2015-20), would revoke the ban on a “case-by-case basis” for more than two dozen countries that have requested supplies at the “highest level” in the past few days. Industry groups have also appealed to the government to reconsider the ban. “We have given an assurance that the domestic consumption will be looked after first, but after that we should consider the needs of other countries too. After all, India's reputation as the pharmacy of the world is built on our ability to manufacture these medicines that are much needed. We must think of that as well as the commitments we have given other countries,” Ashok Madan, the Executive Director of the Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA), told The Hindu. He added that the industry has enough stocks for both domestic needs and international requirements as of now. However, advocacy groups are warning that the government must not overlook the possibility of an “escalation” in domestic demand, and point out that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has added HCQ to its protocol for all health workers. “If they remove restrictions on export now, we could face a shortage internally…Even if it isn’t a certified cure, it is being used as a prophylaxis by our doctors; we must think of them,” said Malini Aisola of the All India Drug Action Network. Industry sources said that last month, the U.S., Brazil, neighbouring SAARC and European Union countries had placed advance orders for the drug, which is made by only a few Indian companies, most notably IPCA and Zydus Cadila. In addition to its possible use for in the current COVID-19 pandemic, HCQ is anti-malarial drug, which is also used by patients of lupus and rheumatoid arthritis in India. Another worry is that the essential ingredients for HCQ come from China, and any disruption in supply or increase in cost of those will also reduce India’s manufacturing capacity of the drug.
07 April 2020||Bhopal,||32 officials infected as virus hits M.P. Health Department||The Madhya Pradesh Directorate of Health Services is floundering to locate the source of the COVID-19 outbreak in its office building which had infected 32 employees, from the senior-most officials to personal assistants and peons, in the past five days. This makes up the largest chunk of the 62 patients in Bhopal. On Sunday and Monday, 29 of the 44 who had tested positive for the virus were Health officials, including doctors. Currently, every second patient in the capital belongs to the Department. Whereas 20 patients were members of the Tablighi Jamaat in Bhopals, five belong to the police. “We don’t know the source yet,” said Sapna M. Lovanshi, Additional Director at the Directorate. “We have not been able to secure any information on it so far.” The infected included the Principal Secretary of the State Public Health and Family Welfare Department, Deputy Directors, Additional Directors and even class-4 employees, she added. “Almost all the employees at the Directorate had had direct contact with at least one of the infected officials,” she said. At a time when the mortality rate due to the disease hovered around 6% in the State, one of the worst in the country, the Additional Director who is tasked with implementing strategies to combat the outbreak State-wide, the Managing Director of the Madhya Pradesh Public Health Services Corporation Limited, also the State Ayushman Bharat Yojana CEO, tasked with procuring drugs and instruments, the Joint Director tasked with managing hospitals and the Additional Director in-charge of managing manpower, have all been infected. “An official, who returned from Indore after meeting his wife there is suspected of being the source. But this is yet to be established,” said a Deputy Director. The government is preparing a list of second-line officials as a contingency plan. “Even the Health Commissioner has kept replacements ready if the need be,” he added.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC reserves order on Christian Michel’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday reserved its order on the interim bail plea of Christian Michel James, alleged middleman arrested in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam. Justice Mukta Gupta, who conducted the proceedings through video conferencing, reserved the order after hearing the arguments on behalf of counsel for Mr. James and the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which opposed the plea. Mr. James claimed that his health condition was critical and incompatible with the current prison status, especially to cope with the risk of contracting the COVID-19. Last week, the Supreme Court had asked Mr. James to first approach the High Court with his plea. In his plea, he also referred to the Supreme Court’s March 16 order directing all States and union territories to constitute high-level committees to consider releasing on parole or interim bail prisoners and undertrials, for offences entailing up to 7-year jail term, to decongest jails in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Centre profiteering during crisis: Cong.||The government should not resort to profiteering at a time when the country is battling the COVID-19 pandemic, the Congress said on Monday. It asked the Centre to resort to profit-sharing with the citizens. In an online media interaction, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi accused the government making a profit of “Rs. 20 lakh crore” since 2014 through Central taxes and levies on petroleum products. The need of the hour and immediate necessity is to share a part of this profit made by the government, Mr. Singhvi said. “It is not a time for profiteering. It is a time for the government to do profit sharing, and do some sharing and caring. This is the need of the hour and the immediate necessity,” he said at a press conference addressed through video conferencing. ‘Reduce taxes’ The Congress spokesperson said it was time to reduce taxes or give it back in some other form to the farmers, labourers and common people suffering amid lockdown due to COVID-19 and due to the country’s economic downturn. He recalled that in March 2014, international crude price was hovering around $108 per barrel and six years later, it was now a historic low of $23 per barrel. “Going by international market prices, petrol can be sold at Rs. 28 while the price for diesel is Rs. 32, Mr. Singhvi said. He alleged that the Centre had made a profit of around Rs. 20 lakh crore in the past six years. “The BJP needs to realise that it has to stop solo profiteering; instead of stealing touch, it has to give a healing touch,” he said. “We want to draw your attention to GDP — Gas, Diesel and Petrol — during 21-day lockdown and how they should be harnessed to deal with the lockdown,” the Congress spokesperson added.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition slams suspension of MPLADS||The Opposition parties reacted sharply to the Union government’s decision to suspend the MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) fund scheme for the next two years, subsuming the funds to the Central pool to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Congress spokesperson and Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari said it was a knee-jerk reaction much like the lockdown at a four-hour notice. While he and rest of the Congress fully supported the 30% cut in the MPs’ salary, suspension of MPLAD funds was an “overstretch.” “MPLADS is a targeted and nimble instrument to customise micro level interventions to alleviate distress,” he said. Thiruvananthapuram MP and Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, in a Twitter thread, said it would have been better had the government brought in an order to earmark the funds only to be spent for COVID-19 related expenditure. “MPLADS is the only means for an MP to direct development resources to his constituency,” he said. “To take one example, the Centre has allocated Rs. 157 cr. of Disaster Response Mitigation Funds to Kerala, which has 314 #COVID19 cases, while Gujarat, with only 122 cases, gets Rs. 662 cr. Will this kind of imbalance also affect the reallocation of MPLADS funds?” he asked. The Trinamool Congress called it a “whimsical” and “undemocratic” decision. “We all have contributed to tide over this pandemic but to use it as an excuse to stymie local area development will not solve the problem. Much like the demonetisation, this is an unilateral decision which will hamper the democracy in the country,” TMC Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy said. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said this decision to centralise the funds would weaken the fight against COVID-19.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. shifts to ‘large outbreak containment’||With just over a week left of the 21-day COVID-19 containment lockdown, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday that India has now stepped out of the local transmission phase and moved into the “large outbreaks amenable to containment phase”. With a current case doubling rate of 96 hours and the infection having spread to nearly 300 of the 736 district across the country, the protocol now followed has been set out in the Union Health Ministry’s recently released document “Containment plan for large outbreaks”. This includes “re-defining the area of operation, active surveillance for cases and contacts in the identified geographic zone, expanding laboratory capacity for testing all suspect cases, high risk contacts and SARI cases, operationalize surge capacities created for isolation (COVID-19 hospitals/COVID-19 dedicated blocks) to hospitalise and manage all suspect / confirmed cases.” The other measures under the protocol include implementation of social distancing measures with strict perimeter control, providing chemoprophylaxis with hydroxy-chloroquine to asymptomatic healthcare workers and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases and the further intensification of risk communication through audio, social and visual media. As per the surge capacity recommendation, the government is empowered to enhance capacity and bring in private hospitals and augment laboratory testing capacity, notes the 20-page document. Anticipating about 15% of the patients are likely to require hospitalisation, and an additional 5% will require ventilator management, the Centre has planned a three-tier arrangement for managing suspect and confirmed cases which is now being implemented to decrease burden on the COVID blocks and hospitals. “The mild cases will be kept in temporary makeshift hospital facilities, moderate to severe cases who require monitoring of their clinical status will be admitted to COVID hospitals. Some of the severe cases may progress to respiratory failure and /or progress to multi-organ failure and hence critical care facility/ dialysis facility etc shall be required,” a senior health official said. The Ministry is also looking at scaling down operations “if no secondary laboratory confirmed COVID-19 case is reported from the geographic quarantine zone for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test has been isolated and all his contacts have been followed up for 28 days.”
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||1.7 lakh PPEs from China to ease shortage||Supply lines from abroad opened up on Monday with the receipt of 1.7 lakh Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) coveralls donated from China, the Union Health Ministry said. “Along with domestic supplies of 20,000 coveralls, a total of 1.9 lakh coveralls will now be distributed to hospitals and will add to the 3,87,473 PPEs already available in the country as of now. A total of 2.94 lakh PPE coveralls have been arranged and supplied so far,” the Ministry said. The Health Ministry noted that in addition, two lakh domestically produced N95 masks are also being sent to various hospitals. A major part of the fresh protective equipment is being sent to States with comparatively higher number of cases including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan. Supplies are also being sent to central institutions like AIIMS, Safdarjung and RML hospitals etc. “The commencement of foreign supplies marks a major milestone in our efforts to procure personal protection equipment for the battle against COVID-19. An order for 80 lakh complete PPE kits [including N95 masks] had been placed on a Singapore-based platform earlier and now it has been indicated that supplies will commence from April 11, 2020 with two lakh, followed by eight lakh more in a week,” said the Ministry. ‘Final stage’ It added that negotiations are in the final stages with a Chinese platform for placing an order of 60 lakh complete PPE kits, which will also include N95 masks. “Northern Railways have also developed a PPE coverall and this is in addition to the PPE coveralls and N99 masks developed by DRDO earlier. Efforts are now being made to start mass production. Existing N95 mask producers have increased their capacity to about 80,000 masks per day,” the Ministry added.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||40,000 isolation beds ready, says Railways||The Railways on Monday said it has converted 2,500 of its coaches — part of its initial target of at least 5,000 — into isolation wards. “In times of a lockdown when manpower resources are limited and have to be rationalised and rotated, the zones have almost done an impossible task of so many conversions in such a small span of time,” the Railways said in a statement. The Railways now has 40,000 isolation beds ready for contingency. “On an average, 375 coaches are being converted in a day. The work is being carried out at 133 locations,” it said.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army likely to take over screening at Narela||The Army on Monday said it was actively considering a request to take over the medical screening at the Narela quarantine camp run by the Home Ministry. “It is clarified that there is no increase in strength of Army medical personnel at Narela camp as of now. Request to take over only the medical screening set up at the camp has been received. The request is under process,” the Army said. In the first instance of Army doctors being deployed to help civil administration within the country to help tackle the COVID-19 outbreak, an Army medical team, including two doctors and two nursing assistants, was deployed at the Narela camp at the end of last week. Prior to this, Army medical teams were deployed only at services-run quarantine centres. Separately, the Defence Ministry said in a tweet that a “Medical team of four doctors, eight nursing assistants and seven security personnel [have been] deployed at Narela quarantine camp.”
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||47% of patients below 40, says government||Stating that the Home Secretary has also asked the State governments and Union Territories to ensure adequate supply of medical oxygen, which is critical for treatment, Joint Secretary in the MHA Punya Salila Srivastava, said: “So far we have quarantined 25,500 people from the Tablighi Jamaat. Five villages in Haryana, where the workers and participants were staying, have been sealed.” Speaking about the use of hydroxychloroquine with the number of cases rising in the country Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has noted that as of now there is only very limited evidence on efficacy of hydroxychloroquine to deal with COVID-19, and also there is not enough proof to advise it for the public. The Health Ministry added that several steps are being taken along with the States/U.T.s for the prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 in the country. “We have issued detailed guidelines for setting up of quarantine facilities for COVID-19 outbreak and this is aimed at separating suspected and high-risk contacts as early as possible from among other quarantined persons,’’ said Mr. Agarwal. “States have already been advised to use funds under National Health Mission (NHM) and State Disaster Relief Fund to undertake activities related with creation of quarantine centres, dedicated COVID-19 hospitals medical equipment and treatment of patients. In addition to this, NHM has already sanctioned Rs. 1100 crore to all States and Rs. 3000 crore additional funds were released on Monday. Also, N-95 masks, ventilators and PPEs are being procured from the central pool and distributed to all the States across the country,” he added.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Karnataka refuses to lift blockade||A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao is scheduled to hear the issue via video conferencing on April 7. Kerala said its request to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to inform the timing of the video conference in the light of the Supreme Court’s April 3 order had elicited no response so far. It had written to the MHA the very next day after the Supreme Court order, considering the urgency of the matter. Noting that the Disaster Management Act mandated that there should not be any discrimination in essential services and care across the country, Kerala said the blockade violated the fundamental right to life of the people of the State. It asked why the Centre had not directed Karnataka to comply. “The Central government is constitutionally obliged to direct compliance of laws made by Parliament and to ensure that the executive authority of a State is properly exercised... Blockade is a violation of the fundamental rights of the people of Kerala. The Centre is constitutionally and statutorily empowered and obliged to redress the issue,” Kerala submitted in the court. The blockade was despite the MHA’s March 24 order that the delivery and transport of essential items should not be blocked. Karnataka continued with the blockade even after an order from the Kerala High Court to remove it.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Pench tiger death raises COVID-19 fears||However, it was unlikely to be enough to test for COVID and given the remoteness of the forests and lockdown in effect, would likely degrade and be unsuitable for testing. “We’ve also been approached by molecular biologists who’ve offered to conduct a DNA analysis and possibly unearth evidence of the virus,” Anup Kumar Nayak, Director General, NTCA said. Officials said they had implemented measures to keep a watch out for COVID among tigers. On Monday, both the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and the NTCA issued guidelines that require zoos to be on the “highest alert” and monitor animals on closed-circuit cameras 24/7 for “abnormal behaviour and symptoms.” Nadia, the COVID-positive tiger in the Bronx Zoo is believed to have been infected by an asymptomatic zookeeper. The CZA has also directed zookeepers to approach sick animals wearing personal protective equipment and isolate and quarantine them. “Mammals such as carnivores especially cat, ferret and primates to be carefully monitored and fortnightly samples of suspect cases to be sent to designated animal health institutes to initiate COVID-19 testing,” the circular noted. The designated testing centres are the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, Bhopal; National Research Centres on Equines, Haryana; Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnostics, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, U.P. The directive to Wildlife Wardens in States and reserves adds that tigers ought to be observed for symptoms consistent with COVID-19 and that personnel handling tigers have to be ascertained negative.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Modi seeks Ministers’ views on lockdown exit||“He asked us for suggestions on how some industry can be restarted where labour can work with adequate social distancing safeguards,” the source stated. Mr. Modi asserted that the situation called for bolstering domestic manufacture and asked the Ministers to see how ‘Make in India’ could be worked out in this scenario. “Business continuity plans after the lockdown is lifted were also asked, as the economy needs a rescue act,” said a source. Government sources (other than the Ministers at the meeting on Monday) told The Hindu that all sorts of suggestions were placed at the discussion table, but it seemed as though reopening of schools and colleges would not be done in a hurry, not least because many now are shelters for the homeless and migrant labour and quarantine centres. Even railway and air traffic are unlikely to resume anytime soon, possibly in a staggered manner. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri took to Twitter on Sunday to clarify his Ministry’s position. “The current lockdown of both domestic and international passenger flights is till April 15. A decision to restart the flights after this period remains to be taken. If required, we will have to assess the situation on a case to case basis,” Mr. Puri said.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea filed in SC over reports on Jamaat||A writ petition was filed on Monday in the Supreme Court by the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind for a direction to the Centre to stop the media from communalising the Tablighi Jamaat incident, which is allegedly linked to the spread of COVID-19. The plea said certain sections of the print and electronic media are spreading bigotry and communal hatred in relation to the Tablighi Jamat conference held in the Nizamuddin Markaz area. The plea, filed through advocate Ejaz Maqbool, sought a direction to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to identify and take action against sections of the media, who are communalising the Nizamuddin Markaz issue.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to help stranded Australians||India will assist Australians who are stranded in the country because of the lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday to his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. Sources confirmed that around 6,000 Australian citizens have registered with the Australian authorities and options are being explored for evacuating them soon.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||D. Raja urges PM to hold an all-party meet||An all-party meeting must be called to brief leaders of recognised political parties on the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, CPI leader D. Raja said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He was responding to Mr. Modi’s call for a meeting of the floor leaders of both Houses of Parliament on Wednesday.
07 April 2020||Srinagar,||5 soldiers killed in close range shootout: Army||Five soldiers and an equal number of militants were killed in the four-day long “intense gunfight in a snow-bound area” along the Line of Control (LoC) in the north Kashmir’s Kupwara, the Army said on Monday. “It was an intense hand-to-hand battle in which all five Pakistan-backed terrorists were eliminated. However, the Army lost five of its best soldiers, three on the site and two more as they were being airlifted to a nearby military hospital,” a Srinagar-based Army spokesman said. Sources said the footsteps on snow were first reported in the morning on April 1 in an inaccessible pocket of the Keran Sector. Due to the rough terrain and inclement weather, the terrorists could not be engaged, sources added. The combing operation started again on April 4 and contact with the militants was established on April 5 morning. A squad walked over a cornice and fell into a nallah, putting them face to face with the armed militants. “It was a close quarter battle at virtually point blank range. The remains of the soldiers and terrorists were found within two to three metres of each other,” sources said.
07 April 2020||Kolkata,||Some parties spreading misinformation: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that Information Technology cell of certain political parties was spreading misinformation on the State government’s attempts to contain the outbreak of COVID-19. “This is not the time to joke or indulge in politics... the IT cell of certain political parties is spreading fake news using the official bulletin of health department,” she said.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||42% of labourers don’t have even a day’s worth rations left: Survey||A survey of migrant workers in north and central India has found that 42% of labourers did not even have a day’s worth of rations left and that 90% had lost their only source of income over the past three weeks. NGO Jan Sahas’ report said that of the 3,196 construction workers, 90% reported job losses and 33% said they were stuck in the cities they had moved to.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown slows down assets attachment in money laundering cases||The process of attaching assets worth hundreds of crores in money laundering cases has slowed down due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The Enforcement Directorate is in the process of initiating attachment of over a dozen properties of Rana Kapoor, the former promoter-director of Yes Bank.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Allow digital self-KYC process for new SIM cards: Telecom firms||The telecom firms have written to the government to allow a digital self-KYC process for issuing SIM cards to eliminate the need of physical visit to the stores. As per the suggested format, customers need to furnish details such as name, date of birth and address and provide proof of identity and address. They may also be required to record or read out a short video.
07 April 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata police arrest 98 for bursting crackers during ‘9 pm-9 minutes’||The Kolkata police have arrested 98 people in the city for bursting crackers on Sunday night following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘9 p.m., 9 minutes’ appeal. Bursting of crackers was in violation of the lockdown, an official said. In the past 48 hours, 706 people have been arrested for violating the lockdown.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure those frontline Congress leader K C Venugopal writes to Health Minister for PPEs for health workers||Senior Congress leader and party general secretary K.C. Venugopal on Monday wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to demand urgent intervention from the Centre in ensuring Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to the doctors, nurses and health workers who are in the frontline in the battle against the novel coronavirus or COVID-19. The emergence of hospitals in Delhi and Mumbai as clusters of transmission is a pointer to the ‘alarming’ shortage of the PPE for health workers, Mr. Venugopal noted.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ramayan brought back DD to centre stage: Prasar Bharati CEO||Amid widespread criticism for re-telecast of epics Ramayan and Mahabharat in the time of countrywide lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati has said the decision to pull these and other old Doordarshan serials was taken six months ago and the re-telecast had brought back brand Doordarshan to the centre stage.
07 April 2020||Bhopal,||COVID-19 | Bhopal records first death||Bhopal registered its first COVID-19-related death on Monday morning after a man succumbed to the illness while undergoing treatment at a hospital. “He tested positive on Sunday and was admitted to a private hospital earlier,” said Sudhir Dehariya, Bhopal Chief Medical and Health Officer. In addition, five officials of the Health Department tested positive for the disease on the same day. They were already confined in quarantine, he added. With this, the city’s tally touched 45.
07 April 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Residents in rural Ariyalur issued passes for going out||In yet another measure to tighten enforcement of the prohibitory orders, the Ariyalur district administration has started issuing colour-coded passes using which residents can venture out to purchase essential commodities two days a week. The initiative is being implemented initially in rural areas and based on its success, it would be extended to urban local bodies in the district, officials said. The move comes in the wake of a large number of people venturing out of their houses under the pretext of purchasing essential commodities despite repeated appeals and various restrictions imposed by the Revenue and Police authorities. The passes - in three colours of green, blue and pink – are being issued through the Block Development Officers and the Panchayat Presidents to the residents in respective village panchayats. One person from a family, carrying the card, can venture out on specified hours and days in the week. However, people can go out for medical emergencies any time, any day, Collector D.R athna said. Those holding green cards can come out of their houses on Mondays and Thursdays and those with blue coloured cards can use them on Tuesdays and Fridays. Pink cards would be valid on Wednesdays and Saturdays. The residents can venture out only between 6 a.m.and 1 p.m. “Only persons in the age group of 15 to 60 can use the card and should always carry the card when going out. They are also liable to strictly adopt the personal distancing norms. Those violating the restriction will face stern action,” Ms. Rathna said in a statement. Officials in the district, said about 1.97 lakh households in 201 village panchayats in the district have been distributed the passes door-to-door by officials of the Department of Rural Development and the respective panchayat presidents. Depending on the success of the initiative, it would be extended to the two town panchayats of Udayarpalayam and Varadharajanpettai and the two municipalities of Ariyalur and Jayamkondam.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government to bear COVID-19 treatment cost of frontline staff||The State government has decided to cover the medical expenses of all its frontline staff in the essential departments, who are in the thick of the fight against COVID-19, in case they contract the pandemic. The medical cover would be reviewed after May 30. A senior official clarified that the date had nothing to do with the lockdown. “It is a precautionary measure aimed at benefiting our staff who are working hard during these challenging times and if they contract it in the line of duty, they should get the cover,” a senior official told The Hindu . The official clarified that the medical cover would be applicable to treatment either in government or private hospitals. All categories of officials would get an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh if they test positive for COVID-19, according to a Government Order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. The temporary facility would be applicable to employees in the Health and Family Welfare, Revenue and Disaster Management, and Police departments, sanitation and conservancy workers, rural and urban local bodies’ employees involved in prevention, identification, quarantine and treatment for COVID-19. G.O. issued The G.O. was issued at the behest of the Chief Minister who told a meeting on April 2 that frontline staff faced the risk of contracting COVID-19 and that the government should take care of their treatment cost and pay themex gratia. Accordingly, a proposal was put up by Commissioner of Revenue Administration J. Radhakrishnan, which was accepted by Mr. Shanmugam, who issued a G.O. on April 4. The G.O. said the frontline staff should be provided with personal protective equipment such as masks and gloves to ensure that they did not contract COVID-19 while discharging their duty.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Have sought Centre’s nod for 21 testing labs: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday said the State government had sought the Centre’s approval for establishing 21 more laboratories to test people for COVID-19. The State currently has 11 government and six private testing labs, he told journalists at the Secretariat. Noting that the government had placed orders for one lakh Rapid Test Kits to speed up the testing rate, he said they were expected to arrive on April 9. The kits could complete tests in around 30 minutes, he said. Soon after the Rapid Test Kits arrive in the State from China, they would be sent to the districts concerned to commence testing from April 10. The CM pointed out that even those who had not developed any symptoms had tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 1,848 persons suspected of having been affected by the disease had been admitted to various hospitals, he said. There were about 22,000 beds for COVID-19 patients and 3,371 ventilators in the State, which had sufficient stock of masks and other personal protective equipment. The government had placed orders for 2,500 more ventilators, the CM said. Of the 2.10 lakh air passengers who had arrived in the State recently, 90,541 were under home quarantine. As many as 10,116 persons had completed 28 days of mandatory quarantine. Steps had been taken to provide essential supplies such as provisions, vegetables and milk to those under home quarantine, he said. On lockdown extension The CM declined to comment on the possibility of the lockdown and the prohibitory orders being extended beyond April 14. When asked if the lockdown would be extended, he did not give a specific reply. Instead, he said the pandemic was contagious and more cases were being reported. Underlining the seriousness of the issue, he appealed to the public to remain indoors in order to curb the spread of COVID-19. The CM said police personnel were humans too, and the public should cooperate with them, especially during the lockdown period. When asked about the issue of some police personnel being harsh to people venturing out of their homes during the lockdown, he said, “We cannot blame the police alone.” “They are manning the roads under the hot sun, working in shifts, and have to stand for long hours,” he said, adding, “The public should think about all this. Self-discipline is needed.” Class X exams The revised schedule for the State Board Class X public exams would be announced later, the CM said. He said the situation was still not conducive to hold exams, and an assessment will be made and the revised dates announced only after the lockdown ends. When it was pointed out that several private schools had been sending SMSes to parents, asking them to pay the term fee for the forthcoming academic year in spite of the lockdown, he said, “If you give us specific details, action will be taken.”
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. finishes on top in micro-irrigation coverage||At a time when every segment of society is reeling under the impact of COVID-19, farmers have brought some cheer to Tamil Nadu. In the just-concluded financial year 2019-20, the State finished on top at the all-India level for micro-irrigation coverage. This has been achieved as part of implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY), a programme aimed at promoting the “more crop per drop” concept by focussing on water-saving technologies. A perusal of data on the website (https://pmksy.gov.in/mis/rptAchievement.aspx) reveals that during the inaugural year of the programme (2015-16), Tamil Nadu had just about 32,290 hectares under micro-irrigation, lagging behind several States such as Telengana (39,864 ha), Rajasthan (56,345 ha), Karnataka (64,220 ha), Andhra Pradesh (94,104 ha) and Gujarat (about 1.43 lakh ha). Tamil Nadu saw an improvement next year but that was only incremental. It was from 2017-18 that the State made giant strides when the coverage reached about 1.05 lakh ha. A year later, the coverage went up by about 67,000 ha and during 2019-20, the overall figure was 2.06 lakh ha, surpassing the performance of consistently high-performers such as Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Last year, the two southern States could cover about 95,520 ha and 1.41 lakh ha respectively. As for 2019-20, officials of the Tamil Nadu Agriculture department assert that the coverage is 2.18 lakh ha with an expenditure of Rs. 1,112 crore. However, as regards the cumulative total coverage under the PMKSY during 2015-2020, Tamil Nadu occupies the fourth spot with about 5.62 lakh ha, according to the PMKSY website. The first place goes to Karnataka (8.16 lakh ha) followed by Andhra Pradesh (7.17 lakh ha) and Gujarat (7 lakh ha). At the all-India level, 43.71 lakh ha of lands were brought under micro irrigation in five years. Extra incentive Explaining how Tamil Nadu executed the PMKSY, the officials point to a number of steps taken to promote the programme. The State government had given subsidy in addition to what was provided by the Centre.For example, for sugarcane, small and marginal farmers get 100% subsidy for laying drip system and big farmers,75%. By developing an exclusive website “Micro Irrigation Management Information System” (MIMIS), the implementation — from registration of beneficiaries to the final round of release of funds — has been made online, simplifying the procedure and speeding up the approval process. The State government has absorbed the cost of 12% goods and services tax (GST) on micro irrigation components.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contact tracing, a challenging but crucial exercise||Every time a person tests positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), the process of tracing his/her contacts begins. Exclusive teams at the State- and district-level trace the patient’s recent movements, tracking down the persons with whom he/she had come into contact before testing positive. Till now, officials have tracked down approximately 7,000 close contacts of COVID-19 patients in Tamil Nadu. There are many others — primarily low-risk contacts — who have also been traced. Contact tracing is not an easy job, but is a crucial exercise. Tracking down the contacts of patients is essential to identify those who had been exposed to the disease and manage them, restrict their movement and prevent further transmission, according to officials. “It is a meticulously done exercise; otherwise, we would not have been able to track down and follow up on so many contacts,” a health official said. In Tamil Nadu, some of the major entities involved in contact tracing are the Directorate of Public Health, the Home Department, the Police Department and the local bodies. With teams at the State- and district-level, they retrace the movements of each patient — the places they had visited, the mode of transport they had used and the persons they had come into contact with. The officials would ask the patients or their close family members for details on travel history — whether they had travelled by flight or train, and the places they had visited recently, including clinics and hospitals. The appropriate authorities — airports, the railways or app-based ride-hailing services — are contacted directly for information. Consider this: if patient ‘A’ had tested positive (prior to the lockdown), he/she may have travelled by public transport at a particular time, or taken an autorickshaw, or availed themselves of an app-based ride-hailing service, or visited a market. If the person had travelled by train or flight, details including the exact seat number have to be provided by the Southern Railways or the Airports Authority of India. The designated teams also gather information on contacts by collecting CCTV footage from the places the patient had visited, if available. They track movements using mobile phone signals, an official said. “The critical point is when patient ‘A’ started to develop symptoms. We should take this into consideration — there is a possibility of a patient transmitting the disease in the pre-symptomatic period too,” an official said. Sometimes, the close contacts of the patient may not want to be identified and may have switched off their phones. “Routinely, around 200 to 300 persons are traced for each patient. But the crux of the matter is not tracking down a big number but the right number of persons. Again, this may not be the case for all. Some patients may have left a smaller trail. They may have gone home from the airport in their personal car; may not have visited any place; and may have approached a hospital soon after developing symptoms. We have had less than 10 contacts to trace for such persons,” the official added. Greater cooperation from the public is key, according to the authorities. Whoever has been in close contact with a confirmed COVID-19 patient or those suspected of having its symptoms should be under strict home quarantine. If they have any symptoms, including cough, fever and breathing difficulty, they could contact the local hospital or the toll free number 104 for assistance, officials said.
07 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Residents hold back information on health status||Many city residents reported not having symptoms of COVID-19, in the survey carried out by Chennai Corporation workers, in the past two days. Corporation officials said that most of the 18 lakh houses were covered in the past few days, as part of the survey. “Most of the 15 zones have reported only around 100 fever cases. Each zone has more than one lakh households. This is primarily because residents are unwilling to share details with Corporation workers who come to check on their condition,” said an official. More than 12,000 workers have started visiting houses to get information on residents with COVID-19 symptoms. One worker will collect data from 100 buildings in a day. Many workers who visited houses on Sunday reported that there were no fever cases in any of the 100 households. The civic body has requested residents to share the right information to help it contain the spread of COVID-19. Shelter for homeless Many stranded passengers and homeless persons continue to remain on the footpaths. A number of homeless persons have continued to stay on the roads in areas such as Vepery, Park Town, George Town and Koyambedu, increasing the risk of COVID-19 spread. R. Manimaran, a labourer at the Central railway station, said he stayed on the footpath as he got food from people visiting the area. A group of 50 people was on the road near the Central Square on Monday. Civic officials, in a meeting on Monday, received instructions to take all homeless persons and stranded passengers to Corporation shelters.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) demands all-party meeting on crisis||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Monday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the problem faced by the people, scarcity of goods, difficulties in harvesting of agriculture products and distribution of personal safety equipment to doctors and other medical staff. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Balakrishnan requested him to allot time to discuss the issues. He said while it was a matter of great relief that there was no community transmission of COVID-19, there was a view on extending the lockdown in case more and more people tested positive for the pandemic in the coming days. He made a strong case for increasing the relief amount from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000 as the lockdown, initially slated till March 31, had been extended up to April 14. He pointed out that the Rs. 1,000 dole was announced when the lockdown was announced by the State government for one week. ‘Health Minister missing’ Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K. S. Alagiri on Monday alleged that Minister for Health and Family Welfare C. Vijayabaskar was not to be seen in action in the past week when his job is to monitor and take preventive measures against the outbreak of COVID-19. MDMK leader Vaiko on Monday raised doubts about the status of spread of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. In a statement, Mr. Vaiko raised questions over the number of tests conducted people who returned to Tamil Nadu from countries such as Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Italy, Spain and Germany since December last.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prices of essential commodities go up||With the COVID-19 lockdown, the prices of several essential commodities, including pulses and tamarind, have shot up. Traders said the reason for increase was a shortage in supply of goods due to lack of proper logistics. S. Bhaskar of Ganapathy Stores in Thoraipakkam said that items from other States such as Gujarat and Karnataka were not available, making them dearer. “We usually get tamarind from Tumkur in Karnataka and rava (sooji) from Gujarat. The prices of both these items have gone up. They are available in the wholesale market in limited quantities. We are unable to make our regular trip to Parry's due to police restrictions and don't do home deliveries either,” he said. Apart from the increase in prices, many goods have just vanished off the shelves. Tambaram resident Madhavan Venkatesan said it was very difficult for him to get biscuits, soap and liquid hand wash. “I can understand the lack of hand sanitisers in this situation. But even biscuits and snack items are not to be found. And when children are at home they demand snacks,” he said. M. Sridhar, a resident of Mylapore said prices of branded goods had gone up more than the non-branded ones, especially when it came to dal and oil. “I could not find atta. I waited for four days till my shop could get some. But by that time, the price had increased by Rs. 5 per kilo,” he said. Kirana merchant from Sowcarpet Manish Paramar said logistics have been badly affected leading to lack of goods.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1.95 lakh migrant workers on govt. radar||Over 1.95 lakh migrant workers, rendered jobless following the COVID-19 lockdown, have been brought under a surveillance system where senior bureaucrats directly monitor their welfare, including the provision of accommodation, food and healthcare. A majority of the labourers, who work in the textile industry, brick kilns and the construction sector, belong to Odisha, Bihar, West Bengal and Assam. A ‘Guest Workers’ committee, comprising senior officers, which was set up by the Chief Minister to look into issues affecting migrant workers, has asked District Collectors to assist in providing accommodation and food to them. Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy had nominated Additional Director-General of Police (Operations) Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal as the nodal officer to coordinate the monitoring activities. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was evolved to identify, enumerate and bring the workers under a management plan under which accommodation, food and healthcare would be ensured for the workers, with daily checks conducted by the local police. District nodal officers in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police and police liaison staff in the rank of Head/Police Constable for each accommodation centre were nominated in all cities/districts to gather details of the workers. The police then reached out to the employers and sensitised them about their responsibilities towards the workers. WhatsApp groups WhatsApp groups of police liaison staff at the district level and district nodal officers at the State level were created for instant sharing of information. The contact numbers of senior IAS/IPS officers in charge of the scheme were shared with the workers and their employers. According to a senior official, the nationwide lockdown led to workers panicking over issues like the possibility of going back home, temporary loss of work, food problem and, most importantly, the fear of contracting the coronavirus. “We have now ensured the well-being of the workers and their family members,” Mr. Aggarwal said. Where the employers are not in a position to provide accommodation and food, the district administrations are making arrangements in community halls, schools etc. Voluntary organisations have extended support.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More unorganised sector workers to get cash aid||Members of several welfare boards for workers in the unorganised sector will be eligible for the special cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 that the State government had announced for mitigating the economic hardship posed by the COVID-19 outbreak. Earlier, the government had announced financial assistance for members of the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers’ Welfare Board and the Unorganised Drivers’ Welfare Board. Addressing the media on Monday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the cash assistance would also be given to members of the Hair Dressers’ Welfare Board, the Washermen Welfare Board, the Palm Tree Workers’ Welfare Board, the Handicraft Workers’ Welfare Board, the Handloom and Handloom Silk Weaving Workers’ Welfare Board, the Footwear and Leather Goods Manufactory and Tannery Workers’ Welfare Board, the Artists’ Welfare Board, the Goldsmiths’ Welfare Board, the Pottery Workers’ Welfare Board, the Domestic Workers’ Welfare Board, the Power Loom Weaving Workers’ Welfare Board, and the Tamil Nadu Cooking Food Workers’ Welfare Board. When asked about the workers who were not members of any of these Boards, he said there was no other way of identifying beneficiaries. The government could disburse financial support only through the specified welfare boards, he said. The Chief Minister clarified that the cash support for households was restricted to those holding ‘rice family cards’. Responding to the complaint that Rs. 1,000 was not adequate, he said the government’s revenue had fallen as industries had been affected by the pandemic. “It is an emergency now. Whatever funds are available, the government is sharing them with the people,” he said. He ruled out a waiver of electricity bills, saying the Electricity Department had been incurring losses of Rs. 1,300 crore a month. Mr. Palaniswami said the Centre had sanctioned Rs. 500 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund to combat COVID-19, and more funds were expected to be released.  It is an emergency now. The government is sharing whatever funds are available with the peopleEdappadi K. PalaniswamiChief Minister
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Google introduces new feature to locate food, night shelters||With daily wagers, migrant labourers and homeless persons finding it difficult to sustain themselves during the lockdown, Google has enhanced its search features to locate food and night shelters in several cities across the country. People looking for government-run or volunteer-run places, where food and shelter are available, either for themselves or to help others, can make use of the feature. A statement by Google said that people can use search terms ‘food shelters in <city name>’ or ‘night shelters in <city name>’ in Google Search, Google Maps or through Google Assistant to find the places. However, it appeared that the details for Chennai and other major cities in Tamil Nadu were in the process of being updated, as not many results could be found. Google said that it was planning to roll out the facility in Hindi and other Indian languages soon. Pointing out that information for 30 cities was available as of now, it said information on more cities and more shelters would be added in the coming weeks. The feature will be made available as a short cut, beneath the search bar in Google Maps. Anal Ghosh, senior program manager, Google India, expressed the hope that volunteers, non-governmental organisations and traffic authorities would use the details to inform the affected, many of whom may not have access to smart phones or mobile devices. Google added that it was working hard with the State and Central government authorities to source listings of food and night shelters and the information will be integrated into Google Maps, on priority, as soon as they are received.
07 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Malaysians defied lockdown in bid to fly out||Ten Malaysian nationals, caught on Sunday before boarding a flight to Kuala Lumpur, have been lodged in a quarantine ward at Poonamallee. They engaged a private van and travelled to the city from Tenkasi despite the lockdown in place across the State, an investigation has revealed. Their names figured in a list of foreign nationals who attended a religious congregation in Delhi. They had arrived in the country on a tourist visa. After the congregation, they took a train to Chennai and thereafter proceeded to Tenkasi. “They were involved in religious activities in Tenkasi, Courtallam and Vallam, assisted by two locals, until March 26. Later, they hired a van for Rs. 10,000 from Tenkasi. They managed to reach Chennai in the hope of flying out of the country despite restrictions imposed on the movement of people,” a senior police officer said. On receipt of information, immigration, health and police officials stopped them before boarding a Batik Air special flight to Kuala Lumpur. “They came on a tourist visa and were involved in preaching. This is a violation of the conditions of the visa issued to them for entry and stay in India. Moreover, they violated prohibitory orders imposed by the government. We have arrested them and lodged them at a quarantine centre. Further investigation is on to find out who else is involved in facilitating their travel,”the senior police officer added. The 10 Malaysians were booked under Sections 188 (Disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligently doing any act known to be likely to spread infection), 271 (Knowingly disobeying any quarantine rule) of IPC and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, T.N. Public Health Act, National Disaster Management Act and Foreigners Act. 10 Indonesians booked Kancheepuram district police have booked 10 Indonesians who came on a tourist visa but were involved in missionary activities, in contravention of the Foreigners Act. They were lodged at a quarantine facility near Sriperumbudur after one of them tested positive for COVID-19. “They all attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. About 10 Indonesians and four Malaysians reached here. Staying at a mosque in the town, they were preaching. They also went door to door,” said a police officer. Based on a complaint given by the village administrative officer, they were booked for violation of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and other offences. Police said they have also booked two more persons who had sheltered them after the 12 people were found in a mosque in Kancheepuram town and were later shifted to the quarantine centre near Sriperumbudur. Meanwhile, Maduranthakam police booked cases against eight Indonesians, including four women who stayed at a mosque and were involved in missionary activities.  They came on a tourist visa and were involved in preaching. This is a violation of the conditions of the visa issued to them
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu’s power demand fell by 2,200 MW during ‘lights off’ event||The State saw a 2,200-MW reduction in electricity demand during the 9-minute ‘lights off’ event on Sunday night, beating an earlier estimate of a 1,200-MW fall. On Sunday, the evening peak was 10,579 MW, which was recorded at 6.55 p.m. By 8.45 p.m., the demand was down by around 500 MW and stood at 10,091 MW. Fifteen minutes later, it declined further to 9,012 MW. At 9.10 p.m., it stood at 7,908 MW. In other words, due to the event, the power demand reduced by 2,183 MW in 25 minutes. In Chennai, the demand was down by around 350 MW. “We had anticipated a maximum fall in demand of 2,300 MW, though we did not discuss it with outsiders,” an official of the State Load Despatch Centre said. Field-level authorities did expect an “over-enthusiastic response” from certain sections of people to the ‘lights off’ call made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Instead of switching off electric lights alone, a sizeable section of domestic consumers was said to have turned off most of their electric gadgets as well. The State has around 2.12 crore domestic consumers who are, more or less, evenly distributed. Around 1.02 crore consumers are in rural areas. Fortunately, the Central government on Saturday publicly asked State governments to ensure that street lights were kept on. This had provided a sustained load. Also, deviating from the practice of providing two-phase supply in the evenings during this part of the year, the authorities had maintained three-phase power supply for agriculturists, which ensured a load of 300 MW, the official explained. Almost an hour after the lights came back on, the demand touched the 10,000-MW mark.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Novel methods to rein in loiterers||Police personnel continue to adopt innovative methods to make violators obey prohibitory orders. In Sevilimedu, Kancheepuram district, police personnel spotted a few persons loitering on the road on their bicyles. They were rounded up and questioned. Police found they were taking a joy ride and had no valid reason to step out of their house. Over the next 30 minutes, they were made to pedal their bicycles parked in one spot. They were were let off only after they gave an assurance that they would not loiter on the road hereafter.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t have accurate data on attendees of Delhi event’||The data available with the authorities on those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi and are currently residing in Tamil Nadu is only based on the inputs given by the attendees of the event, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Monday. The exact figure was unavailable, the CM said. When it was pointed out that the data had been provided by the Health Department, he said even the department only had the information given by the attendees of the event.  When asked how the government was planning to trace the attendees of the Delhi event, he said information was being collected. In all, 37 areas had been cordoned off in Chennai and other districts as part of the containment plan, he noted. Areas where people had tested positive or had developed symptoms had been cordoned off, and the cordon could be expanded up to a 5-km radius, he said. The affected persons’ travel and contact history would be traced. “Even those who had arrived from abroad or attended other events must come forward for testing,” he said.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL seeks cover for sanitation workers, drivers||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court for providing insurance cover of Rs. 10 lakh to sanitation workers, ambulance drivers, attendants in ambulances and the security staff in hospitals since they faced risk of contracting COVID-19. Advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam has filed the case also seeking a direction to the State government to bear the treatment cost of these people if they ended up being quarantined or being tested positive for COVID-19. He wanted free ration and other essential commodities to be provided to them. The petitioner said the State government recently announced health cover of Rs. 50 lakh each for government doctors and nurses. Such benefits were not given to the sanitation workers, ambulance drivers and security staff.
07 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Over 90,000 arrested||As many as 91,782 violations have been reported across State until Sunday. Police said 90,918 persons were arrested and 69,589 vehicles were seized from them. A total of 82,752 first information reports were opened for violations and total fine of Rs. 24.60 lakh collected from them.
07 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Artwork with rice grains to create awareness on COVID-19||An artist here has created an artwork using 5,500 rice grains to generate awareness among people about COVID-19. M. Manoharan of Ondipudur, an art teacher at a Corporation Middle School in Podanur, said that he displayed the artwork outside Kadri Mills Higher Secondary School on March 30. The artwork, depicting handwashing along with words ‘Wash Your Hands’ and ‘Stay Home Stay Safe’ on a square board of size two feet long, was created in five days, he said. Also, Mr. Manoharan said he painted the words ‘Stay Home Stay Safe’ over each rice grain. “Those who come out of home might see this painting and think about not coming out,” he said. An artist for nearly 20 years, Mr. Manoharan said that he specialised in creating artworks from rice and had made portraits of K. Kamaraj and Mahatma Gandhi.
07 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Eight areas in Coimbatore declared as containment zones||Eight areas in the city have been declared containment zones, up by five in the last few days. According to sources, the district administration has declared some parts of Vilankurichi, Cheran Managar, R.S. Puram, Sundarapuram and Kuniamuthur as containment zones on Monday. Earlier, it had declared such zones in parts of K.K. Pudur, Ukkadam and Podanur. With this it had declared eight areas, falling under 18 primary health centres, as the containment zones, restricting the movement of people to and from the area. The sources say that the increase in areas has to do with the administration identifying persons who had returned attending the Tablighi Jamaat conference and they testing positive for COVID-19. In those areas the Coimbatore Corporation workers are spraying disinfectants twice a day. The civic body’s paramedical staff are doing a door-to-door fever survey asking people if they are experiencing any of the symptoms associated with the diseases. The sources say the paramedical staff during the survey are also identifying vulnerable sections among the population in the containment zone – infants, senior citizens, pregnant women, nursing mothers and a few such categories. They take care of such vulnerable sections by giving medicines either at door step or asking them to go to the urban primary health centre nearby or arranging transport for pregnant mothers for delivery.
07 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five persons recover from COVID-19, return homes||Five persons, including a 10-month-old child, who tested positive for COVID-19 and remained in isolation at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, were discharged after recovering from the disease on Monday. According to the hospital administration, a 25-year-old woman from Coimbatore, who returned from Spain, a businessman from Tiruppur, who returned from London, a doctor attached to Railway Hospital at Podanur, her 10-month-old son and her housemaid were discharged on Monday. They have been advised to remain in home quarantine for 28 days. The woman doctor’s mother and husband, who also contracted the disease, were still at the hospital. The doctor had contracted the disease from a 63-year-old man, co-traveller of two Thai nationals, who tested positive for the disease, when he consulted her at the Railway Hospital, Erode, last month. District Collector K. Rajamani visited the hospital on Monday when the five persons were sent to their homes. He said that 13,000 beds were ready in hospitals in the district for COVID-19 management. He added that rapid test kit, which the State government was procuring, was expected to reach Coimbatore after April 10. ESI Hospital Dean A. Nirmala lauded the medical team who work in the COVID-19 ward for their dedication and team work. On Monday, one more person, a Podanur native who returned from Dubai, tested positive. He was under observation in a private hospital. On Monday, 59 persons who were tested positive were under observation in various hospitals in Coimbatore.
07 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Maintain composure during lockdown duty, Commissioner’s appeal to police||While the national lockdown has largely left the public confined to their houses, the police are literally on the ground to enforce the prohibitory order. Even during lockdown, they carry out a range of duties ranging from instructing people to maintain physical distancing in markets to taking action against those flouting prohibitory order. The duty call of the police to be in public places also make them a category vulnerable to the risks of COVID-19. Taking the stress level of the force caused by these factors into account, Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan on Sunday appealed them not to lose composure and say no to rough behaviour during lockdown duty. Apart from appealing the force to do their best in stress management during duty, he also lauded them for the best practices emulated by the police during lockdown in the city. The police had invited criticism after a section of personnel resorted to the use of lathi on motorists on the first day of the lockdown. Other main instructions Mr. Sharan gave to the force included importance of maintaining personal hygiene, disinfecting of station premises, vehicles and residences and adherence of lockdown restrictions by their family members. Station house officers of police stations were asked to ensure that senior members and those having health problems are given station duty. Lauding the force for the best practices emulated in so far during lockdown in the city, Mr. Sharan said that there should not be any room for complaints from people during the release of vehicles seized by the police from those who violated prohibitory order. Coimbatore Consumer Cause secretary K. Kathirmathiyon wanted the police to ensure that the seized vehicles have all valid documents at the time of release. He also wanted the police to check use of vehicle by persons without transferring the registration certificate to their name from the previous owner in the case of used vehicle.
07 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man compares State Minister with coronavirus, arrested||The Saravanampatti police in Coimbatore on Monday arrested a Chennai native, who allegedly compared a Tamil Nadu Minister with coronavirus in a social networking App. The post also defamed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, and Minister S.P. Velumani according to the complainant, an AIADMK worker. The police said that Sudarsan, 22, a web designer of Arumbakkam in Chennai, was arrested based on a complaint filed by Riyose Khan of Karumbukadai in Coimbatore. Mr. Khan alleged that the accused shared a post defaming Mr. Palaniswami, Mr. Panneerselvam, Mr. Velumani and another Minister, whom he compared to coronavirus, in Helo App which he came to see on Saturday. The accused was arrested under three Sections of the IPC including 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (ii) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes). The accused, according to Saravanampatti inspector V. Selvaraj, was taken into custody while he was travelling to Coimbatore in a van. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody on Monday.
07 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Community kitchens reach out to needy during lockdown||A number of organisations have put up community kitchens to provide food for street dwellers and the poor who have hit hard by the lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19. At a centralised kitchen at Ashoka Perumal Kalyana Mandapam in Ram Nagar lunch is prepared for over 2000 people. Volunteers of Coimbatore Catering Owners Association pack food into containers that are delivered to the hungry at Sivanandha Colony, Saibaba Colony, Ganapathy (East & West) and Sanganur in Coimbatore North zone. Madhampatty R. Nagaraj, president of the association, says they are distributing over 2000 packets each for breakfast, lunch and dinner, with the the approval from the District Collector and help from the Tahsildar of Coimbatore North. Vegetables are procured from uzhavar sandhai and provisions from Anna Market. All food and safety norms are adhered to, he says. The association’s 125 members are from Coimbatore, Erode, Tiruppur, Mettupalayam, Udumalpet and Pollachi. It has also set up Eedhal, a network that supplies surplus food from weddings, etc. to homes in Podanur and Ukkadam and to the homeless near General Hospital and the Railway Station.  You can contact the Eedhal helpline at 7711005060 or call Madhampatty Nagaraj at 98422-17449  Maheshwaran N.S. has just seen off a truck carrying a lunch of thengaai saadam and thattapayiru poriyal for over 100 people on duty at the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. “The health department staff and the police are camped at the border to screen COVID-19 cases. They are on duty 24/7,” said Mr. Maheshwaran, founder-president of Namma Navakkarai, an NGO located at Navakkarai village near Walayar where the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border lies. The volunteers set up a kitchen with ample provisions supplied from the Mavuthampathi Panchayat and farm-fresh vegetables from villages nearby. Donations have been pouring in says Mr. Maheshwaran. Someone donated 100 kg of atta, while another supplies enough milk to enable them make tea for the personnel. “This is just our way of showing gratitude to the people who are on duty to protect us,” he says. Shree Devi Textiles set up a centralised kitchen near its store in Gandhipuram, to serve nearly 6,000 people amid the COVID-19 lockdown. Its Managing director P. Sivaganesh, says the store employs 20 cooks and nearly 100 staff members to prepare and distribute nearly 2,000 food packets for breakfast, lunch and dinner. “We are doing it in areas within the Corporation limits such as Saravanampatti, Rathinapuri, Avarampalayam, Siddhapudur, Podanur, Chettipalayam, Lawley Road and Sundarapuram,” he says. Vehicles from the District Administration and private NGOs pick up the food packets to deliver. Shree Devi Textiles gave a cheque for Rs. 1 crore to Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani towards the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Padmanaban Gopalan, founder of No Food Waste, and his team prepare and distribute 10,000 food packets from a kitchen in Town Hall, in association with Coimbatore Corporation and C4TN, an NGO. The team is made up of 13 partner kitchens run by restaurant owners, caterers, colleges and other social service organisations who call themselves the Coimbatore Corporation Emergency Food Response Team. With the help of the Corporation, they distribute food to stranded migrant labourers thrice a day. The kitchen requires 250 kg of rice, 75 kg of dal and 75 kg of vegetables every day. Wholesale grocery vendors supply them with provisions and many others have offered to donate rice and vegetables. The team is now trying to identify people without ration cards to supply them with food kits that can last for 20 days. BJP State general secretary Vanathi Srinivasan inaugurated ‘Modi’s Kitchen’ from Chennai. The party’s People’s Seva Centre aims to serve at least 500 people in need of food. About 15 volunteers and two cooks prepare and deliver the food packets from Gandhipuram. “If there is demand, we shall increase [the kitchen’s output],” she told The Hindu . People’s Seva Centre has collaborated with No Food Waste, and distributed the food packets in Vellalore. The kitchen serves food only in Coimbatore city. In other parts of the district, party workers are functioning in a decentralised manner to distribute food packets. People’s Seva Centre has also distributed 8,000 hand sanitisers. Seva Bharati, an NGO affiliated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has said that it distributed over 10,000 food packets in a day across the city amid the COVID-19 lockdown. According to R. Ramanathan, State president of Seva Bharati, more than 100 volunteers are involved in preparing the food and distributing it among the needy, including migrant workers. (With inputs from K. Jeshi, Susan Joe Philip & R. Akileish )
07 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||A glimpse of the routine of medical team working in COVID-19 wards||Sweating and discomfort in breathing are often cited by many as excuses not to wear mask even as COVID-19 pandemic spreading fast in the country and in Tamil Nadu. Those working in COVID-19 wards in hospitals are literally wrapping themselves with protective gears of various sorts, proper wearing of which alone consumes at least 20 minutes. Once put on the personal protective equipment (PPE), doctors, nursing staff and conservancy workers deputed in such wards work eight hours at a stretch in non-air conditioned rooms. “After wearing the PEE, they will not be able to consume food or water. They won’t be able to use rest rooms too. They work for eight hours after which the next team takes over duty,” says T. Ravikumar, medical superintendent of Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, the main treatment centre for COVID-19 here. As many as 35 doctors, around 100 nursing staff and 60 sanitary workers are working in COVID-19 ward at ESI Hospital in three shifts of eight hours each. They work as two teams in the outpatient ward and inpatient ward. “Those working in COVID-19 ward are not allowed to go to their home after duty. They stay at the quarters inside the campus. After seven days of duty, they get seven days of rest during which they will have to remain in self isolation. They will be tested for COVID-19 after the seven days and will be allowed to go home if the result returns negative,” says Dr. Ravikumar. At the COVID-19 special ward set up at a private hospital at Mettupalayam, which had 21 COVID-19 patients who were shifted to ESI Hospital, 20 doctors, 60 nursing staff and 25 sanitary workers from Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, take care of the patients and those with symptoms. S. Cheralathan, Chief Medical Officer of Mettupalayam GH, said that a shift system similar to the one at ESI Hospital was followed for the medical team at Mettupalayam. The hospital has also sought higher ups for the allocation of doctors on deputation from other Government hospitals to Mettupalayam GH to balance regular inpatient and outpatient services. A relatively small medical team was also formed at Government Hospital, Annur, where nine persons who had returned from Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin in New Delhi were kept in isolation. Seven private hospitals in Coimbatore were also permitted to manage COVID-19 cases. All these private hospitals have formed similar medial teams. On Friday, five persons who had symptoms of COVID-19 were under observation in private hospitals.
07 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for post against Minister||The Saravanampatti police on Monday arrested a resident of Chennai who allegedly compared a Minister with coronavirus in a social media post. He also defamed Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Minister S.P. Velumani, according to the complainant, an AIADMK worker. Sudarsan, 22, a web designer of Arumbakkam in Chennai, was arrested based on a complaint by Riyose Khan of Karumbukadai. The accused was arrested under Sections 504 and 505 of IPC.
07 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MP allocates Rs. 1 crore||AIADMK Member of Parliament in Rajya Sabha S.R. Balasubramoniyan has allocated Rs. 1 crore from his Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme to fight COVID-19. In a release, the MP said he wrote the Coimbatore district administration a few days ago saying that he was allocating Rs. 50 lakh to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Mr. Balasubramanoniyan said he was allocating another Rs. 40 lakh to the ESI Medical College and Hospital and Rs. 10 lakh to health centres in Sulur, Periyanaickenpalayam, Pollachi and Thudiyalur.
07 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide compensation of Rs. 5,000’||Coimbatore District Association of All Auto Rickshaw Workers’ Union president P.K. Sukumaran demanded on Monday that the State government must provide compensation of Rs. 5,000 to auto rickshaw drivers, who are reeling under the impact of COVID-19 lockdown. In a video message, he alleged that the cash assistance earlier promised has not reached the autorickshaw drivers.      The online campaign initiated by District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan called ‘Give Up Challenge’ received multiple responses on twitter on Sunday. He asked his followers to post the usual food item they had given up due to COVID-19 lockdown and to contribute to fewer crowds in shops with the hashtag #GiveUpChallenge. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan posted on Monday that the hashtag saw more than seven lakh impressions on Sunday.
07 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for hunting porcupine||The Forest Department detained three persons who hunted a porcupine and procured its meat near Valparai. The accused have been identified as R. Siva, K. Kannan and V. Mariappan, all hailing from Gajamudi estate near Manombolly.
07 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||12 shops sealed in Dindigul||Sealing 12 shops, the Collector M Vijayalakshmi has sent a strong signal that official machinery could take a stern action if the shops failed to cooperate in a critical time experienced now due to COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, the Collector said that 12 outlets, which had failed to ensure social distancing among the people visiting their shops, were sealed. “We are taking such steps only in public interest. Failure to cooperate implies that shopkeepers are unconcerned about the community spread due to the COVID 19 virus. Only with the cooperation of all stakeholders, the crisis can be overcome,” she stressed. The district administration had door-delivered the government relief to 79 visually challenged persons after they had given intimation. The toll-free number 1800 4250 111 can be reached for any assistance by the visually challenged people or their attendants can give information. The officials would take steps to deliver. For the benefit of the residents, the administration and the Corporation officials have opened up makeshift vegetable markets at two locations — Dindigul MVM Government College for Arts and Sciences for Women and at Annamalaiyar Mills Girls Higher Secondary School. Disinfectant tunnels have been set up at both the entrance and exit points in these markets. With the number of COVID-19 positive cases on the rise, the persons with symptoms have been quarantined. These locations have been cordoned off as a precautionary measure. Hence, with the help of drone, the health teams were carrying out a surveillance. Any violation would mean criminal offence and she appealed to the people to stay indoors .
07 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Leopard found dead||A female leopard, aged four, was found dead with injuries at Talavadi forest range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve here on Monday. During patrol by a team led by S. Sivakumar, Forest Ranger, Talavadi, found the carcass of the animal at Eripuram Revenue Pallam and alerted senior officials.
07 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||TN School Education Department to contribute Rs. 70 crore for battle against COVID-19||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Monday said the department would contribute Rs. 70 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to aid the fight against COVID-19. He said teachers at government schools and government-aided schools and other staff would donate a day’s salary to the fund. Due to lockdown, steps were being taken to teach students through YouTube and the government’s channel Kalvi Tholaikkatchi, he said.
07 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||People fortify Melur villages due to COVID-19 outbreak||People of a number of villages in Melur taluk have blocked main roads with thorny shrubs to prevent entry of outsiders in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. These barricaded could be found in villages like K. Kallampatti, Kachirayampatti, Boothamangalam, Attapatti and Malampatti, say people from these villages. G. Purushottaman, Panchayat Union Councillor, K. Kallampatti, says in Kallampatti and Kachirayampatti, barricades were placed to ensure that the villagers are not affected. “We are hearing of a number of COVID-19 positive cases in Melur. So, we have taken this measure,” he says. B. Stalin, a resident of Melur, says when he went to fill petrol at a bunk near Chokkampatti, he saw construction debris and thorns used as a barricade. K. Abbas of Boothamangalam says although rigid steps were initially taken and villagers were prevented from leaving their houses unless on absolute necessity, the norms have now been slightly relaxed. Mr. Purushottaman says many people from Melur and nearby villages who had been placed under home quarantine or had travel history often went to nearby villages to live with their relatives. Hence, the barricades were set up at many villages. “Most of us have been living in villages all our lives. Several WhatsApp forwards tell us that COVID-19 has caused a lot of deaths across the world. Madurai too has not been spared so we are taking precautions,” he says. But, several people walking and cycling into the villages at night could not see the shrubs and suffered cuts and bruises, Mr. Purushottaman says. “We have now created enough space to allow two-wheelers to pass,” he adds. The barricades can be removed and replaced at Attapatti, says A. Ganesan, a resident. “But the village elders are completely against this idea. Entry must not be forcefully restricted. We are organising talks with the youth to ensure its removal,” he says. All these residents say health workers have not visited their villages in recent times. “In case some people from outside want to visit the villages, they can wash their hands and feet in the water mixed with turmeric and neem leaves that we have kept in several buckets,” Mr. Purushottaman says. Collector T.G. Vinay says no such restriction has been imposed by the district administration. “However, if people deem it necessary and do not discriminate on entry and exit, then it is fine,” he says, adding no complaints have been recorded by police and revenue officials in this regard.
07 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Residents protest death of man after he was pushed down by a policeman||A section of residents of Karuppayoorani on Monday morning squatted on Sivaganga Road, charging that an elderly man A. Abdul Rahim, 75, died after he was pushed down by a policeman. However, later the family members stated in writing that the man had had a natural death and took the body to their home. The problem started when a police patrol vehicle found a crowd in front of a rice shop. As the people had not maintained personal distancing, the police had asked them not to unnecessarily form a crowd. Rahim owned a meat shop, next to the ration shop. “Though the shop was not functional today, Rahim and his son-in-law Shahjahan were sitting outside the shop, and our policemen had objected to this,” the Oomachikulam sub-division Deputy Superintendent of Police, C. Nallu said. After the police left the scene after making the crowd disperse, family members complained that Rahim had died after he was assaulted by the police. Local residents staged a protest with the body. “We assured the family members that we will file a First Information Report if there was a police complaint. We promised to take legal action against any police personnel, if the post-mortem report suggested that he died because of any assault,” the DSP said. However, the family members, after taking the body to a private hospital, later gave in writing that the death was due to natural causes and sought no action on this issue, the DSP said.
07 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaw drivers under financial, psychological stress||In the wake of nationwide lockdown following COVID 19 outbreak, autorickshaw drivers in the city have not only been hit financially, but also psychologically. Though they understand the step has been initiated due to a medical emergency, it is hard to make ends meet, they say. “I have not used my autorickshaw from the day the lockdown was announced. On a normal day, the day’s earning would be used for buying essential commodities. But, now I can only buy them in small quantities,” says S. Murugan, an autorickshaw driver from Othakadai. Mr. Murugan, who receives customers throughout the day normally, says that it is difficult for him to sit idle at home. “I spend time playing with my kids and watching the television,” he says, adding he is already under stress due to his present financial condition. “I use to go the extra mile as I have a loan to repay. But, now I have to borrow more money in order to feed my family,” says K. Pandi from Melamadai. “Only if I work extra after the lockdown is lifted will I be able to earn enough to pay back the loan,” he says. “I buy the essential commodities from a shop I know in my neighbourhood. I have told the shopkeeper that I would pay the amount after my financial situation improves. He has accepted my request as he understands my position even though it is a burden on him,” he says. Agreeing with him, R. Marimuthu, who operates from Indira Nagar, says he too has been caught up in the financial and psychological stress. “I live in a joint family, so we are able to share the burden. Still, I had to pledge my wife’s jewels to get cash to buy essential commodities,” he says. Many autorickshaw drivers say they have understood that it is important for them to stay indoors to stay safe. They hope that the situation gets better so that they can get back to work in order to make the ends meets.
07 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP thanks Union Minister for releasing funds for MGNREA||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has thanked the Union Minister for Rural Development Narendra Singh Tomar for releasing pending arrears under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for Tamil Nadu. In a statement, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP recalled that he had written to the Minister last week drawing his attention that the wages for MGNREA workers in Tamil Nadu worth Rs. 671 crore cash and Rs. 300 crore worth materials had not been paid for over two months. He appealed to the Minister to release the funds immediately as it would help the rural masses during the critical situation arising out of the lockdown owing to COVID-19 threat. The Ministry had released Rs. 1995 crore for Tamil Nadu taking into consideration the wages up to July, on Sunday. Thanking the Minister, he urged him that the materials meant from the month of January should also be released, he added. He demanded that the State Government should deposit the wages to the bank accounts of the workers without any delay.  ‘Decentralise power’ In the wake of COVID-19 in the State, the need of the hour is decentralisation of power, according to Mr. Venkatesan. Flaying the Centre’s move to suspend for two years the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Fund, he said that it did not look like that the move was aimed at mobilising funds for the fight against COVID-19. The Government should know from where to augment additional resources for fighting deadly virus against the backdrop of the country facing a revenue deficit due to the “wrong economic policies.” Even if the Government raised Corporate tax by 1%, the minimum additional revenue for the Government would be Rs. 50,000 crore. If the Government withdrew the tax sops given to the Corporates during the last fiscal, the Government would get Rs. 1.50 lakh crore. “However, the Government that lacks political will to do so has tried to lay its hand on MPLAD Fund. This would not help to fight Corona virus but only affect the planned local development and expedite service to the people,” he added.
07 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Garbage collection comes down||With the closure of business establishments and reduction in movement in public spaces due to the lockdown, the amount of garbage generated in areas covered under Madurai Corporation has been reduced by around 34%. According to a Corporation official, the garbage generated in the city reduced from 630 tonnes per day to around 410 tonnes. “Door-to-door collection of garbage from residences is being carried out by our conservancy workers in all the 100 wards. But, most of the commercial establishments, hotels and restaurants have been closed. Thus, the waste generated in commercial areas like the core streets around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple and at other tourism spots has reduced considerably,” said the official. The official said that the amount of waste generated across vegetables markets had also come down as no vegetables were left unsold and discarded as done in the past. According to the officials, biomedical waste generated from quarantined homes is collected separately and handed over to a private organisation for incineration. “Residents of all the quarantined homes are given separate bags and asked to dispose of the biomedical waste in them. Conservancy workers identify these residences by the stickers stuck there,” said a Sanitary Inspector. With the reduction in garbage generation, the conservancy workers are assigned additional tasks such as disinfecting localities. “The workload is increasing as various precautionary measures have to be undertaken to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. So, the conservancy workers are helping anti-mosquito squad workers to disinfect the city,” said the Sanitary Inspector. The officials said disinfection work was being regularly carried out at all important places, including markets, banks and ATM centres. Disinfectants and bleaching powder were sprayed in densely populated areas every day. Conservancy workers also distributed pamphlets to create awareness of hygiene practices that residents had to adopt, they added.
07 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Financial assistance for advocates, clerks sought during lockdown||Following the suspension of court operations in the State in the wake of COVID-19 spread, Madurai District Bar Associations have urged the State government and the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to look into the plight of the advocates, particularly, the junior advocates. In a statement, Lawyers Association of Madurai District Court said that the advocates depended on their profession for income. With the lockdown and suspension of court operations, many of them were finding it hard to maintain their families. Not only the advocates, advocate clerks were also affected and were without work to sustain their livelihood, the statement said. Madurai Bar Association said that its members were collecting funds from senior advocates. After a substantial amount was collected, the beneficiaries would be identified. Not only juniors, but also those in need of financial assistance would be paid the amount, they said. Senior advocates and advocates practising in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court have stepped in to offer financial assistance to junior advocates and advocate clerks. A total of 59 junior advocates from humble background were identified through a team of advocates, led by Arun Swaminathan. He said that the advocates in need of financial assistance were identified and the amount contributed by senior advocates and advocates was either transferred to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries or through Google pay.
07 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||5 shops closed||Madurai Corporation officials on Monday ordered closure of five wholesale shops at the central vegetable market at Mattuthavani where personal distancing between customers was not followed. They will not be allowed to open till the end of the lockdown period. Assistant Commissioner (Revenue) K. Jeyaram Raja said that an inspection in the wholesale vegetable market on Sunday night revealed that customers crowded these shops and personal distancing was not maintained at all. “We had insisted that they deploy one staff from each shop to specifically ensure that personal distancing between customers was followed,” he said. The wholesale vegetable market is open between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. Retail vegetable vendors from across the city buy vegetable from the market at night.
07 April 2020||Mysuru,TAMIL NADU||Safety measures in place in Karnataka zoos||While the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) sent an advisory to all zoological gardens on Monday to take precautions in the wake of a tiger testing positive for the novel coronavirus at the Bronx Zoo in New York City, authorities in Karnataka have been on alert for over a fortnight now. All zoos in the State have had Biosafety measures in place ever since reports emerged from Hong Kong of a pet animal testing positive in March. The Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) made it mandatory for regular thermal screening of the staff, including officials, animal keepers and various suppliers, and having them go through multiple layers of safety measures such as maintaining social distance, using protective gear, including masks and gloves, and completely sanitising the premises. ZAK member-secretary B.P. Ravi told The Hindu that early reports from Hong Kong were taken seriously and it was decided to step up the Biosafety measures across the State. Of the nine zoos in Karnataka, Mysuru zoo is one of the country’s largest, with a good collection of species. “But we are more concerned about the primates rather than cats, as the human contact with primates like chimpanzees is more. Hence, they are vulnerable,” Mr. Ravi said. Hence, even the family members of animal keepers have been asked to strictly abide by the lockdown norms. Any member of staff displaying symptoms such as cold and cough or slight fever has been directed to stay home. Till date, Mysuru has reported 35 COVID-19 cases and Nanjangud has been identified as a cluster and listed as a “red zone”. Hence, a few members of staff from Nanjangud have been given paid leave, Mr. Ravi said. Animals being monitored The behaviour of all the animals, including carnivores and primates, is being monitored, according to Mysuru zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni. He said safety precautions and practices were being followed rigorously since the disease was zoonotic in nature. The main entrance of the zoo and the entry gate for vehicles transporting food and essential supplies are supposed to pass through the large disinfectant mats.  Mr. Kulkarni said multi-layer screening of food, particularly meat, was in place. “Unlike in foreign zoos, there is no scope for visitors to get close to animals and feed them here. The animals have minimal contact with keepers and no contact with visitors. This has helped us check diseases,” he said. The zoo has been closed to visitors since March 15.
07 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||4 booked for selling liquor||A day after two employees of a TASMAC outlet in Vaideeswarankoil limits and their two accomplices were caught selling liquor in defiance of the prohibitory orders in view of the lockdown for containment of corona virus pandemic, the police booked them under Section 4(1)(aaa) of Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act. Supervisor of the outlet Gunaseelan, salesman Aravind, and two others Selvam and Raj were charged with illegal possession of liquor. They are, however, yet to be arrested, according to sources in the police station. They had allegedly opened the shop and sold the liquor at escalated costs to their customers. According to a senior TASMAC official, 45 bottles of liquor (measures of 39 quarter, two full, and four half) were missing from the stock. The brand-wise evaluation of the cost will be arrived at and the recovery will be made from the two employees. They will also be issued with suspension orders, the official said.
07 April 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Armed with spray guns, they stand guard||A group of youth in Malayalapatti in Perambalur district have taken it upon themselves to ensure that villagers obey the curfew norms and do not venture outside. The village’s two entrances have been barricaded with at least three men on guard at all times. Speaking to The Hindu , Vinoth Ganesan, who works as a junior assistant in a clinic in Chennai spearheaded the initiative and mobilised 30 others. “Our villagers are mostly farmers and daily wage labourers so the need to go out is not too much. However, people come to purchase produce, such as onions, and we are trying to control that,” Mr. Vinoth said. The youth are also armed with spray guns and hand sanitisers to ensure that the vehicles leaving and entering the village are disinfected. Village panchayat president S. Sridhar purchased the sanitisers and disinfectants. “Although the villagers and local policemen support our initiative, those entering the village do not take it well when we do not allow them in. They say we have no right to do so and that they will complain to the police. Some do not even want to tell us the reason for entering the village,” Mr. Vinoth said. “We first stop the vehicle and ask why they have come. If it is an emergency, we allow them,” he said. While the vehicle is sprayed with disinfectants, a volunteer gives the visitor hand sanitisers. For those who are not satisfied, a pot of turmeric water has also been kept.
07 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers slog without a break||Conservancy workers attached to the Swachata Corporation, who are engaged in collecting household waste in Puducherry and Oulgaret municipalities, have been working without a break in the time of pandemic. The women work round-the-clock in three shifts and have been reporting daily in spite of mobility constraints. P. Egavalli travels from Kandamangalam in Villupuram district by a special bus to report to work at 6 a.m. “I have not taken a single day’s leave since the lockdown,” she says. She is the sole breadwinner in her family of unemployed son, daughter-in-law and a daughter. J. Boomadevi has to support her differently-abled daughter. She puts up with the stigma attached to COVID-19. Residents keep garbage bins outside and don’t wish to meet them. “Although the Corporation has provided us gloves and masks, risk of infection exisits. But we have no option,” she said.
07 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Spotted deer rescued from dry well||Fire fighters on Monday rescued a spotted deer which had fallen into a dry well at Kovanur village near Ponnamaravathy in the district. Acting on an alert from the Forest Department in the morning, a team of fire fighters went to the village and found the deer trapped inside the nearly 25 feet deep dry well belonging to a farmer. It took about 30 minutes for the fire fighters to rescue the trapped deer from the well. The animal was handed over to the Forest Department, said fire fighters.
07 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||A noteworthy gesture by couple||A young couple, who planned and dreamt big for their first baby shower had to cancel their plans due to nationwide lockdown. However, they found other ways to celebrate the moment. K. Nivedha and P. Balakumar from Selanaikenpatti here are into textile business. The couple had planned for a big baby shower inviting all their near and dear ones. However, due to lockdown, they had to cancel the plans as many of their relatives from other districts wouldn’t be able to travel here due to the restrictions. The couple, however, to mark the moment decided to spend the money meant for the event to buy grocery kits and safety gadgets for Corporation sanitary workers. “The sanitary workers and other essential service providers are risking their lives to keep us safe. They are doing a great service at the moment and we are thankful to them. Due to lockdown, we couldn’t conduct the baby shower as planned and the best way we could support these service providers and governments in their efforts against COVID-19 is by maintaining physical distancing. This is our small way of expressing gratitude to them. Grocery kits and about 4,000 masks are being offered to them using the budget meant for the event”, said Ms. Nivedha. Mr. Balakumar said, “we planned to celebrate the baby shower in a grand manner but we feel this is even more grand and we feel contented doing this. We express our gratitude to Salem Corporation, governments and essential service providers in their efforts to prevent the disease.”
07 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man who was advised home quarantine dies||A resident near Selanaikenpatti, who was advised home quarantine, died on Monday. According to officials, the deceased, Srinivasan, 52, was advised to remain under house quarantine by health officials due to his recent travel history to Andhra Pradesh. J. Nirmalsen, Deputy Director of Health Services, said the man did not have any symptoms of COVID-19, and that the authorities were looking into the cause of his death.
07 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Check-posts erected to restrict entry||Residents of Enathi village near Pattukottai have sealed their village in order to restrict entry of outsiders in view of the nation-wide COVID-19 lockdown exercise. They have set up check-posts at five entry points to their hamlet, including the one from the Pattukottai-Thiruvonam Road (a State Highway) and these check-posts were manned by women from Enathi during the day. While Enathi villagers were not entertained to move out of the hamlet, those visiting the hamlet from nearby villages to make some purchase at the shops functioning in Enathi were asked to wash their hands at the check-posts. Details of visitors such as name, vehicle number and purpose of their visit were also recorded, said the village panchayat president, S. Deepika. Talking to The Hindu over phone, Ms. Karuppayi who volunteered for the check-post duty said she does not find it difficult in manning the check post and recording details of the visitors. “Already as members of a women self-help group we have the experience of maintaining records,” she added. As arrangements were put in place to ensure that day-to-day requirements were made available at the doorsteps, the villagers were not bothered about the curtailment of their mobility. They have supported the government machinery in checking the COVID-19 virus spread, claimed the village panchayat president.
07 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Increase in quantum of water release opposed||The Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee (CRRC) has opposed the increase in quantum of water released from the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur. Objecting the Public Works Department’s action, CRRC coordinator P. Maniarasan has in a statement pointed out that 1,000 cusecs of water was released daily from the Mettur dam for drinking water purposes till April 3. Suddenly, it was increased to 2,500 cusecs from April 4 leading to the suspicion that the additional amount of water was being drawn for the purpose of other than drinking water needs, like in the past. If the water was being released to quench the thirst of people of Chennai during this summer, the State government should initiate necessary steps to draw its share of water from Krishna river on a war footing. During 2019 summer days, around 6,000 cusecs of water was released from the dam for drinking water purpose and also for summer cultivation in some areas overlooking the well-laid practice of sharing of water. Thus, the delta ryots were unable to take up ‘kuruvai’ cultivation in full swing in 2019 also, he pointed out.
07 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Involve Nehru Yuva Kendra in COVID-19 prevention exercise||Former All India vice-president, Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK), N. Rajendran of Pattukottai has called upon the Union government to involve the NYK volunteers in the COVID-19 prevention exercise. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, the former NYK vice-president pointed out that the NYK has a network of more than 3 lakh village units functioning under 540 district coordinators throughout the country. These volunteers could be roped into the COVID-19 prevention exercise, he suggested.
07 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Two who escaped from sub-jail, arrested||Two persons who escaped from Papanasam sub-jail on Saturday, were arrested on Sunday. Prisoners – Veerappan (20) of Papanasam and Kannan (45) of Aduthurai – were lodged in the sub-jail. They were found missing at around 5 p.m. The Papanasam police traced them near their respective houses on Sunday. They were arrested and lodged at the Pudukottai Prison, police said.
07 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||University launches exclusive web page||Bharathidasan University (BDU) has launched an exclusive web page and portal: http://www.bdu.ac.in/e-learning-resources-covid-19.php, under guidance of Ministry of Human Resource Development, as a one-stop site for staff and students to utilise exhaustive resources for online and digital initiatives for learning and teaching, during the nationwide lockdown period for containment of novel coronavirus. The site provides links to many tools, books, apps, video lectures and other audio-visual materials. Instructing the faculty to utilise the resources for teaching students and keep them engaged through the web portal, Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar said tools such as ZOOM, Google Classroom, Hangout, and Skype are to be leveraged in order to implement online classes. The web portal was open also for common public to undergo digital experience in many academic domains, Registrar G. Gopinath Ganapathy said in a press release. A short term online course on Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and Patent Filing has been launched on this platform for the benefit of students and staff, during the lockdown period, he said. Bio-informatics and Library Sciences and many other departments were in a state of readiness to conduct online classes. Professors at the university were already making use of the large set of resources in its digital library. “With the Central Government creating many Massively Open Online Courses (MOOC) which are available in cyber space, the usage of digital resources has intensified and widened”, Prof. Gopinath said. The BDU has classified and channelised all the courses, discipline and faculty wise, such as linguistics, management, science, and arts, and delivers them tot he staff and students through the digital library services and the University website, the release said. Students had already undergone many courses made available through SWAYAM (Study Webs of Active-Learning for Young Aspiring Minds) Application. This digital medium is used by the students to learn 20 % of the syllabi. The BDU has also put to use the resources offered by MIT, IEEE, ACM, SPRINGER and ELSIVIER for the benefit of UG and PG students, and research scholars. A WhatsApp group for the university teachers ‘BDU family’ is being moderated by the Vice-Chancellor, sources said. The University’s custom-tailored mobile app ‘uLektz’ was a very powerful “learners management system” (LMS) through which students are being delivered video lectures, power points, and other learning materials. Professors were also conducting online exams through this mobile app, the Registrar said.
07 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Thirteen more test positive for COVID-19||Thirteen patients tested positive for COVID-19 at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here on Monday. All 13 had attended the New Delhi religious meet and had returned to Tiruchi on March 23 and 24, official sources said. However, they are eating well and are stable with nothing to worry about, the official added. Samples of 28 patients were tested, of which the 13 came back positive, they added. The MGMGH now has 30 positive patients, including 17 who tested positive on Saturday, at the isolation ward. This apart, the MGMGH has a total of 96 patients under observation. Of them, 69 were shifted to Jamal Mohammed College on Sunday to be kept in institutional quarantine, as their test reports came back as negative. “They will be kept there for 28 days and closely monitored by the health department,” sources said. Meanwhile, District Collector S. Sivarasu said that residential areas of all 126 patients were traced of these 123 belonged to Tiruchi and 110 localities were identified. “A total of 867 doctors screened 2,46,886 people in 58,494 residences in the areas. However, nobody showed symptoms of COVID-19,” he said. Of the 3,045 people who were home quarantined after travelling abroad and to other States, 1,589 have been allowed to go outdoors after their 28-day isolation period ended, Mr. Sivarasu added. Containment zones Residents in the city's containment zones for COVID-19 have been allowed to purchase essential items from within the stores in the street, but are not allowed to venture out of the barricaded area, District Collector S. Sivarasu said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sivarasu said that essential supplies, including milk, groceries are made available. Milk suppliers have been identified and only they are allowed in daily. Shops on the street can also stay open until the stipulated time. “The intention is to contain the spread. We do not want the family of the patient who tested positive or their direct contacts stepping outside unnecessarily. Even when they step out, they must wear face masks, protective gear and maintain personal distance,” he said. Immediate family members of some patients, however, are not stepping out, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said. “For essential supplies some residents have requested assistance from the authorities. They take a list of their requirements to police personnel who stand guard, and corporation workers purchase them for the residents,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. “One family required medicines. They gave the names written on a paper and the money for it,” he said. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that even garbage from the houses in the containment area was collected separately. “We have given our workers separate bags to collect the garbage. They wear face masks and gloves and come in no contact with the residents,” he said. The garbage is incinerated to avoid any spread of infections, he added. Ariyalur Meanwhile, a man from Ariyalur, who attended the Delhi conference and tested positive for COVID-19 ,was also admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi. Thanjavur Three men with travel history to Delhi in March have tested positive for COVID-19 in Thanjavur district. They are all stable, official sources said.  Of the 3,045 people who were home quarantined, 1,589 have been allowed to go outdoors after their 28-day isolation period ended S. Sivarasu
07 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||At 85, he delivers milk with just a face mask||Braving odds in the wake of the enforcement of the prohibitory orders to check the spread of the COVID-19 virus, 85-year-old R. Pandian of Andakondan in Tiruchi, has been going about his routine of supplying fresh milk to the residents, a task that he has been doing diligently since his teenage. But unlike ordinary days, he hardly gets to meet his customers since the lockdown as most of them avoid human contact. Considering his ripe age, the octogenarian himself faces the risk of contracting the virus. Wearing a face mask is the only precaution he takes. His 70-year-old wife, Kamala Veni, has advised him to stop going for his routine. But, he remains undeterred and continues to pedal his way with his milk cans on the daily rounds, which includes climbing up various apartments in the Cantonment area in the city to deliver milk on time to his customers. He wakes up at 3.30 am and pedals at least 30 km a day, after picking up the milk cans at West Boulevard Road in the city from his employer, to earn a daily wage of Rs. 600 a day. “I cannot imagine a day without delivering milk. Milkmen cannot take a break under any circumstances as lactating mothers and elders eagerly wait for us. I did not stop supplying milk to my customers even on the day Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi were assassinated,” says Mr. Pandian, who began supplying milk about 65 years ago. A native of Manimutharu in Tirunelveli district, he came to Tiruchi in search of livelihood after a small tract of land of his family was acquired by the Government to build a dam when K. Kamaraj was the Chief Minister. Mr. Pandian began delivering milk for the first time in the later part of 1950s. “One pucca (2.2 litre) of milk was sold for one ana and my wage was 1.5 ana then,” Mr. Pandian recalls going down memory lane. The milk he sells now costs Rs. 42 a litre. Stating that the current situation where most of the countries in the world were under curfew was "unheard" of even during World War II, Mr. Pandian, however, is confident that the crisis would end soon. With a philosophical outlook, he says: “ This too shall pass.”  Milkmen cannot take a break under any circumstances as lactating mothers and elders eagerly wait for us R. Pandian Milkman
07 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Teachers help in ensuring personal distancing||At the crack of dawn N. Kannan and a group of teachers assemble at the Uzhavar Sandhai functioning at the Zamindar Higher Secondary School ground in Thuraiyur town. Armed with an identity card and a badge provided by the Tiruchi Rural police and covering their faces with masks, the teachers carry out their assigned task of ensuring personal distancing at the Uzhavar Sandhai where public converge to buy vegetables in the morning. Even while ensuring personal distancing by positioning themselves at different spots within the Uzhavar Sandhai premises, the teachers make it a point to drive home precautionary measures to be taken by the shoppers to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus. The group of teachers dutifully carry out the task for nearly three hours at the Uzhavar Sandhai and leave for their respective residences only to return later to ensure personal distancing at ration shops, market areas, banks and Automated Teller Machines functioning near their residences. Mr. Kannan and 43 other teachers from rural pockets in the district have been assisting the men in uniform over the past four days to ensure personal distancing at vantage places where public assemble to buy essential commodities and create awareness among them about COVID-19 and the simple steps to be taken to check its spread. “We have voluntarily come forward to extend our assistance to the police who have been working on the field to ensure order in this crisis”, said Mr. Kannan, a teacher at a panchayat union middle school at South Nalliamapatti village and a resident of Thuraiyur. The teacher-volunteers are given a list of places close to their respective homes by the police to be covered to ensure personal distancing. The initiative came through with the support of the School Education Department authorities, a police officer said. “In all, 44 teachers are coming for duty at present daily and are deployed at chosen spots in the district”, the officer added. Maximum number of 29 teacher-volunteers were being involved in the Musiri sub division which has Musiri, Thuraiyur, Uppiliapuram, Thottiyam, Kattuputhur, Jambunathapuram and Thathiengarpet police stations under its jurisdiction. In Lalgudi sub division, a total number of 10 teachers were involved in this voluntary task. The teacher-volunteers have been discharging the work with a lot of dedication and involvement as a service to the society, said a senior police officer in Musiri. The timings for these volunteers was staggered to give them a break in between, the officer said adding that they had also been provided with kit containing hand sanitiser and masks to protect themselves. It was decided to involve the teachers as their message would carry lot of weight in public, another officer said. The teachers have also been given the numbers of the jurisdictional police officers to contact in case of any emergency.
07 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Transwomen get a helping hand||A Tiruchi-based social service organisation provided food and groceries to about 150 transwomen who are unable to make a living during the lockdown in the city on Monday. Sri Krishna Trust provided rava, spices and oil to the trans women who had been struggling to make ends meet since the lockdown came into force. “Our daily earnings come from seeking alms. We eat whatever people give us or can buy with the money we earn that day. With no income, we are unable to buy anything,” says Aarthi, who lives with 20 other transwomen in Manachanallur. Sri Krishna Trust also served the women, and 150 others in Srirangam and surrounding areas with lunch on Monday afternoon. “They have requested us for some more groceries. We will provide that soon,” said Krishna Iyer, a volunteer. Ms. Aarthi said that like her, transwomen across Tiruchi require help as they are not included in any government welfare schemes. “We left our home years ago and have been living together and begging together. That is our life and we have accepted it. However, in times like these it is difficult to purchase food as we have no earnings, and the government is not helping, because of which we are having to depend upon charitable organisations,” she said. Policemen at the local police station, however, helped them over the last two weeks, Aarthi said. “They gave us rice, dal and a few other items. We only want some rice so we can make ourselves kanji until we can go out again,” she said.
07 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||LPG with COVID-19 stickers being distributed||In one more step aimed at creating awareness among the public about COVID-19 precautionary measures, domestic LPG cylinders pasted with stickers containing awareness messages were being supplied to customers in the district. The stickers were pasted on a total number of 1,183 cylinders on Monday through 22 gas agencies across the district and distributed to the consumers. An official press release said awareness stickers would be pasted on 6,930 cylinders daily and distributed to the consumers. The stickers contain messages appealing to the people to stay home and be alert. The release further said awareness was also being created through public address system, circulation of pamphlets and through the media. The district administration was taking precautionary measures on a war footing to check the spread of COVID 19.
07 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door survey hits a road bump in Tiruchi||The door-to-door survey, being carried out by the workers employed by the Tiruchi Corporation to find out those suffering from cold, fever and breathing difficulties, had to be suspended in some parts of the city due to resistance by a section of residents. As a precaution to contain the spread of COVID 19 virus, the Tiruchi Corporation, which has declared nine residential localities in the city as containment areas, began the survey a few days ago. Besides its sanitary workers, it has employed nearly 400 women of Self Help Groups to cover all 65 wards including those declared as containment areas, which have been barricaded so as too restrict the movement of residents after nine patients belonging to these areas tested positive for COVID 19. Though the workers have covered most parts of the city, the survey is yet to be completed in some areas primarily due to the resistance of a section of residents who contend that the Tablighi Jamaat event is unnecessarily linked to the spread of the virus. According to sources, enumerators were denied entry in Bheema Nagar, Alwarthoppu and a few areas. There were instances of heckling too. “Enumerators were heckled and abused in some places. It is unfortunate. It has forced us to suspend the survey,” a senior official of the Corporation told The Hindu . However, he said that the situation in localities, where positive cases were reported, was being closely monitored. As per the guidelines of the State government, about 3 km radius around Thillai Nagar has been encircled and barricades have been placed at entry points. Barricades have been placed at Palakarai on Madurai Road, Bharathidasan Road, Puthur, Woraiyur, Salai Road and Madurai Road near Holy Cross College. In addition to it, notice boards have been put up informing the residents of the containment areas to stay put in their homes. Police personnel have also been posted at all entry points.
07 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man held for poisoning cats at Lalgudi||A 59-year-old man was arrested on the charge of poisoning six cats reared by a doctor at Santhaipettai near Lalgudi in the district recently. The accused P. Balasubramanian, a car driver, was arrested on a complaint preferred by Doctor R. Jayamurali. Both were neighbours. Police sources said one of the hens reared by Balasubramanian had died recently after being bitten by a dog. Balasubramanian apparently assumed that his hen had died after being bitten by a cat reared by the doctor. Sources said Balasubramanian gave some eatables allegedly mixed with poisonous substance to the six cats belonging to the doctor when the animals came out. The six cats died thereafter. Based on a complaint lodged by the doctor, the Lalgudi police arrested Balasubramanian and booked a case against him under IPC section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle). He was later released on bail.
07 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Crack down on lockdown violators’||Even as the numbers of COVID – 19 positive cases and the violators defying the lockdown are increasing steadily every day, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has ordered the police to intensely enforce the prohibitory orders to curb unnecessary movement of vehicles across the district from Monday onwards. Despite the best efforts being put in by the district administration to check the arrival of new COVID – 19 cases, the total number of SARS – CoV – 2 positive cases undergoing treatment in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital has touched 40 and the number is likely to move up further with blood and swab results of the primary contacts of these positive patients are awaited. Accordingly, the police have decided to come down heavily on cars and the bikes roaming around without any reason. While four-wheelers carrying police and the government officials on duty will be allowed to move around, individuals will have to hereafter furnish acceptable reasons for coming out of their houses in their cars. Even the reporters going out in their cars or bikes for covering any news have been asked to get the pass with vehicle number issued by the district administration to be produced when police intercept their vehicles. “If they fail to produce the pass issued by the district administration, the vehicles will be seized and case registered against the violator (the reporter),” said sources in the Collectorate. The Collector’s order was translated into action instantly as the police intercepted every four-wheeler and grilled the occupants of these vehicles for moving around. “Those who furnish valid reasons like medical emergency for coming out of the house, they are advised to return home at the earliest. Others are booked,” said the police officials intercepting the vehicles. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, S. Saravanan, said violators would face registration of cases against them besides their vehicles getting confiscated. “The violators will have to appear in court for trial later,” said Mr. Saravanan. In Tirunelveli City, 306 cases were booked, 371 violators booked and 150 vehicles seized. In Tirunelveli rural, 713 cases were booked, 1,006 violators booked and 461 vehicles seized. In Thoothukudi district, 883 cases were booked, 978 violators were booked and 546 vehicles seized. In Tenkasi district, 578 cases were booked, 881 violators were booked and 478 vehicles seized. In Kanniyakumari district, 2,253 cases were booked, 2765 violators were booked and 1,782 vehicles were seized.
07 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||14 sleeper coaches being customised to treat COVID-19 patients in Tirunelveli||Railway officials here have started working on converting 14 second class sleeper coaches into special wards for treating the COVID – 19 patients in a bid to help the district administration if all the beds in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and the designated private hospitals are exhausted with sudden huge arrival of the patients with the dreaded viral infection. Even though 600 beds in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital have been kept ready for the COVID – 19 positive patients and three private hospitals here have been approved by the State Government for treating the patients with the viral infection, the sleeper coaches in the pit line of Tirunelveli Railway Junction are being converted as special wards. While the lower and the upper berths of these coaches are being retained, the middle berths are being removed. Each coach will have three toilets including a western toilet and a bathroom. A separate enclosure created in each coach will have ‘nurses counter’ with medicines and other materials required for the treatment of the patients. “Fifteen patients can be accommodated in each coach. Only after the higher-ups, doctors from our medical wing, and the representatives of the district administration inspected these customised coaches, it will be ready for receiving the patients,” said the sources here.
07 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Resident performs ‘pada puja’ for conservancy worker||With conservancy workers braving the COVID-19 threat to continue performing their work, a resident of Palladam in Tiruppur district performed ‘pada puja’ (ritualistic washing of feet) for a conservancy worker on Monday to show her respect. A video of this incident, which went viral on social media platforms, shows the resident washing the feet of M. Vasantha, a conservancy worker with the Palladam Municipality. Following the washing of the feet, the woman proceeds to garland Ms. Vasantha with flowers and currency notes. Ms. Vasantha told The Hindu over the phone that the puja took place at around 7.30 a.m. in Ganapathy Nagar in Ward No. 14 of Palladam Municipality. “I went, as usual, to collect waste when suddenly [the resident] asked me to wait for some time,” she recalled. During the pada puja, Ms. Vasantha said that she was feeling “nervous” as this was the first time that such puja has been performed for her. “I thought, we are only collecting waste, why are they doing this for us?” she said. The resident thanked her for working despite the scare of COVID-19, Ms. Vasantha said. According to M. Ganesan, Commissioner of Palladam Municipality, 281 conservancy workers are currently employed in the municipality. “I got to know of the incident only after seeing the video. I was quite touched,” he said. All workers are provided with breakfast and lunch along with beverages by Palladam Municipality every day, Mr. Ganesan said. Many Palladam residents are spontaneously coming forward to show their respect for conservancy workers, according to Mr. Ganesan. The 38-year-old Ms. Vasantha has been a conservancy worker for the past 16 years. “I realised today that nobody is looking down upon us because of the work we do,” she said.
07 April 2020||tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Workers from other districts stage protest||Over 50 migrant workers from other districts of the State staged a protest near Veerapandi in Tiruppur city on Monday alleging lack of availability of essential commodities. According to Madasami, a daily wage worker from Kovilpatti, workers along with their families have moved to Tiruppur from districts including Tirunelveli, Sivakasi and Thanjavur. “ Veerapandi police said that they met with the protesters and assured that assistance will reach the workers and their families at the earliest. The protest was withdrawn subsequently, police said.
07 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three containment zones formed in Tiruppur||A total of three containment zones have been formed in Tiruppur city, said Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan in Tiruppur on Monday. He chaired a review meeting at the Collectorate on the precautionary measures against COVID-19 undertaken by the district administration. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that the containment zones were sealed and disinfected. K. Boopathy, City Health Officer under Tiruppur Corporation, said that door-to-door survey has commenced to check if the residents are showing symptoms of COVID-19. The district administration is supplying essential commodities door-to-door in the containment zones as the residents are required to not venture outside their residences, Mr. Boopathy said.
07 April 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Unable to find room, man from China lives on Annamalaiyar Hills||A man from Beijing was picked up by Forest Department officials from Annamalaiyar Hills here. The incident caught attention on social media and caused a flutter. The man identified himself as Yangruyee, 35, and had been staying in a guest house near Ramanashramam since January. He was quarantined for 28 days as he was a foreign national and he tested negative for COVID-19. Since he did not get any accommodation, he went to the hill 11 days ago.
07 April 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Disinfectant tunnel set up||Food Minister R. Kamaraj commissioned the disinfectant tunnel set up at the vegetable market in Tiruvarur on Monday. The tunnel has been set up at the entrance to the vegetable market functioning near the Old Bus Stand in the Tiruvarur Municipality so as to ensure that the public visiting the market pass through the tunnel to get themselves sprayed with the sodium hydrochloride solution to check the spread of the virus. Asking consumers at the market to maintain social distancing, the Minister said ‘community transmission’ of the virus could effectively be countered if people stayed indoors. Stating that all out efforts were being made by the government to save the people from the dreaded virus, Mr. Kamaraj said 12 persons in Tiruvarur district have tested positive and were being treated at the Government hospital. Further, their contacts have been identified and all of them have been brought under surveillance of the Health Department, he added. Meanwhile, the Mannargudi MLA, T. R. B. Rajaa claimed that his efforts to set up a similar tunnel at the Mannargudi Municipality limits has not been received well by the authorities. “I did inform the authorities already about my intention and when I reached the Municipality office on Sunday along with the technicians for setting up the tunnel at the place to be identified by the civic body officials I found myself at a dead-end. I was told that the Commissioner (in-charge) and Municipal Engineer, R. Thirumalaivasan had gone on leave and hence I could not complete the task”, he said. The MLA managed to convince the municipal staff to take possession of the materials and install at the place they identify later. Enquiries reveal that on Monday, the tunnel sponsored by the MLA was installed along with the similar facility set up by the Municipality at the entrance to the temporary vegetable market functioning at the Mannargudi bus stand and these facilities were inspected by the Food Minister, sources said.  Sanitisers donated The Mannargudi Town Unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has donated 50 bottles of sanitizers to the Government District Headquarters hospital, Mannargudi on Monday. The sanitiser bottles, worth Rs. 25,000, was handed over to the Medical Superintendent R. Vijayakumar by the CPI(M) Mannargudi Town Secretary, S. Arumugam.
07 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Pilgrims from south stranded in Gaya||It was a 15-day pilgrimage to Haridwar and Rishikesh for 22 persons from different parts of southern districts. They were supposed to board the train for return journey when they got the message that their train had been cancelled. Since then, these pilgrims, mostly aged people and a couple with two minor children, have been stranded in Gaya. The pilgrims should thank their stars as the tour agent Ramar managed to ferry them back to Nagarathar Chathiram in Gaya from Varanasi in private vehicles. Otherwise, they would have now been deprived of a good roof, food and water facility. It has been 15 days that the pilgrims from Tenkasi, Courtallam, Virudhunagar and Madurai have been accommodated in the Nagarathar choultry where they get good food and a safe shelter. “The chathiram people have taken care of us very well. We get food for three times a day. We have been given a comfortable place to stay with water facility,” H. Sundarammal, 65, of Madurai told The Hindu over phone. Immediately after their train got cancelled, the pilgrims managed to get the refund of Rs. 19,000 and paid Rs. 13,000 for two SUVs to reach Gaya. “It was at this chathiram that the pilgrims had earlier stayed for two days during their Gaya leg. The tour operator knew that this was the safest place and we rushed in here,” the elderly woman said. Meanwhile, a relative of one of the pilgrims alerted Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore and sought his intervention in bringing them back home. When he contacted them, the MP came to know that the aged persons, who were on regular medicines for their chronic ailments like diabetes and blood pressure, had run out of medicines. Mr. Tagore sought the help of Leader of the Opposition in Bihar Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav. In turn, his party men of Rashtriya Janata Dal visited the pilgrims at their place and distributed them medicines and masks. “They have given their contact number and promised to extend any help required,” a grateful Ms. Sundarammal said. Mr. Tagore has also drawn the attention of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to take care of the pilgrims and make arrangement for their safe return.
07 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rent-free equipment for farmers||The Virudhunagar district administration has tied up with TAFE’s J Farm Services, for rent-free farm equipment for small and marginal farmers to take up various farming activities. The Joint Director (Agriculture) in-charge, Sankar S. Narayanan, said that though the majority of the paddy harvesting activity is over in the district, the demand would be high for ploughing the land to prepare it for summer cultivation. He said that J Farm Services have come forward to provide the rent-free farm equipment for 90 days from April 1. All that the farmers need to do is to down load Uzhavan App on their mobile phones and register for the machinery to be used in their farms. They can also register by calling the toll-free number of J Farm Services1800-420-0100. The farmers need to mention the equipment required and the date and time. “The machinery would be provided on seniority basis without any rent,” Mr. Narayanan said. He said that for two sets of ploughing to be done, farmers would otherwise need to spend around Rs. 2,000, and as this comes free of cost for them and it would be of great help during the lockdown period. Farmers holding land up to 4 acres could benefit under the scheme. Mr. Narayanan said that around 1000 ha of farm land in the district could be brought under pulses and millets cultivation. “We expect maximum coverage of pulses and millets this summer as widespread rainfall has been reported in the district in the last two days,” he said. Sattur, Tiruchuli, Kariyapttti and Kovilankulam have registered good rainfall of 16 mm, 18 mm, 23.40 mm and 31.20 mm respectively on Saturday and Aruppukottai (17 mm), Sattur (16.40 mm) received rainfall on Sunday. The millets are also grown in Rajapalayam, Srivilliputtur and Watrap regions. J Farm Services have identified people owning tractors in various parts of the district and would tie up with them to provide their equipment for those requiring it for ploughing. The rental for the vehicle would be paid by J Farm Services to the tractor owners.
07 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Movement of people to be further restricted||Virudhunagar district administration has got some relief after no new positive cases were reported from the district for the past two days. The district has got 11 positive cases so far. Though the number of people venturing out has come down in the last few days, the district administration is planning to further restrict unnecessary movement of people. On Sunday, a mass disinfecting work was taken up in all the urban and rural areas simultaneously as a precautionary measure. “We have already ensured that vegetables and groceries are made available to the people within a radius of one km by spreading out vegetable markets in all important places. Besides, groceries are also available in local shops and hence, people need to travel longer distance,” he added. In Virudhunagar town, the municipality has started selling bags of several vegetables for Rs. 100 through a mobile vending vehicle. With mill owners complaining about foodgrains running out of stock, the district administration through the State Government has arranged for movement of pulses, millets and spices from Gujarat and Guntur. The trucks are expected to reach here within three days. “Once the mills here get adequate foodgrains, pulses and millets would be available in adequate quantity across the State. The surplus stock in the market would also prevent sale of essential commodities at exorbitant rates,” he added. Already the local traders have been warned against selling grocery goods at a premium making using of the tough situation, Mr. Kannan said. Police would further restrict movement of people with stringent action, including seizing of vehicles, he added.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown adds to woes of migrant workers from A.P.||Precarity of the next meal, loss of livelihood, and the ever-soaring mercury – the lockdown has added to the list of woes forced upon the families of seasonal migrants living on garbage dump of a plot here in Thirunavukarasar Street in Mookandapalli. Ever since the lockdown was announced, over eight families of seasonal migrants from Mantralayam in Andhra Pradesh are tied down in their makeshift plastic huts in Mookandapalli. The migrant workers have been seasonally migrating between Hosur and Mantralayam, once every six months for work. This summer, just in time for their return back to their homes the lockdown was declared. Until then, they were engaged in construction work, under a Dharmapuri-based contractor. If the lockdown has hit their livelihood and travel, the sweltering heat has made their living conditions under the heat-locking plastic camps unbearable. The families had gone hungry since the lockdown, until the Democratic Youth Federation of India was alerted to their plight by Jyothiappa, secretary of CITU. Since Saturday, Vignesh, DYFI’s vice-president for Hosur with the help of Amma canteen has been delivering them food three times a day. “However, it is still a better solution to provide monthly rations for them till the lockdown is lifted,” says Sridharan, Hosur secretary of DYFI. They could cook their own meal. Their job contractor, who gave them construction work has gone back to Dharmapuri. “He is not available or else, we would have taken advances to buy groceries,” says Bhima, who lives with his mother, wife and two children. Even as the precarity of the next meal was addressed by DYFI, the strain is felt by the volunteers as well. “The heat is unbearable,” says Sujatha, pointing to the pile of sheets erected up to house them. Usually, they live and sleep inside the buildings they help build. “We sleep in the buildings till the construction is over, and then head back to our native,” says Mr. Bhima.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vegetables, groceries being sold in packs at Uzhavar Sandhai||To prevent overcrowding by people at Uzhavar Sandhai and also to make purchases easy, vegetables and groceries are solid in packs here on Monday. After Section 144 was clamped in the district, Uzhavar Sandhais functioning at Sampath Nagar and Periyar Nagar were shifted to the Government Girls Higher Secondary School premises at Panneerselvam Park where adequate space is available both for the traders and people to ensure personal distancing. Farmers said that 30 packs were sold on Sunday while it dropped a little on Monday and added that people prefer packs as it has the essentials. From Sunday, Navarathina Collective Farm Producer Company Limited is selling the pack of vegetables for Rs. 150 that has 12 types of essential vegetables including tomato, onions, lemon, green chillies and curry leaves. Likewise, Erode Precision Farm Producer Company Limited is selling groceries in two packs, one pack costs Rs. 550 while the other Rs. 1,000. They said that though sale of packs was less, they expect sales to be good in the coming days as visitors to the market are informed of the availability of the packs. Officials at the Department of Agricultural Marketing said that only one-third of the farmers are bringing their produce to the market everyday due to the absence of public transportation. They added that price of vegetables remain normal and asked people not to go for panic purchases. Since vegetable are an essential item, market remains open during lockdowns, they added.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||How persons with HIV, other viral infections can take precautions||The novel coronavirus (SARS CoV-2), which causes COVID-19, infects every one, including persons who have HIV and other viral infections such as Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C. Today, we have effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) to suppress HIV and thereby persons who are on ART, don’t fall sick and live normally without any symptoms. Research has shown their life span is similar to those who don’t have HIV. Does COVID19 cause worsening of HIV disease and vice versa? Persons who are on regular anti-retroviral therapy and adhere to these medications have undetectable HIV levels and normal immunity, as measured by CD4 cell count. COVID-19 can cause similar mild symptoms like any other normal individuals among persons with HIV and on antiretroviral therapy. Hence, all those who have HIV should adhere to their antiretroviral therapy. This will save them. If they are not taking ART and if the immunity is low as measured by CD4 cell count, then COVID-19 can cause severe serious illness in these individuals. Persons with HIV and on ART can have other co-morbid non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, cancers and renal disease. These individuals should make sure their co-morbid conditions are managed effectively. They should control their underlying conditions. If they don’t do this, COVID-19 can cause severe illness. Take your medicines for diabetes, hypertension, cancer and kidney disease if you have, along with your ART and exercise. Will TB patients who get COVID-19 suffer more? Tuberculosis affects the lungs and other organs, and COVID-19 causes severe lung infection. Persons who have tuberculosis and are not taking their TB medicines can develop severe respiratory diseases if they are infected with COVID-19. Make sure to take your medicines for tuberculosis regularly so that it won’t cause severe illness even if you do acquire an infection. What about other chronic viral diseases? Today, we have anti-viral medicines for Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C, which cause jaundice, liver cirrhosis and liver cancer. The treatment for Hepatitis B is lifelong and Hepatitis C is curable with three months of antiviral therapy. Not managing these viral hepatitis conditions can cause severe liver disease if these people acquire COVID-19. Vaccines are available for Hepatitis B prevention. Do vaccinate yourself if you haven’t done it yet. Do we have treatment for COVID-19 and do they have side effects with HIV antiretroviral and other antiviral medications? At present, there is no specific antiviral treatment for COVID-19. We offer only supportive care. These medications used for supportive care are provided under supervision by trained medical doctors and side-effects are closely monitored. Research on the natural history of COVID-19 shows this novel coronavirus gets suppressed on its own within 14-28 days in most individuals who acquire the virus. There are several antiviral medications under clinical trials for COVID-19. One such drug called Remdesivir is under advanced Phase 3 clinical trials. Remdesivir inhibited SARS-CoV-2 replication in laboratory studies and was tested in a few patients with COVID-19 in the Unites States. The patients’ symptoms improved following intravenous Remdesivir administration. However, more clinical data is required before the drug can be approved for use. We expect early results of this drug effect on COVID-19 by this month-end. Let us hope we researchers and healthcare workers will conquer COVID-19 like HIV and Viral Hepatitis as we did in the past! Feel free to write tokumarasamy@cartcrs.orgif you have more questions on treatment for COVID19.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One death, 50 new cases in Tamil Nadu; 48 of the fresh cases linked to Delhi event||Nine persons - five women and four men - from Chennai, who were contacts of a COVID-19 patient, have tested positive. Two other men from the city with a contact history have also tested positive. Three women from Namakkal - who are contacts of a patient - are positive. In addition, two men from Kancheepuram - also contacts of a patient - tested positive. Another man from Coimbatore has also tested positive. Apart from them, 13 persons from Tiruchi, four from Tiruppur, three from Chennai and Thanjavur, two each from Cuddalore and Chengalpattu, and one each from Ariyalur, Tirupattur, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram - all of whom travelled to Delhi - have tested positive. One woman from Cuddalore, who had a travel history to Andamans, has tested positive. A total of 5,015 samples have been tested till date. Of this, 295 samples are under process. A total of 72,791 persons are under home quarantine, while 19,060 persons have completed the 28-day quarantine period. Another 205 persons are in government quarantine facilities. Chennai cases The number of COVID-19 cases went up in the city. Chennai has 110 cases as on date. On Monday alone, there were 15 cases in the city. Coimbatore is next with 59 cases, while Dindigul has 45 cases. So far, 32 districts have been covered under containment activities. A total of 11,59,284 households and a population of 40,71,230 have been covered. In all, 26,953 field staff were involved, she added. The Health Secretary said the State had obtained 21 RT-PCRs and installation was under way at government medical college hospitals. They had sought Indian Council of Medical Research’s approval for the facilities. These facilities would be operationalised soon. One lakh rapid testing kits are expected to arrive soon. The testing process would then take about 30 minutes.  Chennai has 110 cases as on date. Coimbatore is next with 59 cases, while Dindigul has 45 cases
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fruit traders expect lockdown to end soon||Fruit traders, who have taken stock of seasonal fruits are expecting the lockdown to end soon and their trade would improve afterwards. The 21-day nationwide lockdown to combat spread of COVID-19 has severely affected fruit traders here as summer is one of the major business seasons for them. Due to restrictions during lockdown, many fruit shops have shut shops and a few operate within the stipulated time. Lack of juice shops and restricted public movement have affected sales. Traders also complained that inter-State movement of fruits have also been affected. A street vendor selling tender coconut lamented that their major supply is from Pollachi and it has been affected since lockdown. “As truck movement has dropped, we are getting less stock. Also, with fewer public movement, just four or five pieces get sold in the day. We hope things would change soon”, the vendor said. A. Jayapal, president of Salem Mango and Fruits Traders Association said that arrival of stock and sales in the market has reduced due to lockdown and many are operating with available stock. “In many places here, fruits are ready for harvest and they haven’t been harvested due to lack of transportation to the market here”, he said. He added that very few stock is brought based on availability now. He added that sales of seasonal fruits have been affected as they are mainly sold to juice stores here. “Fruits like musk melons mainly arrive from Kadapa and is bought for Rs. 25 per kg. However, due to lack of distribution vehicles its sales have been affected. Fruits like grapes and orange has to arrive from Maharashtra and selling the few stocks has become a challenge”, he said.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against six for Sec. 144 violation||The Bhavani police have registered a case against six persons on the charges of violating Section 144 and attempting to conduct prayers at a village here on Sunday. The police said that five persons in an autorickshaw along with children were about to enter Periya Kurumapalayam Colony when a local youth intercepted their vehicle and questioned them. The youth wanted to know how they could enter the colony when Section 144 was clamped. Villagers gathered and the group said that they were on their way to conduct prayers. An altercation broke out between the group and the villagers and the Village Administrative Officer was alerted. Persons in the autorickshaw also entered into an altercation with the officer. Based on a complaint from the VAO, the police registered a case under various Sections of IPC against the driver Subramani, Rani, Palanisamy, Baby, Rajasekar and Rathinam. The driver was arrested and the vehicle was seized.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mighty fall||
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kits distributed||Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja on Monday launched distribution of essential kits for differently-abled persons living in homes here. A toll-free number 9700799993 with WhatsApp video calling facility has been launched for assisting differently-abled persons, she said.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man in home quarantine dies||A resident near Selanaikenpatti who was advised home quarantine died on Monday. According to officials, the deceased Srinivasan (52) was advised house quarantine by health officials here due to his recent travel history to Andhra Pradesh. J. Nirmalsen, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that the patient did not have any symptoms of COVID-19 and was advised house quarantine due to travel history. He added that they are looking into the cause of death.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 6   Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 939 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 54 Samples lifted: 80 Results declared: 25 Negative: 18 Positive for COVID-19: 7 (Four confirmed on April 6; all admitted at ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Discharged from ESI Hospital: 1 Results awaited: 65
07 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Patients put to hardship as most private clinics remain closed in Belagavi dist.||Sudhakka Balu Rao had a harrowing time in Belagavi over the weekend. The home-maker from Anagol who was suffering from excruciating pain had to travel kilometres around the city to see a doctor. Her search that began in the morning ended by evening when a doctor in the old city agreed to see her after a family friend recommended her case. “She complained of stomach ache in the morning and I took her out on my scooter. We went to clinic after clinic only to find them closed. We called some of our friends and family members to contact any doctor who was willing to see us. After hours of searching, we found a doctor who helped us out,” said Abhimanyu, her son who has just finished college. She is not the only one who has suffered due to the closure of private clinics. Several people across the city have faced such hardship in accessing healthcare. Most private clinics in the city are closed. Only some corporate hospitals are working. Private clinics in the taluks are not working either. Doctors say that there is panic among the community and little protection. Girish Sonwalkar, who heads a corporate hospital in the city, said that panic had spread among doctors after some of them contracted the virus in Bhilwara in Madhya Pradesh and Surat in Gujarat, after treating patients. “Some are worried as there are not enough personal protection equipment kits. And, others are worried that the police on the street would stop them or not let them go to hospitals. There is little awareness among patients about the virus and some of our old patients insist that we treat them. But that is not safe and practical. They should be treated at the designated hospital. If we treat suspected cases and if they turn out to be positive, then, all of us have to undergo quarantine for two weeks. This needs to be avoided,” Dr. Sonwalkar said. There is no clarity either. There is a government order saying that no doctor will treat a COVID-19 suspected patient without PPE. Patients complain that doctors are not regularly attending to service in rural hospitals. Jotiba Bendigeri, a resident of Khanapur, complained that most doctors in the taluk hospital were absent for some days since the lockdown. The district civil hospital has been declared a designated COVID-19 hospital and the focus has shifted to virus and there is little activity in the other departments. Most surgeries in other departments have been deferred and only emergencies are being attended to. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said that he would ask Health Department officers to check if any government doctor was skipping work. “We will make sure they all attend duties. We are also urging private practitioners to resume work. We will make sure they get the requisite number of PPE and other equipment. We will issue them transit passes to reach their hospitals and home,” he said. “District in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar has instructed us to urge doctors to come back to work. We will follow those instructions,” he said.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 keeps politics suspended||The 21-day national lockdown and fear of COVID-19 appear to have resulted in “suspension of politics” of sorts by all parties in the State. All major contentious issues — be it the National Population Register (NPR), Cabinet reshuffle, alleged attempt to replace Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa by some dissident group of legislators in the BJP, or the government’s plan to hold elections to 6,000-odd gram panchayats — have been put on the back burner. There is silence on the part of principal Opposition Congress too. On March 11, the State Congress got a new president D.K. Shivakumar, after a wait of nearly three months. Though Mr. Shivakumar is discharging his responsibilities as the KPCC head, he has not been formally anointed. A symbolic gesture of handing over the party flag from MLA and former KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao to Mr. Shivakumar is on hold. He will take oath only after the situation returns to normal. Even then, it may be without much fan fair, said sources. In aid work All political parties have been largely focussed on seeking funds from donors to fight COVID-19. Many leaders across parties are even involved in distribution of food for free to the poor. The Chief Minister too set up his own relief fund. R.S. Deshpande, economist and former director of ISEC, Bengaluru, argued that COVID-19 will leave its imprint on the idea of politics and public policy/finance. It would ensure substantive shifts in public policy and set a new agenda of governance with larger focus on spending on improving health infrastructure rather than repairing buildings, buying vehicles or constructing bridges. In fact, many development works could be hit for the next two years at least. With social distancing likely to become a routine practice in the coming days, particularly among the middle class, it is believed that politicians would use digital tools to reach out to their voters and supporters. Already, in the lockdown period, politicians/political parties have stopped holding press conferences. Leaders and parties have started logging into social media tools such as Twitter and Facebook to share information with the media and the public. Some have even started the traditional letter writing. Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and Congress leader H.K. Patil wrote letters to the Chief Minister to draw his attention on crucial issues related inter-State border and health, respectively.  Consult, collaborate P.S. Jayaramu, retired professor of political science, Bangalore University, argued that parties indulging in accusations would not help the public in this moment of health crisis. The Central government on its parts should have taken the Opposition into confidence in finalising its responses to face the pandemic. “It is not too late for our political parties to come together and work to meet the challenge,” he said.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Infrastructure projects at a standstill||The lockdown following COVID-19 outbreak has brought to a halt a number of big-ticket projects in the city and the deadlines of many of them are likely to be extended by a few months. Public health is an obligatory duty of the civic body and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is at the frontline of the fight against the pandemic in the city. As a result, all other civic works, including infrastructure projects, have taken a back seat. “The entire civic administration is now focused only on COVID-19. People working in other departments like roadworks, projects and education have been redeployed to fight the crisis at hand,” said one of the special commissioners, BBMP. For now, work on all ongoing civic works - TenderSURE and whitetopping of roads under the Smart City Project and redoing of roads dug up by BWSSB - have come to a halt. Most of the labour working on these projects have moved back to their villages. “As per our estimation today, most of the civic works will likely suffer a delay of at least three months. Even if the lockdown is lifted on April 15, life will not return to normal. BBMP will continue to be at the forefront fighting the health crisis at least for the next three to four months. Labourers will also take a few weeks to return to the city and resume work, even if lockdown is lifted, as there is panic over the pandemic among them. As of now, the situation is still fluid,” said a senior joint commissioner in BBMP.  Underground cabling, Smart City The Bescom’s underground cabling work too has come to a standstill. The project, which was announced in the 2018 budget, is meant to help reduce power outages as well as prevent electrical accidents that are not uncommon with the overhead electricity infrastructure. The power utility had already started digging up roads - a major source of inconvenience for citizens in many parts of the city. Bescom had announced that it will undertake underground cabling of HT lines of nearly 7,000 km, apart from some of the 11,000 km LT lines. Another project that has contributed in a major way to dug-up and dusty roads is the Smart City project, for which Bengaluru has the dubious distinction of snail-paced implementation apart from under utilisation of funds. The city has not seen completion of even a single project taken up under the Smart Cities’ Mission. At least 15 roads in the city were suppose to be redeveloped under this according to TenderSURE specifications. Of them, many roads including Infantry Road and Raja Ram Mohan Road have been dug up on either sides. The completion of work on these roads is expected to miss its deadline. The revamp of Cubbon Park, which will include the redevelopment of pathways and lotus pond, etc, was supposed to begin in March, but could not be started.  Expansion plans at KIA Apart from other big transport projects, expansion works at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) have come to a halt. Based on the directions from the Health Department, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) has temporarily stopped major infrastructure works that include construction of Terminal II, widening main access roads and others. Last year, the BIAL had announced that it is investing Rs. 13,000 crore for upgrading infrastructure. As per its plan, the BIAL is widening the 1.4 km main access road from Trumpet interchange to the airport. Existing 2+2 lanes road will be upgraded to 5 lanes on either side and work had begun last year. To facilitate the construction works the BIAL has provided a secondary access road to reach the Terminal I. Recently, the BIAL closed some of the parking lots to facilitate the construction work at forecourt of Terminal I. It had advised the air passengers to use the public transport to reach the Airport. The BIAL has also put on hold construction work of Terminal II. As per the plan, terminal 2 will have ‘forest’ filled with local trees, scented trees and other features. The terminal is coming in an area of 2, 55,645 square meters area, the first of the project is expected to be operational by next year. The BIAL had claimed that it would transplant more than 7,000 trees coming coming on the way of developmental works.  (This is first of two-part series on impact of lockdown on infrastructure work.)
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Those in quarantine centres worried over transmission within the facility||There is fear that poorly planned quarantine facilities and inadequately trained staff can increase the risk of transmission among those quarantined, especially when some asymptomatic persons too are testing positive for COVID-19. So far, four asymptomatic persons have tested positive for the disease in Karnataka. Also, some residents of Mysuru who had returned from Delhi in January, much before the Tablighi Jamaat congregation, have also tested positive. Seven patients, who arrived from Delhi in Bengaluru on January 27, are part of a group of 11. They later travelled to Mysuru, according to officials. During contact tracing of the congregation attendees, they too were traced and quarantined in Mysuru and have tested positive now. While four cases were confirmed on Sunday, three were positive on Monday. Sources in the Health Department say the possibility of them contracting the infection at the quarantine facility in Mysuru cannot be ruled out. Following this, people accommodated in mass quarantine centres across the State are worried that the “healthy” may actually contract the infection at the centres from others who may be carriers of the virus. At the Haj Bhavan in Bengaluru, 148 people have been quarantined since last Wednesday. Many of these neither belong to the Tablighi Jamaat nor did they attend the religious congregation in Nizamuddin West. “But as our mobile numbers were traced in the range of Nizamuddin West, we have been quarantined along with those who attended the congregation. Now, as three among the 148 have tested positive in the preliminary test and have been moved to a hospital from here, we are worried that we may have actually got infected here,” said an inmate, who is a staffer of the Parliament. However, allaying fears, Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer (DHO) G. Srinivas, who confirmed that three of the Haj Bhavan inmates had been sent to C.V. Raman General Hospital as their viral load was high in thse preliminary test, said that all prescribed protocols are being followed in quarantine centres across the State. Dr. Srinivas said utmost care is being given to “social distancing” and “hygiene” in the centres. “If an individual’s immunity is low, he/she can contract the infection anywhere,” he said. U.S. Vishal Rao, Chief of Head and Neck Surgical Oncology at HCG, said general patients should not be mixed with COVID-19 carriers as fecal, oral contamination is also a possibility. “During quarantine, general cases should never be mixed with potential carriers. This will ensure that they do not catch an infection they did not have before. More so because there is a danger that they could be discharged from quarantine during an incubation period of infection caught during quarantine,” he said. “Quarantine should be alone or in small groups. If one person in one small group tests positive, all of them should be considered positive for further quarantine. But again kept separate in the new quarantine,” he added. Health standards Sylvia Karpagam, a Public Health Researcher, said most mass quarantine centres do not meet public health standards. High risk and low risk patients are being put together here, she said. “If it is not done in a sensitive and scientific way, the fear of the experience and stigma will prevent people from coming out and will affect community participation in controlling the pandemic,” she said.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Volunteers distributing relief material attacked||Some of the family members of Zareen Taj, an activist with Swaraj Abhiyan, were attacked allegedly by members of a Hindu right-wing organisation at Dasarahalli in Bengaluru while distributing relief material amidst the COVID-19 lockdown. Ms. Taj said four of her family members (including her son and three brothers) and her son’s friend have been injured. She said that she had a harrowing time for the past three days over the distribution of ration and it had culminated in a physical attack on Monday. “A leader said they will not allow us to distribute ration till the Health Department checked and cleared it safe as they alleged that we were spreading virus deliberately,” said Ms. Taj. They lodged a complaint with the police alleging social distancing was not being followed. “When we went to lodge a counter-complaint, the police assured us they would not allow such disruptions in future,” she said. However, on Monday evening, when they were distributing ration, a group of six people, different from those who confronted them on Saturday, allegedly attacked them with cricket bats. “Five of us are badly injured,” she said and broke down as she spoke to The Hindu . “Is it wrong that we want to help the hungry?” Bhimashankar Guled, DCP (North East), said there will be zero tolerance to any attempt at spreading communal hatred. A case will be registered and arrests made, he said. On why the police did not take action earlier, he said the victims did not want to press for a case, but they had warned those who had obstructed work on Saturday. “Another gang seems to be involved,” he said. Other cases There have been other examples in the city of Muslim volunteers facing similar problems, with many fake news websites and WhatsApp forwards linking spread of COVID-19 to the Muslim community. “Using the Tablighi Jamaat incident, the community is being stigmatised by political forces, through social media and a section of mainstream media,” said Tanveer Ahmed, an activist volunteering with Mercy Mission. Gulab Pasha, who has been volunteering with multiple organisations providing food and ration to the hungry in the city, on Saturday was barred from delivering material in Thippasandra in South Bengaluru. Though 40-odd labourers in the area wanted it, some local leaders prevented it, ostensibly because of religious prejudice. In another instance, Abdur Rehman, also a volunteer with Mercy Mission, was allegedly abused by five men in a car as he was distributing relief to ragpickers in Dasarahalli. “When we tried to take a picture of the car, they smashed the mobile,” Mr. Rehman alleged.  However, multiple volunteers who have been at the receiving end of such stigma said those who are hungry and need help have never turned them away. “A few days ago, a local leader at a slum in West Bengaluru refused to allow our volunteer to distribute food to 200 labourers. But the labourers sent him away and took the food. Not in one instance have the hungry themselves taken into account the religion,” said Mr. Pasha. A week ago, a delegation from the community petitioned Praveen Sood, DG&IGP, seeking directions to all Police Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to act against hate speech. The community now plans to petition the police on volunteers being stigmatised. “It is sad that when entire humanity has to unite, some political forces are stigmatising our community,” said Irshad Desai, convener, Association for Protection of Civil Rights.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NGOs and citizens pitch in without barriers||Several citizens and welfare groups are rallying together to provide relief to those in need during the lockdown. Most of them have been providing food kits with essential ration, while others are providing cooked food. Apart from organisations and NGOs, several restaurants are distributing food packets that can be picked up by anyone in need. For instance, Saapaad, a restaurant on Koramangala Club Road, is giving away food boxes at noon to anyone in need. The Atria Foundation has pledged to distribute nearly 1.5 lakh meals to those in need every day. Embassy Group along with Parikrama Foundation is providing weekly rations for its students and their families. Appeal to corporates The Pavitraka Charitable Trust is tying up with volunteers in Rajajinagar to donate meals and groceries to those in need. Rise Against Hunger India (RAHI), an NGO, has started supplying packaged food packets and plans to supply around 1.2 million meals in the coming months. Dola Mohapatra, executive director, RAHI, said the NGO hoped to help out the construction workers and daily wage earners in the city, apart from those in Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad. “We would like to appeal to all corporate groups, large business houses and other organisations who wish to contribute to come forward and help,” he said. Admaya Chetana, voluntary charitable organisation, has started door-to-door delivery of easy-to-make upma and khichdi mix with support of the Labour Department and Information Department. The organisation has also joined hands with the RSS for supply of essential commodities. BIAL, working together with other corporates located on the Bengaluru airport campus – HMS Host, Satis Dining, Taj Bangalore and TFS – has launched a joint initiative to provide 3,500 meals each day to affected people. Around 2,000 packages for lunch and 1,500 for dinner will be packed on the airport campus and delivered to migrant workers, daily wagers, policemen, and those working in the unorganised sector across Chickballapur district. While most initiatives are focussed on providing for the disadvantaged, well-known chef Sanjeev Kapoor is spearheading a mission to feed the medical staff in government hospitals in the city. Meal packets are being distributed to the staff at Victoria Hospital and Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. Twenty Muslim NGOs have also come together under the banner of Mercy Mission and are reaching out to over 15,000 people through a network of trained volunteers. The beneficiaries include over 2,000 families of migrant workers in Tubarahalli, 1,500 residents of Rajendranagar slum near Koramangala, and nearly 5,000 families in D.J. Halli. “We decided to set up Mercy Kitchens in different parts of the city where food can be cooked. We have a huge kitchen in D.J. Halli, where we are providing over 5,500 meals every day. Similarly, we have kitchens in Shivajinagar, Avalhalli, City Market and Sarbandepaly,” said Taha Mateen, one of the coordinators of Mercy Mission. Mahaveer Jayanti The Jain community too has taken up relief work. On Monday, to mark Mahaveer Jayanti, Jain International Trade Organisation, Bengaluru Chapter, distributed 51,000 meals to the needy.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Delivery agents playing key role||Besides healthcare workers and police personnel who are working tirelessly to help people in the time of the COVID 19 pandemic, delivery agents too are playing a key role in ensuring that people get their food and other essentials delivered to their doorstep. Anand Gowda, a food delivery personnel who works with Zomato said that he has been working for nearly 15 hours a day. He said that the number of orders has declined only marginally. “I used to deliver 25 orders earlier. Now on an average I am getting 21 orders a day,” he said. The B.Com graduate who used to work in a car showroom decided to switch to this job as it had promised to get him a salary of Rs. 13,000. On Sunday, he started work at 1 p.m. but could not eat anything till 7 p.m. “My family is concerned about my safety and does not want me to do this job. But if I need to earn a meal for my family, then I need to work,” he said. While customers opt for contactless delivery and ask them to deliver the food at their doorstep so that they don’t come in contact with him, he says he comes in contact with several people including many at restaurants. While some restaurants have sanitisers for delivery boys, this is not available at many places. Another delivery person who works with Dunzo said the company has provided them with a mask and sanitizer and has advised them to use it regularly. “I make sure I only do limited deliveries enough to earn two meals for my family. After that I log off, and go home,” he said. However, many of his colleagues have gone back to their villages as they did not want to take the risk. What irks many delivery personnel is that people continue to buy even non-essential items. “We are happy to help people in times of a crisis like this. But we still get orders from people ordering one juice or one dessert. We hope that people will stick to basics at least during this time,” said another delivery agent working with Swiggy. He admits that customers however have been generous while tipping. “Several customers give us masks, a meal or essential items for our households.”
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||15 lakh students yet to receive foodgrains promised by govt.||More than a fortnight after the Department of Primary and Secondary Education issued orders stating that all students in government and aided schools will receive foodgrains for 21 days during the lockdown, lakhs of households in Bengaluru alone have still not received them. The reasons range from stock failing to arrive at schools from where parents have to pick them up to the absence of headmasters or teachers to collect the grains. Across the State, 15 lakh of the total 50 lakh students in government and aided primary and high schools are yet to get their rations, as per data from the Department of Public Instruction. A bulk of the students are in Bengaluru, where schools get their midday meals from non-government organisations. While lower primary school students are supposed to get 2.1 kg of rice and 1 kg and 50 grams of toor dal, higher primary and high school students are entitled to 3.1 kg of rice and 1.5 kg of toor dal.  The Hindu spoke to several parents and headmasters of government schools in the city who claim that they are yet to receive the promised rations. Parents, too, have been visiting the schools regularly and say that managements are uncertain about when they will get the stock. Some teachers are asking parents to ask for rations at public distribution centres. In many cases, there is no one to distribute the grains in schools. A spokesperson for Akshaya Patra Foundation, which caters midday meals to schools in Bengaluru said: “We are ready with the stock and want to finish distribution in a week. But even when we send our vehicles, teachers are not coming forward to receive it,” he said, adding that they have written to the government asking what needs to be done in such cases. A teacher at a government school in North Bengaluru on condition of anonymity, admitted that lack of personnel in schools to collect the grain is one of the problems. “Currently, there are no transport facilities for teachers to reach the school during the lockdown. How is it possible for us then to come to school and distribute rations,” he said. Many families are worried about whether they will get the promised stock. A mother, who is a daily-wage labourer in Kamakshipalya, said: “I haven’t got the rations yet. For now, I get my supply from the ration shop, but that will not be enough.” K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said: “We will ensure that all children get the foodgrains. We have even told teachers that if the child has gone back to their village, they can collect their share from the government school in that village,” he said.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Strict action against traders creating confusion: Somashekar||After paying a surprise visit to Dasanapura Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar warned wholesale traders that their licences would be cancelled if they caused unnecessary trouble and confusion during the lockdown. Over the past few days, many traders have been expressing their unhappiness over the government’s decision to shift them to more spacious grounds including Dasanapura, which is on the outskirts of the city. Apart from the distance, a bone of contention among traders at Dasanapura is the lack of facilities like parking slots, toilets and a permanent roof. The Minister directed APMC officials to rectify the situation. Yelahanka MLA S.R. Vishwanath, who visited the market on Monday, told The Hindu that three borewells were being dug at the Dasanapura. “Many traders who had decided to shut their business have now agreed to continue. We will provide them with facilities,” he said. However, C. Uday Shankar, a trader at APMC Yard, Yeshwantpur, now functioning from Dasanapura, said many onion and potato traders did not conduct business on Monday and would perhaps operate on Tuesday to clear stock. “After that, they will resume only after the lockdown,” he said. Earlier, , the government had shifted three wholesale markets - Yeshwantpur, Kalasipalyam and Yelahanka - to more spacious places. Onion, potato and garlic traders in Yeshwanthpur are now functioning from Dasanapura, whereas the Yelahanka market has been shifted to Byatarayanapura, and Kalasipalyam to Singena Agrahara. At Yeshwantpur, only whole pulses and cereals traders are being allowed to operate. Mr. Shankar reiterated his stand that the government should allow onion and potato traders to function from Yeshwantpur. “Pulses and cereal traders at Yeshwantpur operate on alternate days, on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Why can’t they permit us to trade on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, instead of shifting us to Dasanapura, which is around 20 kms away,” Mr. Uday said.
07 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Solar-powered vegetable vending vans come in handy||At a time when people are living under lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 threat, a solar-powered vegetable and fruits vending van designed by the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) has come in handy for them to buy fresh produce near their houses in a few districts where they are deployed by the Horticulture Department. The van is designed to keep vegetables and fruits not only dust-free and hygienic, but also fresh for two days with an evaporating cooling technology, says G. Senthil Kumaran, Principal Scientist at IIHR’s Post Harvest Technology and Agricultural Engineering Division, who designed these vans in 2017-18. The van has a facility to keep trays for storing vegetables and fruits with a cooling chamber. In the backside, it also has a LED TV for displaying the prices of the produce. The TV can also be used for disseminating social messages and crucial information to farmers on horticulture, points out Dr. Kumaran. “Except for running the vehicle, all other systems on the vehicle such as its cooling chamber, TV and audio announcement system are operated by solar power. It also has battery that can be charged for emergency usage. It is also GPS-enabled so that its whereabouts can be tracked,” the scientist notes. So far, the IIHR has developed 20 such vans for operating in 10 districts. IIHR Director M.R. Dinesh says the vehicle is ideal for maintaining hygiene of vegetable produce. “We have given one of our vans to the HOPCOMS to deliver services to people of Bengaluru during the lockdown period,” he says. Karnataka Horticultural Federation (KHF) Director Kokare Bhimsen says the van was designed after KHF approached IIHR for a concept. “The idea is to link farmers and consumers directly. Presently, it costs Rs. 11 lakh to Rs. 12 lakh for putting all these features, including the cost of the van. But the cost is bound to reduce when mass produced,” he says. It is being used in Vijayapura and Santhosh Inamdar, Deputy Director of Horticulture for Vijayapura, says the new system has evoked good response. He says that each van registered a business turnover of Rs. 14,000 on the first day itself. Two such vans are operating in Koppal too. The solar-powered vegetable vans designed by the IIHR have caught the attention of other States too with the Haryana government buying three such vehicles while Kerala has bought one. Haryana has also announced a subsidy on those from its State buying such vans, according to Dr. Kumaran.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Health check for pregnant, lactating mothers||Pregnant women, lactating mothers, and infants and children aged less than five years, who are currently being housed in the various temporary facilities will be given medical health checkups by the civic body. Nirmala Buggi, BBMP’s Chief Health Officer (Clinical), has been made the nodal officer and has been directed to conduct the health check-up camps with immediate effect. In a circular issued on Monday, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said that six Mobile Medical Units will conduct the check-ups, as well as provide antenatal care, supplementation with iron and folic acid for anaemia, multivitamins for micro nutritional deficiency, screening for high risk pregnancy, etc. Drugs and medicines will be distributed free of cost. If any lab investigation cannot be carried out in the mobile medical units, samples are to be sent to the civic body’s laboratories.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Firms’ response leaves IT, ITeS employees wary||The IT sector, which is feeling the impact of the lockdown and the COVID-19 pandemic, has started taking measures to contain the fallout. Many IT and ITeS companies have begun cutting salaries while some are reportedly giving employees pink slip in defiance of the government order against taking such a drastic step during the 21-day lockdown. The developments seem like a replay of the conditions in 2016 when many a company from the technology space began to rationalise or defer hiring of those selected during campus placements. Come 2019, the COVID-19, the novel coronavirus began wreaking havoc in China. By March 2020, it's spread like wild fire, impacting most businesses.As businesses foresee a big dent in future, there have been indications of some IT/ITeS companies starting retrenchments and salary cuts. An indication was given by the Karnataka State IT/ITeS Employees Union, or KITU, condemning this ‘illegal and inhuman act’ by managements. The KITU, in a statement, said that it supports all employees and extended all support to the affected employees. The union has asked the employees to refuse to resign if asked to do so by the management. “Acting against the GOI direction during this catastrophic situation is acting against the nation's interests. Hence, KITU demands the urgent intervention of the government to this matter and also requests the government to take stricter action against the companies who violate the advisory and labour laws,” the union said. The KITU urged the companies to respect the law of the land and not to indulge in retrenchments even after the lockdown period. The impact of the coronavirus is being seen on the campus recruitment front too. The director of an IIT has gone public with his frustration over the possibility of firms rescinding their campus offers.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three railway hospitals ready for COVID-19 patients||The South Western Railway (SWR) has readied railway hospitals at Bengaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi to provide medical care for COVID-19 patients. A release from the SWR states that the railway hospital at Bengaluru, a 50-bed hospital has been converted into a COVID hospital. At Divisional Railway Hospital, Mysuru, 74 of 101 beds are earmarked for COVID-19 patients. Central Hospital, Hubballi is a 150-bed hospitals, out of which 30 bedded isolation blocks have been earmarked for COVID-19 patients.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Book violators under Disaster Management Act’||City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao has directed police personnel on ground to enforce the lockdown more strictly and book cases against violators under the Disaster Management Act. Mr. Rao said he has been observing lapses in the implementation of the lockdown and directed the police to barricade more roads to contain the movement of vehicles. “The police should monitor grocery shops where customers are violating rules of social distancing, warn them and record a video for evidence,” he said.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prepare for competitive exams online||II P.U. students preparing for competitive examinations like the Common Entrance Test (CET) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for 2020-21 will be given online courses through KEONICS. All exams have been postponed due to the lockdown. Based on a proposal by the Department of Technical Education, the Higher Education Department has given approval to conduct online classes through KEONICS, Deputy CM and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said. The Higher Education Department will release Rs. 80 lakh for this purpose. “Second year pre-university students have completed all their examinations except one paper. They will have to gear up for their competitive examinations. We hope that these online classes will ensure some amount of academic rigour and benefit the students,” said an official from the Higher Education Department.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bullet’ Prakash passes away||Kannada actor ‘Bullet’ Prakash, 44, known for his comic roles, passed away in the city on Monday. He had acted in 325 films and even produced a film with himself in the lead. Mr. Prakash debuted as a child actor in Ravichandran’s film Shanti Kranti , but made a comeback with another Ravichandran film Preetsodu Tappa film in 1998. He came to be known as ‘Bullet’ Prakash as he rode a Bullet bike for many years. Mr. Prakash was not keeping well for some time and was hospitalised on March 31 over gastrointestinal troubles. However, his condition worsened and he suffered multi-organ failure. He was put on ventilator support on Monday. He is survived by wife and two young children.
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No congregational prayers||The Karnataka State Board of Auqaf, Bengaluru, has directed mosques and muslim graveyards/darghas throughout the State to not allow congregational prayers and suspend public visit on Shab-e-Barat on April 9.
07 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Dharwad patient discharged||The 33-year-old man a resident of Hosayallapur here who tested positive for COVID-19 has recuperated fully and discharged from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, on Sunday, Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has said. In a release, Ms. Deepa said that the youth had returned to Dharwad from Perth in Australia on March 12 via Dubai, Muscat and Panaji, Goa. After he developed health problems he went for a check-up at a private nursing home and then to a private medical college hospital in Dharwad on March 17. He was then referred to KIMS Hospital in Hubballi and the samples of his blood and throat swab had been sent for test to the laboratory in Shivamogga. He tested positive and was under treatment at KIMS Hospital. As he showed signs of recovery, his throat swab samples were sent again for tests on March 31 and April 3 to the lab in Shivamogga. On both occasions, the results came negative and he was discharged from the hospital on Sunday, she added.
07 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||A kind gesture marks Mahaveer Jayanti||Members of the local Jain community celebrated Mahaveer Jayanti, the birth anniversary of Bhagwan Mahaveer, in a fruitful manner by extending a helping hand to families hit hard by loss of livelihood due to lockdown here on Monday. Unlike in the previous years, the Jain community dropped holding religious programmes and colourful processions on a grand scale. Instead, the money raised from among the community members was used to provide humanitarian aid to families in distress. Accordingly, packages containing groceries and other essential commodities were distributed among 300 families of hair-cutters and workers of brick kilns. Jain Samaj leader Datta Dorle said that the government has announced lockdown to contain the further spread of coronavirus. The local Jain community had decided against holding religious programmes on a large scale. Also, it was decided to observe the occasion by reaching out to the people in need, especially those whose livelihood had been affected by the lockdown. As hair-cutters and brick kiln workers are the bread-earners for their families and who have been rendered without any income now were chosen to receive the aid, he said. Jain community leaders Tavanappa Ashtagi and Parshvanath Shetti and others were present.
07 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Heated arguments at COVID-19 meeting||Heated arguments between leaders of the BJP and Janata Dal(S) marked a meeting on COVID-19 chaired by Minister for Law J.C. Madhuswamy here on Monday. There were arguments between Mr. Madhuswamy and Janata Dal(S) leader H.D. Revanna and also between Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna of the Janata Dal(S) Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda of the BJP. It all began with Mr. Revanna demanding ventilators for taluk hospitals in the district. Immediately, the Minister countered stating that if there were any COVID-19 cases at the taluk level, such patients should be sent to the district centres. The need for ventilators at taluk hospitals could be discussed at a later stage. To this, the Janata Dal(S) leader stood up and said that he would leave the meeting, if there was no need for the views of MLAs. At this juncture, the Minister asked Mr. Revanna what he had done for the district all these years. Why had he not fulfilled the need for ventilators when he was in power, he wanted to know. Meanwhile, Mr. Preetham Gowda and Mr. Prajwal Revanna entered into an argument over the district administration’s inaction against bars selling liquor violating lockdown. Mr. Preetham Gowda took serious exception to Mr. Prajwal Revanna’s statement over one particular bar owned by a BJP leader.
07 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hunt for creator of fake video clip||The Hassan police are trying to trace the person who created a video purportedly showing fruit sellers tasting grapes before selling them and circulated it on social media to create fear of the spread of COVID-19 in Hassan. The video, which went viral on Sunday evening, was circulated by many, including a WhatsApp group of Hassan district BJP’s media unit. The caption along with the video stated that fruit sellers were tasting grapes before selling them in Northern Extension of the city. BJP workers in the group said the officers concerned should verify the CCTV clips in the locality and take appropriate action. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda, in a press release issued late in the evening, said the video was verified and the three sellers were traced. “They were only eating fruits and not selling the ones eaten. As a precautionary measure, they were subjected to medical tests and they had no health problems. However, they have been asked to remain at home,” he said. The fruits have been taken for tests. Further, the Superintendent of Police said they would trace the person who created the video and circulated the false news and take appropriate action.
07 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Muslims told to stay indoors, abide by law||While the Hubballi Police are on the lookout for those absconding after the attack on police personnel at Mantur Road last Friday, political leaders and office-bearers of Anjuman-e-Islam and community leaders held a meeting in Hubballi on Monday with an appeal to Muslims to stay indoors and abide by the lockdown restrictions. Already 16 persons, including six women, have been arrested by the police in connection with the assault on police personnel on duty causing injuries to them. When the police personnel had gone to disperse an unlawful assembly in front of a mosque on Mantur Road, a mob comprising women attacked them. In the meeting chaired by the former Minister Basavaraj Horatti, the participants, including MLA Prasad Abbayya, MLC Srinivas Mane, the former Minister A.M. Hindasageri, Anjuman-e-Islam office-bearers Mohammed Yousuf Savanur, Altaf Kittur and Ismail Tamatgar, emphasised on the need to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the police in the wake of the lockdown. Subsequently, addressing a joint press meet, Mr. Horatti, Mr. Hindasageri, Mr. Abbayya, Mr. Mane and Mr. Savanur said that already discussions had been held with the Anjuman-e-Islam organisations of both Hubballi and Dharwad and they had been asked to follow the law. Mr. Hindasageri said that 130 mosques in the twin cities had been closed and no mass prayers were being held anywhere and people had been asked not to come out of their houses. Anjuman-e-Islam president Mohammed Yousuf Savanur said that in the wake of Shab-e-Barat being observed on April 8, members of the Muslim community have been asked not to venture out of the houses and not to go to the graveyard. Meanwhile, all the arrested persons, including the six women, have been remanded in judicial custody. The police arrested five women on the day of the incident on Friday and 10 persons, including one woman, on Saturday. On Sunday, they arrested one more person and now are on the lookout for the others.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||High alert issued to zoos and forest field staff||In view of a tiger testing positive for coronavirus in New York’s Bronx Zoo, the Forest department has issued a high alert to all its circle heads, zoos and deer parks in the State, asking them to be watchful for symptoms and abnormal behaviour in animals. The instructions followed elaborate directives from the Central Zoo Authority and the National Tiger Conservation Authority, apart from the Wildlife division of the Ministry of Environment and Forests.
07 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 test facility established in Ballari||Minister of Health and Family Welfare B. Sriraumulu inaugurated the much-awaited COVID-19 test facility at the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Ballari on Monday. The facility, which can test 15 samples in a shift, would be a great relief for Ballari and other surrounding districts which were thus far dependent on the National Institute of Virology in Bengaluru, which was already overburdened, for COVID-19 sample tests. As per information shared by the district administration, the laboratory was established after obtaining all the permissions from the competent authorities and completing all the necessary procedures. “We have received one machine which can test 15 samples in a batch originally. We have further purchased one more machine worth Rs. 16.5 lakh using calamity funds of the district which can test another 45 samples. So, we can test 110 samples in a day (two shifts),” Deputy Commissioner of Ballari S.S. Nakul said in a communication. He offered special thanks to VIMS Director Devanand and Microbiology Department Head Krishna, for all the hard work they put in to get the facility established.
07 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Illicit liquor seized||The Excise Department conducted raids at various places in Sedam taluk of Kalaburagi district on Sunday and seized 8,480 litres of illicit liquor and 310 litres of jaggery wash. Cases have been registered.
07 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four patients discharged in Dakshina Kannada||The first person, a youth from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada, who tested positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada and three other patients from Kasaragod district, Kerala, who also tested positive and who were under treatment at the Government Wenlock Hospital in the city were discharged on Monday. With this, eight patients who tested positive are now under treatment in the district. Of them, six are in Wenlock Hospital and one each in two private hospitals. The youth (22) from Bhatkal had arrived at the airport here from Dubai on March 19. After he showed symptoms during screening at the airport he had directly been shifted from there to Wenlock Hospital the same day. The youth tested positive on March 22. All the other three patients from Kasaragod also had arrived here from Dubai and had been directly admitted to the same hospital after they showed symptoms during screening at the airport. Of them, a 32-year-old male and another 24-year-old male arrived on March 20. They tested positive on March 23 and March 24, respectively. The third person, a 47-year-old male, arrived on March 19 and tested positive on March 23. A subsequent test conducted on April 4 found them negative for the disease, a release from Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said on Monday. The release said that reports for 10 samples sent for tests are awaited. It said that 4,237 persons are under home quarantine in the district, while 1,709 persons have completed their home quarantine, without having shown any symptoms.
07 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tourist guides in dire straits||For hundreds of tourist guides across the State and country, the COVID-19 lockdown has come as a bolt from the blue and has overnight reduced them to a state of penury. Dependent solely on the nominal fee of Rs. 150 to Rs. 250 that they charge by ushering the tourists around monuments and briefing them about its history, most guides earn less than the daily wagers though there may be a handful whose earnings ensure them a decent living. But for the rest, it is sustainable during the best of times. “I have been working as a licensed guide since 1973 and have 47 years of experience. I have no choice but to keep going on despite my advancing age as the earnings are meagre,” said B.N. Satyanarayana Gupta, a guide at Belur Channakeshava temple. “But with the lockdown in place, I’m now dependent on my savings to tide over the next few months as there will not be any earnings in the foreseeable future,” he added. All monuments and temples are closed since the last 10 days and future bookings too have been cancelled, which has rendered the guides unemployed. Mr. Gupta said there are 25 guides at the Belur temple in addition to 25 at the Hoysaleshwara temple in Halebid and all of them are in similar predicament. Devaraja, who officiates as a guide at the 13th century Kesava temple at Somnathpura in Mysuru district, said this is the worst crisis he has faced in his career spanning 25 years. The monument reckoned to be the perfect model of Hoysala style of architecture, draws maximum number of international tourists from January to March. But this year, the tourist footfall has been relatively less and began to decline by February when the COVID-19 scare gained worldwide traction. The earnings of guides at Somanathpura took a hit as early as February. “Even the occasional tourist would maintain distance and not hire a guide,” said Mr. Devaraja, who knows no other avocation and is staring at a bleak future. Mysore Approved Tourists Guide Association president S.J. Ashok said there are not less than 600 trained guides in the district alone but only a handful are financially stable. This is because even during the best of tourism season, only a handful of travellers engage a guide, he said. The association plans to approach authorities to seek financial assistance to tide over the crisis that has affected them due to the collapse of the tourism sector because of COVID-19. Travel and tourism was almost the first sector to feel the direct impact of COVID-19 as flights, travel activities and transportation were the first to be cancelled. What is disconcerting the guides is that it will also be the last sector to revive as vacation and holidays will be the last thing on the mind of the people trying to put their house in order after the prolonged lockdown and its economic fallout.
07 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||In Nanjangud, home quarantine stickers removed to avoid ‘stigma’||The reports of people removing home quarantine stickers pasted on their homes in Nanjangud, a ‘red zone’ area for COVID-19 in view of multiple positive cases, and complaints of denial of essential supplies to the primary contacts of those tested positive to the contagion have surfaced in Mysuru district. Taking a serious view of the cases, the district administration and the district police have issued a strong warning against such acts and warned of booking criminal cases against the violators. “This is the last warning. If we come across home quarantine stickers being removed from homes, such persons will be booked straightaway for flouting the rules, including under the Epidemic Disease Act. The sticker is meant for public health safety," said Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar on Monday. Mr. Sankar said he had received many complaints of home quarantine stickers pasted by the Health Department being removed in Nanjangud. In some cases, the stickers were removed, pasted again and taken out yet again. Such acts are inexcusable and the health workers posted in the town had been asked to book cases. “The stickers don’t attract any stigma. The step had been taken as a safety precaution which should be complied with strictly. Nobody is authorised to remove stickers. The right rests only with the Health Department,” he said. As many as 1,334 persons are in home quarantine and most of them were the employees of the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud and their primary contacts (family members and relatives). The total number of positive cases in Mysuru rose from 28 to 35 with seven confirmed cases on Monday. Superintendent of Police C.B. Ryshyanth said the police had received complaints of discrimination against those placed in home quarantine and denial of essentials such as milk, ration, and vegetables to them in Bannur town of T Narsipur taluk. Such acts will attract legal proceedings since it’s an offence under the law, he warned. The SP, who had been to Bannur on Monday and appealed to the public not to show prejudice against anybody or any community, said the primary contacts of some COVID-19 positive cases had been placed in home quarantine as a precaution and they should not be misunderstood as ‘positive’ cases. All novel Coronavirus positive cases had been isolated in the COVID-19 hospital in Mysuru and there is no need to panic, he added. Mr. Sankar and Mr. Ryshyanth urged the participants of Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin from Mysuru district to report for screening and quarantine since some of the participants had already tested positive to the virus.
07 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ration distributed to guides||The Tourism Department has thrown a lifeline to the registered tourist guides across Karnataka by distributing ration to tide over the crisis owing to the lockdown.  In view of the dire financial conditions of some of the guides, Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi instructed the department to distribute ration to the guides. In all, 45 guides in Mysuru received ration kit containing 10 kg of rice, 1 litre edible oil and cereals. The ration was distributed for guides at Badami, Chitradurga and Hampi on Monday while those at Belur, Halebid and Srirangapatana received the ration on Sunday.
07 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rain in Bandipur brings cheer||Moderate to heavy rain across large swathe of Bandipur on Sunday evening and early Monday brought major reprieve against the threat of forest fire. There was heavy rain in G.S. Betta, Moolehole, Maddur, parts of Kalkere, Hediyala, and parts of Omkara range of the tiger reserve, which has brought cheer to the Forest Department which is on alert against fire outbreak. T. Balachandra, director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, said the situation had eased considerably due to good rain across the national park portions. The drinking water situation for animals too was comfortably placed. The peak summer and fire season starts from February and lasts through March and the pre-monsoon showers in April and May eases the situation after which is the rainy season with the onset of South West monsoon during June.
07 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Panel set up to probe into short-circuit in hospital||The State government has formed a committee comprising the District Health Officer, the Assistant Commissioner of Shivamogga sub-division and an Assistant Executive Engineer from Public Works Department to probe into the incident in which there was a short-circuit at the paediatric ward at McGann Hospital, a government hospital attached to Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences. On Sunday evening, heavy rain accompanied by lightning lashed Shivamogga city during which a short-circuit was reported at the paediatric ward in the hospital. The ward was engulfed with thick smoke and a few medical equipment there were burnt in the incident. However, 30 children were safely shifted to a private hospital in the city. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa told presspersons here on Monday that the committee would probe into the reasons for the incident and would submit a report shortly. He said that the State government would bear the expenses related to the medical treatment extended for these children at the private hospital. B.Y. Raghavendra, Shivamogga MP and S. Rudre Gowda, MLC, visited the private hospital where the children have been shifted.
07 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||55-year-old farmer dies of monkey fever||A 55-year-old farmer from Udukere village in Tirthahalli has died due to Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, at a private hospital at Manipal in Udupi district on Monday. With this, the total number of persons who have succumbed to KFD in Shivamogga district since January 1 has risen to five. The deceased was suffering from high fever, fatigue and pain in joints. His blood samples tested positive for KFD. He was admitted to the private hospital in Manipal for treatment on March 30. Ashoka M.V., Tirthahalli Taluk Health Officer, told The Hindu that, on Monday, the health condition of the patient worsened and he breathed last at 11 a.m. Three new cases Meanwhile, three new positive cases of KFD were reported from Sagar taluk on Sunday of which one is from Aralagodu, the epicentre of last year’s outbreak; one from Maralagodu village while another case is from Henni-Vadanabailu village. Results awaited On Monday, a four-year-old child from Seegemakki village in Sharavati river backwater region showing symptoms of KFD was admitted to the government general hospital in Sagar. His blood samples have been sent to Viral Diagnostic Laboratory in Shivamogga for testing. Shivamogga district has recorded as many as 133 positive cases of KFD since January 1 that includes 105 cases from Tirthahalli taluk and 28 cases from Sagar taluk.  With this, the total number of persons who have succumbed to KFD in Shivamogga district since January 1 has risen to five
07 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Primary contacts of three patients test negative||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Monday that all primary contacts of three persons from Udupi district who had earlier tested positive for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease. Speaking to presspersons after accepting the 500 food-kits provided by Sugunendra Tirtha Swami of Puttige Mutt for poor workers here, Mr. Jagadeesha said that these primary contacts had been put under hospital quarantine in the district after the three persons had tested positive. Nearly 2,000 persons from the district who had returned from foreign countries were kept in 14-day home quarantine a fortnight ago and all of them had completed their quarantine period. “Hence, there is no need for people in the district to panic,” he said. Mr. Jagadeesha said that the administration had traced 33 contacts of a 63-year-old woman from Udupi district who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 4. The woman, who had returned here from Dubai on March 22, was receiving treatment at a hospital in Mangaluru. All these 33 contacts had been kept under strict home quarantine for 14 days in the district and they had completed their quarantine period. The 16 persons from Udupi district, who were in Delhi about a fortnight ago for other purposes, had been traced and they were all in home quarantine, he said.  Raghupati Bhat, MLA, was present.
07 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Conditions on sale of commodities and fuel||The Yadgir district administration on Monday imposed certain conditions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Yadgir district. Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao stated that as neighbouring Kalaburagi district had witnessed another four positive cases, it was necessary to impose the conditions on the sale of essential items, including vegetables and fuel pumps, between 4 a.m. and 4 p.m., till further orders. The conditions will be applicable with immediate effect.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown forces K-RERA to extend completion dates||The real estate sector has not escaped the cascading effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the effects of which are being felt not just in India, but across the world. In the wake of the 21-day lockdown, the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) has extended the completion deadline of registered projects that expired on or after March 15, 2020. In a circular issued on April 4, K-RERA stated that the period of validity for registration of such projects will be extended by three months. The regulatory authority will issue project registration certificates with revised timelines. The Authority acknowledged the impact of the lockdown noting that the progress of real estate projects registered with K-RERA has been severely hit. Some of the reasons for the delay include disruption of supply chains for obtaining construction materials and migration of the labour force to their native towns. “Under these circumstances, real estate projects across Karnataka will take some time to restart their work,” said K-RERA in the circular. The Authority has also taken a decision to extend the date of statutory compliance in accordance with the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, which is due in March, April and May. This has been extended till June 30, 2020. In another decision, all the complaint cases listed for hearing up to April 14 before the K-RERA and adjudicating officer have been adjourned. The next date of hearing of each case will be posted on the website of the authority. This decision has been taken to avoid gathering of lawyers, litigants and visitors. However, exemption has been given to hearing of urgent cases. The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) has welcomed the deadline extension. In a press release, president of CREDAI – Bengaluru Kishore Jain said, “With the slowdown, expected recession, developers were worried about complying with regulations set by RERA.” CREDAI also pointed out that developers may need a further extension as labourers may not return immediately after the lockdown.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Summer showers||
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown not being followed properly: BSY||“We are thinking of relaxing restrictions in districts that have not reported any COVID-19 cases. But restrictions may have to continue in districts that have reported cases, especially in the five that have been identified as hotspots,” he said. Mr. Yediyurappa also said that the relaxing of restrictions will depend on the people of the State and the spread of the virus. “We will review the situation on April 14, when the Prime Minister will also take a call on the situation nationally. But life will not be back to normal on April 15,” he said. He said he has directed the Finance Department to ensure salaries are paid to all government employees in April, notwithstanding the other difficulties.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nikhil’s wedding to be low key||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said on Monday that the marriage ceremony of his son Nikhil K. will be a low-key affair in Bengaluru on April 17. In the light of the restrictions, the marriage will be held in a simple manner either at his residence or at the bride’s house. Speaking to presspersons in Ramanagaram, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the function will be held in Ramnagaram district later once the situation returns to normalcy.  Mr. Nikhil, grandson of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, is set to marry the grandniece of former Congress Minister M. Krishnappa. Earlier, there were plans to hold a grand wedding, inviting every household of Ramanagaram. Mr. Nikhil, an actor and JD(S) youth wing president, contested the byelections to Mandya Lok Sabha last year, but lost to actor Sumalatha.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Keeping distance||
07 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||One discharged in Alappuzha||One person admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, with COVID-19 was discharged on Monday after his samples tested negative for the disease. “Two samples collected from him tested negative for the disease last week. After the results came, we observed him for another three days. He has made a full recovery,” said an official. He had travelled from Qatar to Goa before reaching Alappuzha. The person was tested positive for the disease on March 24, thus becoming the second COVID-19 case in the district. The first person, a Wuhan returnee, was completely cured in February. Stable The district has so far witnessed three COVID-19 cases. The condition of the third person who tested positive for the disease on Saturday remains stable. No fresh case of the disease was reported in the district on Monday. However, three people were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease. The number of people under observation at various hospitals stood at 12. Besides, 8,731 people are in home quarantine. Stale fish seized Meanwhile, officials with the health wing of the Alappuzha municipality seized 350 kg of stale fish put up for sale by the roadside on Monday. Worms were found in the fish seized from some areas.
07 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Subadult gaur rescued from well, calf dead||Two Indian gaurs which had strayed from the forest, fell into an agricultural well at Koodaramkunnu near Makkiyad in the district on Sunday night. While the subadult gaur, aged nearly two years, was rescued, the calf aged six months, died in the well. “The animals fell into the 10-metre-deep well on a private land on the fringes of the Makkiyad forest under the Mananthavadi forest range of the North Wayanad forest division, around 7.30 p.m. on Sunday”, Divisional Forest Officer Ramesh Bishnoi told The Hindu . On receiving information, Forest officials visited the spot. Later, the officials along with Fire and Rescue Services personnel attempted for hours to rescue the surviving animal from the well. Finally, it was pulled out from the well by using a net after sedating it with a tranquillizer dart, Mr. Bishnoi said. The darting operation began after the carcass of the calf was pulled out . It took nearly 10 hours to complete the operation. As the animal was found stable after the operation, it was released into Begur forest range, he said. K.V.Biju and V.Ratheesan, forest range officersof Mananthavadi and Begur forest ranges respectively, supervised the operation. It was suspected that those gaurs were moving in the dark in search of food or water and accidentally fell into the well, they said. Two years ago, a gaur was rescued from the area after it was trapped in a marshy stretch of land.
07 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Rights panel directive to jail authorities||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has criticised jail authorities for not releasing a prisoner on parole for the last five years. The prisoner has been serving a life sentence of 15 years in Kannur Central Jail. According to a press release, judicial member of the Commission P. Mohandas directed the Director General of Prisons to probe the possibilities of giving parole to or releasing Mohammed Rameez, who is serving life sentence. The order states that a police report and probation report should be made available in favour of the prisoner. The Director General of Prisons should look into whether the prisoner could be released as per the decision of the prison advisory committee.
07 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Three more die in Kasaragod||Three persons have died in Kasaragod since Saturday night without getting medical care as the Karnataka government has kept its border with Kerala closed, denying treatment to people in dire need of medical attention. So far, 10 people from Kasaragod have died for want of medical treatment because of the stance adopted by Karnataka in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Most people in the district are dependent on hospitals in Mangaluru in Karnataka and adjoining places for medical care. Krishnappa Gowda, 71, who was a heart patient and was being treated at a private hospital at Sullia in Karnataka, died on Saturday night at his residence at Kalapally in Kasaragod. He was reportedly denied treatment at the hospital and sent back. According to a relative of Mr. Gowda, he had been discharged from the hospital a few days before the lockdown was announced. On Friday, he fell ill and the family managed to get him to the hospital in Sullia through the Panathur route in Kasaragod. However, the hospital, which is just a few kilometres from his house, refused him treatment saying there was an order from the district administration not to admit people from Kasaragod. On Sunday, two heart patients, including Rudrappa, a resident of Hosangadi in Manjeswaram, and Yusuf Pavoor, a native of Thuminad in Manjeswaram, died without access to medical care. Both were dependent on hospitals in Mangaluru.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Carbon monoxide levels remain high at M.G. Road in Kochi||The concentration of noxious gas carbon monoxide (CO) was found to be on a higher level at M.G. Road here even after the lockdown came into force, revealed a study by the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB). “It is important to note that the concentration of CO is found to be on a higher level at the air quality monitoring station at M.G. Road. This may be due to the unauthorised usage of diesel generator sets in close proximity and local burning of garbage, etc., especially during the lockdown period. It is a usual practice of the public to dispose of non-biodegradable waste through burning, which generates higher concentration of CO and Particulate Matter (PM),” said the report prepared by the regional office of the SPCB in Ernakulam. However, the daily data on concentration of different parameters showed a downward trend during the lockdown period. This may be due to the effect of reduction in traffic intensity and shutdown of different facilities, especially industries and the construction sector that usually generate higher concentration of parameters such as particulate matter (PM 10 & PM 2.5), oxides of nitrogen, sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide during the lockdown period, it said. Air quality index Even though the carbon monoxide level was found high, the air quality index at M.G. Road was now in the range ‘good and satisfactory’ (AQI range 0-50 and 50-100 respectively). The maximum air quality index observed was in the range of ‘moderate’ (AQI Range 100-200) during normal times. The air quality index at Vyttila during the lockdown period was rated as ‘good’. However, the data during the lockdown period showed a predominance of nitrous oxide emissions. It may be due to the proximity of the bus terminal, where a lot of vehicles are parked. But, detailed investigations have to be carried out to check how the nitrous oxide levels increased in these times. At Eloor, the levels of particulate matter remained high even during the lockdown period while a descending trend was noticed in the levels of SO2, CO, and NOx. The AQI level was recorded as ‘satisfactory’. This may be due to the temporary shutdown of certain industrial units in addition to limited usage of vehicles, according to the study.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Stringent measures based on COVID-19 status over next 10 days’||With Ernakulam being identified as one of the COVID-19 hotspots, District Collector S. Suhas has said that stringent measures after the lifting of the nationwide lockdown could be similar to the ones imposed during the partial lockdown in the district before the start of the 21-day period. He said instructions regarding the measures were yet to reach his office. “It could depend on the kind of situation the next 10 days present,” he added. The movement of essential services would be on and there would be strict watch over crowding of people. It could mean that cinemas and malls would remain closed in the district. Sources in the district administration said the government would take precautions anticipating a movement of migrant labourers back home. Community kitchens could be strained if they continued for a longer period, said an official in the district administration. Practical solutions to get economic activity going would be adopted in small measures, said the official. Officials said most cases in Ernakulam were a result of it being a major air transit point. About half of the patients at the medical college hospital in the district are either foreign nationals or people from other districts.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Safer sample collection kiosks set up||The Ernakulam district administration has set up a walk-in sample collection kiosk (WISK) that will do away with the need for a health-care worker to wear a personal protective equipment (PPE) to collect the throat swab sample of a person suspected to have COVID-19. Instead, the health-care worker will utilise the protective shield of the kiosk while taking swabs. The kiosks were made indigenously on the advice of a team led by doctors at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Ernakulam, and medical officers of the Health Department in the district. The idea was based on the kiosks being used in South Korea, said District Collector S. Suhas at the demonstration of the kiosk at the collectorate on Monday. The kiosks will help reduce the use of the PPE, priced at Rs. 1,000 a kit, besides help bring down the waste generated by the one-time-use kit. Two kiosks, priced Rs. 40,000 each, would be set up at the MCH. Facilities installed For the safety of the health-care worker and the person from whom the swab is collected, the kiosk is fitted with magnetic doors, an exhaust fan, and ultraviolet light. After each sample collection, the gloves fitted on the kiosks and the chair in front of it would be decontaminated. It could bring down the practical difficulties in sample collection, said Mr. Suhas. These kiosks will be helpful in the event of community spread that would necessitate a lot more tests. It takes only a minute or two to take the swabs. The district COVID-19 control room, headed by Mr. Suhas, plans to have a kiosk each at sample collection centres such as the Muvattupuzha general hospital, Aluva district hospital, and Karuvelipady government hospital. Two more centres, Tripunithura taluk hospital and Paravur taluk hospital, are likely to get the kiosk. Doctors associated with the development of the kiosk said it could be used at airports for screening passengers without exposing health workers to the threat of the disease. A member of the Pollution Control Board and the Alangad panchayat’s standing committee chairman for health T.K. Shajahan had come up with a detailed model for the kiosk with the help of a team. Mr. Shajahan, a businessman, had sponsored the two kiosks.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Wildlife sanctuaries put on high alert||Wildlife and Animal Husbandry departments have been put on high alert in the State following a case of a captive tiger developing COVID-19 in a U.S. zoo. Surendra Kumar, Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala, has issued an advisory to all field directors, circle heads of territorial and wildlife forest divisions, wildlife wardens and divisional forest officers to look for any signs of the spread of the disease among wild animals. “As a captive tiger has been found infected with coronavirus, there is no reason to believe that the same cannot be transmitted to tigers in the wild,” noted the advisory. Advisory issued The field staff of the Forest Department has been asked to look for sick animals. A similar advisory has been issued to the Director of Zoo, Thiruvananthapuram, to follow the instructions issued by the Union Ministry of Environment and Forest and the Central Zoo Authority in managing the situation. The State Institute for Animal Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram, will issue an advisory activating the network of veterinarians to look for any possible signs of the disease among domestic animals too, said R. Jayachandran, Chief Disease Investigation Officer. Hong Kong case The institute had issued a circular during the first phase of the disease. There was an earlier report of a cat, kept in the same household of a COVID-19 patient in Hong Kong, developing the antibody of the disease. However, one needs to confirm whether the animal has been infected by the virus, he said. E.K. Eswaran, Chief Forest Veterinarian, said diagnosis of the disease among the wild animal population would be an uphill task. Once infected, the animals would hide the symptoms and remain hidden in their habitats as the sick ones would be preyed on by other animals. Sick animals may emerge from the hiding and appear near water sources only at the terminal stage of the disease. Camera traps near waterholes may help identify the weak animals, he said.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Many are the ways to kill boredom||The nationwide lockdown, aimed at keeping COVID-19 at bay, has brought in a predictable, yet unwanted, guest — boredom. Now, Keralites are trying to beat back the intruder through varied pastimes, ranging from making the hitherto-unheard-of Dalgona coffee to setting up vegetable and fruit gardens on terraces. Lettish Jacob, a teacher, and her children have been busy trying out delicacies. The family made Dalgona coffee for the first time a week ago. “It came out very well and was delicious. Coffee lovers would relish its taste, which can be enhanced if garnished with small pieces of chocolate or biscuits. Two days ago, my daughter made French fries which were much better than the ones we get in eateries,” says Ms. Jacob. Indira Rajan, secretary general of the National Confederation of CBSE Schools, now spends hours nurturing her terrace garden. “Produce like turmeric from my rooftop garden have come in handy during this testing period, when people are looking for ways to boost immunity. We replanted recently and there are now 35 varieties of vegetables, curry leaves and fruits.” Ms. Rajan, who stays at Perumbavoor, set up a rooftop vegetable garden in 2008, after former President the late A.P.J. Abdul Kalam launched a project titled Green Village Healthy India at a school she runs. She purchased imported seeds online for her school and house. Four generations Only organic fertilizers like cow dung, cow urine, and neem cake are used. A mixture of tobacco and bar soap is used as pesticide. “Four generations of my family, including my 100-year-old mother and my four grandchildren, tend to the plants daily. It is a pleasure plucking ripe vegetables and fruits. So, boredom has not really bothered us during the lockdown,” says Ms. Rajan.
07 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||672 people in home quarantine in district||Forty-two people were added to the list of those in home quarantine in the district on Monday. With 512 people completing the quarantine period, the number of people in home quarantine has come down to 672. 65-year-old dead A 65-year-old person, brought to the hospital isolation ward, died of heart attack on Sunday evening, He had completed 28 days of home quarantine. Sample test results are awaited. Two more people were admitted to the isolation ward on Monday while six persons were discharged. The total number of people in hospital isolation are 35. Of this, 19 are in the Medical College Hospital, four in Aluva District Hospital, ten in private hospitals and two in Karuvelipady taluk hospital. 30 test negative Samples of 42 people were sent for tests on Monday. All the 30 results received on Monday were negative for COVID-19.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Maldives evacuates nationals||A Maldivian Airlines flight took off from the Cochin International Airport on Monday at 5.55 p.m. with 189 passengers from the island country who were stranded in the State following the lockdown that began on March 23. The Maldivian flight follows a couple of other flights that took off from Kochi with stranded tourists and healthcare seekers from various places in Kerala.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat reschedules vacation||Cochin University of Science and Technology has re-arranged the summer vacation of its teaching departments and engineering colleges owing to the lockdown. An official release said that the summer vacation would be from March 21 to May 20 instead of the earlier May-June schedule. The departments would re-open on May 21.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC allows rape victim to terminate pregnancy||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has allowed a 14-year-old rape survivor to terminate her 24-week-long pregnancy holding that a person’s right to make a reproductive choice is a facet of one’s personal liberty. The Bench of Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly, while allowing the petition filed by the girl’s parent seeking permission to terminate the pregnancy, observed that it was a difficult and disheartening situation. “A person’s right to make a reproductive choice is a facet of her personal liberty as understood under Article 21 of our Constitution. The said choice would extend to deciding whether or not to carry her pregnancy to its full term,” observed the court. A medical board constituted on the directive of the court had reported that continuation of the pregnancy at 14 years would pose a risk to the life of the girl besides affecting her mental health. The psychiatrist who had examined the victim reported that continuing the pregnancy would involve risk of mental health issues. The patient did not appear to have the maturity required for a mother-to-be. She also told the medical board that she wanted to get her pregnancy terminated at the earliest. The court directed the doctors to take the tissue of the foetus for DNA identification and maintain it intact.
07 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC permits travel to buy pet food||Observing that the inculcation of healthy respect for other living creatures was no longer a matter of choice but a solemn duty under the Constitution, a division bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday allowed a pet owner from Maradu to step out on the basis of a self-declaration form to purchase pet food for his three cats. The Bench of Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly passed the verdict on a writ petition filed by N. Prakash seeking a directive to issue a travel pass to him to buy pet food for his cats. According to him, he had applied online for vehicle pass for travelling to a pet hospital at Kadavanthara to buy the feed. However, his request was rejected by the police. He pointed out that the Union government had clarified that “animal feed and fodder” came under the category of essential items.
07 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Restrictions to be tightened in Kottayam||Taking into account a steady increase in the number of primary contacts of COVID-19 patients in the district, the district administration has decided to tighten the lockdown restrictions. In a statement, District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu said strict action would be initiated against those violating the regulations imposed to prevent the spread of the disease. “More than 3,000 people are under surveillance in their respective houses here. They include people from infected countries and other States. Among them, 200 people have come into direct contact with positive cases while 93 are secondary contacts. None of them currently exhibit symptoms of the virus infection,” the Collector said. The district administration, the Health Department and the police have put in place precautionary steps to prevent spread of the disease within the surveillance period of 28 days and thereby preventing community transmission. Drones deployed District Police Chief G. Jaidev, in a separate statement, said public surveillance had been intensified by deploying drone cameras to more areas. The police had so far registered about 2,700 cases and seized about 700 vehicles since the start of the lockdown. Health authorities here on Monday identified nine more primary contacts of COVID-19 patients in other districts, taking the total number of primary contacts to 214. Three in isolation wards Meanwhile, two Idukki natives and one from Pathanamthitta were admitted to the isolation ward at Government Medical College Hospital here during the day. At the same time, 140 persons were relieved from home isolation. Meanwhile, the Kottayam district panchayat has allocated Rs. 25 lakh to augment the facilities in the District General Hospital, a designated COVID-19 care centre. The funds will be used for setting up isolation pay-ward, isolation ICU, ventilators and for buying personal protection equipment (PPE) kit for employees, masks and sanitisers and ensuring sufficient quantity of medicines. Medicines In view of the lockdown restrictions, the panchayat decided to provide life-saving medicines to people who had undergone organ transplants for a period of one month. While the people belonging to the below the poverty line (BPL) will be given medicines free of cost, those in the above the poverty line (APL) category will have to bear the cost of medicines. For details, call: 94002 68137 or 98473 93712.
07 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MPs flay fund suspension||Kerala Congress (M) Rajya Sabha member Jose K. Mani here on Monday criticised the decision to suspend the funds under the Members of Parliament Local Area Development scheme for two years. In a statement, Mr. Mani pointed out that the decision would lead to a ‘development lockdown’ in the country. In a separate statement, Thomas Chazhikadan, KC(M) MP, said the the withdrawal of the MP funds would put the country in a state of stagnation.  N.K. Premachandran, MP, said that it would adversely affect the fight against COVID-19 at the regional level.
07 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Efforts on to trace contacts of patients||The Kozhikode district administration has begun efforts to trace those who may have been in contact with the four persons from here who tested positive for COVID-19 after they returned from the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi last month. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree has urged people who had not yet contacted the district COVID-19 cell after returning from the Tablighi meet to do so as early as possible. The phone numbers are 0495-2376063 and 2371471. At railway station Residents of Kozhikode who were present on the first platform of Kozhikode railway station between 6.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. on March 15 and who travelled by the S5 compartment of Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Express on the day have been asked to contact the district control room. People from other districts should contact their respective district control rooms. Those who were present on the fourth platform between 6.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. on March 22 and people who travelled by S4 compartment of the Navyug Express on the day too should do the same. Passengers on board Dubai-Kochi Air India Express flight IX 434 on March 21 also should contact the control room. They should be under home isolation for 28 days and should not go directly to hospitals for check-up. Control room numbers are 0495-2373901, 2371471, and 2371002. Hotspot The district has been on high alert even though the number of SARS-CoV-2 positive cases reported from here is fewer compared with those in some other districts. With the Centre declaring it as one of the hotspots that require more attention to prevent a spread of the infection, the authorities are reportedly not taking any chances. So far, only 12 people have tested positive for the virus from Kozhikode and all of them had links to foreign countries or the Tablighi meet. The district administration has reportedly put under observation their primary as well as secondary contacts. Three people have recovered from the infection. Around 22,000 people are under observation in the district. Lessons learnt One of the advantages of the health apparatus here has been the lessons they learnt during the Nipah outbreak in 2018. The fever surveillance system and contact tracing mechanism developed then came in handy now. Soon after the number of COVID-19 cases began to rise across the State, the administration launched a portal titled ‘COVID-19 Jagrata’ to collect information on people affected or quarantined for their surveillance, care and support. According to the officials, it turned out to be a “one-stop-platform for the public to avail emergency services and information related to COVID-19”. It also “ensures transparency and quality in public services and welfare measures”. The portal collects information right from the primary health centre level. If any of those under observation develops symptoms, the information is passed on to the district medical control team. Instructions are given to them through video-conferencing and they are taken to the Government Medical College Hospital by designated ambulances.
07 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Proud of my association with Arjunan: lyricist||My association with M.K. Arjunan began half-a-century ago. I am proud that I played a part in shaping up his career, said Sreekumaran Thampi, the well-known Malayalam lyricist. “When I listened to the song on radio Manathin muttathe… ( Karutha Pournam i), I thought it was composed by G. Devarajan. But, R.K. Shekhar (A.R. Rahman's father), who assisted Devarajan and other music directors in Malayalam cinema then, told me it was tuned by a new composer named Arjunan.” “When V. Dakshinamoorthy, with whom I had teamed up for several hits, refused to do the music for producer K.P. Kottarakkara’s new film, Rest House , I recommended Arjunan. “All the songs of that film were hits and we went on to collaborate for about 300 songs,” Mr. Thampi said. Credit “It is true that Arjunan didn't get as much credit as he deserved. One of the reasons for that was that the names of the lyricist and the composer were usually not announced on All India Radio, which was about the only accessible medium for music lovers those days,” he said. “With the arrival of social media, however, today's generation has become more knowledgeable,” he added.  Composer didn't get as much credit as he deserved
07 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||2 Tablighi Jamaat attendees test positive in Malappuram||Two persons from the district who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin on March 11 and 12 tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. While one is a 63-year-old person from Kooriyad near Vengara, the other is a 33-year-old from Chemmad. Both of them were part of a 14-member group that went to Delhi on Amritsar Express (12483) from Kozhikode on March 5. They reached Nizamuddin on March 7 and stayed at a mosque near Banglewali Masjid or the Nizamuddin Markaz. The group went to Varanasi on March 9. Two of them returned home from Varanasi while the others stayed there till March 10. They returned to Nizamuddin on March 11 and stayed at the Markaz, the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat. They attended the Jamaat conference on March 11 and 12 and proceeded to Kerala on Sampark Kranti Express (12218) on March 13. They travelled in a sleeper class compartment and reached Kozhikode at 6 a.m. on March 15. While two members made their way home from Kozhikode, the remaining 10 proceeded to Parappanangadi on the Kannur-Alappuzha Executive Express at 7.40 a.m. From Parappanangadi, the team hired a jeep and reached Malappuram town by 9 a.m. They stayed at Masjidul Huda at Malappuram. They returned to their respective homes by bus at 10 a.m. on March 16. The persons from Kooriyad and Chemmad went home by different buses. The authorities said both of them had close interactions with their family and friends in their respective regions. The Kooriyad man was found to have visited mosques at Mannil Pilakkal Kunnummal and Chemmad. The man from Chemmad was found to have visited a market on Chemmad-Kozhikode Road. The district police and health authorities reached out to them after an extensive search for those who had attended the Nizamuddin conference. They were taken to an isolation centre at the Government Taluk Hospital, Tirurangadi, on April 4 for collecting throat swab and blood samples. They were then placed in home quarantine. They were found positive for COVID-19 on Monday, and were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital at Manjeri. Their wives, children and close relatives who interacted with them were also shifted to the isolation ward at the medical college. District authorities have warned all those who interacted with the two persons and those who had travelled along with them to remain in quarantine at their respective homes. No one should directly reach any hospital if they showed any symptoms, said District Collector Jafer Malik. They should contact the control room at 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253.
07 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Summer rain hits paddy harvest||The early onset of summer rain, coupled with acute shortage of harvesting machines, has badly hit paddy harvesting in upper Kuttanad. All fields in the villages of Peringara, Kadapra, Niranom, Nedumpram and Kuttoor have been waterlogged in the rain that lashed the region over the past one week. Farmers are worried about the chances of ripe paddy sprouting if it continues to remain submerged in the waterlogged fields. The harvesting was scheduled to begin on April 1. Just 20 harvesters District panchayat member Sam Eapen told The Hindu that non-availability of sufficient number of combine harvesters was a serious issue facing the paddy cultivators in upper Kuttanad. Though it required not less than 70 combine harvesters, hardly 20 harvesters were deployed in the area as on Monday, Mr. Eapen said. Mr. Eapen, who is also an office-bearer of the Upper Kuttanad Nelkarshaka Samiti (UKNS), said the harvesting machines could not be used in the waterlogged fields.  Dearth of operators The harvesters are brought from Salem district in Tamil Nadu and the COVID-19 threat and the nationwide lockdown have made it difficult for the farmers to mobilise sufficient number of harvesters. Moreover, the non-availability of its operators who have returned to their home villages following the lockdown has left many machines idling. There are 24 paddy fields in Peringara village, seven in Kadapra and eight fields in Niranom, besides 150 acres in Kuttoor and 750 acres spread across Kaviyur puncha and Thiruvalla municipality. Many farmers in upper Kuttanad have borrowed money from local moneylenders for paddy cultivation and the development will plunge them into a deep financial crisis.
07 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||One more case in Pathanamthitta||One more Non-Resident Keralite (NoRK) tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Monday. With this the number of positive cases in the district touched 15, including eight cured cases. The 60-year-old man from Nellikkala, near Elanthoor, who came from Deira in Dubai on March 19, was admitted to the isolation ward at Pathanamthitta General Hospital on Monday. A medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu here on Monday said the man reached the Thiruvananthapuram international airport by an Air Arabia flight (G9449, Seat No: 14 C) at 4.15 a.m. on March 19. He visited a tea shop at Chakka Junction at 5 a.m. and hired a taxi from there to reach his home at Nellikkala at 7.30 a.m. Since then, he has been home quarantined on the directions of the Health Department. Resident Medical Officer Ashish Mohankumar said the patient showed no symptoms of the disease though he had been shifted to the hospital isolation ward after being tested positive on Monday. The Collector said those who were present at the places mentioned on the route map should contact the health authorities (Phone: 91882 97118 or 91882 94118).  16 in isolation wards Mr. Noohu said 16 persons were admitted to the isolation wards at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry as on Monday evening.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital braces for lockdown extension||Looking beyond the 21-day lockdown that is set to conclude on April 14, the district administration in Thiruvananthapuram has commenced steps to equip itself for a possible extension of the restrictions. Seven hotspots Designated one among the seven COVID-19 hotspots in the State, the district could witness only a partial lifting of the prevailing restrictions to ensure proper containment of the pandemic in line with the advisory of the Union Health Ministry. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who has been spearheading the containment measures in the district, said the State capital has currently stocked up on essential commodities that could last for at least two months. “There is adequate stock of various products in our godowns, including those run by the Food Corporation of India (FCI), that could be distributed during any such eventuality” he said. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan added that constant liaison was being maintained with the Kanyakumari district administration to ensure the unhindered flow of essential commodities and perishables from across the border. Around 250 goods vehicles have been coming from Tamil Nadu daily on an average basis since the lockdown commenced, he said. In view of the need to maintain heightened alert, the district authorities have identified more locations that could be utilised as quarantine facilities. The administration has identified over 25,000 additional beds that are ready to be occupied in hospitals across the district. Besides, the spaces for accommodating another 25,000 beds have also been located in auditoriums and other places, Mr. Gopalakrishnan added. Screening efforts The screening efforts have been boosted by the transportation of 2,000 real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test kits and 1,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits that were procured using funds sanctioned by Shashi Tharoor, MP. More consignments of the test kits and PPE kits were expected to be delivered soon, the official said.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hard times ahead for KSEB||A major dip in returns coupled with mounting financial commitments is likely to cripple the functioning of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) which is reeling under a grave resource crunch. Board sources told The Hindu on Monday that the loss till April 14, when the first phase of lockdown ends, has been pegged at about Rs. 500 crore. An extension in curbs anticipating a community spread of the virus would further compound the crisis. Among the major commitments is the fixed charges being paid to the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) without evacuating power from its Kayamkulam plant, sources said. Arm-twisting tactics Though the board has succeeded in bringing down the fixed charge much below the demand for Rs. 297 crore through negotiations, it has been constrained to yield to the arm-twisting tactics of the corporation. The board has accepted the corporation’s demand in the face of its insistence that on refusing to pay the fixed charges, the former will not be allowed to source power from its other generating stations outside the State. The board has no option but to yield to the duress, sources said. The board has struck long-term pacts with various power producers for sourcing 3,000 MW to ensure uninterrupted supply to the State. Following the spread of COVID-19, the board has to cope up with a 20% dip in demand and meet the payments due to the suppliers. The closure of industrial units and suspension of all commercial activities have taken a heavy toll on the returns of the board. Even if the government decides to lift the lockdown or ease the curbs, reviving the industrial and commercial activities at one go would be a tough challenge. Since the government has granted a grace period for paying the power bills to all consumers, the daily revenue collection from power distribution has declined from Rs. 45 crore to Rs. 5 crore, the sources said. The board would have to draw heavily from financial institutions and banks to meet its committed expenditure, including salary and other payments at substantial rates of interest. And that would again add to the revenue worries of the board.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Task force for extended lockdown in 7 hotspot districts||Keeping the seven COVID-19 hotspot districts of the State under lockdown even after April 14 and a four-phase calibrated lifting of the lockdown have been mooted by the 17-member task force headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham. With this recommendation of the task force, consisting of eminent persons, the government will have to take a call on keeping the COVID-19 hotspot districts of Thiruvanananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod under lockdown. The task force, which submitted the report to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday, is learnt to have mooted stern measures to contain the deadly virus in the hotspot districts. Masks should be made compulsory for all and only one from a house would be allowed to go out to buy essentials. The task force, which was asked to come out with recommendations on a phased return to normalcy after the 21-day lockdown period that commenced in the country on March 25, is against allowing flights and train services. Inter-district public transport can be allowed but with stern measures to avoid crowding on buses and in bus stations. Tough measures had been mooted for private vehicles. Limiting the passengers to two and restricting vehicles using the odd and even registration numbers had been mooted. Schools and colleges in the State should be allowed to function only for conducting examinations, especially SSLC, Plus One and Plus Two, that had to be abruptly stopped. The task force has recommended that the number of persons attending funerals and marriages be limited to 10.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||City zoo steps up vigil||The city zoo has decided to intensify the vigil against COVID-19 after the Central Zoo Authority issued a directive to chief wildlife wardens of all States and officers in-charge of recognised zoos on Monday to adopt precautionary biosecurity measures in the wake of a tiger in a zoo in New York testing positive for the disease. A review meeting of Thiruvananthapuram zoo officials was held on Monday to discuss the directive issued by the Central Zoo Authority. Zoo Senior Veterinary Surgeon Jacob Alexander said the Thiruvananthapuram zoo was the first one in the country to take precautions against spread of COVID-19 and the first to have barred the entry of visitors on March 13 with the aim of preventing crowds. The zoo has been functioning with bare minimum staff, including animal keepers and other staff. All employees are being closely observed and keepers living some distance away have been given leave. Classes are also being held for the employees on safety steps. Hand sanitisers and masks have been made available to them. Masks, in fact, were stitched after they became unavailable in the market. Adequate stocks of food and medicines have been arranged. Round-the-clock medical care is also available. Disinfection protocols for COVID-19 are being implemented in animal houses. “So far, there is nothing for the zoo to be concerned about. All the animals are healthy,” Dr. Alexander said. However, to remain a step ahead, the zoo has ensured minimum contact of staff with animals. “All safety measures are being complied with. However, the review meeting has decided to further strengthen these steps,” Dr. Alexander said.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown offers boost sale of BS-IV compliant vehicles||The lockdown in the country has come as a blessing in disguise for automobile dealers to dispose of their BS-IV compliant vehicles in the inventory by March 31 by offering tempting discounts and offers. The hurdles in registration, inability to deliver and lack of mobility of motorists and Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) personnel did not prevent the motorists in opting for the tempting offers given by dealers to sell off the BS-IV compliant three- and four-wheelers and motorcycles. On March 31, the MVD got Rs. 5.3 crore through the online registration of BS-IV vehicles and the demand for registration on the last day of the financial year came as a big surprise. “Mostly, it was four-wheelers and motorcyclists. The MVD personnel had to work from home late into the night to complete the registration formalities. Without inspection of the vehicles, permanent registration was granted,” Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath told The Hindu . Norms relaxed Sensing the demand for BS-IV compliant vehicles and enthusiasm of the dealers when the exchequer was in need of funds, the government relaxed orders for the mandatory inspection of vehicles and granting permanent registration. Normally, new vehicles have to be produced for cross-checking the make, chassis and engine number before registration. Since March 25, the MVD got Rs. 10,16,43,507 through registration of 6,761 vehicles in the State. “Mostly, it is the BS-IV compliant vehicles that were registered as the showrooms are all closed. Registration numbers had also been issued,” he said. The owners of these vehicles, except transport vehicles like taxies, need not have to produce them before the MVD again. The RC book will be forwarded once postal services resumed. But, they will have to wait till the lockdown ends to take delivery of the vehicle. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has lauded the personnel and the Safe Kerala Enforcement officials for exemplary online work and ensuring funds flow to the exchequer. The Supreme Court has given 10 days after the end of the lockdown to liquidate 10% of the unsold stock of BS-IV compliant vehicles with the dealers.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ornamental blooms turn to compost||The Anne Black orchids might have adorned bridal bouquets. The vividly red Heliconia flowers that resemble lobster claws should have lined the aisle of a marriage hall. However, the COVID-19 lockdown has condemned the costly blossoms to be turned to compost in fertilizer pits. Across farms in Kerala, tonnes of commercially cultivated flowers and ornamental foliage lie heaped up in lonely corners for unceremonious disposal. The lockdown has put the brakes on social events. In Kerala, the Christian wedding season that usually follows Easter is a significant casuality. Orders dry up Madhu Sankar, who grows orchids and ornamental foliage in five acres at Navaikulam, near here, says he is burying flowers worth lakh of rupees every week. The orders have dried up. He has to remove the harvest periodically to salvage the plants and allow for fresh blooms. The farm has to be kept running even in adversity. Growers like Madhu had created their farms from fallow paddy fields. They had readied the beds, dug artificial ponds for irrigation, set up sprinkler systems and imported new varieties of orchids and ornamental plants at considerable cost. Most have mortgages to pay, salaries to meet, and the moribund economy shows no sign of reviving anytime soon. Rule of the snails Farmhands are at a premium. Cultivators fear that lack of labour and insufficient supply of fertilizers and pesticides might ruin their plantations. Pests, particularly snails, are a perennial menace. Farmers pay local women ten paise per snail to remove the pests. But, the lockdown has prevented the pickers from coming to farms and the snails now have a free run. Rahul Raveendran, another grower, says the lockdown has hit small growers most. Many grow orchids on terrace tops. It provides households with an additional income. However, flower aggregators are no more receiving supplies. The outbreak has grounded the movement of orchids to markets in the country and abroad.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister lauds actor’s gesture||Actor-producer Maniyanpilla Raju has set an example by donating the State government-issued special food kit to the needy. Mr. Raju donated the kit via the ‘Donate My Kit’ link on the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) website www. civilsupplieskerala.gov.in. Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman visited Mr. Raju at his residence on Monday and lauded his service. Given the COVID-19 lockdown scenario, the State government is distributing kits containing 16 commodities through ration shops. However, the financially well-off have the option to forgo their kits to help weaker sections. How to donate Mr. Raju said he would be happy if his donation helped the deserving. The kits can be donated by clicking on the aforementioned link, entering the ration card number and the OTP. Earlier, Mr. Raju had made news with his remarks about visiting the ration shop and the good quality of the ration rice. The actor also urged the public to make use of the special ration arrangements made by the government in view of the lockdown.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Web seminars to clear farmers’ doubts||Online seminars are helping farmers who find it tough to obtain expert advice on matters related to agriculture and animal husbandry, given the COVID-19 lockdown scenario in the State. The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Thrissur, has hit upon a simple e-solution to help the farmers in this regard: interactive web seminars. The first two sessions, which will focus on animal husbandry, will go online from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. on Tuesday and Thursday via the Zoom videoconferencing app. Farmers with smart phones can register with the KVK and participate in the session by downloading the Zoom app, said Suman K. T., programme coordinator, KVK, Thrissur. Livestock management To be led by Ani S. Das, Director, Centre for Bio Resources, Kannur, the twin sessions on animal husbandry will handle issues related to summer-time and lockdown-period care and management of livestock. Livestock farmers, for example, are keen to know whether the animals can be fed locally available produce such as jackfruit or tapioca if concentrated feed is in short supply, he pointed out. Farmers can register for the web seminar via the email kvkthrissur@kau.in or the mobile number 9544842240. They can participate in the seminar by downloading the Zoom app.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NoRKs to be examined on entry to State||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday indicated that Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) returning to Kerala after the COVID-19 lockdown would have to undergo medical examination for flu symptoms at their respective port of entry. He said the expert task force headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham would finalise the protocol. Non-Resident Indians arriving home from across the globe would have to follow it to prevent a possible resurgence of the contagion. Another official said the government would perhaps insist that even asymptomatic NoRKs go into a self-imposed quarantine for at leaset 14 days to insulate society from the pandemic. Mr. Vijayan said the pandemic had taken an economic toll on the Malayali diaspora whose remittances had propped the State’s finances for long. He said many faced lay-offs and wage cuts. “We have a responsibility to help them tide over the crisis,” he said. Mr. Vijayan had on Sunday held a videoconference with NoRKs from 22 countries. He asked Malayali associations to succour persons requiring quarantine. The government has tasked the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation with studying the fiscal situation and suggest measures to tide over the crisis. Mr. Vijayan spotlighted the vulnerability of women under COVID-19 surveillance in the Gulf and other countries. Many were single and employed as domestic helps and home nurses. The government has asked the respective Indian embassies in those countries to ensure their safety and welfare. He urged the management of educational institutions run by Keralites in the Gulf to postpone collection of fee from students.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Janakeeya hotel may reduce hunger rush||The first janakeeya restaurant in the city, for providing affordable food for the public, will be opened near Overbridge on Tuesday. A joint initiative of the city Corporation and the Kudumbashree mission, the restaurants are also aimed at cutting down the number of meal packets from community kitchens, which have become a financial burden for the civic body. In the State Budget earlier this year, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had proposed the opening of 1,000 such restaurants across the State by Onam, following the model first implemented in Alappuzha. In the past few days, 215 such restaurants have been opened across the State, with meal parcels priced at Rs. 25. Noon meals Initially, only noon meals will be available through the restaurant. The meal parcels will be priced at Rs. 20, while for home delivery the cost is Rs. 25. The community kitchens have been a major financial burden for the Corporation, as the number of people calling up for food has been increasing with every passing day. By Monday, the total number of food packets per day had increased to 90,000. Though quite a few individuals and institutions have been donating in cash and kind, much of the Rs. 1.75 crore advanced by the Corporation till now for COVID-19 related activities have been used up. Up to 80% of this is estimated to be for community kitchens. “We certainly have to cut down on the number of people depending on the community kitchens. Out of the around 30,000 people now ordering food three times a day, only around 10,000 are the ones with real need of it. These are the indigent, those in relief camps or the bed-ridden. We are also providing food for security staff in apartments, which could be provided by the families living there. Except those in real need of it, the rest of them will be asked to shift to Janakeeya restaurants, as the food is very affordable. We will be holding a meeting of ward-level volunteers, ASHA workers and people’s representatives to weed out the undeserving from the community kitchen list,” says a Corporation health official. Janakeeya restaurant numbers for placing food order 7034001843, 7012285498.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Karnataka to allow non-COVID patients||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that Karnataka appeared to have thawed and agreed to partially lift its total blockade on the movement of patients from Kasaragod to hospitals in Mangaluru through the Thalapady inter-State check-post. However, the riders to the agreement were that the patients should produce a medical testimonial that they were COVID-19 negative if they were to be allowed into Karnataka and that the patients have to volunteer for medical examination by a Karnataka medical team on their side of the border. In stark contrast, Kerala has not blockaded patients from Bylacoopa and Machur districts in Karnataka from seeking medical care at hospitals in neighbouring Wayanad. The government would not block their passage or detain them on Kerala’s side of the border unnecessarily. People from Pandalloor and Gudalloor in Tamil Nadu also relied on Wayanad for medical care, he said.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kadakampally warns rumour-mongers||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran has warned of stringent action against those found propagating falsehoods regarding the death of the Pothencode native who was infected with COVID-19. Elaborating on the medical diagnosis of the Pothencode native, Mr. Surendran said that while the first sample test returned negative, all the other tests including two done in Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha confirmed the patient to the infected with the virus. The Collector and the police have been directed to initiate legal action against those responsible for spreading falsehoods with ulterior motives. A total of 205 people were quarantined, while 5,419 were removed from the quarantine list in the district on Monday. There were 11,725 people placed under surveillance in the district. A COVID-19-infected Manacaud native was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital after his tests returned negative. There are currently seven patients who were being treated after being diagnosed of the disease.  The city police registered cases against 108 people for violating the provisions of the lockdown. These included 13 people who had gone for their morning walks in areas under the Museum, Mannanthala, Sreekaryam, Vattiyurkavu and Poojappura police station limits. Eighty-two vehicles, including 79 two-wheelers and two autorickshaws, were confiscated.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||46 Malayali nurses in Mumbai test positive||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that it was indeed a concern that 46 Malayali nurses in Mumbai had tested COVID-19 positive and that over 150 nurses were under surveillance. Protective equipment He said there seemed to be widespread complaints that health-care workers were not being provided adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and that he had written to the Chief Ministers in Maharashtra and Delhi urging them to look into the issue. Mr. Vijayan said 18 Keralites had died of the disease in different parts of the world. Eight of them were in the U.S. Rapid tests He said the State would go ahead with antibody-based rapid tests to assess community prevalence and that the crisis management committee would finalise the guidelines soon.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||15,641 kg of stale fish seized||Special squads of the Food Safety Department seized and destroyed 15,641 kg of stale and contaminated fish in Statewide raids on Monday. This includes 8,056 kg of inedible fish that was set aside by the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Department to be used as fertilizer, Health Minister K. K. Shylaja said. Part of the Operation Sagar Rani meant to prevent the sale of fish laced with banned and dangerous chemicals, the raids were carried out in 216 centres on Monday alone. The 8,056 kg of inedible fish was brought from Colachel in Tamil Nadu for sale in Malappuram and Kozhikode districts. Notices have been issued to 15 institutions, FSA officials said.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: Modi’s call unscientific, felt no need to oppose||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off the electricity and light candles, mobile phones and torches to combat the COVID-19 epidemic was patently unscientific. He made the observation when he was asked if he differed with the position of the CPI(M) that had said that Mr. Modi’s exhortation challenged scientific reasoning. Mr. Vijayan said he felt no need to oppose the call purportedly aimed at rallying the nation behind caregivers and those on the front line of the battle against the pandemic. Moreover, the Prime Minister had given such a call in the time of national adversity. The nation has to respond. Mr. Vijayan had switched off lights at his official residence from 9 p.m. to 9.10 p.m. on Sunday on Mr. Modi’s appeal. His political detractors had taken a poke at him for heeding Mr. Modi.
07 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM seeks waiver of fee||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought waiver of fee for the emergency certificate issued by the Indian Embassy in Kuwait for those availing the amnesty announced by the state of Kuwait till April 30. In a letter to Union Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishankar on Monday, the Chief Minister said 40,00 Non-Resident Indians in Kuwait would get the benefit of the amnesty scheme and would be able to return to the country. At present, the fee for the certificate was five Kuwait dinars and this would be approximately Rs. 1,222. As the amnesty declared by the Kuwait government was of great help to the Indian workers who had been trapped there without any proper job or income, Mr. Vijayan said the External Affairs Minister should intervene to waive the fee to eligible persons.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vehicle service, mobile phone shops exempted||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday allowed mobile phone showrooms, SIM recharge centres and computer sales and service operators to open once a week during the COVID-19 lockdown. The government has excluded automobile sales and service centres and workshops from the lockdown.
07 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Test result of man who ended life fearing COVID-19 negative||The test result of a 49-year-old man who committed suicide recently at Kondazhy fearing that he had been infected with COVID-19, has turned out to be negative. The body of Pavithran, an autorickshaw driver, was found in a rubber estate at Kondazhy last Saturday. In a note recovered from his body, he said that he was committing suicide by consuming poison as he feared that he had been infected by COVID-19 . He asked the authorities to keep his family members under observation. His body was shifted to the mortuary of the Thrissur Medical College and body fluid samples were sent for the test. But the result tested negative on Monday. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies may seek help and counselling by contacting the suicide prevention helpline of Maitri — 0484-2540530 or Chaithram – 0484-2361161.
07 April 2020||Thrisur,KERALA||Cases against youths out on ‘Black Man’ hunt||The Guruvayur police on Monday registered cases against a group of youths who ventured out during nights on the pretext of capturing the “Black Man”. Rumours have been doing the rounds in and around Kunnamkulam, Kattakambal and Guruvayur that a 7-foot-tall figure whom the people called “Black Man”, has been roaming around during nights. Though many have claimed to have spotted it, nobody has seen it clearly. The police who conducted a search in the areas, couldn’t find anybody. Even drones were deployed for the search. City Police Commissioner R. Aditya has warned of strict action against those who spread such rumours. According to the police, it was just a ruse to breach the lockdown restrictions. The Guruvayur police on Monday arrested Sreeraj, 18; Abahishek, 18; Mohammed Aslam, 23; Sarath, 21; Suneehs, 29; and Rahul Raj, 20, of Iringappuram for venturing out in the night in search of the “Black Man”.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||It’s time to improve State’s tertiary health-care system||A virus that surfaced in the Chinese town of Wuhan has brought the world to a grinding halt. The COVID-19 outbreak has been at a different pace in different countries. While it has grown exponentially in Italy, Spain, the U.S., the U.K., and Iran, the rate of growth has been less in Singapore, Thailand, India, and other African countries. In India, the outbreak has not been that scary till now. The number of infected persons has gone up to 4,000 with the death toll just over 100. India has adopted an early lockdown strategy which, among other factors, is believed to have arrested the exponential increase in cases. In Kerala, much revered for its strong public health-care system, the number of reported cases has crossed 300 with a death toll of two as on April 5. Most of the cases reported were people who came from affected countries. Others were mostly primary contacts. With the threat of community spread looming large, a few suggestions have been put forth with respect to improving the health-care system. Time to scale up The Kerala development model has been characterised by high human development indices. Health indices such as infant mortality, maternal mortality and others are on a par with developed countries. Successive governments in Kerala, irrespective of their political affiliations, have contributed effectively towards creating an affordable and accessible health-care system in the State. However, the tertiary health-care system in the public sector needs to be augmented in Kerala. This gap has become evident during the present crisis. Condemnable attitude As of now, 10 people have died in Kasaragod after their ambulances were not allowed to enter Karnataka. The people in the district still depend on Karnataka for their tertiary health care. The attitude of the Karnataka government in these testing times is highly condemnable. What the present government should immediately prioritise is to complete the work of all district-level medical college hospitals started by the previous United Democratic Front government. Rather than overwhelming the public health-care system, the State should also align with private sector hospitals with the help of the Indian Medical Association to tackle any crisis that may emerge, in case of community transmission. Worst-case scenario The government should prepare for a worst-case scenario and should increase the availability of ICUs with ventilator facilities, PPE suits, N95 masks and other essential medicines. We should also inform, train and empower local bodies to respond to any emergency. The State should announce special incentives for its health workers, the police and revenue officials who risk their lives to protect ours. In Kerala, the fishermen, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, the migrant labour population, and the elderly citizens are the most vulnerable to COVID-19. An outbreak among these populations will spell doom for the State. Hence, special attention and packages should be announced for these vulnerable communities and it must be ensured that the funds reach the needy. The lockdown has accentuated the misery of the people. It has also impacted the food chain. The State should ease the restrictions on transportation of essential goods. The Opposition in Kerala has played a creative role by providing full support to the efforts of the State government and suggesting proactive mechanisms to combat the deadly virus. ( The writer is Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly )
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Keeping hopes high||
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Precautionary measure||
07 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 Anantapur students die in road accident in Philippines||Two students from Anantapur district studying medicine in the Philippines died in an accident on Monday. The two have been identified as Vamsi Kondigalla Peddinti (21) hailing from Anantapur city and Revanth Kumar Katikela (21) from Kadiri in the district. According to information received by the family members, the two, who were classmates, were going on a two-wheeler for shopping when a car hit their vehicle leading to their death. The accident took place in Cebu City in the Philippines some time last evening or night. The family alleged that Vamsi was alive for more than one and a half hours after the accident, but medical help did not reach them. While Vamsi is son of Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi Anantapur district unit leader K. P. Narayana Swamy, Revanth hailed from Kadiri. The family members of Vamsi approached district Collector Gandham Chandrudu and through him got in touch with the officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Delhi to get help for bringing the bodies back. Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan Vice-Chairman S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy in a statement from Kadiri said that he too got in touch with Indian Ambassador Joydeep Mazumdar in the Philippines and sought his help. Since international airlines were not operational, they were trying to find alternatives for bringing the bodies back.
07 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed in group clash||A person was killed and two others were injured in a group clash over right of way for hunting wild hares at Eedala Mushtur village in Bathalapalli mandal in the district. The deceased was identified as Talari Katamaiah(30). The other two, Anjaneyulu and Raju, were out of danger and being treated in a private hospital in Anantapur. Dharmavaram Rural Circle Inspector Chinna Peddaiah told The Hindu that they were looking for the accused and no arrests had been made. As per information, it all started when a man from Pedda Kottala had married a girl in Chinna Kottala against the wishes of her family, which ignited a dispute between people of the two villages. On Sunday, when some people from Pedda Kottala went to Chinna Kottala for hunting hares, they were allegedly beaten up. As a tit-for-tat, when people of Chinna Kottala came to Pedda Kottala, their way was blocked. This led to a clash between the two groups and they attacked each other with sickles leading to the death of Katamaiah.
07 April 2020||Belavagi,ANDHRA PRADESH||22 arrested for attack bid in mosques||The Belagavi district police have arrested 22 people on the charge of trying to attack persons in mosques, alleging that they did not turn off the lights on Sunday night, as advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A group entered a mosque in Yamakamaradi and allegedly heckled the mosque muezzin who calls for prayers. He was cleaning the mosque by keeping the lights on between 9 and 9.09 p.m, they alleged. A case has been filed and nine persons have been arrested. In Sadalaga, some persons entered a mosque and argued with those inside for not switching off the lights. A case has been registered and 13 arrested. The arrested have been charged under Sections 153A (Acts prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between different groups) and 295A (malicious acts intended to outrage the religious feelings) of the IPC.  I have held a meeting of Muslim MLAs and the entire community is cooperating with us. For the first time, they have agreed to offer namaz at their homes... I will not hesitate to take action against anyone who blames the community for the mistakes of a few.B.S. YediyurappaChief Minister
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||State has third highest number of labs in country||With the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approving two more testing centres at Ballari and Mangaluru in Karnataka, the demand for COVID-19 testing facilities in North Karnataka and Dakshina Kannada has now been fulfilled. With this, the State has 10 government testing centres and this is the third highest in the country. While Maharashtra has 15 and Tamil Nadu has 11 centres, Karnataka and Kerala have 10 each. While Kalaburagi got a testing facility last week, on Sunday ICMR approved testing centres at Vijaynagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari and Wenlock District Hospital in Mangaluru. Testing will be done for free here. Much awaited This was a much awaited decision as the number of cases in Dakshina Kannada and North Karnataka have been on the rise in the last 10 days. All put together, the number of cases in the districts of Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Ballari, Bagalkot, and Bidar have touched 30. While Dakshina Kannada has 12 positive cases, the third highest in the State, Ballari has six cases, including two of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. The application for approval of another facility in Hubballi is pending with ICMR and sources said this is also likely to be approved soon. The State’s order for one lakh rapid testing strips from China is likely to arrive on April 10. Following that, the State plans to take up random testing of those with influenza like illness. It is estimated that over 80,000 people can be tested using these strips in the next two weeks.
07 April 2020||BHIMAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLA held for taking up cycle yatra||The West Godavari police on Monday arrested Palakol MLA Nimmala Rama Naidu when he was taking up a cycle yatra to highlight the problems of aqua and paddy farmers in the region. The MLA, displaying a board to procure stocks from aqua farmers, started the yatra from Palakol to Eluru. When he reached Bhimavaram town, police took him into custody. The TDP MLA was shifted to the One Town police station and was released in the evening. Police dropped the MLA at his residence in Palakol. Police said that no prior permission was taken for the cycle yatra and the protest could have led to law and order problem during the lockdown.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM repeating the mistake of note ban, says Kamal Haasan||In a sharp attack on India’s response to COVID-19 pandemic, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was making the “same mistake of demonetisation” albeit at a much larger scale by imposing an ill-planned 21-day lockdown. Writing an open letter to Mr. Modi, Mr. Haasan compared the adverse effects of the current lockdown to that of demonetisation in terms of its impact on the poor. “My biggest fear is that the same mistake of demonetisation is being repeated albeit at a much bigger scale. While demonetisation led to loss of savings and livelihood of the poorest, this ill-planned lockdown is leading us to a fatal combination of loss of both life and livelihood,” said Mr. Haasan. Mr. Haasan slammed Mr. Modi for “ordering an entire nation of 1.4 billion people to shutdown within 4 hours, despite having four months” notice as India’s first case was reported on January 30. Criticising the Prime Minister’s last address to the nation, he said that while people were lighting lamps in balconies, poor were left without enough oil for their next roti . ‘Spectacle of lights’ “On one hand you are asking the more privileged people to put up a spectacle of lights while on the other hand the poor man’s plight is itself becoming a shameful spectacle. While your world lit up oil diyas in their balconies, the poor are struggling to gather enough oil to bake their next roti ,” said Mr. Haasan, adding, “These psychotherapy techniques can address the first world anxiety problems of the ‘haves’ who have a balcony to cheer. But what about those who don’t even have a roof on their heads?” Mr. Haasan added, “I am sure you don’t want to be a balcony government only for the balcony people by completely ignoring the poor who are biggest constituent of our society, our support system and the foundation on which the middle-class, the well-to-do and the rich build their lives. He said Mr. Modi was often sliding into his ‘comfort zone of unleashing a spirited election-style campaign idea’ when there was an opportunity to arrest the slide and underlined that ‘compliance must not be confused as our subjugation’. “It seems you are comfortable outsourcing responsible behaviour to the common people and transparency to the State governments,” said Mr. Haasan. He also termed the Prime Minister’s response to the crisis as focussing only on warm campaigning, ignoring ground reality.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharp drop in Krishna water supply to Chennai||The flow of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh into Poondi reservoir, one of the major drinking water sources of the city, saw a sharp dip on Monday. However, it is temporary, according to the Water Resources Department. On Monday, the inter-State border of Kandaleru Poondi canal at Uthukottai, Tiruvallur district received only 65 cusecs (cubic feet per second). On an average, about 650 cusecs was received till a few days ago. Water travelled an additional distance of 25 km to Poondi reservoir where it is stored and distributed to Chennai. Krishna water from the Kandaleru reservoir played a significant role in boosting the storage in the city reservoirs, including Red Hills and Chembarambakkam this year, noted officials. Chennai has so far received 7.525 million cubic feet of water, one of the highest volume received in recent years. Temporary drop Officials of the WRD said the authorities concerned in Andhra Pradesh have given an assurance there will be an increase in water discharge from Kandaleru reservoir in a couple of weeks. “Water was being released from Kandaleru reservoir only for drinking water needs of places en route, such as Nellore and Tirupati before reaching Chennai. It is being decreased temporarily to discourage drawal for irrigation in areas en route as the period is over,” said an official. Enough storage till monsoon The combined storage in the four reservoirs, including in Poondi, stood at 6,321 mcft, against its capacity of 11, 257 mcft. The reservoir in Red Hills has plenty of water and has a storage of 2,835 mcft against its capacity of 3,300 mcft. “We have stopped transferring water to Chembarambakkam reservoir as of now. Water from Poondi reservoir is being sent to Red Hills, from where drinking water is supplied to most parts of the city. The present storage in the reservoirs will help manage the demand till the next monsoon,” the official said. A team of WRD staff members is also engaged in cleaning the floating materials in the inlets of the lake regularly.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI / BENGALURU/ THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One death, 50 new cases in Tamil Nadu||The spike in COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh continued with 51 more persons testing positive for the virus in the 24-hour period ending Monday evening. The total count went up to 303 cases, with three casualties, a Health Department bulletin said. Over 92% (280) of the cases were reported during the last one week when testing of persons who returned from the Jamaat meeting in New Delhi and their contacts began. During the two weeks since the first positive case was reported on March 12, only 23 cases were reported. The number grew exponentially later. One hotspot, Kurnool, reported 21 new positives, after 49 on Sunday. Nellore had eight new cases. West Godavari recorded six, Visakhapatnam five, Kadapa four, Anantapur three, Guntur two and Krishna and Prakasam one. So far, Kurnool district with the most number of Delhi returnees, has reported 74 cases and Nellore 42 cases. In Tamil Nadu  Tamil Nadu reported its sixth COVID-19 death, and added 50 new cases to its tally on Monday. With this, the State now has 621 cases. The victim was a 57-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital at 8 p.m. on Sunday with severe acute respiratory infection. “She had high diabetes and hypertension. We lifted samples for COVID-19 testing. She died on Monday morning, and her sample returned positive for COVID-19. She had travelled to Tiruchi by train. We are tracing her source of infection. All her family members and high-risk contacts have been put under home quarantine,” Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters on Monday. Of the 50 persons who tested positive for COVID-19, 48 were from a “single source event” (the Delhi conference), including contacts. Dr. Rajesh added that so far 1,475 persons who attended the event had been tested. However, there was no clarity on how many of them tested positive. Till Sunday, the official figure was 522. Telangana has 30 cases There was a spike in COVID-19 cases across Telanagana on Monday too, with 30 new cases. The number of positive cases touched 364. So far, 308 cases were active and 12 were discharged. No new deaths were reported and the toll stood at 11. Of the total positive cases, Hyderabad reported the highest number at 133 followed by Nizamabad (29) and Warangal Urban (23). Kasaragod has more In Kerala, 13 new positive cases of COVID-19 were reported on Monday, including three linked to Nizamuddin. Of the 13 new cases, nine were from Kasaragod, and Malappuram reported two, while Kollam and Pathanamthitta reported one each. Six of those found positive in Kasaragod are those who returned to the State from abroad, while three are contacts of imported cases. Pathanamthitta had one positive case, of a person with a history of foreign travel. The two cases in Malappuram and one in Kollam involve people who travelled to the meeting at Nizamuddin. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the State linked to the event rose to 13. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that Kerala had contained disease transmission extremely well so far. However, even as the State was maintaining vigil, reports of the death of several non-resident Keralites following COVID-19 coming from across the world were very disturbing, he said. The Chief Minister told the media that 18 Keralites residing outside the State had died of COVID-19. The State had identified over 1.25 lakh isolation beds in public and private sector hospitals. The Health Department had drawn up a three-tier plan for COVID-19.
07 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grama Volunteer ‘stabs’ man after tiff over relief distribution||A Grama Volunteer had reportedly stabbed a villager, inflicting bleeding injuries, after an argument between the two over COVID-19 relief distribution at Bandavaddi Palliof K.V Palle mandal, 30 km from Piler, on Monday. According to information, the volunteer, identified as Srinivasulu (25), while distributing the relief benefit of Rs. 1,000, reportedly skipped some households in the village. A resident Viswanatha Raju (39) objected to it and picked up an argument. As they came to blows, the people pacified them. Within a few minutes, the volunteer returned to the spot, after collecting a knife from his house, and picked up an argument again during which he allegedly stabbed Mr. Raju in the neck and abdomen, and fled the scene. The injured was rushed to the area hospital at Piler, and was later shifted to SVRR Hospital at Tirupati. Piler Rural CI S. Murali Krishna said that Mr. Raju was out of danger, and the accused was absconding. A case has been registered and further investigation is on.
07 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Close call for farm hand as lightning strikes hut||It was a miraculous escape for a farm worker and his three children when lightning struck their thatched hut at Gampala SC Colony at Kuraparthivaripalle panchayat in Yerravaripalem mandal, 40 km from Piler, on Monday afternoon. As per information, Reddappa (30) was relaxing at the doorway and his three children were inside when lightning struck the hut. Reddappa, seeing the hut catching fire, rushed inside and brought out the kids to safety. In a minute, the hut was gutted. The man suffered minor injuries. Local revenue officials visited the colony and said a report would be submitted to the mandal officials seeking relief to the family.
07 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several new areas in Guntur identified as COVID clusters||Several new areas have been identified as COVID-19 clusters by the district administration which has pressed into service additional staff and machinery. In an indication that the COVID-19 virus spread is quite rapid in rural areas too, the district administration has now declared areas in Mangalagiri, Tippers Bazaar red zone after two persons have tested positive, though their travel history and identity has been kept confidential. Sangadigunta, Anandapet, Israel Pet, Mangaldas Nagar, Nehru Nagar, RTC Colony (Guntur East constituency), continue be in restricted area zone. Dokiparru and Turakapalem in Medikonduru, Atchampet in Sattenapalli constituency have also been declared red zones. Two new positive cases reported from Mangalagiri, taking the total to 32 at 9 pm. The number of samples being tested has gone up, after a testing facility was opened at Guntur Medical College. Fifty four samples were tested on Monday. While 525 persons have been tested so far, 424 samples turned out to be negative while 32 persons tested positive. The number of persons in isolation wards is 486 and they were being treated at 68 centres with a capacity of 1,065 beds. The buildings of Chaitanya and Bhashyam Residential Colleges on Inner Ring Road have been taken over by the district administration and are being sanitised. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, DIG of Guntur Urban Police District PHD Ramakrishna went around the cluster containment zones and gave directions to the personnel working there.  Supply of essentials Mr. Samuel said that no person from the cluster containment zone should venture outside his house and the administration is making arrangements for supply of essential commodities at the doorstep. Joint Collector AS Dinesh Kumar said five autos would make rounds to colonies and supply essential commodities such as vegetables daily. Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha said fogging and spraying of sodium hypochlorite solution would continue in the affected areas.
07 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. under-reporting corona positive cases: Naidu||Expressing concern over the steep rise in COVID-19 positive cases in the State, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has said that Andhra Pradesh has reported a 1,021% rise in the cases as against the national average of 222 % in the last one week. Addressing the media online from his residence in Hyderabad, Mr. Naidu alleged, “The YSRCP government has been under-reporting the cases at a time when other States such as Kerala has managed to check the spread of the virus by bringing transparency in testing. Andhra Pradesh should step up testing facilities on a war-footing to identify and isolate positive cases for prevention of virus transmission.” ‘No data on testing’ Mr. Naidu said Kerala had conducted 10,200 COVID-19 tests while Karnataka had done 5,600 and Rajasthan 12,000 tests till date but no such data was available when it came to Andhra Pradesh. “If the government continues to neglect without realising the seriousness of the pandemic, the State would soon be on the brink of a human disaster,” said Mr. Naidu. Appeal to CM He also appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take all sections of leaders, intellectuals, NGOs and people’s organisations on board as part of a united strategy to check COVID-19. Mr. Naidu demanded that like Delhi, the Andhra Pradesh government should extend Rs. 5,000 assistance to all poor families, including those 18 lakh families whose ration cards were cancelled recently. The State government should provide 5 kg rice, 1 kg dal, 1 LPG cylinder and midday meals to poor families as ordered by the Centre. “This is necessary to prevent poor people from becoming vulnerable. If they do not eat two meal a day, they will not have minimum immunity required to fight the virus,” said Mr. Naidu. ‘Pay salaries in full’ Further, Mr. Naidu also demanded that the government must pay full salaries to employees in due recognition of their work. “It is not correct to punish employees while the government has given away Rs. 6,000 crore to contractors recently. The government should behave responsibly,” he said. Mr. Naidu warned of a severe threat to food security if the government did not use the Rs. 3,000-crore price stabilisation fund to prevent losses to farmers. Immediate help should be given to horticulture, aquaculture, and sericulture farmers across the State, he added.
07 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narsaraopet MP part of COVID-19 action group||Narsaraopet MP Lavu Sri Krishnadevarayulu has been nominated in a national COVID-19 action group of the Parliamentarians with Innovators for India. He is among 14 MPs to be made part of the group, which also has partners from top venture capital funds, health and public policy organisations such as the Population Foundation of India, Centre for Policy Research, Omnicuris, and top experts in health and policy. G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, MP of Rajya Sabha, is another MP of this group. Innovators will be able to submit proposals online on the website PIIndia.org by simply recording a video of their solution.
07 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State police show the way in tracing digital footprints of Delhi returnees||Andhra Pradesh has become the first State to trace the digital footprints of hundreds of persons who have attended a gathering at the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi. By using a time-tested technology to obtain information about the Call Data Records (CDR) of persons, the A.P. police have helped in identification of the persons who have attended the gathering in the capital and in tracking the COVID-19 disease clusters across the country. CDR is part of a standard investigative tool used by the police and is sourced through mobile telephone operators to get information of date, time of call duration, the receiver of calls, get International Mobility Equipment Identity (IMEI) and identify the location of the caller. It also helps police to get the exact geographical location of the caller. It began on March 25, after a 52-year-old man tested positive for COVID-19 and at that time, no one had a clue about his travel history. Even as the district administration was grappling to trace the contacts of the man, Deputy Inspector General, Guntur Urban Police District, P.H.D. Ramakrishna came up with the idea to use the CDR technology to trace his travel history and his contacts. IB alerted It has emerged that the man was in Nizamuddin and attended the congregation during March 15-18, in which thousands of participants from across the country and some from East Asian countries took part. An alert was sent to the Intelligence Bureau, Delhi setting off a frenetic effort to identify the trail of the attendees, their primary contacts and now disease clusters. The A.P. police have helped trace 13,702 people who attended the meeting from across the country. Of them, 831 were from Andhra Pradesh. In Guntur Urban Police District alone, 103 Delhi returnees have been identified and sent to quarantine. The areas where they lived, have been declared as red zone. “It was some quick thinking that has helped us to track the man’s travel history and probably, that saved the lives of many others, as we were able to move them to quarantine without delay,’’ said a senior police officer.
07 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana CM favours extension of lockdown||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the 21-day national lockdown to check COVID-19 beyond April 14, saying it was essential to save lives. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi supremo said it would be difficult to contain the spread of the virus in view of the country’s “poor health infrastructure”. ‘Consult all CMs’ “I am for the lockdown of the country furthermore after April 15. Because we can recover from the economic problem but we cannot recover lives. We cannot recover the lives of the people,” he told reporters here. “I appeal to the honourable Prime Minister, to the Government of India, please extend the lockdown without any hesitation,” he said. Mr. Rao further said: “Consult everybody, consult every Chief Minister, have a video conference with entire country, but take a conscious decision. Because, we have no other weapon in India to contain this dreadful virus.”
07 April 2020||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exclusive COVID-19 hospital at Kasaragod fully functional||he Kasaragod Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) started functioning as a COVID Care Centre on Monday. The hospital had been converted into a dedicated centre to treat patients in just four days. In the first phase, the hospital will have 200 beds and 10 ICU beds for COVID-19 patients. Another 100 beds and 10 more ICU beds would be added soon. A 26-member team of doctors and paramedics from the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College hospital were coordinating with the district health administration and supervising the processes. They were also involved in training hospital personnel and putting in place all clinical, infection control protocols. Protocols in place The team has expressed satisfaction with the facilities at the centre. The team, consisting of 13 doctors, 10 nurses, and four assistant nurses, arrived in the district on Sunday night. By 10 a.m. on Monday they visited the hospital. The team has been coordinating with the district health administration and supervising the processes. They are also involved in training hospital personnel and putting in place all clinical, infection control protocols. Separate wards Given the shortage of health professionals in Kasaragod, the medical team from the capital city had volunteered to strengthen the COVID-19 care efforts in the district. Team leader Santhosh Kumar S.S. told mediapersons that they were satisfied with the arrangements. “There are separate wards for men and women, a lab, 10 intensive care units, and enough beds,” he said, adding that the wards were fully operational. Hitherto, COVID-19 patients were being treated at the Kasaragod general hospital, the Kanhangad district hospital, and a few private hospitals. Special Officer Alkesh Kumar Sharma said the district was fully equipped to provide better treatment to COVID-19 patients. The services of skilled health workers were available. “Kasaragod can be free of the epidemic if the district does not see an increase in the number of cases this week. The situation can be brought under control if people abided by government directives,” he added.
07 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bull trainers in dire straits||Fifty-year-old Rangaiah, a bull trainer, goes round the town with the majestic Ongole bull and used to perform a variety of tricks to eke out a living. With lockdown in force, the bull trainer who camps in the ZP colony cluster, where a person who has returned from London tested positive for coronavirus, is now clueless on making a living. So are the scores of Ongole bull trainers from the nomadic Jangam community who live on the outskirts of Ongole near Mangamoor Donka with no scope for returning to their native Nagallamudipi village near Tarlupadu in Prakasam district or make a living here as there is no let up in the number of COVID-19 cases. It was they who still nurture the bovine beast, the much sought-after breed in Brazil and other parts of the globe as the average farmer had dumped the bull and went for tractors for farm operations under pressure to cut costs. “We do not know how long we have to pull on like this,” says 45-year-old Kanakamma, who still rears the sturdy animal with passion. Much against odds, they feed and train the animals to do a variety of tricks such as stamping the master without hurting him and dancing to the tunes of ‘dhol’ and ‘shehnai’ played by the master to amuse the audience. They find the going tough with no food, water and fodder, says Santhaiah. With no savings to fall back upon during the lockdown period, they want the authorities to come to their aid. They could not access ration distributed under the public distribution system here as their names had been enrolled in Nagallamudipi, adds Durgamba. “We do not know how long the lockdown will be implemented,” they add keeping their fingers crossed.
07 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore dist. reports 8 fresh cases||Eight more persons in SPSR Nellore district tested positive for the coronavirus on Monday, taking the number of infected persons to 42 in the district, while Prakasam reported one case, taking the number to 24. In Nellore, Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy reviewed the health situation as there was no let up in new cases. He asked the task force personnel to implement the containment action plan vigorously in 43rd and 47th divisions in Nellore city and other affected places including Naidupeta, Kavali, Sulurpeta and Tada. In Prakasam district, a 35-year-old man from Veligandla village, near Konakanamitla tested positive for the disease on Monday. With this the total number of infected persons in district rose to 24, District Collector P. Bhaskar said after conducting a video conference with constituency-level special officers to gear up for the third phase of surveillance in the affected areas. Meanwhile, as many as 75 persons tested negative for the disease on Monday. Swab test results of 246 persons are awaited, the Collector added. While Ongole accounted for nine positive cases in the district, Chirala accounted for five followed by Kunkalamarru-four, Kandukur-three and Kanigiri and Chimakurthy one each. The Collector said that those who are recovered and discharged should have to observe home quarantine for 14 days. Rapid Response teams swung into action to screen each and every person in, among other areas, Islampeta, Old Market Centre, Kondameta, Pernamitta and Kondamitta in Ongole. The spurt in cases came in the wake of people returning from New Delhi after attending a religious congregation testing positive for the disease.
07 April 2020||Staff Reporter GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DTC donates Rs. 25 lakh to CMRF||Deccan Tobacco Company, Guntur, donated Rs. 25 lakh to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to meet the expenses incurred towards relief measures of Covid-19. Director Shafeek Khan donated the cheque of Rs. 25 lakh to Ponnur MLA Kilaru Rosaiah at the company’s office in Brodiepet. Mr. Khan expressed his concern over the impact due to the coronavirus pandemic and asked people to follow lockdown protocol. Red Cross’ gesture Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar thanked Red Cross Society for donating sanitisers and masks to the people who are in the frontline of Covid-19 work. Red Cross chairman Vadlamani Ravi and vice-chairman P. Ramachandra Raju were present.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last of the master composers from the golden period||M.K. Arjunan, who died in Kochi on Monday at the age of 84, was the last of the master composers from the golden period of Malayalam cinema. He was suffering from age-related ailments. In a career that spanned over five decades, he tuned about 700 songs, many of them among the biggest hits of all time. He may not have been celebrated as much as G. Devarajan, M.S. Baburaj, V. Dakshinamoorthy or K. Raghavan, but his songs have been. Many of those songs were so good that several listeners believed they were tuned by Devarajan, his guru and one of the greatest composers of Indian cinema. Arjunan may have been influenced by the style of Devarajan, but he never copied any of his tunes, or of anybody else for that matter. He belonged to an era when Malayalam film music had so many original tunes composed by some brilliantly original music directors. A compliment Arjunan once told this writer that he took it as a compliment when his songs were thought to have been composed by Devarajan. “After all, he was our best composer and my guru; and when you work with such a genius for a long time, you are bound to be influenced by him, but I have never copied a single tune.” “I felt proud when I came to know that he had something nice to say about my song Palanimalakkovile … (Pickpocket) .” Arjunan tuned even more popular songs, such as Yadukula rathidevanevide.. . (Rest House), Kasthoori manakkunnallo kaatte... (Picnic), Nin maniyarayile... (CID Nazir), Chandra rashmi than... (Anweshansm), Sukhamoru bindu...(Ithu Manushyano), Chem p aka thaikal pootha... (Kathirunna Nimisham), Kuyilinte maninaadam... (Padmavyooham) and Mallikappoovin madhura gandham... (Honeymoon).  He was among the first to notice the extraordinary gift of A.R. Rahman. He had made the prodigy play the keyboard for him in a few films. Rahman's father R.K. Shekhar had arranged the music for Arjunan for many of his songs. The only award Arjunan never got his due. Strangely, the only State Award he got – for Bhayanakam – came five decades after he made his debut, with Karutha Pournami.  Now that he has died at a time of lockdown, his fans would not be able to pay their homage by coming together. Some lives are destined to end unsung. Not that Arjunan would have minded.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Salary challenge for PSU staff too||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has called for a ‘Salary Challenge’ for employees of public sector undertakings (PSUs) too. As per the challenge proposed on Monday, the modalities for donating their salary will be the same as in the case of government employees. They could donate either as a lumpsum or in instalments. Dr. Isaac inaugurated a programme to disburse welfare pensions and scholarships through the India Post Payment Bank at the Chief Post Master General’s office. Bank accounts Beneficiaries who have their Aadhaar and mobile numbers linked to their bank accounts can avail of the facility. The next tranche of welfare pensions and scholarships would be deposited in accounts of the beneficiaries by March 8. Postmen will deliver the payments at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. They will identify the beneficiary using a biometric scanner and also the mobile number, Dr. Isaac said.
07 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord takes celestial ride||Special rituals were performed to Lord Malayappa swamy and His two divine consorts on Monday as part of the three day annual Vasantotsavams currently under progress at the Tirumala temple. The unconventional proceedings were conducted as an alternative to the customary procession of golden chariot which the TTD could not organise in view of the restrictions in place owing to lockdown.
07 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitary workers in Tirupati get groceries||Sanitary workers, who are at the forefront of emergency services in the fight against COVID-19, got a major relief with the supply of groceries on Monday. Thanks to the initiative taken up by the Tirupati Chamber of Commerce (TCC), as many as 1,005 health workers and UDS maintenance staff received groceries from MLA B. Karunakar Reddy and MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha. “The workers are discharging their emergency duties till 5 p.m. everyday and as such they lack time and patience to take responsibility on the home front. This is why we have come forward to provide them groceries, worth Rs. 11 lakh, which includes rice, pulses, sugar, wheat flour, sunflower oil, chilli powder, salt and fruits,” said TCC president A. Manjunath. At Srikalahasti, MLA B. Madhusudhan Reddy took a novel step to strengthen the immunity of the denizens to withstand viral diseases. Citrus fruits, mostly lemon, and Vitamin C tablets were delivered through volunteers at the doorstep of every household in the town as suggested by World Health Organisation (WHO). Srikalahasti municipality has also taken up spraying of a disinfectant solution across the town. In Kadapa, Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha distributed vegetable packets among the poor. He called distributing goodies was necessary to avoid the scope of people venturing out and crowding at market places.
07 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway police step up vigil in Chittoor to restrict entry of migrant labourers||Chittoor district has remained vulnerable to the unrestricted entry of migrant workers from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, with which the tail-end district shares its borders, but it will not be anymore. While the lockdown has ensured the shutdown of even the little-known inter-State roads, not to speak of the thoroughly-sealed national and State highways, the working classes have found an escape route: the railway tracks. Strict monitoring Following instructions from the Superintendent of Railway Police (Vijayawada) Narayan Naik, the General Railway Police sleuths have decided to stand guard at the entry points into the State—Venkata Narasimha Rajuvaripeta and Gudupalle. The first one, which is famous as the railway station with the second longest name, is located beyond Nagari on the Renigunta-Chennai railway route of Southern Railway. The second one falls in Kuppam constituency on the Chennai-Bengaluru railway route under South Western Railway and is the entry point into the district for migrant labopurers from both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. With no vehicular movement as the roads remained cut off, railway authorities observed frequent movement of people along the tracks that have stopped witnessing train movement due to the lockdown. “This defeated the purpose of the lockdown and we have decided to close the railway borders,” said Deputy Superintendent of Railway Police (Tirupati) S.M. Ramesh Babu. With this, the major porous entry points from the neighbouring states appear to have been thoroughly sealed.
07 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor to get rapid COVID-19 testing devices||Chittoor district is expected to get fully automated rapid test devices for COVID-19, which will go a long way in strengthening the Virology Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences(SVIMS). The VRDL is currently testing samples from Chittoor, Nellore, Prakasam, Kurnool and Kadapa districts. At the task force meeting held at the Sub-Collector’s Office here on Monday, Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy directed Collector Narayan Bharat Gupta to go ahead with the procurement of the equipment and also wanted sufficient number of Personal Protective Equipment(PPE) and N 95 masks in place for use by medical professionals. Mr. Bharat Gupta said 17 infected patients undergoing treatment were getting due medical attention. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy asked the officials concerned to simultaneously look for means to procure paddy and to provide marketing for horticultural and other crops at the local markets, including their transportation, in view of the hassles reported from across the district.
07 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM asks officials to conduct random tests for infections||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials to conduct random tests for COVID-19 in view of the upsurge of the positive cases in the State. Addressing a high-level review meeting on COVID-19 on Monday, the Chief Minister said the government had resolved to go for random tests to check the spread of the virus. He asked the officials to follow the revised protocols laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to control the pandemic. Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy informed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that of the 266 people who had been tested positive in the State, 243 had either attended the religious congregation held by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi or come in contact with the Nizamuddin returnees. “The testing capacity is being increased in the laboratories set up in Visakhapatnam, Guntur and Kadapa,” said Mr. Jawahar Reddy. Telemedicine facility Besides, telemedicine facility is being extended to those who are in home isolation. “Plans are also afoot to collect samples from the persons with high immunity levels and to do research for evolving an effective containment strategy,” he said. The Chief Minister also instructed the officials to ensure that people in quarantine and isolation camps should be provided with food and other facilities as per the standard operating procedures (SOP). He also wanted that the special hospitals where the COVID-19 were undergoing treatment should have adequate strength of doctors and other staff so that the patients, particularly those in the need of intensive care, could avail of the best healthcare services. “There should not be any shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE),” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. App for farm produce The Chief Minister also instructed the officials to develop a cellphone application that would enable real-time collection of data pertaining to the prices of agricultural commodities so that the interests of farmers could be protected. The officials said that the market yards in Kurnool and Guntur were being shifted to temporary locations as their existing locations had been declared red zones. ‘Aarogya Setu’ app Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney asked the authorities concerned to step up surveillance on social distancing and isolation and promote the ‘Aarogya Setu’ application, said I&PR Commissioner T. Vijay Kumar Reddy.
07 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flight, train, bus services open bookings for journey after April 15||With the 21-day lockdown ending by April 14, a few domestic airlines, railways and the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) are accepting online reservation of tickets by passengers for journey from April 15, subject to the government allowing resumption of services from that day. However, no manual passenger ticket reservation is possible as all the bus and railway stations are closed in the State currently. “We are accepting online ticket bookings through the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). Passengers can book tickets online and SCR will take a decision on operation of trains from April 15. We are waiting for instructions from the government,” said Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas.  Refund  Senior Divisional Commercial Manager P. Bhaskar Reddy said that the booking amounts would be paid back into the accounts of the passengers, if cancellation of train services continued after April 14. APSRTC Executive Director (ED-Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy said the corporation was planning to run buses in a phased manner, if lockdown is lifted and RTC is allowed to operate services. “We are allowing online reservation for non-AC buses, subject to the government’s decision,” he told The Hindu on Monday. Some private travel operators too are issuing advance bookings for the post-lockdown period.  Heavy demand Meanwhile, many people stranded in different States booked tickets to return to their native places, if lockdown is lifted. “There is a heavy demand for reservations from April 15,” said a private bus operator. “The demand is heavy on Vijayawada-Hyderabad, Chennai-Vijayawada, Hyderabad-Visakhapatnam, Bangaluru-Vijayawada and other routes,” said an officer. Many students stuck in private hostels and college run-hostels in Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru, Vijayawada and other cities are eagerly waiting for relaxation of lockdown regulations to return to their parents. “The APSRTC, SCR and domestic flight operators should arrange enough services from April 15, to clear the rush if lockdown is lifted,” said an Intermediate student of Manipur, who got stuck in Vijayawada along with her parents for 15 days. Several students from neighbouring countries pursuing different professional courses in A.P. are staying in hostels and lodges in Guntur, Vijayawada, Kakinada, Visakhapatnam and other places.
07 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Psychiatrists foresee spurt in anxiety, panic disorders||The highly contagious coronavirus is leaving a trail of infections reducing life to a struggle to cope with uncertainty and the need for rapid readjustment for many. Psychiatrists are sceptical if life will get back on track post-COVID-19, especially for people who already have symptoms of anxiety, panic and major depressive disorders besides those suffering from Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD). “The outbreak will have huge psychological ramifications in the days to come. This uncertainty will spell serious trouble for people reeling under anxiety and panic disorders,” says psychiatrist Vishal Indla. The Director of Indlas Vijayawada Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (VIMHANS) points out that uncertainty fuels anxiety and panic, thus making worse the condition of the patient. He talks about incessant calls he receives from his patients, eager to discuss with him their ‘looming fears.’  Change of scenario “Some of them are in a state of hyper-vigilance with severe anxiety, fear and panic. This may heighten negative thoughts and widen the scope of their relapse, resulting in more difficulties for them and people around,” he says. The rapid spread, the terrible fear and the subsequent lockdown may see new cases of psychological problems surfacing, says Dr. Vishal. “The routine of the people leading a healthy lifestyle is broken as they are confined to the four walls of their houses. Unless they fill this gap with activities that give them pleasure as well as enrich them in some way, there is bound to be a negative impact,” he warns. V. Radhika Reddy, psychiatrist from Pooja Psychiatric Centre at Suryaraopet, echoes similar concerns. “After living in a denial mode for some time, we all now realise that COVID-19 is real and it could affect anybody. Lockdown for a prolonged period could lead to serious mental health issues,” she says. “This is what pandemics do. People become excessively apprehensive about their health and keep looking for symptoms in their body and become over-sensitive to whatever happens around them. This is not a good thing at all,” warns Dr. Vishal. He says the lockdown period is the best time for family bonding and to connect with old friends or learn a new skill like music, dance, gardening or even cooking. “Don’t believe everything that appears on social media and stick to one bulletin a day. Handle life with great responsibility and gear up for a fresh start post-COVID-19,” he advises.  The outbreak will have huge psychological ramifications in the days to come psychiatrist Vishal Indla   Lockdown for a prolonged period could lead to serious mental health issues psychiatrist V. Radhika Reddy
07 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials rapped for poor condition of shelter homes||State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) Member V.S.V. Krishna Kumar has pulled up officials over the poor maintenance of stores and toilets at a private Child Care Institution (CCI), run by an NGO, in Krishna district on Monday. Mr. Krishna Kumar, along with Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) district Assistant Project Director (APD) M. Prameela Rani, District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Vijay Kumar and staff inspected ‘Sishu Gruha’ run by the government at Buddavaram village. Untidy store room, rotten vegetables, stale garlic greeted the officials when they visited the shelter home. Expressing anger for poor maintenance of the store room, they asked the workers to throw away the damaged material and sanitize the premises immediately. They also chided the staff for not maintaining separate personal kits, including towels, soaps and tooth paste for children. “The CCI and the Sishu Gruha should maintain separate water bottles, towels, soaps, meals plates, glasses and bed sheets. The staff should change the curtains and clothes, wash them properly and use sanitizers,” Mr. Vijay Kumar said. Later, they visited ‘Swadhara Home’ being run by WD&CW department for destitute and homeless girls and women, located at Hanuman Junction.
07 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||772 attend interviews for paramedics||At a time when private hospitals are shutting doors for outpatients and other services, a huge number of paramedical professionals and technicians turned up to offer their services at the COVID-19 treatment centres in the district. Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said 772 persons with different qualifications and work experience in hospitals attended the interviews. Mr. Imtiaz said that social distancing measures were followed at the interview venue.
07 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID relief: Lawyers told to apply online||The Andhra Pradesh Bar Council informed that advocates who wish to avail the financial assistance offered by it during the lockdown should apply online (https://barcouncilap.org/financial-assistance-covid-19) from April 7 to 9. Bar Council secretary B. Padma Latha stated in a circular that the scheme is meant for advocates who are unable to meet their day-to-day expenses for food or medicines due to the lockdown. Those who filed applications / declarations under the Certificate of Practice Rules, 2015 and cleared the examination conducted by the Bar Council of India were eligible for it. Besides, advocates enrolled after January 1, 2010 and aged below 45 are eligible. They should have Aadhaar cards, they should not be drawing stipend under YSR Law Nestham and the spouses should not be employees. The list of the selected beneficiaries will be displayed on the Bar Council website on April 11 and punitive action would taken on advocates found to have furnished false information.
07 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC seeks info on ‘seeking votes’ while disbursing aid||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar has sought information from Collectors on the alleged misuse of distribution of Rs. 1,000 to the BPL households during the lockdown by people contesting the local body polls.  According to arelease, Mr. Ramesh Kumar has written to Collectors and poll observers , in response to complaints lodged by BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana and CPI leader K. Ramakrishna, who alleged that the ruling party contestants were seeking votes while disbursing Rs. 1,000 to the BPL families . Mr. Ramesh Kumar is stated to have observed that even as the Model Code of Conduct is not in force due to the postponement of the civic body polls, electioneering is prohibited during the lockdown and influencing the voters will be considered as a “serious violation of rules”.
07 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown compounds woes of dialysis patient in city||A man was seen gasping for breath as he pushed a wheelchair, in which a woman was sitting, on a hot sunny day on the National Highway near Maddilapalem on Monday morning. They are proceeding to the King George Hospital. Basavaiah, a petty vendor, of Arilova area, ekes out a living selling plastic wares. His wife Kanaka Mahalakshmi has been undergoing dialysis for the past sometime. Initially, he used to take her to the Visakha Institute for Medical Sciences (VIMS), which was barely a kilometre away from their home, for dialysis. The temporary conversion of VIMS into a State COVID-19 Hospital, to treat critical patients, has compounded their woes. Basavaiah now has to take his wife to the King George Hospital (KGH), which is about 8 km away, thrice a week for dialysis. In the absence of public transport buses and autos, due to the lockdown, Basavaiah has no other option but to take his wife in a wheel chair. The sweltering summer sun and the closure of shops en route, does not even give them the option to quench their thirst. Luckily for them, they were noticed by a group of youths going around on two-wheelers, distributing buttermilk, water and food packets, to the needy in view of the lockdown. The good Samaritans gave them buttermilk and water packets in addition to food packets.
07 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist leader calls for peace in view of pandemic||Senior Maoist leader Jallandhar Reddy alias Krishna, the State Zonal Committee Member in Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee, has made a plea through a video for peace in the LWE-affected areas in Andhra-Odisha Border region, amid the COVID-19 threat. In the video that was released late on Sunday night, he said there would be no offensive from the Maoist side, as long as the people and the government fight against the virus. He, however, said that the Maoists would not hesitate to retaliate any offensive from the security forces, as a self protection measure. The Maoist leader asked the security forces not to indulge in combing operation but instead focus on saving people from the pandemic. He accused the forces for excesses in Jodambo area of Odisha and in Koyyuru, Pedabayalu and GK Veedhi mandals in the Visakha Agency. A letter with similar content was released by Kailsam, secretary of AOBSZC. He also released an advisory with do’s and don’ts and how to keep COVID-19 at bay. ‘Veracity being checked’ Meanwhile, senior officials from the AP Police said they were checking the veracity and intent of both the letter and the video. In the past, whenever they (Maoist) were unable to bear the heat, they had come up with such proposals, but there was no truth in their intent. If they were really keen on focusing on COVID-19, they would not have killed 17 CRPF men and injuring another 14, in an ambush on March 21, in Sukma region in Chhattisgarh, said a senior officer engaged in anti-Maoist operation . “The fact is that their area of domination is fast shrinking in Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Andhra, and they want a window to re-establish themselves,” he said.“In the AOB region, their area of operation has been curtailed to about just 1,500 sq km in the cut-off region. Both the BSF on the Odisha side and A.P. Police and CRPF have made deep inroads on the Andhra side. This is hurting the Maoist in a big way,” said a senior officer from AP SIB. The area domination by the security forces was aimed at instilling confidence among the tribal people. “Moreover, due to our deep forays into the inhospitable terrain, government schemes have started to reach the tribal people . “And that is why tribal people are no longer swaying to the tune of the LWE, which affecting their (Maoist) tribal base,” said a senior police officer.
07 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more positive cases reported in the district||Panic situation continues to prevail, as five more persons, including three women from various areas of the Visakhapatnam district, tested positive for COVID-19, taking the tally to 20, as per health bulletin released by State government at 10 a.m. on Monday. According to the officials, among the five new cases, two cases are from Narsipatnam area. This is for the first time, rural areas have reported a positive case. Two women, basically religious preachers who hail from Tamil Nadu had gone to New Delhi recently and reached Visakhapatnam later. After they developed symptoms, the duo were sent to Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) and their samples tested positive. Samples of two more close contacts, including a woman who had come into close contact with an affected person from Thatichetlapalem, also tested positive on Monday. Apart from the four, a person from Gajuwaka also tested positive. Officials suspect that the person might have have contracted the virus from a Tablighi Jamaat returnee at a place of worship in the city. “After the reports, we started sanitising the areas by spraying sodium hypochlorite for disinfection. Surveillance teams with the help of ASHA worker, health official, ward volunteer will conduct door-to-door survey on Tuesday to check whether any person in the respective localities have COVID-19 symptoms,” said Paderu Sub Collector S. Venkateswar, who is monitoring Cluster Containment Committee and Quarantine facilities.
07 April 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take up door-to-door survey in affected areas: Botcha||Minister of Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Monday instructed officials to take up door-to-door survey in areas from where COVID-19 positive cases were reported. Surveillance teams should be deployed in such areas and anyone suspected of having symptoms must be admitted to hospital, he said. Spraying of chemicals should be taken up in such areas, he said at a review meeting with officials. Vehicles required for spraying should be hired, if necessary. All efforts should be directed at instilling confidence in people about the steps being taken to contain the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Satyanarayana said. He suggested that an entire floor in Pradhana Hospital be utilised for COVID-19 treatment deploying necessary staff. Four hospitals District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that four hospitals were designated for COVID-19 treatment. The COVID-19 lab at KGH has a capacity of testing 270 samples.
07 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing centre at KGH starts functioning||The COVID-19 Testing Centre, established at the King George Hospital (KGH), here, commenced operations on Monday. The testing centre, set up at a cost of Rs. 1.25 crore, was formally inaugurated by Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on April 3. The COVID-19 samples used to be sent initially to Tirupati and later to Kakinda for testing. The delays in the sending of the samples for testing and receiving the confirmation reports has necessitated the establishment of the testing centre in the city.
07 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman falls to death||A 47-year-old woman V. Sarada Devi died after falling from the fifth floor of an apartment in Ward No.6 at Kommadi area under P.M.Palem police station limits, here on Saturday. P.M. Palem Inspector A Ravi Kumar registered a case following a complaint from her husband V. Phani Kumar. Sources said that the woman along with her husband and son was living in the apartment. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.
07 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donation||V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Rajya Sabha Member and Managing Trustee of Pragathi Bharath Foundation, Visakhapatnam, along with other trustees Mavuri Venkata Ramana and SR Gopinath Reddy, distributed essential commodities to frontline workers here on Monday. Ministers M. Srinivasa Rao and Botcha Satyanarayana, GVMC Commissioner Srijana and DCP Ranga Reddy were among those present.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. doing all possible to check spread of virus, says Minister||There is no need for panic over the rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State as the government is taking all possible measures to prevent the spread of the virus, according to Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas. Addressing the media here on Monday after holding a review meet on the COVID-19 situation in Kurnool district where the highest number (56) of positive cases were reported, the Minister said the government was stringently implementing the lockdown measures and even cordoning off the potential vulnerable zones. Earlier, he visited the Viswabharathi Medical College Hospital which was converted into designated COVID-19 treatment hospital. According to the Minister, as many as 3,141 samples were tested in the State and of them 2,772 had been confirmed negative and only 266 had turned out to be positive. He asked the district administration to use the latest technology to track all the persons who had visited Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi and put them in quarantine. Appreciating the officials for handling the task well, he said 840 persons had been identified and majority of them had been kept in quarantine. ‘Stay indoors’ Results of 396 samples out of the 463 that were sent to Anantapur and Tirupati for testing were received and of them, 319 turned negative, while 74 were positive. Results of 67 were awaited, said the Minister. The Health Minister sought the cooperation of the people in implementing the lockdown and advised them not to come out of their houses. He directed the officials to ensure proper toilet facilities and ICU facility for all COVID-19 positive cases and provide them with proper treatment at the Viswabharathi Medical College. Finance Minister Buggana Rajedranath and Labour Minister Gummanur Jairam were also present on the occasion.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dharmavaram sari makers hang by a thread||Dharmavaram silk saris are famous the world over for their quality and probably the most popular only after Kanchipuram Pattu. This is the peak season for the business, but the town wears a deserted look with the lockdown being enforced to check the spread of COVID-19. The first phase of auspicious days for Hindu marriages ended on March 17. The next phase that will last till May-end and after that there will be a gap of two months. Weavers in all towns and villages around Dharmavaram should have been plush with orders and every weavers’ colony should have been reverberating with the sound of handlooms, but the lockdown has reversed the situation. Mounting debts At Syndicate Nagar in A. Narayanapuram panchayat near Anantapur, there are 400 houses with handlooms, but hardly a dozen of them are functional. A majority of weavers work based on orders from wholesalers and retailers. The raw material is supplied by them. “We hardly have any orders. We have woven just two saris in the last nine days, which might fetch us barely Rs. 1,200,” lament Thaticherla Bano Bi and Mohammed Rafi. The couple had to borrow Rs. 3 lakh for their daughter Karishma’s ENT operation even after the government extended an assistance of Rs. 8 lakh. Now, they are worried that interest would mount if work does not come in the next fortnight. No supply of silk Kalimishetty Shanataram, who has knowledge of the business, says the impact of the lockdown will be felt even after six months. Silk cocoon market has been closed, supply of raw silk thread coming mostly from Mysuru and Bengaluru has totally stopped, so as chemical from Adoni in Kurnool district for the thread to be dyed in Dharmavaram. Only a couple of them such as Posa Chalapathi, who buys material on his own, has work for some days and makes higher margins. Marriages have got postponed, but before new dates are fixed and purchases begin, it could be not before August and supply of zari has to begin from Surat once again. Only then these handloom weavers get to make saris with heavy borders and zari. They get Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000 per sari that takes a couple to weave six to seven days. Meanwhile, cocoons have started arriving in the market at Hindupur, Kadiri and Dharmavaram in small quantities.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown impact||
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||telangana||
07 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Stream of migrant workers fleeing State dries up||The thick stream of migrant workers leaving Telangana, incredibly on foot, has finally ended and authorities on either side of the inter-State border demarcated by the bridge on river Penganga on NH 44 are left to contend only with transporters trying to cross over. The thousands of woebegone labourers who were ‘fleeing’ Telangana State, chiefly Hyderabad city, owing to the uncertainties of the lockdown had faced hunger and exhaustion as they covered the about 300 km between Hyderabad and the border. Those manning the borders, especially this one on NH 44 which serves as the gateway of South India from the Central parts of the country, were clueless on seeing the prospect of caring for an unusually large number of pathetic people who kept coming in groups seeking to cross over into Maharashtra. Or even with the much smaller number of youngsters from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh who sought to come back from Yavatmal and Chandrapur districts. Not knowing what to do, the authorities bundled about 100 migrants in a lorry and sent them in the reverse direction from Devapur cross road on NH 44 about 8 km from Adilabad town. “We had walked all the distance (over 300 km) from Gachibowli in Hyderabad only to be dropped 40 km back and here we are having walked that distance again,” disclosed a weary Raghavendra Argal, a building painter from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. A few groups were ‘advised’ by the authorities to walk through agriculture fields and forest instead of keeping on the road to avoid being stopped or even sent back. Several groups of people lost their way and had to cross the inter State border at place away from the NH 44 often crossing the river at shallow water spots. The officials on the border were also sympathetic to the workers and allowed many to pass through the checks. “We sent them off in lorries whenever we could,” revealed a functionary at the border. Top police officials from Maharashtra visited the border posts and asked authorities on Telangana side not to allow the migrants to cross the border. “Who will have looked after the needs of such a large number of people,” observed the functionary responding to the suggestion of Maharashtra police two days back. The labourers working mostly in construction industry, hailing from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan may or may not reach their home. But what is certain is it is going to take a lot of persuasion if they are to agree to return to Telangana on return of normalcy.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||308 COVID-19 cases active in TS||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that there are 308 COVID-19-positive patients undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital and final tests confirming their condition will be completed in three days. Unless new cases of transmission of virus are admitted during the period, the hospital will gradually discharge all patients after treatment, Mr. Rao said at a press conferenceon Monday. He said all the 258 COVID-positive patients of pre-Markaz prayers would be discharged by Thursday after completion of treatment. This included 30 foreign returnees and 20 of their family members who have tested positive. As many as 364 positive patients of pre and post-Markaz period presently constitute the total strength of inmates at Gandhi Hospital. Of them, eleven persons died and forty six others were discharged. This leaves 308 persons who are still undergoing treatment. The State government had identified 1,089 persons who attended the Markaz prayers and returned home across various districts. Another 35 persons from the State were admitted in hospitals in New Delhi. He said the government had created a pool of 25,000 medical personnel to treat the patients. About 18,000 beds were kept ready to admit them. He described the spread of the virus as the biggest crisis in the world with 22 countries observing a complete lockdown and 90 countries partially. He denied media reports that doctors treating COVID 19 patients lacked security and that the medical personnel had no personal protective equipment. The government will initiate stringent action against such reports, he added.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Thermal scanning cameras installed at Secretariat||As the search for possible coronavirus (COVID-19) affected persons is intensified, the government has put in place two thermal scanning cameras in the Burgula Rama Krishna Rao Bhavan, the temporary secretariat, to avoid scope for people with high temperatures entering the premises. The cameras, worth Rs. 7 lakh each, have been installed at two important points, one in front of the lift for the VIPs and VVIPs, and the other near the elevators being used by staff and general visitors. These cameras had been procured on Saturday and are put to use after successful trial testing by the officials concerned. Interestingly, the installation of the thermal cameras follows report that a section officer working in the third floor of the BRKR Bhavan had attended the religious prayers at Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi and joined duty without informing the government about his visit. The official had been directed to undergo checkup and had been referred to the designated hospital. Senior officials said it will be mandatory for visitors as well as staff to stand before the camera before getting into the lift so that their body temperatures could be measured. “Standing two seconds before the camera is all it takes to record the body temperature,” a senior official told The Hindu . People whose body temperature is more than 98.6 degree Fahrenheit are being referred to the dispensary within the Secretariat for further diagnosis. “Doctors on duty will check the patients and ascertain whether they are to be sent to hospitals for further tests,” the official said. In addition to the screens fitted to the cameras, steps have been taken to attach a monitor to each of the cameras so that officials could clearly see the face of the person and ascertain their body temperatures. The government initially tried to procure handheld thermal scanners, but could not do so because of their unavailability in the market owing to the high demand. “Thermal scanning cameras were procured as handheld devices were not available,” the official said.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||WhatsApp chatbot on COVID-19 launched||As part of efforts to provide authentic information to citizens on COVID-19, a WhatsApp chatbot ‘TS Gov Covid Info’ was launched on Monday by Telangana government. IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao, who launched the facility, said Telangana government has partnered with WhatsApp to establish a dedicated coronavirus helpline for citizens to receive accurate information on the pandemic. “We are doing everything we can to keep our citizens safe in these challenging times and urge everyone to stay indoors and ensure they rely only on verified channels of information,” he said. An official release on the launch said the Telangana IT, Electronics and Communications Department and Health Department have built ‘TS Gov Covid Info’ chatbot collaborating with SB Technologies, a Hyderabad-based software solutions provider. and MessengerPeople, one of WhatsApp’s official business solution providers. IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “Citizens having questions relating to the pandemic can now chat with the government of Telangana on WhatsApp to receive all critical and accurate information on the outbreak. Simply send ‘Hi’ or ‘Hello’ or ‘Covid’ to +91-9000658658 in a WhatsApp message to get started”. A release from WhatsApp said the dedicated State COVID helpline on +919000658658 will be a free-to-use service and act as a central source for accurate, trustworthy and up-to-date information about the pandemic. This service will be available both in Telugu and English. The helpline is an automated chatbot service. To begin with, it will provide information on topics such as coronavirus prevention and symptoms, current status on COVID-19, information about the lockdown, health facilities and isolation centres with more options to be included in future.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State reports 30 new cases||There was a spike in COVID-19 cases across Telanagana for the second consecutive day on Monday. The steady rise in the number of coronavirus cases is continuing with the number of positive cases touching 364. A total of 30 new cases detected on Monday. Of the total cases detected till date, 308 are active and 12 patients were discharged taking the total number of discharged cases to 43. No new deaths were reported in the State for the day and the number remained at 11. Of the total positive cases, Hyderabad reported the highest number of cases at 133 followed by Nizamabad 29 and Warangal Urban 23. The highest number of 21 discharged cases too were from Hyderabad and 10 among the discharged patients were from private hospitals. Karimnagar too reported discharge of 11 patients while seven out of the 10 patients from Rangareddy district who were undergoing treatment were discharged. ‘No community transmission’ There is no evidence of community transmission in Telangana. Director of Public Health and Family Welfare G. Srinivas Rao said the State government had strengthened surveillance, contact tracing and containment measures against the possible spread of the disease. Nizamabad reported 10 new COVID positive cases, followed by six in Suryapet, three in Nirmal and two in Nalgonda. Khammam reported the first positive case on Monday.Nizamabad Collector C. Narayana Reddy said the number of COVID positive cases in the district has gone up to 29 with 10 new positive cases. Out of the 59 participants of Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, 58 were identified and one of them died and another stayed back at Markaz, he said at a press conference. Out of the 20 samples sent to the labs, 10 tested positive. They included seven of the Delhi returnees and three of their primary contacts.. Habeebnagar, Autonagar, Ahmedpura Colony, Quilla Road and Arsapally in the town and Renjal, Bheemgal, Bodhan, Makloor, Balkonda and Nandipet have been identified as COVID hotspots. All roads in hotspot areas would be closed down and all kinds of movement would be restricted from Monday night. Six cases in Suryapet Six fresh cases of COVID-19 infection were reported by Suryapet district administration on Monday, while Nalgonda officials said it diagnosed two persons positive. The total tally of positive patients stood at 24 in erstwhile Nalgonda. According to Nalgond district officials, the six positive patients are residents of Nagaram mandal, also the primary contacts of the first positive patient from Kuda Kuda in the district. In Nalgonda, two of the Delhi returnees tested positive for the virus. The District Medical & Health Officer confirmed that there were two positive cases, but did not disclose details of their nationality and location in the district. Three more persons tested positive for COVID infection in Nirmal which raised the total number of such cases to four in the district. One case each tested positive from Nirmal town, Chakpalli village in Narsapur (G) mandal and Bhainsa town. A total of 97 samples were sent for testing to Hyderabad till Sunday while 43 more were sent on Monday. Of the total of 140 samples sent so far for tests, 64 have tested negative and reports for 72 are awaited, according to Collector Md. Musharraf Ali Faruqui. Meanwhile, Khammam district reported its first positive COVID case on Monday after a 43-year-old person of Pedda Thanda in Khammam rural mandal tested positive. Official sources said that the man, a local leader of a mass organisation, had attended a meeting organised by a political party in New Delhi on March 16 and returned by a train that also carried some Markaz attendees on March 18. Based on specific information, a team of Health department staff traced him on April 2 and kept him under quarantine. His samples were sent for testing on the same day and the test results returned positive on Monday, sources added.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notices to Centre, State on steps to stop spread of COVID-19||Telangana High Court on Monday issued notices to Central and State governments seeking information on the measures being taken by them in the backdrop of rising cases of COVID-19 in the State. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy, after hearing a PIL plea through video-conferencing, instructed the Centre and the State to file an interim report on the matter by Thursday. A complete report on the questions raised by the petitioners like personal protective equipment (PPE) to the doctors, medical staff and para-medical staff working in different hospitals of the State should be presented on or before April 15, the bench said. The bench led by CJ also directed the State government to inform the concrete steps being taken by them to make available daily consumable items, including food and medicines, to the people. Telangana Democratic Forum convenor P.L. Vishweshwar Rao and doctor Cheruku Sudhakar, who filed the PIL plea, contended that the State government failed to provide adequate quarantine facilities to people who had flown into Telangana from abroad from February 1 to March 25. The government also failed to provide PPE to the doctors and the medical staff attending on coronavirus suspects, the petitioners stated. Essential items like food grains, vegetables and medicines were not being supplied to people at reasonable prices. Labourers in unorganised sectors, beggars, orphans, street children, migrant labourers and nomadic tribes (who don’t have white ration cards) were left to fend for themselves, they stated. They requested the court to direct the government to provide food items and masks to all such people in the State. The plea was posted on Thursday for next hearing.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Google’s initiative to help locate food, night shelters||IT giant Google has come up with an initiative enabling people, migrant workers in particular, moving to their home locations by foot to know food and night shelters located nearby. People can find these locations across 30 cities on Google Maps, Search and Google Assistant by searching for ‘food shelters’ or ‘night shelters’ in the particular city. People can enter the queries relating to food and night shelters into Google Search or ask their Google Assistant on smartphones or on a KaiOS device. The service, presently offered in English, would soon be available in Hindi and efforts are under way to bring the service to other Indian languages in the coming weeks apart from adding additional shelters in more cities across the country. Google said it has worked with the State and Central government authorities to surface locations of these relief centres. Livelihoods disrupted The effort started in view of the disruption caused by the novel coronavirus pandemic to scores of people affecting their livelihood and regular access to food. It would be easier to access the facility with features like quick access shortcuts that would appear beneath the search bar on the Google Maps app, shortcuts on Google Maps on KaiOS feature phones and food and night shelter pins appearing on the map by default when the Maps app is first opened. Google India senior programme manager Anal Ghosh said the company was making concerted effort to build solutions that help people in the times of need. The effort is aimed at making information easily available to users in need and ensure that they availed themselves of the food and shelter services being provided by the government authorities.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH jr. doctors on edge, request PPEs||Junior doctors at Osmania General Hospital are on the edge after a 55-year-old woman who underwent treatment there tested positive for COVID-19. They have requested the authorities to provide Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) in all units where there is risk of getting exposed to a person carrying coronavirus. The hospital authorities claimed that they are providing protective gear to those at risk. A 55-year-old woman from Shadnagar, who was admitted at the hospital with throat pain on April 1, died a day later. Swab samples collected from her tested positive for coronavirus. At least five junior doctors (post-graduates) and one technician who got exposed to the patient are under quarantine at home. Initially, Telangana Health Department officials scrambled to know the source of infection as the woman did not have travel history or contact with a COVID-19 positive patient. Later, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that she met some people who have returned from Delhi. Junior doctors from the hospital said that if any similar case gets admitted, more healthcare professionals might get exposed which will lead to reduction in work force at hospitals. “Besides, our families will be at risk if we are asymptomatic carriers of the virus. We want to work. But our situation is like to soldiers without weapons,” said a junior doctor. They said that the PPEs have to be provided to those working in Casualty Section, Acute Medical Care (AMC). “Only one PPE per General Medicine PG is provided for one shift (over 15 hours in night) at AMC. We have to change it whenever we go to washrooms, or have food. Since only one PPE is provided, we hold back ourselves from going to washrooms. Besides, the gear is not given to PGs from Nephrology, Cardiology, Anaesthesia departments,” the junior doctor said. They might submit a representation to officials in the Health Department in this regard. The hospital’s superintendent B Nagender said that they are following standing orders. “The PPEs are given to all those working in AMC, Emergency section, Isolation Wards and Intermediate Medical Care units. As per the orders, the PGs from Nephrology or other specialities are provided with the protective gear if there is any suspected case, but not for routine patients. The suspected patient has to be shifted to Isolation Ward,” Dr Nagender said.
07 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Raja Singh violates social distancing norm, apologises||Telangana's lone BJP MLA T. Raja Singh and his supporters violated the social distancing norm on Sunday night by holding mashals (torches) and standing close to each other. Responding toPrime Minister Narendra Modi's “9 p.m., 9 minutes” callto express solidarity in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Singh along with 70-odd supporters gathered outside his residence in Goshamahal and referred Coronavirus as “China Virus”. They also raised “Chinese virus go back” slogans.  Violates curfew too Not only social distancing norms, but the MLA and his supporters violated the 7 p.m. to 6 p.m. curfew norm imposed across the State. However, Mr. Singh was seen wearing a mask and hand gloves. In his address to the nation, Mr. Modi appealed to the citizens to strictly maintain social distancing while lighting lamps or flashing mobile lights for nine minutes on Sunday evening. Speaking to The Hindu , the Goshamahal legislator said that it was not a deliberate act, but the karyakartas were excited after seeing the great response to Prime Minister’s call. “There were 60 to 70 karyakartas standing in two lines by maintaining social distance. By seeing the great response and atmosphere in the area, they must have come closer for a few moments,” he said. Mr. Singh said that all the supporters who were present outside his residence on Sunday evening were engaged in preparing food for hundreds of homeless and migrant workers in the constituency. “The whole day’s fatigue of our karyakartas evaporated after seeing the lights and candles. I apologise wholeheartedly if our support to the Prime Minister’s call has offended someone,” he added.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ASHA workers call to end attacks||Telangana Voluntary and Community Health Workers Union members have requested State Health department officials to take measures to prevent attacks on Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) who are conducting door-to-door surveys As part of the surveillance for COVID-19 cases, ASHA members go door-to-door to find if anybody is symptomatic, if anyone has international or domestic travel history, and execute other tasks related to containment of the spread of the virus. Union’s State president P Jayalakshmi and other members said that stray incidents of attacks on ASHA members were reported in Adilabad, Kamareddy, Nirmal, Gadwal and other districts. “People get irritated and yell at us when we go to their homes as part of survey or other work. They argue that our repeated visits makes neighbours think that they have the infectious disease and ask us not to visit,” said K Sunitha, State secretary of the union. They have requested government to take measures to prevent such incidents. Besides, they have requested additional income for working during the ongoing health emergency.
07 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor speaks to varsity officials||The Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan had a teleconference with officials of Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) and the Vice-Chancellors and Registrars of all the universities and their preparedness to deal with academic activity when the students are forced to stay at home due to lockdown. The Governor sought information on whether online teaching is being held and also wanted suggestions on how the varsities can use the present situation to adopt various other modes of teaching and academic activities. The Governor was also interested in whether the varsities were doing any research on coronavirus, the TSCHE Chairman T. Papi Reddy said. Varsity heads explained that broadband issues and availability of gadgets with rural students for online teaching was a big impediment and majority of students were from rural areas and vernacular medium. They also explained how they were going ahead with the limited resources available, TSCHE Vice-Chairman V. Venkataramana said. The Governor was also interested in knowing whether the NCC and NSS cadets of various colleges can be pressed into service to assist the government in disseminating the right information and create awareness in their neighbourhoods.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High alert issued to zoos, parks, forest field staff||In view of a tiger testing positive for coronavirus in New York’s Bronx Zoo, the Forest department has issued a high alert to all its circle heads, zoos and deer parks in the State, asking them to be watchful for symptoms and abnormal behaviour in animals. The instructions followed elaborate directives from the Central Zoo Authority and the National Tiger Conservation Authority, apart from the Wildlife division of the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The zoos and deer parks were asked to keep a watch on the animals 24X7 using CCTV, and not to allow the keepers or handlers in their vicinity without safety gear, preferably personal protection equipment (PPE). The directive is to isolate and quarantine sick animals and have least contact while providing food. Mammals including carnivores, especially cat, feral species and primates should be carefully monitored and samples of the suspect cases should be sent to designated animal health institutes for COVID-19 testing. The order also advised strict adherence to safety and disinfection protocol issued by the government on COVID-19. No sick animal keeper may be allowed near the animals and all should sanitise themselves before feeding the animals or cleaning the enclosures/night houses. Further, the zoos and parks were advised to coordinate with designated nodal agencies for screening, testing, surveillance and diagnostic sample collection of zoo staff when required. Following NTCA directives, the PCCF said the tigers in the wild too may be observed for symptoms such as nasal discharge, coughing and laboured breathing through direct observation to the extent possible. No visitors should be allowed into the tiger reserves and protected areas during the lockdown and no direct contact may be permitted between field staff and the animals in the wild. No artificial feed may be allowed. The monkeys and langurs moving between forest areas and villages may also be observed for signs of coronavirus as they are susceptible. Persons handling tigers in man-animal conflicts and translocation operations should be ascertained coronavirus-free, and should observe due caution as advised by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Diligence should be observed while collecting samples during post-mortem cases for coronavirus diagnosis, in consultation with state veterinary officials. As coronaviruses are known to affect the gastrointestinal system in felines, requisite correlation may be made for characterising the virus type in consultation with the state veterinary department, the order said. The field staff should immediately report any natural death of wild herbivores and also collect samples for testing observing all precautions. Sanitisation of persons carrying water to fill the saucer pits should be ensured. The MoEF Wildlife division also favoured constitution of a task force or rapid action force with field managers, veterinary doctors, and frontline staff to manage any situation without delay.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Airtight bags suggested to store harvest||At a time when the disposal (sale) of agricultural produce, particularly the food and oilseed crops, is getting difficult to the farming community due to the COVID-19 lockdown, a team of scientists of Sri Konda Laxman Telangana State Horticultural University here have found that three-layered plastic bags would be highly useful for storing the produce for longer period. The university team has found that storage of crops in the three-layered plastic bags known as Purdue Improved Crop Storage (PICS), a technology developed and licensed by the Purdue University, Indiana (US), would help keep the quality intact without any damage from pest and insect attacks in room temperature conditions itself. The only care farmers need to take is to bring down the moisture content of the produce to 8 % to 10% before storage. The team of SKLTSHU researchers led by Associate Professor Pidigem Saidaiah have imported some PICS bags from the US for their study of storing dried red chilli and dolichos beans or valor beans (a variety of broad beans known as ‘koora chikkudu’ locally). “We have used 0.5 kg of trapping, produce infested with aspergillus (fungus, an aflatoxin with potential carcinogens) for every 4.5 kg of red chilli and a similar quantity of dolichos infested with bruchids with every 4.5 kg of healthy beans for our study,” Mr. Saidaiah told The Hindu . He explained that the two products were stored for eight months in the PICS bags in the room temperature conditions after testing their quality terms of germination percentage, colour, proteins, vitamins and fats as also the number of bruchids per 100 grains of dolichos. “When we opened the PICS bags for testing the quality of produce stored in the PICS bags after eight months, the results observed were amazing as the infestation did not spread beyond the quantity infested and the bruchids and aspergillus were also found to be dead,” Mr. Saidaih said. Explaining the reasons, he stated that the bags would have no oxygen inside as the quantity available is consumed and exhausted by the pest/insects within 2-3 days and they would not allow exchange of gases from outside.  Pest free storage  PICS bags are effective storage facility to control post-harvest losses They help contain, prevent pest, insect, microbe, micro-toxin infestation of stored grains They are useful for domestic needs too for storing rice, gram to prevent insect attacks Produce stored in PICS bags beneficial for exports too as they help keep the quality intact Bags are being made by a well-known private textile company under licence from US university Cost of 50 kg storage bag is Rs. 90 and that of 100 kg is Rs. 130 in retail  Gates Foundation has distributed 40 million PICS bags in African countries for storing foodgrains Groundnut farmers in Anantapur (AP) already using about 3 lakh bags for storage They are useful for safe storage of turmeric, sunflower, sesame and other crops too
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Salary deferment lifted||The State government has lifted the 10% deferment in the salaries of staff of GHMC and all other municipalities, said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday. The deferment had been announced earlier in view of the difficult financial position due to lockdown. The 10% salary will be restored to 43,601 personnel of GHMC and 21,531 others of municipalities, he informed at a press conference. In addition, Mr. Rao announced Chief Minister’s incentive of Rs. 7,500 each to GHMC and Hyderabad water board staff for working hard towards taking up sanitisation measures to meet the threat of novel coronavirus. Another Chief Minister’s incentive of Rs. 5,000 each will be given to staff of municipalities and gram panchayats for their efforts in maintenance of cleanliness in towns and villages. He pointed out that the government was in such a tight financial position that it was paying staff salaries from borrowings.
07 April 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Head constable tests positive||A 55-year-old head constable with Hyderabad police is said to have tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The police top brass went into a huddle as the news broke. The head constable in question actively took part in religious activities, sources said. Preliminary information gathered by police suggested that the head constable used to spend a lot of time interacting with people at places of worship. It is also understood that he was not among the Markaz Nizamuddin returnees. A senior police officer said 12 more constables and head constables with whom the victim interacted at the police station were advised home quarantine and their swabs were sent for testing. “Those who test positive will be shifted to Gandhi Hospital for treatment,” he said, requesting anonymity, worried that the news would create panic among the uniformed personnel. “Two days ago, the head constable experienced stomach ache and his head started spinning. Soon, the family rushed him to a private hospital, where doctors suspected him to have contracted COVID-19 and shifted him to Gandhi Hospital,” the officer said.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lights-off event: safe grid operation hailed||All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has congratulated the power sector engineers across the country for their successful grid management during the lights-off event on Sunday night, observed in response to the Prime Minister’s call to express solidarity with the fight against coronavirus. Secretary general of AIPEF P. Ratnakar Rao said in a statement on Monday that the engineers had managed the grid in spite of higher fluctuation, decrease in demand, of power than what was estimated by the Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO). In Telangana the fluctuation was four-five times higher than what was estimated, but the engineers did a splendid job in maintaining the grid safety by monitoring the generation, transmission and supply of power simultaneously. Terming the phenomena as unprecedented in the annals of Indian power sector, Mr. Ratnakar Rao said power engineers and employees across the country had spent three sleepless nights in the preparation of grid management and reliable operation with their untiring efforts. The load crash in Telangana was 1,500 MW and it was 1,600 MW in Andhra Pradesh out of the total load crash of 5,978 MW during the lights-off event period of nine minutes. In Tamil Nadu, the load crash was 1,686 MW. After the lights-off event, generation ramp-up was also ensured as a smooth operation till the demand and supply became normal.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More donations to CMRF||Several prominent personalities and organisations on Monday have contributed to the CM’s Relief Fund to show their solidarity with the measures taken by the government to prevent spread of coronavirus and financially support the actions taken by the government. Telangana IKP, VAOs have given Rs. 1,72,61,000. There are 17,261 VAOs in the State who draw Rs. 3,000 as salary and each VAO announced Rs. 1,000 as donation. In the presence of Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, honorary president of the IKP, VAOs Association - L. Roop Singh, State president Manchikatla Koteswar, general secretary Maripelli Madhavi and treasurer Tirupathi handed over the donation to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragathi Bhavan. Sreenidhi Credit Cooperative Federation Limited of the State Women’s Collective donated Rs. 1 crore. Sreenidhi president Anita gave the cheque to the Chief Minister. Telangana Poultry Association gave Rs. 1 crore donation and Poultry Association president Errabelli Pradeep Rao, former president Kasireddy Narayan Reddy handed over the cheque to the Chief Minister. Telangana Breeders Association gave Rs. 1 crore and its State president and MP G. Ranjit Reddy gave the cheque to the Chief Minister. Telangana State Cooperative Bank (TSCOB) gave Rs. 1 crore donation, which includes Rs. 8.5 lakh contributed by employees, Rs. 3.5 lakh by the chairman and Rs. 88 lakh donation by the bank and its chairman Konduru Ravindra Rao. Vice-chairman Gongadi Mahender Reddy handed over the cheque to the CM. The following are contributions from others: DCCBs and Single Windows jointly gave Rs. 76 lakhs - DCCB chairpersons gave Rs. 1 lakh each, Single Window chairpersons Rs. 5,000 each and the employees donated their one-day’s salary. Reddy’s Labs pledged Rs. 5 crore worth medicines and N95 masks, a consent letter in this regard was given by Reddy Lab’s chairman Satish Reddy and MD G. V. Prasad. MSN Labs came forward to give Rs. 5 crore worth medicines and other medical equipment. A consent letter was given by lab’s chairman M Satyanarayana Reddy to the CM. Philanthropists from Khammam formed - Good Samaritans of Khammam - and collected Rs. 2 crore donations. Of this, Rs. 1.75 crore are donations and Mamata Medical Education Institutions gave Rs. 25 lakh. A cheque for Rs. 2 crore was handed over by Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar to the CM. Anusha Projects Private Limited MD Jalandhar Reddy gave Rs. 50 lakh cheque to the CM.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water board ‘forced’ to empty one of its reservoirs||In an unusual incident on Monday, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) had to empty one of its reservoirs in the city completely, after an instance of trespass. A total of one lakh litres of water was let out in waste, inundating the surrounding streets, from the reservoir which supplies water to Ramnagar and surrounding areas. BJP blamed As per the details, a group of 30 persons who are claimed to be local representatives of BJP, reportedly performed ‘puja’ in the Risala Gadda- Harinagar pump-house of Musheerabad on Sunday night in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to the nation to switch off lights and light up candles. As the pump-house gates were locked, they broke them open and gained entry. They were apparently accompanied by a woman claimed to be under divine trance ( poonakam ). Soon, the news spread, and several local people arrived at the pump house, and entered into an argument with the group. Doubts were raised that they adulterated the drinking water with some unknown powder, and police was informed about the same. Commotion ensued late into the night, when police intervened and dispersed the crowd. However, in the morning, with rumours spreading about the water being polluted, large number of people along with MLA Muta Gopal and local representatives from Congress came down to the pump house and staged a protest. Coming under under pressure, the water board officials had to open the valves of Harinagar reservoir, letting a lakh litres of drinking water out onto the roads. Officials said a case has been registered on the persons responsible for the trespass.
07 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI (M) seeks all-party meet on COVID-19||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has demanded that the government convene a meeting of all political parties to discuss the impact of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and evolve measures to effectively tackle the menace. CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram said that coronavirus has become a cause of concern for the State, endangering public health and the government should take political parties, voluntary organisations and experts into confidence in evolving ways to tackle the spread of the virus. Given the intense efforts being made by the government to contain the virus, the suggestions of political parties and others would supplement the efforts in effectively addressing the concerns. Several States had already convened all-party meetings and the Centre too convened an all-party meeting on April 8 to explain about the measures taken to check the spread of the virus and seek their suggestions. There was need for the government to convene the meeting in the light of efforts by some political parties and vested interests to ‘communalise’ COVID-19 citing the Nizamuddin Markaz prayers at New Delhi.
07 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Social distancing campaign in Karimnagar||The district administration and police machinery, which have been striving relentlessly for eradication of COVID-19 from the district, has now launched a fresh campaign to educate people to maintain social distancing. Incidentally, even before the government announced ‘Janata curfew’ on March 22 and subsequently lockdown for 21 days, the administration was put on high alert to check the spread of COVID-19. The district was the first to open an isolation ward at the district headquarters hospital and ensured isolation wards at two private medical colleges in the town. The authorities had first noticed the suspected movement of 10 Indonesians and sent them to isolation ward and later to Gandhi Hospital, where the doctors confirmed that all the 10 foreign preachers were virus-positive on March 17. Later, the police started identifying the persons who moved closely with the Indonesian preachers and sent them to isolation ward. After one local person, who moved closely with Indonesians, tested positive, the authorities immediately cordoned off the areas falling under three municipal divisions in the town and intensified sanitisation programmes and conducted door-to-door survey. The medical teams also toured the areas and identified suspected persons and shifted them to isolation or put them under home quarantine. Recently, three more persons who returned from ‘markaz’ prayers in Nizamuddin also tested positive and they were shifted to Gandhi Hospital. The police had identified all the persons, who moved closely with the Nizamuddin returnees and sent them to isolation wards. Now in order to prevent the spread of the virus, the authorities have launched a special campaign educating people to maintain social distancing. Accordingly, the MCK authorities erected signboards, posters and wall-writings. The Commissionerate of Police have gone a step ahead and appointed around 160 volunteers and deployed them at shopping malls, vegetable markets, medical shops etc. “We are taking all measures to control the spread of the virus and fight against COVID-19 is not over. Already, more than 200 persons had been sent to isolation wards and several others were home quarantined,” the official sources said.
07 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Jail inmates get extra talktime||As coronavirus threat forced the cancellation of ‘mulaqat’ (meetings of prisoners with their family members or relatives) in the district jail until further orders, the inmates of the jail are being allowed to make two extra phone calls per week to their kith and kin to help them stay in touch with their families during the ongoing nationwide lockdown. The move gained prominence in the wake of the current unprecedented situation with the global pandemic continues to disrupt normal life across the country and elsewhere in the world. In addition to the existing system of allowing the prisoners to call their family members and relatives over phone from the prison twice a week, the authorities have permitted the inmates to make two more phone calls of each five minutes duration every week as per the norms. All phone calls are being recorded and the record of call data is being maintained in compliance with the regulations, sources said.  Producing goods The inmates of the jail earned a niche for themselves in production of a wide range of goods, including furniture, soaps and towels, besides some of them turned enterprising farmers by growing paddy in the open land on the sprawling jail premises at Danavaigudem here. Rising to the occasion, they have now started making cloth masks to lend a helping hand to the collective efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. Around 500 reusable cloth masks are being made by the inmates of the district jail at the prison’s tailoring unit daily, said Jail Superintendent G. Ramachandram. The jail inmates are being allowed to make a total of four phone calls to the approved numbers of their family members and relatives per week to enable them inquire about the well being of their families and maintain family bond, he added. The social distance norms are being followed scrupulously in the jail presently housing around 200 inmates, he asserted.
07 April 2020||MULUGU DISTRICT,TELANGANA||MLA delivers essentials at doorstep of Adivasis||Braving the scorching sun and coronavirus scare Mulugu MLA Seethakka has reached out Gothi Koya community residing at Gothikoyagudem and Korrachintalapadu habitations in Venkatapur mandal in the district and distributed essentials including rice, dal and vegetables, free of cost, on Monday. Ms. Seethakka who reached these hamlets on a tractor said that Congress leaders noted the plight of the 25 families of Gothikoyagudem and 40 families of Korrachintalapadu and decided to donate the essentials to help the Adivasis who lost their livelihood due to coronavirus lockdown. “All these Adivasis families are migrant workers. Since the lockdown, it has become very difficult for them to earn a living. It is high time the government identifies such distressed people and provides assistance,” the MLA said, demanding 12 kgs of rice and Rs. 500 in cash to each of them. She appealed to locals to maintain social distancing besides adopting the necessity of other hygienic practices. She told them to approach the sarpanch immediately if they suffer from cold, fever and other flu related diseases. It was learnt that PACS directors, belonging to the Congress, Bheem Rao and Jayapal Reddy sponsored the essentials supplied to the Adivasis. Congress Mulugu DCC president N Kumaraswamy, Ch Suryanarayana, Bandi Srinu and MPTC Bhaskar were among others present.
07 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Paddy purchases begin in old Nizamabad district||Paddy purchases began on Monday at over 850 purchase centres, almost one each at each village, set up under the aegis of primary cooperative agriculture societies, district cooperative marketing society, MEPMA and IKP in the erstwhile Nizamabad district. Paddy was transplanted in over 4.25 lakh acres and 12 lakh metric tonnes of crop is expected to hit the market in the current season. Paddy cutting started in Rudrur, Varni and Kotagiri mandals where it was transplanted earlier, while in the rest of the mandals harvest will begin in a week. Authorities have been busy in making arrangements to purchase paddy amid all precautionary measures to combat the spread of COVID-19. Face masks and sanitisers are also being provided at the purchase centres and those who are given coupons are asked to come to the centres on specified dates. Gunny bags and tarpaulins have been kept ready at the centres and arrangements are on to provide transport.
07 April 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Authorities set to complete Kondapochamma bund||Even while the entire State is busy arresting the spread of coronavirus, the district administration is trying to complete the bund work of Kondapochamma reservoir. The work began on Saturday and is expected to take about two weeks. Kondapochamma reservoir is coming up in Gajwel constituency with 15 tmcft capacity, it will submerge three villages and one tanda — Bahilampur, Mamidyala, Thanedarpally and Thanedarpally tanda. Except for those who had approached the court seeking compensation under Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act- 2013) all the other oustees were paid compensation and majority of them were allotted houses at Tunkibollaram Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony in Mulugu mandal. Except for small patch that connects the Gauraram and the three submerging villages and tanda, the bund work was completed few months ago. The government took it seriously and decided to complete the bund as water was released from Midmanair to Annapurna reservoir last month and from there to Ranganayak reservoir that was constructed on the outskirts of Siddipet. The administration started work on Saturday despite objection from the locals.“Do not obstruct the works or else cases would be registered against you,” the police reportedly said.
07 April 2020||V. Geetanath,TELANGANA||CSIR forms five verticals to combat COVID-19||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) has galvanised all its labs into action to battle COVID-19 in the last few weeks, with Director-General Shekhar C. Mande, forming five verticals to coordinate various research activities into drugs, vaccine, testing, sanitisers, hospital equipment and the likes.  The digital and molecular surveillance is led by its directors Anurag Agarwal of Institute of Genomics and Integrated Biology (IGIB), rapid and economical diagnosis by Rakesh Mishra of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), development of new drugs/re-purposing of drugs by S. Chandrashekhar of Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), hospital assistive devices by Jitendra J. Jadhav of National Aerospace Laboratories, personnel protective equipment and supply chain and logistics by Anjan Ray of Indian Institute of Petroleum. Daily video meetings A CSIR Strategic Group (CSG) has also been constituted with a video meeting organised every day and presided over by the DG to review the progress made by these verticals. Any lab or scientist willing to contribute to any of the five verticals can write to the lead directors mentioned above. Director of Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Ram A. Vishwakarma, has been made the overall coordinator. Sequencing of coronovirus is being done at IGIB and CCMB including that of the host and virus RNA. Incidentally, the former has developed a paper-based diagnostic test while CCMB is setting up viral cultures for testing of drugs and making a vaccine, said informed scientific sources, privy to the meeting of top heads. Platform for innovation Dr. Mande informed during the interaction that a platform for open innovation will be developed and hosted at the CSIR headquarters and a partnership has already been formed with the Ministry of Ayush for development of four botanicals/drugs.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Criminal case registered against 10 Indonesians||This is the first case registered against foreigners in the State in the backdrop of coronavirus incidence. After the issue of 10 Indonesian nationals’ movement in Karimnagar came to light, the government started identifying the participants of TJ meeting in Delhi and sending them to quarantine wards. Sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant), 269 (indulging in acts that can spread infection of any disease) and 270 (acts spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code were invoked against the foreigners. The First Information Report stated that Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act and Section 51-B of Disaster Management Act and Section 14B of Foreigners Act were also invoked against these foreigners. “These foreigners came to Delhi on March 9. On the evening of March 13 they started for Ramagundam in Sampark Kranthi Express train. Their contacts in Karimnagar picked them up them in a car and a seven-seater auto-rickshaw from Ramagundam on March 14,” a police officer unwilling to be named said. They were provided accommodation at a mosque in the town. On learning about their arrival, the Karimnagar police shifted them to Hyderabad to conduct tests. Their reports emerged positive for COVID-19. Two Karimnagar residents, who helped them move in the town and assisted in participating in prayer meetings, and two of their woman family members also tested positive for coronavirus subsequently. “These 10 foreigners came on tourist visa. As per law, they are not supposed to participate in religious meetings. On arrival in Karimnagar, they should have informed the local administration about their movements which they didn’t do,” the police said. Interestingly, investigators found that before these 10 Indonesian nationals, another team of foreigners too arrived in Karimnagar. They went to Jagityal, Korutla and Salehnagar in Karimnagar before leaving the place on March 8.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||KCR for further extension of lockdown||Crowds will throng shops like liquor outlets which will be uncontrollable. He referred to an article in the latest publication of US based Boston Consulting Group which suggested that India continue lockdown till June 3 as COVID-19 will peak till then. He said he had impressed on the Prime Minister that the country could recover from the beating that the economy took due to lockdown but not the loss of human life which could leave a trail of destruction in individual families. For Telangana, the loss of revenue was enormous. Against Rs. 2,400 crore that the State was to earn in the first six days of April, the earnings were a mere Rs. 6 crore per day.   Moreover, the State was in no position to meet its debt service of Rs. 30,000 crore and, therefore, will seek its recast. Mr. Rao warned that India could not risk relaxing lockdown with poor infrastructure and a huge workforce as it would put human life in danger. The country was saved from a catastrophe only because of lockdown. When a developed country like the US with large resources at its command could not withstand the fallout of the virus, imagine the plight of India with such large population. It would have meant death of thousands of people but for lockdown. He appealed to people to overcome the feeling that they were restrained as lockdown was the only option.
07 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Four men arrested for firing outside mosque||Four persons have been arrested for allegedly opening fire outside Jama Masjid in Dhankot village here on Sunday, the police said on Monday. The accused — Vinod, Pawan, Alam Khan and Harkesh — said they had gone to ensure that there was no person infected with COVID-19 inside the shrine and opened fire after the door was not opened. Vinod and Pawan, both 40 years old, are residents of Basai village while 39-year-old Alam Khan stays in Devi Lal Colony. Eighteen-year-old Harkesh is from Uttar Pradesh. The four men were arrested by the Crime Unit of the Gurugram Police near the flyover on Basai road on Sunday. Social media message The accused purportedly told the police that they would often discuss the COVID-19 situation and were perturbed over the increasing number of cases after many Jamaat workers in Nizamuddin were found infected. They said they had recently come across a message on a social media platform about six infected persons having been traced to Dhankot Jama Masjid. The miscreants got into a Sports Utility Vehicle owned by Pawan in the early hours of Sunday and reached the village. When no one responded to their repeated knocks at the door of the mosque, Vinod opened a fire at the building and another in the opposite direction. The four then left the spot. The matter came to light the next morning when locals informed Imam Shahid that they had heard the sound of “firecrackers” at night. An empty cartridge was then found near the mosque and a hole was spotted in the building. A case has been registered in the matter at Rajindra Park police station. Weapons seized The pistol and the weapon used in the commission of crime have been seized, the police added.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lab experiments with ‘drive-through testing’||The sole sign of activity in Punjabi Bagh’s Central Market on Monday was at the collection centre of Dr. Dangs Laboratory (DDL), which is among the few Indian Council of Medical Research-approved laboratories authorised to test for COVID-19. On Monday, the company experimented with a new service: drive-through testing. After paying a fee of Rs. 4,500, a person can be screened for COVID-19 while still sitting in the car. The results are ready in a day. Arjun Dang, a pathologist and chief executive officer of DDL, told The Hindu that a few a patients were screened in the morning. The identities of the patients were withheld to protect privacy. Unlike in South Korea, which pioneered drive-through testing as part of its mission to test a large pool of patients who had flu-like symptoms, DDL’s service is for people who are apprehensive of being screened at their homes as it may invite unwarranted attention from neighbours. Many people also fear that laboratory personnel entering their house may bring in the infection despite being donned in protective gear. For the media demonstration on Monday, a mock patient drove his car to the rear of the lab’s collection centre. A person can register for the test online by uploading a government ID and the doctor’s prescription. The patient will also have to share the vehicle number in which he intends to reach the lab. Traffic cones connected with a metal chain regulated the entry of cars to the designated testing spot — a white rectangle chalked out on the road. A booth located next to the spot was manned by a lab personnel clad in full protective gear. The process The staff gestured the driver to roll down the window — only the two windows on the right are allowed to be rolled down depending on where the patient is seated. A long probe is inserted into the nose of the patients and the contents are sealed. Another swab is collected from the throat and separately sealed. The patient then drives away. The process takes 8-9 minutes. Every half hour, the samples are taken to the DDL’s testing lab at Aurobindo Marg. The samples are analysed by the RT-realtime polymerase chain reaction method and the results are mailed within a day.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi zoo on alert after tiger tests positive for COVID-19 in the U.S.||Following a letter from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) in New York confirming that a tiger has been tested positive for COVID-19, an official from the National Zoological Park (NZP) in Delhi said they are on high alert. Suneesh Buxy, director of the Delhi zoo, said they are constantly monitoring all the animals at the zoo. Notably, the zoo has been shut since mid-March following the COVID-19 outbreak. In a letter, the CZA, said: “ United States Department of Agriculture’s National Veterinary Services Laboratories, in a statement dated April 5, 2020, has confirmed SARS-CoV-2 [COVID-19] in a tiger housed in the Bronx Zoo, New York. Zoos in the country are, therefore, advised to remain on highest alertness, watch animals on 24x7 basis using CCTV for any abnormal behaviour/symptoms, keepers/handlers not be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear preferably PPE [Personal Protective Equipment], isolate and quarantine sick animals, and have least contact while providing feed to animals.” Meanwhile, Mr. Buxy said, “Our handlers have been using masks and gloves as it was made part of the protocol after a bird flu outbreak three-four years ago. Also, we are spraying anti-viral chemicals as prescribed by the municipal corporation and we also carry out fogging.” The director said there was “no need for panic”. He added, “We have been monitoring our animals through CCTV cameras. A number of our staff stay inside the zoo premises and we keep a close watch on the animals.” He also said the animals are relaxed since the lockdown. “There has been no case of animals falling ill after the virus outbreak and there has been no need to test any animals so far,” Mr. Buxy said.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC plea urges for safe return of Indians in U.S.||A plea moved before the Delhi High Court on Monday has urged for the safe return of all Indians employed in the United States of America (USA), who are now stranded there without jobs in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. An HC Bench, which heard the petition through videoconferencing, directed it be listed on Tuesday so that a copy of the plea can be served to the central government. The petition has been moved by a couple whose daughter is stranded jobless in the U.S. after her employer asked her to resign on March 20 in the wake of COVID-19.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||City’s air quality worsens, light rain expected today||The air quality index (AQI) in Delhi-NCR, which has been ranging in the ‘good’ to ‘satisfactory’ categories due to reduced emissions during the nationwide lockdown, saw a marginal rise on Monday. The AQI in Delhi went up from 102 at 4 p.m. on Sunday to 142 at the same time on Monday. Sources at the Met department said that bursting of crackers on Sunday night may have caused the spike but the key factor was lowering of wind speed. In response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call of ‘9 p.m., 9 minutes’ to express resolve against COVID-19, Delhiites lit candles and diyas on Sunday, but some also burst crackers. In Gurugram and Noida, where AQI was in the ‘satisfactory’ category on Sunday, the numbers went up to the ‘moderate’ category on Monday. The AQI in Gurugram and Noida was recorded at 91 and 84 on Saturday and 106 and 120 on Monday, respectively. The rise in the AQI, according to scientists at the Central Pollution Control Board and SAFAR, was “purely temporary”. It has been attributed to the lowering of night-time inversion layer height with reduced windspeed rather than any appreciable changes in significantly reduced COVID-19 lockdown-related emissions. “Rain is expected on April 7 [Tuesday] and forecasting model suggests the AQI is likely to improve and go back to the ‘satisfactory’ category with further improvement on April 8,” a bulletin by SAFAR read. The Met department has forecast gusty winds up to 30-40 kmph on April 7 with light rain and thundershowers.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Traders condemn e-tailers for suspending operations||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Monday lambasted e-commerce companies that had suspended operations during the lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, terming the act condemnable. In the current situation, where “all stakeholders should actually assume responsibility and come forward to help the country, they have chosen to step back and sit on the fence because doing business during crisis hours does not seem profitable to them” the traders’ body said. Terming e-commerce giants engaged in online shopping as “fair weather friends”, the CAIT said they had gone into “hibernation” when they should be coming out to deliver essentials throughout the country. CAIT hails offline traders While hailing the role played by offline traders, the union said that nearly 1.25 crore traders of essential goods only around 25% were able to operate on ground due to various restrictions. The CAIT also said that with stores shut everywhere, retail business in the country was loosing Rs. 15 crores (approx.) daily.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||DDA to give 300 more flats to govt. for quarantine use||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is set to hand over around 300 vacant flats in Narela to the Delhi government over the next couple of days for use as quarantine facilities. The flats are in addition to the 1,400 already handed over to the State government by the urban body to lodge those meant to be quarantined following the COVID-19 outbreak. Senior DDA officials said over 4,500 vacant flats were available in Narela, all newly constructed but not offered under any previous housing schemes due to lack of certain infrastructure. DDA vice-chairman Tarun Kapoor said, “Around 200-300 flats are being prepared and are likely to be handed over in the next 2-3 days. These flats were lying vacant as earlier there was an issue with the approach road among other things. But the road was constructed a few months ago.” “The particular pocket where the flats are located in an in a secluded area and the full pocket is isolated,” Mr. Kapoor added. Another senior DDA official said the flats are 1BHK Low Income Group housing ones. The flats being offered are in pockets G-2 and G-6, the official added.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Lock, stock and barrel||
07 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha CM warns against disharmony||In the wake of detection of some Tablighi Jamaat returnees as COVID-19 positive in Odisha, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday warned people not to communalise the situation. Reviewing the law and order situation in the context of COVID-19, Mr. Patnaik directed the police to be vigilant and take stringent action against those who were trying to communalise the pandemic. He warned of zero tolerance to mischief mongers. The review meetingwas attended by top State government officials and the Director General of Police.
07 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Next six weeks pose a big challenge’||As Punjab continues its fight to curb the COVID-19 pandemic, Suresh Kumar, Chief Principal Secretary to the Punjab Chief Minister, in an exclusive interview to The Hindu’s Vikas Vasudeva , said his biggest concern was apprehended community spread during harvesting and procurement of wheat, and religious gatherings. Excerpts:  How prepared is Punjab to deal with COVID-19? What is your biggest concern right now and what is the strategy to deal with it? Punjab is fully prepared to manage and contain COVID-19, though it is a war against an unknown invisible enemy of mankind. Not much is known about this disease, but based on the experience of other countries and guidance from health professionals in the country and State, we are taking every possible measure to prepare and update our health systems by providing requisite men, material and other resources. The IEC (Information, Education and Communication) campaign has been going on for over a month now to create awareness and apprise people of the desired precautions to prevent COVID-19. Our biggest concern is apprehended community spread during harvesting and procurement of wheat, and at religious gatherings. All gatherings, including religious gatherings, are prohibited in the State. How imminent is the fear that Punjab will slip into the community transmission phase of the disease as COVID-19 cases continue to rise? The apprehension of community spread is always there, though we have so far been able to prevent it. We have not had as big a problem as apprehended during the ‘Hola Mohalla’ festival in the second week of March. Baldev Singh, the State’s first COVID-19 patient, who lost his life, had attended the ‘Hola Mohalla’. Thereafter, we have taken every possible measure to check the spread of this disease, even though we had to isolate about 15 villages. We were also the first to announce lockdown and later to impose curfew in the State, which will continue till April 14. The next six weeks of harvesting and procurement of wheat, and the Baisakhi festival, pose a serious challenge to the State administration. The government is making all possible arrangements to procure every grain of wheat produced in the State to save the farmers from any financial catastrophe, with full COVID-19-proof preparations, by increasing the number of purchase centres by 3,000 and staggering the procurement to six weeks instead of the normal three weeks. Do you see the situation deteriorating fast and beyond control in the coming days? It is difficult to say, but if all of us in the government, and the common man, remain disciplined and dedicated to our duties and responsibilities, and follow suggested preventive measures, including social distancing and adhering to norms of lockdown and curfew, it can surely be controlled effectively. Considerable numbers of the State’s NRI population have returned over the past one month. Have all of them been traced? If not, how serious could be the consequences? Most of the NRIs who came from other countries after February 15, 2020 have been traced and placed under home quarantine or isolation as per the protocol advised by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) and the guidelines issued by the State government. The government has also initiated the process to procure rapid testing kits as permitted now by the ICMR. Many people from Punjab participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin. Has this derailed the State government’s efforts to contain the pandemic? It has not derailed the arrangements as such, but it has certainly put unforeseen stress on the State’s resources and caused some avoidable damage in the country. It was clearly avoidable. Still, if all those who participated in this event could come forward and declare their travel details and contacts, the State government can very well trace, test and treat them. This will help to prevent spread of COVID-19. At a few hospitals, nurses and paramedical staff have protested that they have not been provided personal protective equipment (PPE). Please comment. It can not be denied that health professionals and workers are performing their onerous duties very diligently, even at risk to their lives. The State Health Department has continuously made all efforts to procure required kits, masks and other equipment to fully secure their safety. Insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh has also been arranged for them, but there always remain some inadequacies, which make some of these dedicated workers feeling insecure and threatened, as a result of which such situations do arise. The State government is, however, fully conscious and committed to protect and secure all its employees and officials, more importantly the health and sanitation workers, the police and other district-level officers of the departments of revenue, rural development, and food and civil supplies, who are doing a tremendous job in these trying times. Wheat harvesting is all set to commence and farmers are worried on account of restrictions due to curfew,......... labour shortage, etc. What is the roadmap to help them out? The harvesting of wheat is likely to begin shortly and procurement, though difficult, will be ensured under all circumstances. It may take a little longer than normal times. It has been decided to start the procurement from April 14 to May 31. It will be arranged in about 5,000 purchase centres, by appointment for every farmer on given days. Purchase centres will be provided with all arrangements required to prevent the spread of COVID-19, with full facilities for food, water, shelter and healthcare. The farmers’ anxiety can be well understood but the State government is committed to ensuring that every grain produced by them is procured at the price announced by the Centre. We are also hoping that the Government of India will take some measures to incentivise staggered procurement, and minimise the losses, if any, of the farmers.
07 April 2020||CHANDIGARH/JAIPUR,||Curbs: Punjab cow shelters stare at fodder shortage||The nationwide three-week lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak has posed a grave threat of fodder shortage for several gaushalas (cow shelters) in the State. Several persons running gaushalas rued that in the absence of proper arrangements they are already facing a shortage of fodder for the cows and if necessary steps to ensure regular supply was not made soon, they would be forced to let cows out of shelters. “There are around 500 gaushalas in the State; out of these, around 480 are run or managed privately by NGOs or cooperatives, the rest by the government. At least 400 gaushalas are staring at fodder shortage,” said Joginder Pal, president, Gauvansh Seva Sadan in Mandi Gobindgarh. “We have been demanding that either fodder as an essential commodity should be kept out of lockdown or the government should make arrangements to provide it. If the government doesn’t step in immediately we will be forced to move cows out of shelters for grazing, otherwise they will starve. We have no choice,” he said. Rajinder Kaplesh, who manages a cow shelter in Sirhind housing around 325 cows, said since the lockdown there has been considerable drop in people who visited the shelter, resulting in a sharp decline of funds. “We run the shelter on donations... hardly anyone is visiting the gaushala these days. This has resulted in financial crunch for us. Also people used to bring green fodder with them to feed cows,” he said. “Labour shortage is another problem that we are facing. Four men, who were working at my shelter as daily wagers, have gone back to their native places,” he said. Ravi Garg, who runs Keshav Gaushala in Kharar, near Chandigarh, said limited curfew passes are being issued, resulting in erratic movement of fodder supply. “The government should ensure that vehicles ferrying fodder should not be stopped. Also, in the area surrounding Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali fodder is supplied mostly by private traders. There are no sale points of government agencies, resulting in a price spiral,” he said. The Punjab Chief Minister had recently empowered Urban Local Bodies in the State to buy medicines and food for urban daily wagers, labourers and poor, as well as fodder for gaushalas, out of the municipal funds at their disposal.  Rajasthan situation The situation in Rajasthan is not as bad, with farmers helping out those running animal shelters in the remote areas by supplying sufficient quantities of fodder for bovine animals during the present harvesting season. Radha Gopal, operations coordinator at Hingonia Gaushala near Jaipur, the State’s biggest animal shelter, said there was no shortage of resources at the facility. “We have been distributing 8 to 10 tonnes of fodder every day since the lockdown brought daily life to a standstill,” he said.
07 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot again requests PM for package||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday once again requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take urgent steps to empower the State governments to deal with the situation arising out of the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. He also sought announcement of an economic package, including a grant of Rs. 1 lakh crore, for the States without any further delay. “I would like to reiterate that our State’s financial condition is rapidly deteriorating due to decline in revenues and the State government was forced to partially defer the salaries of [its] employees for this month,” Mr. Gehlot said in a letter addressed to Mr. Modi.
07 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. lockdown may be extended||The lockdown in Uttar Pradesh may be extended beyond April 14, a senior government official said on Monday, citing the rising number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State including those linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. The number of cases in U.P. touched 305, including 159 linked to the Jamaat, the government said. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said there was little possibility of lifting the lockdown on April 15, two days after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath sought suggestions from legislators on resuming normal life on the said date in phases. The “sensitivity” of COVID-19 cases in U.P. has increased after the fresh rise in numbers, most of them linked to the Tablighi Jamaat, he said at a press briefing. ‘Load has increased’ It was “premature to say” at this point if the lockdown would end on April 14, said Mr. Awasthi adding that the government wanted to “ensure a corona-free State” before lifting the restrictions. However, the COVID19 “load has increased” in the State due to the Tablighi Jamaat cases, he said. The senior official’s statement came two days after Mr. Adityanath himself said that the lockdown in U.P. will come to an end on April 15 but would be implemented in phases. “ 15 April se lockdown samapt hone wala hai (The lockdown will come to an end on April 15),” Mr. Adityanath said while interacting with MLAs in the State through videoconference on Saturday. ‘Efforts will be wasted’ “On April 15, once we end the lockdown, if crowds gather at once, then all the efforts will go down in drain,” he said on Saturday. According to government figures, COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in 35 out of the 75 districts in U.P. Of the 35, 28 have cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat, with the highest numbers in Agra (29), Ghaziabad (14), Shamli (13), Meerut (13), Saharanpur (13) and Lucknow (12). Overall, Noida has the highest number of cases with 61. U.P. has so far reported three deaths, one each in Basti, Meerut and Varanasi.
07 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||FIR against woman BJP leader for firing in the air||A BJP woman leader in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur, Manju Tiwari, courted controversy when she allegedly fired a shot in the air with a revolver on Sunday evening when people across the country switched off their lights and lit lamps and candles at the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A video of the alleged celebratory firing was widely shared on social media. An FIR was registered against Ms. Tiwari under Section 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) of the IPC and Section 30 of the Arms Act, 1959. Ms. Tiwari, who is the district president of the party’s women’s wing, was seen in the video pointing a revolver towards the sky before firing a shot. A man from her family could be heard cheering afterwards. While talking to a Hindi news channel, Ms. Tiwari apologised for her “carelessness” and said she got carried away by the ‘Diwali-like’ atmosphere when people lit lamps and burst crackers. “When I came out I saw the entire city decorated with earthen lamps and candles. I felt excitement like it was Diwali.”
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Self-declare or face charges’||The Assam government has set a deadline for the elusive Tablighi Jamaat attendees who have returned home to come for screening voluntarily or face charges under the Disaster Management Act. Of the 26 people who tested positive for the COVID-19 pandemic, 25 have been associated with the jamaat’s event at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. “We have been appealing since the first Nizamuddin-linked positive case was detected in Assam. Various mosque committees have also coordinated with us and sent out appeals, but attendees are yet to come out for the mandatory screening,” State Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday. He added that the elusive attendees have time till Monday midnight to self-care. “Those who declare or are made to undergo screening from tomorrow (Tuesday) will be given medical care but charges under the Act will be filed against them,” he said. The Centre, Mr Sarma said, had provided a list of 556 names of people from Assam who attended the Nizamuddin event while 275 more names were sourced locally. “Samples of 128 people remain to be collected. We hope they will emerge on their own and get tested before the deadline,” he said. Some of those who attended the Nizamuddin event have appealed to the elusive men to “give up for your own good”. They included former film actor Mirel Quddus who released a video highlighting the positives of getting screened and quarantined. The Health Minister also said the State government was considering starting a permit system for people willing to enter Assam after the COVID-19 lockdown period ends. Permanent residents of the State may also have to seek permits in advance for travelling outside, he added. Till Monday afternoon, 75,981 people were in quarantine in Assam, most of them at home. They will be allowed to move out of quarantine centres from April 10 in regulated batches after a health test the day before.
07 April 2020||LONDON,||U.S., U.K. face hard time as deaths spike||The U.S. and Britain braced for what could be one of their bleakest weeks in memory on Monday as the human and financial toll of the coronavirus outbreak mounted. But new deaths and infections appeared to be slowing in Italy, Spain and France, suggesting that lockdowns and social distancing are working. Much of Europe saw glimmers of hope — deaths and new infections appeared to be slowing in much of the three hardest-hit countries, as well as in the Netherlands and Germany. Leaders cautioned, however, that any gains could easily be reversed if people did not continue to adhere to strict social distancing measures and national lockdowns. In Washington, U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams offered a stark warning about the surge of coronavirus deaths the nation is facing. “This is going to be our Pearl Harbor moment, our 9/11 moment,” he told “Fox News Sunday.”‘More than 9,600 people have died of the virus in the U.S., and it leads the world in confirmed infections at more than 3,37,000. President Donald Trump suggested the hard weeks ahead could foretell the turning of a corner. “We’re starting to see light at the end of the tunnel,” Mr. Trump claimed at a briefing. Italy still has, by far, the world’s highest coronavirus death toll — almost 16,000 — but the pressure on northern Italy’s intensive care units has eased. In Spain, deaths and new infections dropped again on Monday. The Health Ministry reported 637 new deaths, the lowest in 13 days, for a total of over 13,000 dead. New recorded infections were also the lowest in two weeks. Britain reported more than 600 deaths on Sunday, surpassing Italy’s daily increase for the second day in a row. ‘Rise to the occasion’ In a rare televised address, Queen Elizabeth II appealed to Britons to rise to the occasion, while acknowledging they face enormous disruptions, grief and financial difficulties. Lacking enough for protective gear against the virus, British doctors and nurses were wearing goggles from school science classes, holding their breath when close to patients, and repeatedly reusing single-use masks, Dr. Rinesh Parmar, head of Doctors’ Association UK, told Sky News. Worldwide, more than 1.2 million people have been confirmed infected and over 70,000 have died, according to Johns Hopkins University.
07 April 2020||New York,||New York zoo tiger tests positive for virus||A tiger at New Yorks Bronx Zoo has tested positive for COVID-19, the institution said Sunday, and is believed to have contracted the virus from a caretaker who was asymptomatic at the time. The four-year-old Malayan tiger named Nadia along with her sister Azul, two Amur tigers and three African lions all developed dry coughs and are expected to fully recover, the Wildlife Conservation Society that runs the city’s zoos said in a statement. “We tested the cat out of an abundance of caution and will ensure any knowledge we gain about COVID-19 will contribute to the world’s continuing understanding of this novel coronavirus,” said the statement. “Though they have experienced some decrease in appetite, the cats at the Bronx Zoo are otherwise doing well under veterinary care and are bright, alert, and interactive with their keepers,” it said. “It is not known how this disease will develop in big cats since different species can react differently to novel infections, but we will continue to monitor them closely and anticipate full recoveries.” All zoos closed All four of the zoos and the aquarium in New York — where the virus death toll has topped 4,000 — have been closed since March 16. The zoo emphasised that there is “no evidence that animals play a role in the transmission of COVID-19 to people other than the initial event in the Wuhan market, and no evidence that any person has been infected with COVID-19 in the U.S. by animals, including by pet dogs or cats.” Chinese disease control officials have previously identified wild animals sold in a Wuhan market as the source of the pandemic that has infected well over one million people worldwide. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture website, there had “not been reports of pets or other animals” in the U.S. falling ill with COVID-19 prior to news of tiger Nadia. “It is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus,” the department’s website says. In late March, a pet cat was discovered infected with the virus in Belgium, following similar cases in Hong Kong where two dogs tested positive. All of those animals are believed to have contracted the virus from the people they live with. The Bronx zoo said preventative measures were in place for caretakers as well as all cats. Sarah Caddy, veterinarian and clinical research fellow at the University of Cambridge, said that since domestic cats had been shown to be potentially susceptible to the virus, the tiger becoming infected was “not wholly unexpected”.
07 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. gives ‘terrorist’ label to white supremacist group||The Trump administration on Monday designated an ultranationalist group based in Russia as a terrorist organisation, according to officials. It is the first time the government applied the label to a white supremacist group. While the label of specially designated global terrorist has been frequently used for Islamist extremists, there have been growing concerns among U.S. officials about violent white supremacists with transnational links over the past five years. In 2018, the White House added that threat to the government’s National Strategy for Counterterrorism. The State Department’s designation for the organisation, the Russian Imperial Movement, sets up the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control to block any American property or assets belonging to the group. It will also bar Americans from financial dealings with the organisation and make it easier to ban its members from travelling to the U.S. The U.S. is also designating three of the group’s leaders — Stanislav Anatolyevich Vorobyev, Denis Valliullovich Gariev and Nikolay Nikolayevich Trushchalov — as individual terrorists who will face similar sanctions, officials said. The authority for either the Treasury Department or the State Department to deem a group or an individual a specially designated global terrorist traces back to an executive order issued by President George W. Bush after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Signing of order President Donald Trump in September signed an executive order expanding that authority to cover groups that provide training for terrorists even if the groups are not directly linked to any attack. The Russian Imperial Movement is not considered to be sponsored by the Russian government, officials said, although President Vladimir Putin has tolerated its activities and it has helped advance the Russian government’s external goals by recruiting Russian fighters to aid pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine. The group has also helped support neo-Nazi groups in Scandinavia. Ambassador Nathan A. Sales, the State Department’s counterterrorism coordinator, said the group operated two facilities in St. Petersburg, that offered paramilitary training to neo-Nazis and white supremacists. Although a Russian Imperial Movement member has visited the U.S., the organisation does not appear to have domestic members. It is not clear if the group has provided training to U.S.-based neo-Nazis.NY Times
07 April 2020||Tokyo,||Abe proposes state of emergency||Japan’s Prime Minister on Monday proposed a state of emergency for several major regions seeing a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, as well as a stimulus package worth $1 trillion to cushion the impact on the world’s third-biggest economy. The official declaration of the state of emergency would likely come as soon as on Tuesday, Shinzo Abe told reporters, as the country grapples with a recent spike in virus cases, especially in the capital Tokyo. “Currently, we are seeing rapid increases of new infections particularly in urban areas like Tokyo and Osaka,” said Mr. Abe. The declaration hands regional Governors the power to ask residents to stay inside, seek the closure of businesses that attract large crowds and commandeer land and buildings for medical purposes. But it falls far short of the sort of lockdown measures imposed in parts of Europe. “We envision, for a period of about one month, that we will ask further cooperation of the Japanese people to reduce person-to-person contacts that lead to infections,” said Mr. Abe. The measure does not include legal powers to enforce requests for people to stay inside, or punishments for people who fail to do so. “In Japan, even if we declare a state of emergency, we will not close cities as seen in foreign countries. Experts have told us that there is no need for such a step,” said Mr. Abe. Tokyo’s Governor Yuriko Koike has already urged residents to avoid non-essential outings and to work from home during the week.
07 April 2020||Islamabad,||Deal near a breaking point: Taliban||The Taliban said its peace deal with the U.S. was nearing a breaking point, accusing Washington of violations that included drone attacks on civilians, while also chastising the Afghan government for delaying the release of 5,000 Taliban prisoners promised in the agreement. The Taliban said it had restricted attacks against Afghan security forces to rural outposts, had not attacked international forces and had not attacked Afghan forces in cities or military installations. The Taliban’s statement issued on Sunday warned of more violence if the U.S. and the Afghan government continue alleged violations of the deal. U.S. military spokesman Col. Sonny Leggett in a tweet overnight denied the Taliban allegation, saying the U.S. forces in Afghanistan has “upheld and continues to uphold the military terms of the U.S.-TB (Taliban) agreement; any assertion otherwise is baseless.” In his tweet, Col. Leggett called for Taliban to reduce violence and said the U.S. military will continue to come to the aid of Afghanistan’s security forces if attacked. Meanwhile, the militants said they had reduced their attacks compared to last year, but said continued violations would “create an atmosphere of mistrust that will not only damage the agreements, but also force mujaheddin to a similar response and will increase the level of fighting.”
07 April 2020||Khartoum,||Sudan ‘finalises’ deal to settle USS Cole case||Sudan’s Justice Ministry said on Monday that it has finalised a settlement with families of the victims of the USS Cole bombing. Khartoum agreed in February to compensate the families of 17 American sailors who were killed in a suicide bombing targeting their Navy destroyer in Yemen’s Aden harbour in 2000, an attack that was later claimed by al-Qaeda. A U.S. court held Sudan responsible for the attack and ordered compensation, finding that the bombers were trained in the country. In March 2019, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned the ruling on procedural grounds. On Monday, Sudan’s Justice Ministry said it had submitted on Friday a petition alongside families who pursued the case with the relevant U.S. court to end pending lawsuits against Sudan regarding the USS Cole . “The settlement procedures have now been completed in such a way that would permanently scrap lawsuits,” said the Ministry. Khartoum has denied the charges but by agreeing to a settlement, Sudan has fulfilled a key condition set by the U.S. to remove it from state sponsors of terrorism list. Sudan has been on Washington’s blacklist since 1993 over its alleged support of Islamist groups.
07 April 2020||Bogota,||Venezuelans stream home from Colombia||Hundreds of Venezuelans who fled to neighbouring Colombia during their country’s economic crisis are now returning home, pushed by the deadly novel coronavirus and Colombia’s own pandemic woes. Colombian migration officials said on Sunday that 600 people — including 35 children and 167 women — crossed the border point at the Simon Bolivar International Bridge in the northeastern city of Cucuta, into Venezuela one day earlier. Another group of 160 departed Bogota on Sunday, officials said. Although the border is officially closed as a measure taken to halt the spread of the coronavirus, Colombia has opened a “humanitarian corridor” to allow Venezuelans to return home. In recent years Colombia has welcomed 1.8 million Venezuelans.
07 April 2020||Laore,||Pak. puts off Baisakhi events||Pakistani authorities have cancelled the Baisakhi celebrations at Gurdwara Punja Sahib in Punjab province from April 14, in which around 3,000 Sikhs from India were to participate, due to the coronavirus pandemic. The number of the coronavirus cases in Pakistan on Monday reached 3,277. The celebrations were scheduled to begin at the revered Gurdwara in Hasan Abdal city of Punjab province on April 14, Dawn reported. Now only a symbolic event would be held.
07 April 2020||Quetta,||Doctors seeking PPEs held in Pak.||More than 50 doctors protesting the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) were arrested on Monday in the southwestern Pakistani city of Quetta, police and physicians said. The arrests occurred after more than 100 doctors and paramedics rallied near the city’s main hospital and then moved to protest in front of the Chief Minister’s residence, according to a reporter. “We have taken 53 doctors into custody for violating the law,” said Abdul Razzaq Cheema, a senior police official. He said police held the doctors for several hours before the provincial government ordered them to release the group.
07 April 2020||Lagos,||Lagos, April 6, 2020 (AFP) -||A popular Nigerian actor has been arrested for throwing a birthday party during a lockdown in economic hub Lagos to curb the spread of SARS-CoV-19. Funke Akindele, a Nollywood film star, is charged with hosting guests at the bash for her husband in their upscale residence on Saturday.AFP
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Democracy should not permit a trade-off||Independent India inherited a legal system which was designed to control the colonised. Caught in the relentless grip of COVID-19, several State governments have invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act, first drafted to deal with bubonic plague that swept Maharashtra in 1897. The Act prohibited public gatherings, and regulated travel, routine screening, segregation, and quarantine. The government was given enormous powers to control public opinion. Bal Gangadhar Tilak, described as the ‘father of Indian unrest’ by Valentine Chirol of The Times (London) was imprisoned for 18 months. His newspaper, Kesari , had criticised measures adopted by the government to tackle the epidemic. The law was stark. It did not establish the right of affected populations to medical treatment, or to care and consideration in times of great stress, anxiety and panic. Silence on these crucial issues bore expected results. In June 1897, the brothers, Damodar Hari Chapekar and Balkrishna Hari Chapekar, assassinated W.C. Rand, the plague commissioner of Poona, and Lieutenant Charles Egerton Ayerst, an officer of the administration. Both were considered guilty of invading private spaces, and disregarding taboos on entry into the inner domain of households. The two brothers were hanged in the summer of 1899. The assassination heralded a storm of revolutionary violence that shook the country at the turn of the twentieth century. Today our world should have been different. The government could have paid attention to migrant labour when it declared a lockdown on economic activities, roads, public spaces, transport, neighbourhoods and zones in which the unorganised working class ekes out bare subsistence. The result of this slip-up was tragic. Thousands of workers and their families were forced to exit the city, and begin an onerous trek to their villages. The unnerving spectacle of a mass of people trudging across State borders carrying pitiful bundles on their heads and little babies in their arms, without food or money, shocked the conscience of humankind. The neglect of workers upon whose shoulders the Indian economy rests, exposed the class bias of regulations. Confronted with the unexpected sight of people defying the lockdown, State governments and the Central government rushed to announce remedial measures. The afterthought came too late and gave too little. Dispensing with rights On March 31, at a hearing of the Supreme Court of India on two petitions relating to the welfare of migrants, the Central government demanded that the Court should allow the imposition of censorship over media reports on measures adopted by the state. The government claimed that panic over the migration of thousands of bare-footed people was based on fake news, and that the scale of migration was over-estimated. Therefore, the Court should support rules that no news will be published or telecast without checking with the Central government. The plea was rejected, and the Court suggested that responsible journalism should rely on daily official bulletins. Witness the irony. The government is concerned about reports of involuntary migrations. It is not concerned with the reason why people were forced to walk out of the city in the first place. The issue at hand is not the lockdown or other measures taken by the government. We recognise with great unease that governments easily dispense with basic human rights in the name of managing pandemics. We bear witness to the fact that a group of helpless workers were hosed down with chemical solutions in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. The decision to close down an entire country without simultaneously recognising the specificities of Indian society has resulted in brutality and violence. Consider scenes of the police swinging their lathis indiscriminately to punish individuals who are forced to defy the lockdown. ‘Overreach’ of power There is another cause for unease. Admittedly in emergencies governments have to adopt extraordinary measures. Yet, reports of authoritarian leaders across the world, giving to themselves unprecedented power at the expense of legislatures, judiciaries, the media, civil society, and civil liberties have set off ripples of doubt. When the disease has run its course, will these leaders abdicate the power they have amassed in the time of the coronavirus? Will they restore institutions that inspire public confidence, because they act as brakes on the exercise of unbridled power? The prospect seems remote. If democratic India continues to invoke draconian colonial laws that were drafted in another time and for another purpose, why should we expect anything different in the future? On March 16, United Nations human rights experts issued a statement expressing deep concern with the way leaders were amassing power ostensibly for dealing with the pandemic. The statement urged governments to avoid an ‘overreach’ of security measures when they respond to the coronavirus outbreak. Emergency powers, the experts insisted, should not be used to quash dissent. More significantly, these measures have to be proportionate, necessary and non-discriminatory. Some states and security institutions, continued the statement, will find the use of emergency powers attractive because it offers shortcuts. There is need to ensure that excessive powers are not hardwired into legal and political systems. Care should be taken to see that restrictions are narrowly tailored. Governments should deploy the least intrusive method to protects public health. “We encourage States,” concluded the statement, “to remain steadfast in maintaining a human rights-based approach to regulating this pandemic, in order to facilitate the emergence of healthy societies with rule of law and human rights protections.” The rights experts have good reasons to issue this warning. Around the world, we witness the sorry spectacle of leaders — not precisely known for their commitment to democracy or human rights — steadily unravelling every check on the use of unmitigated power by the executive. In Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is facing court cases for corruption and breach of trust, has closed the judiciary and postponed his own trial. The government has been given immense powers of surveillance. And a newly constituted Parliament, or Knesset, is not allowed to meet. In Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, notorious for his anti-migrant tirades, has personalised immense power. He now rules by decree. Existing laws and parliamentary oversight have been suspended. In the Philippines, President Rodrigo Duterte has appropriated broad emergency powers in order to take effective decisions to tackle the virus. Again, he is not known for his commitment to civil liberties or to the Constitution. In Chile, the declaration of a ‘state of catastrophe’ has repressed anti-government dissent that has been raging on the streets since last year. No counter-balancing steps States are the product of history, composed of layers of meaning some of which have been fashioned for another time. The nature of the state is historically specific. Yet modern states share a common determination; a ruthless ambition to control the minds and bodies of citizens. Epidemics provide an opportunity to accomplish precisely this, to do away with inconvenient checks and balances institutionalised in the media, the judiciary, and civil society. The dismantling of constitutions and institutions will have a major impact on societies. Do decisions to control the pandemic have to be at the expense of human rights and democracy? On March 6, Michelle Bachelet, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, advised governments to ensure that the measures they adopt to control the virus do not adversely impact people’s lives. “The most vulnerable and neglected people in society,” she recommended, “must be protected both medically and economically.” She gave sage advice, democracy does not permit trade-offs. Neera Chandhoke is a former professor of Political Science at Delhi University
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers are at their wits’ end||The COVID-19 pandemic has led to global concerns on the state of agriculture and food security. On the one hand, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has warned of a “food crisis” if countries do not protect vulnerable people from hunger and malnourishment. On the other, farmers face a stalemate as they are unable to work on their land, earn remunerative prices and gain access to markets. We can try to understand the impact of COVID-19 on agriculture with three questions. One, does the world have enough food to feed its people? Two, is food available at affordable prices? Three, how are farmers coping with the lockdown? Food stocks and prices According to the FAO, as on April 2, 2020, the total stock of cereals in the world was about 861 million tonnes. This translates to a stocks-to-use ratio (SUR) — i.e., proportion of consumption available as stocks — of 30.7%. The FAO considers this “comfortable”. The SURs for wheat, rice and coarse grains were 35.3%, 35.1% and 26.9%, respectively. But world stocks are different from national stocks. About 52% of the global wheat stocks is held by China, and about 20% of the global rice stocks is held by India. If the major holders of global stocks decide to turn precautionary and stop exporting, and if the lockdown is prolonged, countries dependent on rice imports will suffer. Kazakhstan, a major wheat exporter, has banned exports. Russia, the largest wheat exporter, is expected to restrict its exports. Vietnam, the third largest rice exporter, has stopped its exports, which will reduce the global rice exports by 15%. If India and Thailand too ban exports, world supply of rice will sharply fall. In March 2020, the Philippines and the European Union, major rice importers, had inventories of rice enough to feed their populations for about three months. Others, however, had inventories to hold on for about one month only. If the lockdown continues beyond a month, these countries will face food shortages. India’s foodgrain output is projected to be about 292 MMT in 2019-20. On March 1, 2020, the total stock of wheat and rice with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) was 77.5 MT. The buffer norms for foodgrain stocks — i.e., operational stock plus strategic reserves — is 21.04 MT. Similarly, for pulses, India had a stock of 2.25 MT in mid-March 2020. In both cases, the rabi harvest is slated to arrive in April 2020, and the situation is expected to ease further.  There is always an element of uncertainty on how prices will behave if both demand and supply fall together. Prices in different markets fluctuate considerably given differences in the extent of production, stocks, arrivals and supply disruptions. According to the FAO, the world food price index fell by 4.3% and world cereal price index fell by 1.9% between February and March 2020 due to the weakening demand for food and the sharp fall in maize prices owing to poor demand for biofuels. However, retail prices of rice and wheat have been rising in the Western economies in March 2020. The major reasons identified are panic buying by households, export restrictions by countries and continuing supply chain disruptions. Retail prices of beef and eggs have also been rising. In India, wholsesale and consumer price indices (WPI and CPI) for March 2020 have not been published yet. WPI and CPI for food in India were rising from mid-2019 onwards, reflecting a rise in vegetable prices, especially onion prices. January and February 2020 saw a moderate fall in these indices, but vegetable prices have remained high. If food prices rise due to the lockdown, it will be on top of an already rising price curve. However, unlike in the West, food prices in India have not risen after the lockdown. While supplies have declined, demand has fallen too. In the APMC mandi in Mumbai’s Vashi, if about 600 to 700 trucks arrived per day before the lockdown, only about 200 trucks arrive per day after the lockdown. Yet, wholesale prices of foodgrains and vegetables in the mandi have been stable, with only the prices of pulses showing a tendency to rise. This is because there has been a sharp fall in the consumption of foodgrains and vegetables. Similarly, the consumption of milk has fallen by 10-12%. The crisis in farming Harvesting and marketing of crops are in crisis across India, because of (a) disruptions in the procurement of foodgrains by government agencies; (b) disruptions in the collection of harvests from the farms by traders; (c) shortage of workers to harvest the rabi crops; (d) shortage of truck drivers; (e) blockades in the transport of commodities; (f) limited operations of APMC mandis; and (g) shutdowns in the retail markets. Second, these supply bottlenecks have led to a fall in farmgate prices. According to media reports, tomato growers in Maharashtra were receiving only Rs. 2 per kg. Wheat prices in Madhya Pradesh fell from Rs. 2200/Q to about Rs. 1,600/Q. In Punjab, vegetable prices fell from Rs. 15/kg to Rs. 1/kg. In Delhi, the price of broiler chicken fell from Rs. 55/kg in January to Rs. 24/kg in March. In Tamil Nadu, egg prices fell from Rs. 4/egg in January to Rs. 1.95/egg in March. Third, the large-scale return of migrant workers to their homes has disrupted harvest operations, and farmers are being forced to leave the crop in the fields. While mechanical harvesters can be used, there is a shortage of drivers/operators. Most rice mills work with migrant workers, and their return home has meant that these mills are not buying paddy from farmers. There are also severe labour shortages in milk processing plants, cold storage units and warehouses. Fourth, supply chains remain disrupted across India. Agricultural goods have been notified as essential goods. But about 5,00,000 trucks are reportedly stranded in the highways and State borders. Milk trucks are able to unload at the destination but unable to return empty, which has upset supply schedules. Trucks are in shortage as drivers have gone home. Imports of vegetable oils are not being lifted from ports due to shortage of trucks. Most APMC mandis are functioning only twice or thrice a week. Livestock feeds are in short supply, and this is breaking the back of livestock growers. The world and India have adequate food stocks. But as global trade shrinks and supply disruptions persist, a prolonged lockdown will adversely affect food security in many countries. In the Western world, food prices are rising due to panic buying and stockpiling. Food prices are not yet rising in India. What has kept Indian food prices low is the severe decline in food consumption, especially among the poor, after the lockdown. That is, hunger may keep the food inflation in March 2020 low. Concurrently, farmers face acute labour shortages, falling farmgate prices and lack of access to input/output markets. It is unclear who is benefiting, but farmers, workers and the poor are at their wits’ end. R. Ramakumar is NABARD Chair Professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences,Mumbai
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Cash less Indians, the new normal, and survival||On April 15, when the 21-day national lockdown imposed by the government ends, it is very likely that the bottom 47 percentile of India’s population will run out of cash. Estimates are based on the World Bank’s poverty line of $3.2 a day for a lower middle-income country such as India, assuming people are spending just to survive. It is also likely that the population between the 47th percentile and up to 87th percentile will have only half the cash they had before the lockdown began. What this means, in real terms, is that the poorest 500 million Indians would be out of cash reserves completely by April 15 and another 500 million will be left with just half their reserves. These findings are part of my ongoing research on mapping inequality in India using demonetisation data. How bad is it? My findings reveal that the top 1% in India held 62% of all the currency in circulation, whereas the top 0.1% held 33%, a third of Rs. 17-lakh crore in circulation at the time of demonetisation. In order to estimate cash inequality, I have created a model combining demonetisation and National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) data to which a generalised Pareto interpolation technique was applied to arrive at the cash held by each population group. Many Indians have managed to deal with political and social inequality with their ability to negotiate their freedom using money. For poor Indians, having cash to pay back money lenders or landlords has meant having the choice between freedom and slavery. Money gives them choice; the freedom not to have their labour exploited. Inequality of cash, a basic economic instrument, gives us a picture of how unequal our society is. The Gini coefficient, a common measure of inequality, of cash holding in India is as high as 0.71, where 0 indicates perfect equality and 1 indicates perfect inequality. Other measurements of inequality such as the Atkinson Index [A(1)=0.624] and the Generalised Entropy Index [GE(1)=3.108] also show a very high inequality of cash holding. This means that in India, cash is heavily concentrated at the top. Even inter-district and intra-district cash inequality is very high. The top 10% districts held 764 times more currency than the bottom 10% districts. It is unsurprising then that the districts at the top are situated in Tier I and II cities. In fact, the bottom 60 districts, mostly comprising hill and tribal districts, held only 0.2% of all the cash. Also, 60% of all districts analysed, i.e. 359 out of 607 districts in India, reported a Gini coefficient greater than or equal to 0.7, which means that even within districts, cash is concentrated very unequally. In absolute numbers, there are 10.9 million cash-rich Indians in the top 1%, that is almost equal to the population of Belgium. Currently, a humanitarian crisis is unfolding in India, where the poorest Indians have been returning to their homes by foot, in packed vehicles, hungry and cashless. However, due to the great inequality of cash, it will not be long before workers are forced to migrate back to cash-rich centres again, despite lockdowns and fears of a deadly virus. Remonetise India When India begins to pick its pieces together, it will be looking at a grim situation where roughly a whopping one billion people of a population of 1.3 billion will be starting with zero or near zero cash. Much of this population is engaged in the informal economy; along with cash, they will also lose agency to negotiate for fair wages, decent working conditions, and basic human rights. Even for the struggling corporate sector, there is no good news. When their operations restart, nearly 50% of consumers will have no money to spend. The Indian economy is very likely to experience multidimensional pressures. Given the dire economic situation, what I would like to propose is this: a social and economic argument to remonetise India. This would mean a direct cash transfer of Rs. 2.5-lakh crore just to replenish people’s exhausted cash coffers. Previous research has established that up to the 77th percentile population, Indians just consume what they earn. This also coincides with the findings in the 2016 Economic Survey (which also introduced the concept of Universal Basic Income) that population up to the 77th percentile does not have access to formal loans. The Rs. 1.7-lakh crore stimulus package announced in India by the Finance Minister is well intentioned but poorly thought out. The increased entitlements of ration and the supply of free gas cylinders will help to bolster food security. However, if we consider the cash components such as the increase of Rs. 20 in Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act wages or the transfer of Rs. 1,500 over three months via Jan Dhan accounts, it will barely compensate for the forced loss of jobs. The stimulus package then in no way addresses the imminent liquidity crisis forced upon one billion people. Why remonetise? Inequality reproduces more inequality. If a majority of Indians lose their cash reserves, they will fall into income traps where real wages will diminish and lost wages can only be recovered by longer working hours. Economist Joseph Stiglitz has argued that that it is not the differences in saving that cause the difference in income but the other way around, where incomes cause the difference in saving. A targeted Rs. 2.5-lakh crore cash transfer will put money directly in the pockets and purses of the population up to the 87th percentile; Rs. 1.34 lakh crore will be for the poorest 500 million Indians, whereas Rs. 1.2-lakh crore will replenish the reduced cash reserves of the rest of the population up till the 87th percentile. Now is the right time for the government to remonetise and make cash available through banks, automated teller machines and treasuries. The government has to overlook its focus on cashless payments because the need of the hour is to allay people’s anxieties. It should remember that in India, we still rely heavily on physical transactions and not cashless payments. As political philosopher G.A. Cohen said, “Lack of money induces lack of freedom, even if accept the identification of freedom with the absence of interference…money provides freedom because it extinguishes interference with access to goods and services.” Appu Esthose Suresh is Senior Fellow, Atlantic Fellows for Social and Economic Equity, London School of Economics
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Preparing for SAARC 2.0||A tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi resulted in the first-ever virtual summit of SAARC leaders on March 15. Their deliberations reflected a recognition of the serious menace posed by COVID-19 and the need for robust regional cooperation to overcome it. What has happened to this innovative exercise in health diplomacy since then? Solid follow-up Those who hastened to dismiss the video conference as a mere show may have been disappointed. Considering that SAARC has been dormant for several years due to regional tensions, it is worth stressing that the fight against COVID-19 has been taken up in right earnest through a series of tangible measures. First, all the eight member-states were represented at the video conference — all at the level of head of state or government, except Pakistan. The Secretary General of SAARC participated. They readily agreed to work together to contain the virus, and shared their experiences and perspectives. Second, India’s proposal to launch a COVID-19 Emergency Fund was given positive reception. Within days, all the countries, except Pakistan, contributed to it voluntarily, bringing the total contributions to $18.8 million. Although it is a modest amount, the spirit of readily expressed solidarity behind it matters. Third, the fund has already been operationalised. It is controlled neither by India nor by the Secretariat. It is learnt that each contributing member-state is responsible for approval and disbursement of funds in response to requests received from others. Fourth, in the domain of implementation, India is in the lead, with its initial contribution of $10 million. It has received requests for medical equipment, medicines and other supplies from Bhutan, Nepal, Afghanistan, Maldives, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Many requests have already been accepted and action has been taken, whereas others are under implementation. Fifth, a follow-up video-conference of senior health officials was arranged on March 26. The agenda included issues ranging from specific protocols dealing with screening at entry points and contact tracing to online training capsules for emergency response teams. Steps are now under way to nurture technical cooperation through a shared electronic platform as also to arrange exchange of all useful information among health professionals through more informal means. Those who argue that SAARC members have committed rather limited resources for a grave threat have a point. But they need to study the latest figures which reveal an interesting picture. So far, South Asia has not exactly borne the brunt of the pandemic. Of the total confirmed cases in the world that stood at 12,89,380 on April 6 (according to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resources Center), SAARC countries reported only 8,292 cases, representing 0.64%. Whether the low share is due to limited testing, a peculiarity of the strain of the virus, people’s unique immunity, South Asia’s climate, decisive measures by governments, or just good fortune is difficult to say. But it is evident that India’s imaginative diplomacy has leveraged the crisis to create a new mechanism for workable cooperation. It will become stronger if the crisis deepens and if member-states see advantages in working together. Seven of the eight members already do. A new SAARC? To conclude that SAARC is now returning to an active phase on a broad front may, however, be premature. In the backdrop of political capital invested by New Delhi in strengthening BIMSTEC and the urgings it received recently from Nepal and Sri Lanka to resuscitate SAARC, I recently posed a question to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar at a public forum. He said that India had no preference for a specific platform, but it was fully committed to the cause of regional cooperation and connectivity. The challenge facing the region is how to relate to a country which claims to favour regional cooperation, while working against it. Clearly, India has little difficulty in cooperating with like-minded neighbours, as it showed by forging unity in the war against COVID-19. This is diplomatic resilience and leadership at its best. Finally, a thought for consideration of ‘SAARC purists’ who maintain that all proposals for cooperation should be routed through the Secretariat and activities should be piloted by the incumbent chair. Given what Pakistan has done to harm India’s interests since the terrorist attack on the Uri Army base in 2016 and its continuing resistance to cooperation against COVID-19, the purists’ scenario is unrealistic. Both New Delhi and its friendly neighbours need to start preparing themselves for SAARC 2.0. Rajiv Bhatia is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House, and a former Ambassador. While at the Ministry of External Affairs, he headed the division which handled India’s relations with four neighbouring countries
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Restructuring our food system for a healthy world||The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic is an opportunity for us to analyse our food system, ideate and make changes for a healthier and more sustainable future. It is widely believed that the disease is zoonotic, which means that it got transferred to humans from the exotic animals stored in the ‘wet markets’ in Wuhan, China, the epicentre of the outbreak. Like SARS-CoV-2, SARS too was believed to have spread from civet cats to human beings in 2002. There are similar theories about Ebola and HIV. What lessons do these various outbreaks offer us? Antibiotic resistance The first is for us to rethink the ways in which we farm animals. India has the world’s largest livestock population, is the largest producer of buffalo meat and produces about a 100 billion eggs annually. Animal agriculture is moving away from backyard operations to larger industrial facilities which aim to produce more meat with fewer resources. Industrialising animal agriculture comes at a huge cost to the environment, animals and to human beings. One concern is antibiotic resistance. According to the World Health Organization, the large volume of antibiotics given to farm animals contributed to the development of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria particularly in settings of intensive animal production. A majority of Indian households buy meat from local meat shops which, much like the wet markets, follow no regulations in the way the animals are kept or slaughtered. Most of the standalone meat vendors do not follow the standards laid down by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). Further, while welfare standards of animals are often neglected, one thing is clear: immunocompromised animals are the most likely to pass on an infection. It is thus imperative that India understand the risk of zoonosis and antibiotic resistance in terms of following FSSAI regulations and adhering to welfare standards in animal husbandry. The second lesson is to undertake greater investment in the alternate protein industry. India has a high rate of malnutrition among children under the age of five and is trying to combat this by encouraging meat production. With a paucity of space, this can only be done by giving a boost to industrial agriculture. Before India does that, it must explore the potential behind plant and cultivated meats. Plant-based meats are made from plants and are cholesterol- and antibiotic-free, but taste and feel like meat. Cultivated meat is produced by taking a small sample of animal cells and replicating them outside of the animal; the resulting product is real meat, but without the antibiotics, E. coli, salmonella, or animal waste. These foods represent an enormous opportunity to solve the problems of rampant malnutrition, low farmer incomes, antibiotic dependency, and inhumane factory farming of animals. In the Western world, these plant-based meats are already popular and two plant-based companies – the Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat – won the Champions of Earth award, the United Nation’s highest environmental honour. India, an agrarian economy, could export raw materials to make these products and feed its people. Every act has an impact Finally, we must understand the interconnectedness of the world. Advocates of animal rights have argued that within the welfare of animals lies the welfare of people. Every act we undertake has an impact on us all. Pursuant to global lockdowns, wild animal populations have returned to cities and pollution levels have dropped globally. We need to innovate and encourage technologies that allow us to maintain the standard of living we are used to while ensuring that we are working towards a healthier world. Ambika Hiranandani, Strategic Partnerships for The Good Food Institute, India
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Do no harm||‘Primum non nocere’ is the primary, guiding principle of bioethics. Every health-care worker is oriented on the principle of ‘First, do no harm’ during their training. All medical training is based on this idea, but very little in what they learn prepares them for the reverse: When harm is inflicted upon them. Over the past week, chilling stories of assaults on health-care workers, on COVID-19 duty, have been reported. Visuals beamed in of angry locals who threw stones at doctors, health-care workers and civic officials who went to screen people in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Two women doctors were injured. Earlier, there were reports of locals in Ranipura allegedly spitting at officials as they took up screening. Last week, doctors at Hyderabad’s Gandhi Hospital were attacked after a patient with multiple co-morbidities died of COVID-19. Doctors there even sought police protection. ASHA workers were reportedly attacked in Bengaluru, Karnataka, when they went to collect data on COVID-19 symptoms. Locals grabbed their bags and cellphones, and the police finally had to rescue them. In Mumbai’s Dharavi, police personnel who went to ensure that lockdown conditions were being followed — after a person tested positive in the locality — were assaulted by local youth. A case has been registered at Kayathar police station in Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, after 12 people allegedly assaulted a health inspector and his team when they went there to isolate the family of a patient who had attended the Nizamuddin conclave. These attacks are a result of paranoia and are completely unmindful of the many risks health-care workers take on, merely doing their work in a pandemic situation such as this. In Wockhardt, doctors and workers have tested positive while treating patients. If these helpers are looked upon as the enemy, it only allows the true foe — the virus — to gather strength. WHO too has developed guidelines for addressing workplace violence in the health sector to support the development of violence prevention policies in non-emergency settings. Their applicability in this situation must be examined. Baskut Tuncak, UN Special Rapporteur on the implications for human rights of the environmentally sound management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, hailed health-care workers as heroes who must be protected. Stating that the tireless work and self-sacrifice of these workers show the best of humanity, he also went on to emphasise that unacceptable shortages in critical protective equipment that can stop them from being infected, continue to plague nearly all nations battling COVID-19. The responsibility of restoring order and ensuring the safety of all health workers, whether with personal protective equipment, or against attacks from the public ultimately rests with the government, and in equal measure, the people.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Mind the gap||For millennia, people travelled for reasons of religion and trade, and in recent decades increasingly for pleasure too. The germs that these travellers carried globalised many contagions. In the history of humankind, no pestilence has spread as fast and as far as the novel coronavirus, for the singular reason that China, its source, is at the centre of world trade and economy. China is the biggest trading partner for at least 120 countries and regions, much of Europe and the U.S. included. Until recently, it was India’s too. At least 430,000 people travelled from China to the U.S. after the outbreak of the disease. The whirlwind of global travel, goaded by an intense human hunger for new economic opportunities and pleasure, has taken the virus to at least 180 countries on last count. In the year ending March 2019, 6.9 crore international passengers arrived in India. Such context has been obfuscated deliberately by sections trying to reinforce social prejudices, justify xenophobia and advance perilous political agendas by blaming particular social groups for the growing tragedy. People of Asian origin have been targeted in the U.S. as a result; within India, people from its northeastern region have come under attack. After a March congregation of Tablighi Jamaat faithful in Delhi turned out to be the epicentre of the biggest cluster of COVID-19 infections in India, Muslims in general are facing renewed hostility in some parts of the country. On Monday, a 30-year-old man was brutally thrashed by a group of locals who accused him of spreading the disease in the Outer-North district of Delhi. The man had arrived home after attending a religious gathering. The Centre’s briefers have been volunteering daily updates on the number of cases linked to the Tablighi event, as if it were relevant to the pandemic response. Indeed, there must be a discussion on what went wrong, and how and why the disease spread in India. There are questions about the arrival of so many religious activists from international hotspots of the disease. Why were they given visas and allowed entry? However, right now, all efforts and attention of the government must be on containment and mitigation. All sections must feel protected and cared for by the state. In some instances, the Tablighi leaders have been defiantly non-cooperative in contact tracing even after their unconscionable folly triggered such an avalanche of cases. While legal and police action against those who are not cooperating with the official measures is essential, care must be taken against adding fuel to the fire of communalism. The common threat of the virus should have doused the smouldering embers of religious tensions. In any case, the battle against the virus must not deepen existing social fissures.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Countdown for Apollo-13 begins||The countdown for launching Apollo-13 next Saturday started at 10 p.m. last night (April 5, Cape Kennedy) as planned, despite a hitch which threatens to postpone the moon flight for a month. The decision to start the countdown was taken at the last moment, after a thorough discussion of the best way to right the fault. Space agency officials described the problem as a heat loss in the super critical helium which pressurises the descent engines used by the astronauts to land on the moon. The helium reservoirs are to be kept under watch until 10 a.m. on Monday (April 6) when a decision will be taken as to whether or not their replacement will be necessary. The heat loss from the super cold helium will increase pressure in the tank. If the pressure becomes too high when it is ignited, the combustion chamber could explode, aborting the mission and possibly endangering the spacemen. Saturday is the only launch day available this month for the desired Fra Mauro landing area. If the shot cannot go then, it will be postponed until May. The astronauts who will make the lunar journey, James A. Lovell Jr.,Thomas K. Mattingly II and Fred Haise Jr., took a day off from their rigorous training yesterday (April 5).
07 April 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Looking at survival and safety’||Pankaj Advani is not worried about missing competitive cue sports action, as there are bigger issues to tackle. “I find it weird when sportspersons speak about their sport at this time, as we’re looking at bigger things like survival, health and safety. These things are much more important than one’s sporting career. The police, nurses, doctors and paramedics — they are our saviours. They put their lives at risk for us. I express my gratitude to all of them,” Advani told The Hindu here on Monday. With a contribution of Rs. 5 lakh to the PM-CARES Fund, Advani has done his bit in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak. “I’m not a doctor, policeman or someone who is in the front line of this battle. So this donation is the least I can do. We face a massive fight. The coronavirus has affected the entire world — people are suffering and dying,” the multiple-time World champion said. Don’t make it celebratory Advani emphasised on citizens doing their bit by taking the necessary safety precautions. The 34-year-old appealed to the public not to turn occasions like ‘diya’ lighting into celebratory affairs. “I request everyone to keep distance, stay indoors, wash your hands and wear a mask whenever you go out. We tend to make a ‘mela’ out of the directions given by the government. “Lighting a ‘diya’ and clapping for our health workers is good, but we should do it sensibly. We should not make an event out of it by bursting crackers and so on. Indians are social people in general, but all socialising must wait. Religious gatherings and other functions must wait,” Advani said. Extended lockdown Advani believes that an extended lockdown would be the right way to go. ““In my opinion, the lockdown should be extended beyond April 14, but of course the government is best placed to take this decision. “It would also be nice if the government regularly provides numbers and statistics related to the coronavirus. That will help us understand where we’re headed,” he said. Advani, who lives with his mother, is finding ways to keep himself occupied. “I’m exercising, though I’m not very regular. “I’m also helping with household chores like cleaning, dusting and so on. It makes me appreciate the efforts of everyone who works for us at home,” he said.
07 April 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu may get Warrier’s services||Kerala seamer Sandeep Warrier could turn out for Tamil Nadu this season. When the TNCA, informally, approached Warrier a few days back, he is reported to have said ‘Yes’. The No. 1 paceman in the longer formats for Kerala, the 29-year-old Warrier has 186 First Class wickets in 57 matches at 24.43. Warrier, who travelled to New Zealand with the India-A team this season, is someone who honed his skills at the MRF Pace Foundation here. And Warrier has signed up for a job with India Cements here bringing him closer to Tamil Nadu cricket. Someone who is lively, moves the ball and has the ability to bowl long spells, Warrier could provide the Tamil Nadu attack with the thrust it so desperately needs. Last season, Tamil Nadu often cut through half of line-ups before its pacemen ran out of steam. The side needs a seamer such as Warrier, who can be strong in his second and third spells. If he moves to Tamil Nadu, Warrier will team up with left-arm seamer T. Natarajan, who bowled with craft and commitment for Tamil Nadu before running into injury problems last season. Then there is the underrated M. Mohammed, who can surprise and strike with his subtle movement and changes of speed. And in conditions suiting swing bowling, K. Vignesh could receive a look-in. Yet, this much is clear. If Warrier, indeed, shifts to Tamil Nadu next season, as it appears likely at this stage, then he undoubtedly will be the lynchpin of the State attack.
07 April 2020||Berlin,||Bayern Munich players back on the field||Bundesliga leaders Bayern Munich resumed training on Monday for the first time since the German league was suspended on March 13, but the players were put through their paces in small groups and maintained social distancing measures. Keeping at least 1.5m from each other, the players trained together. “It was a very unusual feeling to hold a training session in small groups, but it was also nice to see the boys in person again,” said Manuel Neuer after Bayern had previously held training sessions online. After arriving at staggered times to limit contact the 21-man squad was split into five groups, each containing a maximum of five players. When they changed, the players were kept four metres apart in the changing rooms.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deepali Deshpande strikes a cautious note||India’s problem of plenty in the rifle and pistol events is likely to give selectors a headache when they sit down to select teams for the postponed Olympics. One primary question is whether World Championship silver medallist Anjum Moudgil will be able to retain her berth in air rifle or will the selectors instead opt for former World Champion and Commonwealth Games gold medallist Tejaswini Sawant. “You try to give your best every time. You cannot think, ‘this is not my strong event. Let me wait and get it in my event’,” was Anjum’s counter to the question. Irony Anjum has shot a world record 1180 out of 1200 in the 50m rifle 3-position event, but the irony is that she could not compete in the regular team in any of the World Cups, as the team was searching for an Olympic quota which she was ineligible to win. After Sunidhi Chauhan, Gaayathri Nithyanandam and Kajal Saini failed, it was Tejaswini who nailed the Olympic quota in the 3P event. Olympian Deepali Deshpande, the Indian team’s high performance rifle coach, put things in perspective. “Anjum is experienced and in good form. Postponement is an advantage for her. In air rifle, 2019 was all about changing technique, equipment and getting over injury. Still she could maintain her ranking,” said Deepali. With Apurvi Chandela winning two World Cup gold medals it has generally been perceived that Elavenil Valarivan and Mehuli Ghosh could fight for the second spot in women’s air rifle. Two planes “The national federation and the selection committee will be thinking a lot on these aspects. I feel that we have to be very careful as we will be working on two planes. One is 2020 Olympics being held in 2021, and the other is 2024. Some of the shooters will be front runners for 2024. If we drag them into this selection, we may lose them even for 2024,” cautioned Deepali, even as she pointed the high scores of 1170 or more of Tejaswini. “With Olympic quota points she is second to Anjum only,” she added.
07 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Sunil Kumar’s confidence on a high||Mental training, which helped Sunil Kumar immensely in rewriting history, has again come to the aid of the 87kg Greco-Roman Asian champion in the time of the coronavirus outbreak. Hailing from the nondescript Daburpur village of Sonipat district in Haryana, Sunil overcame his negative approach and focused on pre-match preparation to bring home an Asian championship medal after 27 years in Delhi last month. Not disheartened The postponement of the Asian Olympic qualifier this month may not have been a welcome development for an in-form Sunil, but the 21-year-old is not disheartened. “My confidence is high after becoming the Asian champion. It is true that it would have been good (had the Olympic qualifier happened as per schedule). But every wrestler was trying to do his best and the situation is the same for everybody,” Sunil told The Hindu . “The positive side is that the delay gives me extra time to work on my game and iron out weaknesses.” Despite being restricted to his home, Sunil, backed by Lakshya Sports, has become mentally stronger to make the most of the present situation. “Without any sparring partner, I am training on my own — doing running, dumbbell, rope exercises and other equipment available at home. I am sticking to my schedule of training twice a day.” Mental conditioning and peak-performance coach Dr. Swaroop Savanur, who turned Sunil around, said, “Right now, I am telling him to ‘de-focus’ from his game completely. I am also working with him on certain visualisation techniques and short-term goals.” Raising his game Sunil — who had a poor outing in the World Championships in Nur-Sultan last year — raised his game, especially his ground wrestling, to shine in the Asian championships. He wants to improve further to achieve bigger targets. “I need to work on my endurance, ground and standing wrestling. I remember the advice of Pappu Yadav (the last Asian champion from the country in Greco Roman style), who told me to stick to my strength. “My latest world ranking (No. 4) boosts my confidence and makes me believe that I can be World No. 1 one day,” said Sunil.
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,||A platform for promising cricketers||Even as sportspersons continue to grapple with the lockdown, Ludimos, launched by Madhan Raj, a Netherlands-based techie from Chennai, has come up with a solution for the cricketers. The online platform will help the players upload videos and receive tips from coaches all over the world. Ludimos has seen its users double during the coronavirus crisis. “I played at the University-level back home in Chennai and when I came to the Netherlands, I could not find enough coaches. This is the situation in most associate and affiliate countries. This platform aims to help cricketers get in touch with coaches across the globe,” said Madhan. The platform, which already has Artificial Intelligence (AI) capability, is planning to add features like pitch maps and wagon wheels using machine-learning. The prominent names involved in the project are former South African First Class cricketer David Nosworthy, who has coached the likes of A.B. de Villiers, and former Tamil Nadu and Chennai Super Kings player Vidyut Sivaramakrishnan. “It is a great platform for cricketers from the smaller nations. I have been doing sessions on Zoom for players in countries like Bahrain, but this platform provides a better solution. “The video clarity is very good and there are some useful tools. For example, you can draw lines on the video frames to point out corrections in the head position. It is easier for the players to see and correct the flaws than being just told about them,” said Vidyut.
07 April 2020||Coimbatore,||Can’t wait for Wimbledon 2021: Vijay||Wimbledon stands out from the other Grand Slams, thanks to its unique blend of tennis and tradition. The atmosphere is so electric and emotional that it brings the best out of every player. India’s Vijay Amritraj, who has experienced them all for five decades as a player and a commentator, was very disappointed with the cancellation of the 2020 event. “It was expected, of course,” Vijay told The Hindu in an email interview. “I have been associated with Wimbledon for 50 straight years and always look forward to it with the same enthusiasm as I had in 1969,” said Vijay, a two-time quarterfinalist at The Championships. Vijay, who is now in the United States, said all ranked players have lost a valuable year. “To the best, it means not having a chance to increase their wins. To the challengers, it means a lost opportunity. To the players who get in regularly, it means lost economic opportunity and points. To the Indian players, only if you have a chance to qualify, it would make a difference.” He said no sporting event in the world compares to Wimbledon. “For me, along with the Davis Cup, it’s the reason I played for so long. The greatest blessing is to have played there for so many years and also coming close to winning it. It has always been my No. 1 event.” In 1973, Vijay lost to eventual champion Jan Kodes; in 1981, he suffered a heartbreaking loss, going down to Jimmy Connors after taking the first two sets. When Vijay visited the All England Club earlier this year, he would not have expected things to pan out this way. “The majesty of the club and its history gives me goosebumps whenever I visit. Can’t wait for Wimbledon 2021,” said Vijay, who has done TV shows for more than 25 years there.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Lack of civic sense led to pandemic’||Jose Brasa may have been India hockey coach almost a decade ago, but he continues to be one of the most popular ones with the players. The Spaniard, currently coaching in Belgium, categorically blamed the lack of civic sense for the COVID-19 explosion in his homeland. In ‘exile’ “I was in Spain visiting my family from March 8-12. Since then I have been confined to my apartment here in Liege as Spain ordered lockdown the day after I left. Things are better here, although one player from my club (the Old Club of Liege) was infected,” he revealed without naming the player. “But he is young and strong and he’s been cured. He and his girlfriend are in home quarantine and will remain so for the next two weeks. Almost all of us have probably been in contact with the virus because if this player was infected and the symptoms are seen two weeks later, during those two weeks we all were with him,” he said. Asked about the sporting scene there, he appreciated the Belgians for being decisive. “On April 2, the National Hockey League here was over and promotions and relegations decided by classifications obtained in the first round. In football they decided to consider all matches played till now. “The situation in Spain is the total opposite. Competitions are suspended. Football leagues have not ended and it seems they want to resume,” he said. Brasa insisted the only way to be safe was to stay home. “Staying indoors is the best way to prevent coronavirus from spreading rapidly and clogging up hospitals. In Spain the restriction is total, no one can leave home except workers in essential services like hospitals, pharmacies and food supermarkets. The situation is not so serious in Belgium. All activities that do not involve crowds are open, with precautionary measures,” he said.
07 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||WFI may hold fresh trials||The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) may hold fresh trials to complete the selection process before the start of Asian and World qualifying tournaments, said its secretary V.N. Prasood here on Monday. The WFI was mulling this move in the wake of postponement of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and the subsequent cancellation of qualifying tournaments due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Prasood said the federation will either conduct fresh trials or may advance the 2020 National championships to complete the selection process before the start of the qualifying Asian and World tournaments. He added that the final decision will be taken after the United World Wrestling (UWW) releases a fresh schedule for these events. Plans upset “Right now everything is in a flux. The postponement of Tokyo Olympics to next year has upset our plans. Our policy is to select the best and deserving wrestlers. But we want to make sure everyone is given a chance. We may conduct fresh trials in all events and if that is not acceptable by the wrestlers, we may even hold the National championships a little earlier this year. “But our schedule will depend on the international calendar. We have to see if UWW will hold the World championships before the qualifying events. Normally UWW doesn’t include Olympic events in world meets held in the Olympic year. But it is a different scenario now, so we have to wait and watch,” said Prasood. Four Indians — Ravi Kumar Dahiya (57kg), Bajrang Punia (65kg), Deepak Punia (86kg) and Vinesh Phogat (53kg) — had qualified for the freestyle events for the 2020 Olympics after winning medals in the 2019 World championships. Prasood is hopeful that more Indians will make it to the Games from the qualifying events. End of the ban The postponement of the Olympics has come as a blessing for Narsingh Yadav, who will complete his four-year ban this July. Prasood added WFI has kept its doors open for Narsingh. “His ban will be over in July and there are no obstacles in front of him to return back to competition. If he is in good shape he can compete and win back his place in the team for Olympics.”
07 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Former Railway cricketer Kothandapani passes away||Former Southern Railway cricketer K. Kothandapani, who also played for the TNCA colts team, passed away on Monday. He was 70 and is survived by wife, two daughters and grandchildren. A left-arm spinner, he was a regular in the TNCA league. He was part of the Southern Railway side that won the all-India inter-Railway tournament in 1980 and 1990. Kothandapani also coached the junior Indian Railway team.
07 April 2020||Hyderabad,||Gopi Chand contributes to COVID-19 relief||P. Gopi Chand donated Rs. 11 lakh to the Prime Minister's Relief Fund here on Monday. Gopi also contributed Rs. 10 lakh to the Telangana Chief Minister's Relief Fund and another Rs. 5 lakh to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister's Relief Fund. International badminton player K. Sri Krishna Priya, meanwhile, donated Rs. 5 lakh to the Telangana Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Nectar in Kumbakonam||While the Puranic name of the deity in Kumbakonam is Sarangaraja, Azhvars refer to Him fondly as Aravamudhan — the nectar that one never tires of. The deity is housed in a stone structure shaped like a chariot, drawn by elephants and horses. It has two entrances — the Southern and Northern. For six months in a year, one enters through one entrance, and for the rest of the year the other entrance is used. Surya was the recipient of the Lord’s anugraha in this kshetra, and hence this arrangement, to mark the movements of the Sun, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Aravamudhan also has three processional rathas. One of them, a huge one, is believed to have been made by Thirumangai Azhvar. Aravamudhan blessed Surya, and so for the Brahmotsavam performed by Surya, another chariot is used. There is yet another used for the Vasantotsavam. While these are the physically observable chariots, Aravamudhan has the unique distinction of having a chariot of words, composed in His praise by Thirumangai Azhvar. An entire work titled Thiruvezhukoottrirukkai of Thirumangai Azhvar is in praise of Aravamudhan. And the words in this work come together to form the image of a chariot. Thirumangai Azhvar had a special affinity for Aravamudhan. This is the first deity to have been sung by him. In commentator Peria Vachan Pillai’s ordering of the works of Thirumangai Azhvar, Peria Thirumozhi comes first and Thiruneduntandakam is considered the last of his works. In Thiruneduntandakam, the penultimate verse is in praise of Aravamudhan. Thus, Thirumangai Azhvar, who visited many shrines and praised the deities therein, began and ended his mangalasasana with Aravamudhan.
07 April 2020||April 07 2020 07:15 IST,||Sudoku - April 7, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||22 new cases in city, nine from Nizamuddin centre||Twenty-two new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Monday, taking the total number to 525. Of the 22 new cases on Monday, nine are people from a centre run by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin. A total of 329 people from the centre have tested positive for COVID-19 so far in Delhi. Out of the total COVID-19 cases reported so far, seven people have died, 19 have been discharged, and 498 are still in hospitals. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the Delhi government will start providing free ration to those who have applied for ration cards online from Tuesday. The free supplies will be distributed from 421 schools. The scheme will initially cater to around 10 lakh people. The beneficiaries will get four kg of wheat and one kg of rice each. He added that the Delhi government has ordered one lakh testing kits to increase testing capacity in Delhi to 1,000 people per day. The CM also thanked the Centre for providing 27,000 PPE kits, which he said is a great step towards ensuring the safety of doctors in the State. “We expect the kits to arrive by Tuesday,” he added. Mr. Kejriwal said there has been a sudden rise in COVID-19 cases over the last few days. The spike is partly due to cases from the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin, and increase in testing capacity, said the Chief Minister. “Our testing capacity around March 25 was 100-125 people per day, which increased to 500 people per day after April 1... it is now reaching a capacity of 1,000 tests per day. We expect the one lakh testing kits to arrive by Friday,” he added. “On Sunday, our community kitchens served lunch to around 6,90,000 people and dinner to around 6,94,000 people. I want to assure you that we will not let anyone in Delhi suffer from hunger. I want to thank the people, NGOs and Civil Society organisations who are distributing food packets,” said Mr. Kejriwal. Hospital staff Meanwhile, a Delhi government spokesperson said that two more doctors and 16 nursing staff of the Delhi State Cancer Institute have tested positive for COVID-19.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Shelters see total occupancy of less than 12%||Over a 100 shelter homes set up by the Delhi government for migrant workers in the Capital have a combined occupancy of less than 12%, according to official data, even as no new cases or instances of such workers seeking to travel back home have come to light. A senior government official said that this meant that the facilities at these shelters – which are monitored on a daily basis by the district authorities and reviewed by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the Chairman of the State Executive Committee – were satisfactory from the point of those lodged in them. “Adequate care is being taken to extend all possible amenities to the inmates. That is why there are no fresh instances of such workers reaching the sealed State borders in a bid to go home,” said the official. After the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the COVID-19, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, came into force on March 24 midnight, thousands of such workers sought to migrate to their home States necessitating their identification as a target group for special facilities. The Delhi government set up 111 shelter homes specifically for such workers rendered homeless due to the lockdown evenly spread over its 11 districts under the supervision of the respective District Magistrate. Till Sunday, the government said, 4,788 such migrant workers, were housed in such facilities which have a combined capacity to accommodate 40,000 persons – an occupancy rate of 11.97%. These shelters are in addition to 223 permanent shelters managed by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board and 10 more such night shelters for the homeless. “All occupants are provided free food which includes breakfast, lunch and dinner. General items for daily use are also provided in addition to special attention to the overall health and sanitation of the inmates. Medical assistance is provided by doctors assigned to the centre,” the government said in a statement. “In case of symptomatic persons housed in these shelter homes, people are quarantined as per protocol. Only one person has been hospitalised till date since the shelter homes were earmarked. Due to pro-active steps taken by the Delhi government, no fresh movement of migrant labourers has been reported in Delhi,” the statement added. Besides, the Delhi government said, officials and policemen concerned have been directed to honour e-passes issued by other State governments to individuals and vehicles engaged in the movement of essential goods within the boundaries of the Capital. This, the government said, was in line with a directive issued by Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on April 3 conveyed to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories.  In case of symptomatic persons housed in these shelter homes, people are quarantined as per protocol. Only one person has been hospitalised till date...no fresh movement of migrant labourers has been reported in Delhi Delhi government statement
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Health workers go door-to-door in Nizamuddin||Though Delhi at present has two identified COVID-19 hotspots — Nizamuddin and Dilshad Garden — the government is currently concentrating on Nizamuddin, as there has been “hardly any new cases” from the latter, said officials. “We have turned Nizamuddin into a containment zone and health workers are going door to door and screening people to identify ones with symptoms in houses around the markaz for the past couple of days,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . In an operation which concluded in the wee hours of April 1, a total of 2,346 people were evacuated from a Tablighi Jamaat centre in west Nizamuddin and 536 of them were sent to hospitals and 1,810 were sent to quarantine facilities, the Delhi government said. The Tablighi centre had held a religious congregation in mid-March and since the evacuation, 329 people from the centre have tested positive for COVID-19 so far just in Delhi alone. People at the hospitals have been tested and most of the results have arrived, while the government is waiting for results of the 1,810 people in quarantine facilities. Apart from this, around 500 people from different mosques in the city, who had visited the centre in March, have been evacuated and they have been moved to hospitals and quarantine facilities. “Only a few of them are in hospitals and they are yet to be tested,” the official said. On the other hand, Dilshad Garden was declared a hotspot after a 38-year-old woman, who travelled to India from Saudi Arabia, infected multiple people with the virus, before she tested positive. “What we are doing right now in Nizamuddin was done at different blocks of Dilshad Garden earlier,” the official said. The woman, who was Delhi’s case 10, infected a mohalla clinic doctor (case 28), when she consulted him at a private clinic in March. Later the doctor’s wife, who is also a mohalla clinic doctor, and their daughter tested positive for COVID-19. “Since they were mohalla clinic doctors, around 7,600 people were screened in the area,” the official said.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||FSL staff who went to Nizamuddin centre told to self-quarantine||Five persons from Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), including four officials and a driver, have been asked to quarantine themselves after they visited the Nizamuddin centre for crime inspection on Sunday. An official, on condition of anonymity, said that a team of four FSL officials, including a Biology, Chemistry, Computer and Photography expert had visited the centre along with Crime Branch officers to inspect the spot and lift exhibits for further investigation. “As a precautionary measure, FSL Director Deepa Verma has asked them to quarantine themselves for 14 days because it was a sensitive area. It is a decision made by the director for the safety of the officials and other staff,” the official said. Families of the five officials have also been informed and asked to keep the persons in isolation and in separate rooms as precaution. “They all wore hazmat suits and took all necessary precautions when they were inside the centre but they dealt with the evidence very closely which is why they have been asked to quarantine themselves,” he said.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||To beat lockdown, RWAs launch campaigns urging people to stay in touch||Nearly two weeks since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the nationwide lockdown curbing movement of people, the Resident Welfare Assocaitions across the Capital have taken several measures, including calling campaigns to stay in touch and ensuring change of clothes for house helps. People are encouraged not to step out and if they do, they are asked to go back, the RWAs said. In East Delhi, a campaign has been launched by the RWA in an attempt to ensure that people talk to each other even as they are at home. B.S. Vohra, resident of Krishna Nagar and president of East Delhi RWA Joint Front Federation, said that they have named the campaign #LockDownCallNow. “It’s Lockdown all over due to COVID-19. We can’t meet each other but can at least talk with our friends and relatives over phone. Don’t stop interacting. Pick your phone and call now,” read a WhatsApp message sent to everyone on several RWA groups here. Mental health Talking about the campaign, Mr. Vohra said that it has been initiated to ensure people don’t feel low. “If this continues and people don’t step out and don’t interact, one can go into depression also. Therefore, taking care of mental health, we are running this campaign. I, too, call my neighbours and relatives everyday,” he said. Mr. Vohra also said that all the street vendors who come to their colony are allowed only with identity proof. “All the security guards have been asked to check the identity of those entering and also where they’re coming from,” he said. Meanwhile, a South Delhi locality’s RWA has come up with strict rules during lockdown, including house helps changing clothes once they enter a house. Sangita Thukral, president of Chittaranjan Park’s (M&P Blocks) RWA, said that while house helps who are not permanently staying in the house are prohibited from coming in, only those who work at the residence of senior citizens are allowed and that too, on alternative days. “They have been asked to keep a change of clothes at the residence. They come, take shower, change, do the work, change again and then leave,” she said. Apart from this, Ms. Thukral said that only authorised street vendors are allowed to enter the colonies and are provided with hand sanitisers, gloves and masks in case they don’t have already. “They can come in from 8 a.m.- 11 a.m.,” she said. In addition, the main gates of the colonies are opened only between 8.15 a.m. and 10.15 a.m. for people to step out for milk and daily groceries, she said. Movement passes In a locality in central Delhi’s Jama Masjid area, the RWA is of the opinion that movement passes should have been issued to members of the association to let them help the people in need. Mohammed Sabir, Dujana House RWA president, said, “The government and NGOs are ensuring that they are all fed. But if someone has an emergency, we are unable to help them with movement. They should have provided RWA members with movement passes.” All RWAs said that situation has “eased up” as compared to the initial days of the lockdown and while they didn’t get newspapers in the beginning, they have now started getting them delivered. Talking about how the situation has changed “a little bit” in the last few days, Sanjeev Baruah, resident of South Delhi Alaknanda, said that food delivery has begun now. “The delivery boys, however, are stopped at the gate and one has to go fetch the parcel,” he said. In west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden, newspapers started after initial hiccups and also, vegetable vendors who were earlier not allowed to come are now being allowed, said Jatin Gandhi, an RWA member.
07 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘Private firm behind many cases in U.P. district’||The main reason for the spread of COVID-19 in Gautam Buddha Nagar, a hotspot for the virus in Uttar Pradesh, is a private fire safety company, which is directly or indirectly responsible for at least 39 out of 58 cases, officials said on Monday. No fresh case was reported in Noida or Greater Noida for a second day in a row on Monday, with the administration now planning a door-to-door awareness and information gathering campaign The company has 162 employees out of which 83 live in Uttar Pradesh. Apart from spreading the virus to neighbouring districts, the company is also being held responsible for taking the infection to villages adjoining the urban areas of Greater Noida and at least one of the slums in Noida. Nine people, directly or indirectly connected to the firm, living in rural areas have tested positive for COVID-19 while four have tested positive in a slum cluster in Sector 5. The domestic help of an employee of the firm lives in the slum and she infected three of her family members, said officials. The source of the infection was an auditor from the U.K. who stayed in Noida from March 14-16 and met a number of officials of the company, stated the Health Department. Later, it was discovered that the managing director of the firm also returned from the U.K. on March 1 and took a long time to get tested as he was asymptomatic. Later, he tested positive for the virus. Source of infection Health officials, however, referred to the British auditor as the primary source of the infection, describing him as a carrier. U.P. Chief Minister Adityanath transferred the District Magistrate and incumbent DM Suhas L.Y. and sealed the firm on March 31. The Health Department registered an FIR against the company for hiding information under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. A senior police officer who is closely monitoring the situation told The Hindu : “All 162 employees were asked to go into self-quarantine after one person tested positive. But the nature of the disease is such that some people remain carriers without showing symptoms. So far, the cases are mostly limited to families”
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||247 FIRs lodged for violation of home quarantine norms||A total of 247 FIRs have been registered against people found violating home quarantine guidelines, the Delhi police said on Monday. The violators have been charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. While 81 FIRs were lodged after physical verification, 160 were registered after technical surveillance and six were filed on the complaints of neighbours. The Delhi government has shared over 25,000 numbers with the police to track the movement of people who have been placed under home quarantine, a Delhi police official said.  Between 2 p.m. on April 5 and 2 p.m. on April 6, a total of 855 calls were received by the Delhi police on its 24-hour helpline number (23469526) launched to resolve queries related to lockdown, officials said on Monday. Forty-six calls were received related to scarcity of food and money, which were forwarded to NGOs for direct relief at their addresses. Twenty-four calls received were regarding medical issues. The food delivery network established in all 15 districts facilitated by the Delhi police has led to provision of meals at more than 250 locations and dry ration kits to 1,837 people.
07 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep - Ashoka||To make higher education more accessible during the lockdown, Ashoka University has launched an interactive virtual seminar series, ‘Beyond The Classroom’. The university will host live interviews, lectures and firesides with its scholars, teachers, experts and thought leaders. “The curated series will go live with its episodes using Zoom twice a week on Wednesday and Saturday at 8.30 p.m.”.
07 April 2020||New Delhi,||Shinjini - LG||In the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19, LG Electronics has partnered with Akshaya Patra Foundation to serve meals to migrant labourers and daily-wage workers who have been affected by the lockdown. The company said it will sponsor over 10 lakh meals. Additionally, LG India will donate water purifiers, air conditioners, refrigerators and televisions to 50 State and district hospitals having quarantine or isolation wards.
