07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI keeps key policy rates unchanged||The Reserve Bank of India kept its powder dry in the third review of the monetary policy since the COVID-19 pandemic spread in the country, leaving key policy rates unchanged in the face of rising inflation pressures but asserted that propping up economic recovery has assumed “primacy” in the “worst peace-time health and economic crisis of the last 100 years”. The central bank didn’t extend the moratorium on loan repayments offered to borrowers beyond August 31 but allowed banks to restructure loans from large corporates, micro, small and medium enterprises as well as individuals to help stem the rising stress on incomes and balance sheets. These restructuring efforts may or may not include a moratorium on instalment repayments, the RBI said, leaving the decision to banks, with an eye on averting such loans from slipping into non-performing assets. “A large number of firms that otherwise maintain a good track record under existing promoters face the challenge of their debt burden becoming disproportionate, relative to their cash flow generation abilities. This can potentially impact their long-term viability and pose significant financial stability risks if it becomes widespread,” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said after a three-day meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee. With incomes and jobs taking a hit across sectors, the RBI has allowed banks to restructure individual borrowers’ loans by December 31, 2020, permitting a maximum extension of two years. Limits for loans against gold were also enhanced. India’s GDP is set to contract in 2020-21, and inflation remains a bugbear, thanks to supply chain disruptions across sectors along with a sticky surge in food prices. Consumer confidence turned more pessimistic in July than previous surveys by the RBI, so demand is expected to remain anaemic, Mr. Das said. “While space for further monetary policy action is available, it is important to use it judiciously to maximise the beneficial effects for underlying economic activity,” he added.
07 August 2020||AHMeDABAD,||8 die in Gujarat COVID-19 hospital fire||Eight COVID-19 patients — five men and three women — undergoing treatment at a private hospital here were killed in a fire that broke out at 3 a.m. on Thursday. The blaze, apparently caused by a short circuit, occurred in the ICU of COVID-19 designated Shrey Hospital in Ahmedabad’s Navarangpura area. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has ordered a probe. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sangeeta Singh and ACS (Urban Development) Mukesh Puri have been asked to submit a report within three days. Mr. Rupani has also asked them to find out if there was negligence on the part of the management. Meanwhile, it has emerged that the hospital did not have emergency exits and proper ventilation and fire safety systems. At least 40 other patients were shifted to the civic body-run SVP hospital.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Manoj Sinha appointed J&K L-G, Murmu CAG||Former Minister of State for Railways and BJP leader Manoj Sinha was on Thursday appointed the Lieutenant-Governor of Jammu and Kashmir after incumbent G.C. Murmu, a former IAS officer, resigned on Wednesday. Mr. Murmu was appointed the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Mr. Sinha will be the third Governor/Lieutenant-Gove-rnor appointed by the BJP government in J&K in three years. Mr. Murmu’s appointment was preceded by that of BJP leader Satyapal Malik, who was sent to Goa as Governor when J&K was reduced to a Union Territory. The special status of J&K under Article 370 was revoked last year and it was bifurcated into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh.
07 August 2020||COLOMBO,||Rajapaksas’ party poised for big win in Sri Lanka||The ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Party) is poised for a landslide win in the August 5 parliamentary elections, going by results declared until Thursday evening. At 8.30 p.m., the SLPP had secured over 60% of the votes. Its chances for a two-thirds majority remain unclear, but Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa expressed the confidence that they would touch the figure in Parliament, if not in the polls. The trends pointed to a big blow to former PM Ranil Wickremesinghe’s United National Party (UNP) that led the former national unity government. Sajith Premadasa, who broke away from the UNP and contested from a new alliance, stood at a distant second spot. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was quick to call Mr. Rajapaksa as his party’s huge mandate became evident. “Thank you PM @narendramodi for your congratulatory phone call... I look forward to working with you closely to further enhance the long-standing cooperation between our two countries,” Mr. Rajapaksa said in a tweet.
07 August 2020||Kolkata,||State records highest spike of 2,954 cases||West Bengal recorded its highest surge of 2,954 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its total case tally to 86,754, even as the State government announced the appointment of 500 doctors and medical staff, and a new patient management system to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. The State also recorded 56 fatalities, pushing its death toll to 1,902. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said the new system will try to make available the details of each patient. “Doctors are being appointed through walk-in interviews,” Mr. Sinha said. Of the 22,000 active cases, 4,133 are hospitalised, of which 1,144 have serious ailments, while the rest have moderate or mild symptoms. The State has also achieved its target of 25,000 tests a day, testing 25,224 samples in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate stands at 70.34%, while 87% of the victims so far had co-morbidities. CPI(M) leader dies Shyamal Chakraborty (78), a senior leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), passed away at a city hospital on Thursday. He had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the hospital on July 30.
07 August 2020||Pune,||State tally nears 4.80 lakh with record surge of 11,514 cases||Maharashtra reported 11,514 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, its highest single-day spike yet, taking its total case tally to 4,79,779. The State also recorded 316 more deaths, pushing its toll to 16,792. This is the second time the State has recorded over 11,000 cases in a day. A spike of 11,147 cases was reported on July 30. The State also witnessed a surge in recoveries, with 10,854 patients being discharged on Thursday. The cumulative recoveries have now risen to 3,16,375, while the number of active cases stands at 1,46,305. Mumbai reported just 910 new cases, taking its tally to 1,20,150, of which 20,546 are active cases. With 57 more deaths, the city’s toll has risen to 6,648. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 38 deaths, pushing its total cases to 1,152. The district also recorded 475 new cases, taking its case load past 36,500. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the case fatality rate stands at 3.50%, while the recovery rate is 65.94%. A record 74,000 samples were tested in the past 24 hours.
07 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Three girls die of asphyxiation in ‘locked’ car||Three girls, aged around six years, reportedly died of asphyxiation after they got stuck in a car at Remalle village of Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Suhana Begum (5), Sheik Afsana (6), and Yasmin (6). The three were the daughters of employees of Mohan Spintex India Ltd spinning mill in Remalle village and were residing in the quarters provided by the company. The children, while playing, got into a car parked on the company premises and closed the doors unaware of the automatic locking system. Parents who found the children missing began a search only to find them lying unconscious in the car. It was unclear whether the car doors were locked unknowingly by the children or due to automatic door locking system.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police summon Jamia students in riots case||Delhi Police Special Cell has summoned students of Jamia Millia Islamia, including JCC media coordinator Alameen Kabeer, for questioning in connection with the riots in north-east Delhi. Mr. Kabeer was sent a notice via WhatsApp and asked to join questioning on August 10.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. resends plea to open markets, hotels||The Delhi government on Thursday resent a proposal to open hotels and weekly markets in the city to L-G Anil Baijal. The government has also requested to open gymnasiums. The fresh plea was sent by Delhi Revenue Minister Kailash Gahlot.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested two days after raping minor||Two days after a 12-year-old girl was raped and stabbed multiple times in west Delhi’s Paschim Vihar, the police on Thursday arrested a 33-year-old man in connection with the case. The girl is under-going treatment at AIIMS. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a relief of Rs. 10 lakh to the girl’s family.
07 August 2020||Chennai,||Ghats to get heavy rain for two more days||As the southwest monsoon picked up pace, heavy rainfall will continue in the Nilgiris for two more days. While some districts along the Western Ghats are likely to see a downpour, most other parts of T.N. may experience subdued rainfall, Met Department said.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Now, log in to virtual court to pay traffic fines||Traffic rule violators now need not physically appear before the jurisdictional courts in Bengaluru. They can simply log into a virtual court 24x7 from any remote location and seek closure of the case.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. clocks higher growth rate for third year in a row||For the third consecutive year, Tamil Nadu, during 2019-20, clocked higher economic growth rate than the national average. The State’s performance at 8.03% was almost double of the all-India average figure of 4.2% last year.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,||State records over 100 deaths, 5,684 new cases||Northern districts accounted for a little over 50% of the 5,684 new COVID-19 cases recorded on Thursday. For the fourth day in a row, the State recorded more than 100 deaths. Chennai reported 1,091 new cases, followed by Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram with 408 and 336 cases respectively.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,||No more free supply of toor dal, oil and sugar||The State government has stopped the free supply of toor dal, edible oil and sugar to ration cardholders through the public distribution system. Lack of funds had forced the government to take the decision, which would help it save Rs. 450 crore a month, according to a senior government official.
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Karnataka, Telangana see record spike in cases||Telangana on Wednesday had 2,092 fresh COVID-19 cases, the second consecutive day of over 2,000 cases. The figure overtook the previous highs of 2,083 on July 31 and 2,012 on August 4. The total number of people who caught the infection was 73,050 on Wednesday, data for which were reported on Thursday, and 13 more persons succumbed to the virus, taking the total to 589. The number of active cases as on Wednesday was 20,358 based on recoveries. Greater Hyderabad continued to contribute the bulk of cases with 535 testing positive on Wednesday. Rangareddy district with 169 cases and Medchal-Malkajgiri (126) had over 100 cases while Warangal Urban had 128, Karimnagar (123) and Sangareddy (101). The State bulletin said Nizamabad with 91 and Sircilla with 83 positive cases were on the higher side. A total of 21,346 samples were collected on Wednesday, making up 5.53 lakh in all so far; results of 1,550 persons were awaited. Cases in Kerala rose again, with 1,298 fresh ones reported on Thursday. Recoveries were put at 800. Cumulative cases rose to 30,449, and 11,983 patients were in hospitals under treatment. On Thursday, the Health department said three more patients died, raising the death toll to 97. These deaths, on July 31, August 2 and August 5 in Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, entered the official data on Thursday after re-test at NIV, Alapuzha. Over 65% of new cases – 1,050 out of the 1,298 – were locally acquired infections; no source of infection was available in 76 cases. Among healthcare workers, 29 tested positive on Thursday. Active cases in Thiruvananthapuram stood at 3,177, about three times the number in Ernakulam, which had 1,147. Kerala tested 25,205 samples in a day. It was over 10,000 new infections again in Andhra Pradesh, and 72 new deaths. Among 1,96,789 cases in all, 10,328 were reported on Thursday. There were 82,166 patients in treatment at home, COVID Care Centres and COVID hospitals. With 205 deaths including 10 of the latest, East Godavari became the second district after Kurnool to log over 200 fatalities. Krishna saw 198 deaths, the highest death rate, while Kurnool had the maximum number at 223.    So far, 22 lakh samples had been tested, including 63,686 during the past day. Northern districts accounted for a little over 50% of the 5,684 new cases recorded in Tamil Nadu. For the fourth day in a row, the Health department recorded over 100 deaths, while more than 6,000 persons were discharged. Chennai reported 1,091 new cases, followed by Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram with 408 and 336 cases respectively. While Tiruvallur recorded 320 cases, a total of 270 persons tested positive in Ranipet. Cuddalore continued to witness a surge as 213 persons tested positive, while Vellore and Tiruvannamalai had 189 and 153 cases respectively.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India rejects China’s UNSC move on Kashmir||A day after China prompted the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) to discuss the Kashmir issue in a closed-door meeting, India “firmly” rejected the Chinese initiative and reiterated that Kashmir is a domestic issue. Veteran diplomats demanded that South Block launch a campaign to remove Kashmir from the agenda of the council. “As on previous occasions, this attempt too met with little support from the international community. We firmly reject China’s interference in our internal affairs and urge it to draw proper conclusions from such infructuous attempts,” the External Affairs Ministry said in a press statement. The Chinese move came on the first anniversary of the dilution of Article 370, which led to the creation of the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh and ended the special status for the region. China initiated a similar move on August 16 last year when it revived “The India-Pakistan Question” at the UNSC. The issue had not been taken up at the council since it last figured in the world body before the India-Pakistan war of 1971. The meeting had failed to generate a common statement or a consensus on the matter. China attempted a similar move in January this year as well, but it did not attract sufficient support from the UNSC members. The frequency of such attempts by China has prompted diplomats to highlight the unequal nature of the UN organ, where the agenda is set by the permanent members (P5) of the UNSC. ‘Pakistani bid’ Following Wednesday’s development at the UNSC, India’s Permanent Representative at the U.N., T.S. Tirumurti, described the move as an “attempt by Pakistan” that failed. “In today’s meeting of U.N. Security Council, which was closed, informal, not recorded and without any outcome, almost all countries underlined that Jammu and Kashmir was bilateral issue and did not deserve the time and attention of the council,” he said.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s COVID-19 cases cross 2 million||The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in India crossed two million on Thursday, show data collated from various State health departments. As of 10.30 p.m. on Thursday, the figure stood at 2,025,197 with the addition of 61,996 infections, a daily high. The death tally has now increased to 41,649, with the addition of 907 deaths. Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh had not released data. The Health Ministry said India’s COVID-19 recovery rate climbed to 67.62% as total recoveries crossed 13.2 lakh and the case fatality rate continue to slide to 2.07% on Thursday. The country tested a record 6,64,949 samples in 24 hours, the Ministry said. More than 6 lakh tests were done for the third successive day, it said. India registered 46,121 recoveries in the last 24 hours, with the total recoveries jumping to 13,28,336. Member-countries in the South-East Asia region, including India, have been asked by the World Health Organization (WHO) to maintain essential health services and accelerate resumption of disrupted services hit by the pandemic as an integral part of the COVID-19 response. ‘Immense strain’ Issuing this direction on Thursday, the WHO said the pandemic had put immense strain on health systems across the South-East Asia region. Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia region, in a virtual meeting with Health Ministers, said: “The pandemic has put immense strain on health systems across the South-East Asia region. The previous disease outbreaks have shown that disruption to essential services caused by an outbreak can be more deadly than the outbreak itself. We must fast-track efforts and do all we can to avoid that happening, while continuing efforts to break COVID-19 transmission chains”. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, participating in the meeting, said India had been able to achieve a growing recovery rate with the actual case load of the country now at 5,95,501 active cases. “The active cases as a percentage of total cases have seen a significant drop from 34.17% on July 24, 2020 to 30.31% currently,” he said. The Minister noted that States like Chhattisgarh continued with immunisation services even within the containment and buffer zones and delivered medicines for hypertension and diabetes.
07 August 2020||Jaipur,||HC order brings relief to Cong.||In partial relief to the Ashok Gehlot government, a Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court on Thursday sent a case relating to the merger of six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs with the ruling Congress back to a single judge Bench without granting a stay. The court disposed of two petitions filed by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA and the BSP in the matter. BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and BSP general secretary Satish Mishra had approached the Division Bench in an appeal against an order passed by Justice Mahendra Goyal on July 30, when he refused to grant an interim relief through a stay on the participation of the six MLAs in the proceedings of the Assembly as Congress legislators. The six MLAs — Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha — contested the 2018 Assembly election on the BSP’s symbol and later defected to Congress in September last year. Their support will be crucial for the Gehlot government in the event of a trust vote on the floor of the Assembly during the session beginning on August 14. To serve notices The Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta, disposed of the two petitions with the direction to serve notices, issued by the single judge Bench, on the six MLAs, who are staying along with other Congress legislators at a resort near Jaisalmer, through the District Judge. BSP’s stand The BSP has maintained that the merger of MLAs was unconstitutional because the party did not merge with Congress at the national or State levels. Mr. Mishra contended that the legislators could not merge with another party on their own. After the Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi rejected his complaint in the matter, Mr. Dilawar challenged the decision in the High Court through a writ petition. The petitions of Mr. Dilawar and the BSP will be heard by the Bench of Justice Goyal on August 11. The Division Bench asked the Jaisalmer District Judge to ensure delivery of notices to the six MLAs by August 8 and, if need be, take the help of Superintendent of Police. The notices will also be published in the local newspapers. The Speaker’s counsel contended before the Division Bench that the appeals against the Single Judge Bench, which had only issued notices, were not maintainable. He also argued that the Speaker’s office could not be used as a post office to get the notices served on any MLA. Another Single Judge Bench of Justice Satish Chandra Sharma has stayed a lower court’s order asking the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police to investigate into the role of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and his associates in the Rs. 900 crore Sanjeevani Cooperative Credit Society scam. The court admitted a petition filed by a co-accused in the case and said that the accused as well as victims of the alleged fraud should be given an opportunity of hearing.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre takes down report on Chinese transgressions||The Defence Ministry has taken down a document uploaded on its website that admitted Chinese transgressions into Indian territory in eastern Ladakh beginning early May. The report had said the present situation arising from “unilateral aggression” by China continues to be sensitive, requiring close monitoring and prompt action based on the evolving situation, and that the present stand-off “is likely to be prolonged”. “Chinese aggression has been increasing along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and more particularly in Galwan Valley since May 5. The Chinese side transgressed in the areas of Kurang Nala, Gogra and north bank of Pangong Tso on May 17-18,” the Ministry said in the report on June activities. The Ministry spokesperson was not available for comment. Ground-level interactions between the armed forces of both sides were held to defuse the situation, the report said, referring to the Corps Commanders flag meeting on June 6. “However, a violent face-off incident took place between the two sides on June 15, resulting in casualties of both sides,” it said. Subsequently, the second Corps Commander-level meeting took place on June 22 to discuss modalities of the de-escalation process. “While engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic level is continuing to arrive at mutually acceptable consensus, the present stand-off is likely to be prolonged,” the report stated. The two sides have so far held five rounds of Corps Commanders’ talks but there hasn’t been any significant movement beyond the limited first phase of disengagement. There has been no breakthrough in the last two rounds of talks on July 14 and August 2. “There has been no progress in the talks on Sunday. However, India remains firm on restoration of status quo ante of pre-May positions,” a defence source said.
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||Rain breaks South Mumbai record||South Mumbai received a record 300 mm rainfall in just four hours on Wednesday, as torrential rain accompanied by a wind speed of 101 km per hour, led to flood-type situation for the first time in many parts of the city, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Thursday. He said the civic administration was well-prepared following an advisory on heavy rain and necessary precaution was taken to keep all COVID-19 special hospitals unaffected. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday took stock of the situation in Mumbai, all coastal districts, and Sangli and Kolhapur, which have received heavy rainfall. “As many as 16 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Maharashtra, of which four are in Kolhapur,” he said. Mr. Chahal said Nariman Point and Colaba received a record rainfall, which was more than even the figure on July 26, 2005. “The BMC, in coordination with the Railways and the NDRF, rescued those trapped in local trains. Rain abated by midnight and water started receding.” He was speaking to reporters after visiting the site of landslide near Peddar Road in south Mumbai. However, catchment areas of the dams supplying water to Mumbai lag behind the last year’s rainfall. The percentage of usable water in Uppar Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tanasa, Madhya Vaitarana, and Bhatasa at present is 22.11, 46.27, 35.28, 41.73 and 44.99, respectively. In 2019, the percentage for all the dams was above 80. According to the disaster management cell of the BMC, Colaba observatory recorded 331.8 mm rainfall while Santacruz recorded 162.3 mm rain in the 24 hours ending at 8 a.m. on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department has predicted moderate to heavy rainfall in the city and suburbs and intense showers in some parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region in the next 24 hours.  ( With PTI inputs )
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI takes over probe into Sushant’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Thursday took over the investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found hanging at his Mumbai residence on June 14. The agency’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by Joint Director Manoj Shashidhar will pursue the case. The team has collected most of the documents from the Patna Police. Following a complaint from Sushant’s father, K.K. Singh, the Patna Police had earlier registered an FIR alleging abetting of suicide, criminal conspiracy and cheating. Mr. Singh alleged that Rs. 15 crore was transferred from Sushant’s account within a short period. As part of a conspiracy, the complaint said, Rhea, her relatives and others befriended Sushant and started interfering in his life. They repeatedly told him that he had some mental illness and that he should see a doctor. Among those named as accused were Rhea, Indrajit Chakraborty, Sandhya Chakraborty, Showik Chakraborty, Samuel Miranda and Shruti Modi. Sushant's trusted employees were changed. He was allegedly subjected to drug overdose on the pretext of treating dengue. After registering the case, a Patna Police team reached Mumbai to follow a few leads. The Mumbai Police had already been carrying out inquest proceedings into the death since June 14. On Tuesday, the Bihar government recommended a CBI probe, days after a police officer sent to Mumbai to supervise the investigation was quarantined and not allowed to step out.
07 August 2020||Mysuru,||Five dead, five missing as rain lashes Karnataka||Heavy rains in different parts of the State left a trail of destruction with at least five deaths in the last 48 hours, while five other persons have been reported missing. The State received 93mm of rainfall from August 1 to 6 as against a normal of 51mm, which is 81% excess. A major landslip in the Brahamagiri Hills surrounding Talacauvery and Bhagamandala in Kodagu flattened swathes of land and five persons are missing. The missing persons have been identified are Narayanachar, 80, a priest in a temple at Talacauvery, his wife Shantha, 70, their relative Anandatirtha Swami, 70, and two assistant priests, Pawan and Ravikiran. A team of the National Disaster Response Force was pressed into service but it took them quite a while to reach the scene of the disaster, as the roads were inundated by the overflowing Cauvery or blocked by trees. Sources said there was no sight of the dwellings feared to be flattened in the landslip. The search operation was called off late in the evening and it will resume on Friday. Elsewhere in the State, two persons died in H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district in the last 24 hours. While Shivananjaiah, 70, of Madapura died when a wall collapsed on Thursday, Made Gowda of Anuru village died when a tree fell on him on Wednesday. At Sakleshpur in Hassan, where the Hemavati is in spate, around 20 houses have been damaged and hundreds of electrical poles have fallen. Siddaiah, 65, a farmer of Sankalapura who went missing on Wednesday, was found dead in Yettinahole near Kyamanahalli on Thursday. In Udupi, a woman identified as Gulabi, slipped into an overflowing stormwater drain in Nittur. This is the second rain-related death in the district after another person, Sooramma Poojari, was washed away in a stream near Byndoor on August 3. Meanwhile, the body of Santosh Naik, 30, of Honnavar, who was washed away in the Gangavali at Gullapur village in Ankolka, was recovered on Thursday. He was trapped when he tried to cross an inundated road on his motorcycle, while the pillion rider was rescued.  (With inputs from Mangaluru, Hassan, and Hubballi)
07 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Situation grim as rain hits normal life in north Kerala||Torrential rain and strong winds lashed Kerala on Thursday leaving one dead in Thiruvananthapuram and causing flood situation in low-lying regions in northern Kerala. The deceased was identified as B. Ajayakumar, a Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) staffer. He died after a tree fell on him at Uzhamalackal.  Crop destruction The continuing rain hit life in many parts of Malabar. Steady increase in water level of rivers, including Chaliyar and its tributaries in north-eastern parts of Malappuram and Iruvazhinhi in Kozhikode, kept local administrators and rescue squads on their toes. All tributaries of the Kabani in Wayanad are in spate. Large-scale crop destruction was reported from Mukkom, Thiruvambadi, Karassery, and Mavoor in Kozhikode and Udayagiri and Ayyankunnu in Kannur. A meeting of the Wayanad district disaster management committee chaired by District Collector Adeela Abdulla decided to shift the people living on the banks of the rivers to relief camps. As many as 1,396 people were shifted to 30 relief camps. In Kannur, 19 families had to move to their relatives’ houses, while three people were shifted to a camp. Arrangements were made to open 421 camps in the district. Extensive damage to houses and crops were reported from Kasaragod. Dozens of families were evacuated from Kavalappara and Pathar in Pothukal panchayat in Malappuram district, the region devastated in landslips last year. It was a landslip on August 7 last year that claimed 59 lives at Kavalappara. Incessant rain raised the water level in several rivers in Palakkad on Thursday. A 22-member disaster management team of the Centre will visit potential risk areas such as Attappady, Nelliyampathy, Mannarkkad, and Kottopadam. In Idukki, a landslip occurred on the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway. Water levels in the Idukki and Mullaperiyar dams are increasing steadily. In Thrissur, a whirlwind lasting about three minutes wreaked havoc at Mothirakkanny, near Chalakudy. Two more teams of the National Disaster Response Force have arrived in the State. They have been deployed in Malappuram and Palakkad. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has directed fishermen not to venture out to sea till Saturday.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||A politician returns to the helm in J&K||The appointment of former Union Minister Manoj Sinha as Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) sees the return of a politician in the Srinagar Raj Bhavan. Mr. Sinha, 61, was the Minister of State for Railways and Minister for Communications in the first Modi government, before hitting a patch of political wilderness after he lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. Throughout this, however, Mr. Sinha enjoyed the confidence of the BJP’s leadership and when the net was cast to replace G.C. Murmu as Lieutenant-Governor, the choice fell on Mr. Sinha. A BHU product Mr. Sinha, a three-time Lok Sabha member, starting from 1996, started his active political life in Benaras Hindu University (BHU), where he got B.Tech. and M.Tech. degrees. He was elected the students union president in 1982. His political style in those days, say his colleagues, was very much about helping out indigent students and university staffers. In one instance, Mr. Sinha is said to have led a collection of funds to finance a wedding in the family of a staffer in his hostel. Mr. Sinha came into contact with the RSS and the BJP in that period and remained firmly with the ideology, with the result that he was made part of the BJP’s national council in 1989. He came of age in the hurly burly 1990s politics of the Ram temple movement and Mandal Commission. Ghazipur development He was given ticket by the BJP to contest from Ghazipur in 1996 and he won the seat that time, and in 1999 and 2014. He is credited with having brought in many development projects to Ghazipur, which is considered a backwater in eastern Uttar Pradesh, in his stint as Union Minister. None of this helped him win the 2019 polls, but it added to his image as a quiet worker. A calm personality, Mr. Sinha is considered to be a discreet politician and enjoys Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s confidence, a fact that will help him in his current appointment. It is also hoped that his down to earth personality will help in reaching out to people in Jammu and Kashmir. Mr. Sinha had also been rumoured to have been tipped off for the post of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister when the BJP won a majority in that State in 2017, but that job finally went to Yogi Adityanath. After losing the polls in 2019, it was expected that he would be brought into the Union Cabinet via the Rajya Sabha route, considering his performance as Communications Minister in the first Modi government. That was not to be. His appointment as Lieutenant-Governor points to the need to bring in a seasoned politician rather than a bureaucrat, a uniformed person or even someone with an Intelligence background.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||States get Rs. 890 crore to mount COVID-19 response||The Union government has released more than Rs. 890 crore as the second instalment of COVID-19 aid to strengthen the health response in 22 States and Union Territories. The amount is based on case load, according to an official statement from the Health Ministry. This is a part of the Rs. 15,000-crore package announced in March to support the States’ emergency response and the preparedness of their health systems. The money was meant for patient treatment, manpower training and medical infrastructure. Health facilities “The second instalment will be used for strengthening of public health facilities’ infrastructure for testing, including procurement and installation of RT-PCR machines, RNA extraction kits, TRUNAT & CBNAAT machines and BSL-II cabinets, strengthening of public health facilities infrastructure for treatment and development of ICU beds, installation of oxygen generators, cryogenic oxygen tanks and medical gas pipelines in public health facilities and procurement of bedside oxygen concentrators,” said the statement. The money would also be used to recruit, train and pay incentives to healthcare workers and volunteers, including ASHA workers, on COVID-19 duty. States included The States that will get the funds are Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim. The first instalment of Rs. 3,000 crore was released in April to all States and UTs, and was used to ramp up testing facilities, augment hospital infrastructure and conduct surveillance activities, along with procurement of essential equipment, drugs and other supplies.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||VVIP planes set to arrive this month||The first of the country’s two VVIP planes is set to reach India later this month after a delay of two months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a government official. The two Boeing 777-300s, which were bought by Air India, will be the first of its kind, meant for exclusive use by the President, the Vice-President and the Prime Minister. As of now, Air India lends its Boeing 747 aircraft for VVIP foreign trips by withdrawing them from commercial flights. The Boeing 777-300 planes were inducted into Air India’s fleet in 2018, but sent to Boeing’s facility at Dallas-Fort Worth within months for a retrofit. These planes were scheduled to return by June 30 and July 30 this year, but Boeing sought an extension after delays in regulatory clearances from the U.S. Federal Aviation Authority due to travel restrictions. “The first of the two planes will arrive in the week of August 24, and the second a month later,” the official said. Once these planes arrive in India, they will be de-registered by Air India and handed over to the Indian Air Force. These planes will then get a K-series registration number given to military aircraft. The revamped aircraft will include a press conference room, a conference room for VVIPs, a suite comprising a bedroom and a bathroom. The aircraft will be equipped with missile warning sensors and counter measures dispensing defence system. The government has paid Air India Rs. 4,632 crore for the retrofit.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear petition against contempt law on August 10||A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and K.M. Joseph of the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear a writ petition jointly filed by veteran journalists N. Ram and Arun Shourie, along with advocate Prashant Bhushan, against the “incurably vague” law of holding a person in contempt for ‘scandalising the court’. The Bench is scheduled to hear the case on August 10. It will be a virtual court hearing. The petition has challenged the legality of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Court Act and the “chilling effect” it has on free speech and right to dissent. This plea has come even as the top court has reserved its judgment on a suo motu contempt action against Mr. Bhushan for two of his tweets. The court has already, in an order initiating contempt, said the tweets undermine the authority of the court. The same Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, has also reserved its verdict on a 2009 contempt case against Mr. Bhushan for his comments about the judiciary in an interview to Tehelka magazine. Section 2(c) (i) holds it is criminal contempt if a person publishes, by words spoken or written or by any other act, anything “which scandalises or tends to scandalise or lowers or tends to lower the authority of any court.” “‘Scandalising the court’ is rooted in colonial assumption and objects, which have no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionality and maintenance of an open robust public sphere,” the petition said. ‘Allow further evidence’ Meanwhile, Mr. Bhushan on Thursday asked the Supreme Court to allow him to lead further evidence in his defence against the suo motu contempt action initiated on two of his tweets. Mr. Bhushan said he was entitled under Section 17(5) of the Contempt of Courts Act of 1971 to mount his defence by filing a comprehensive affidavit. The noted civil rights lawyer said an affidavit filed by him last week was only a preliminary one.
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Gang smuggling pangolin scales arrested||Recent operation by the Telangana Forest Department officials busting the inter-State smuggling racket of pangolin scales has brought focus on the rampant poaching of the wild animal in the forests of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The officials, during an undercover operation posed as potential buyers of the scales, and nabbed 12 persons in a sequence of events, leading from one trader to another at various locations. The smugglers were operating from five States, including Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Orissa and Bengal, apart from Telangana, officials informed. It was a joint effort by the Forest officials of Hyderabad, Kothagudem, Bhadrachalam, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh who followed a lead from Kothagudem to unearth the racket. Exorbitant price Three to four kilograms of pangolin scales were confiscated from the gang, for which three to five animals might have been killed, most probably from Dammapet forest region of Kothagudem, officials surmise. They are however unable to establish the reason for the exorbitant price at which the scales were being offered. An official involved in the operation said, the price quoted went up to Rs. 40 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh per scale! Though the suspicion is that the scales were being smuggled out to countries such as China, such a link is yet to be established. Recently, China is reported to have imposed a ban on wildlife meat and removed pangolin scales from its list of approved traditional medicine, in the context of the COVID-19 spread. Most trafficked mammals Officials under the condition of anonymity said that the scales might be on their way to China by road via Bihar, Nepal, Manipur, and Myanmar. Pangolins are among the world’s most trafficked mammals, and Indian Pangolin is listed as the “species that are threatened with extinction and may be affected by trade” under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. ‘Ignorance, superstition’ However, on the record, officials do not confirm any such connection. They attribute it to mere ignorance and superstition of the buyers involved. “We cannot confirm the China connection, as we do not have any such leads so far. It seems to be just hype, like in the case of smuggling of the Red Sand Boa. Pangolins are usually killed by the tribal people for their meat, after which their skin and scales are offered for sale. Eventually, they appear on websites with exorbitant prices, which could trap gullible buyers,” said DFO, Vigilance, M. Raja Ramana Reddy.
07 August 2020||KOCHI,||Swapna claimed connections with CMO, bureaucrats: NIA||Swapna Suresh, second accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, claimed that she had personal acquaintance with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in her official capacity as a representative of the UAE Consular General, the NIA informed the Special Court here on Thursday. The accused had also given statements that she had high connections with top bureaucrats and the Chief Minister’s Office. She had admitted to having acquaintance with top police officers in connection with the arrangements made for trainings in traffic reforms in the UAE, the NIA informed the court while opposing her bail plea on Thursday. At some point of time, the NIA said, the accused had planned to settle down in Tanzania along with P.S. Sarith, the first accused. She was involved in a network of highly influential persons in bureaucracy, the police and the consulate. She had also deep connections with persons involved in the smuggling of gold in large quantities. The involvement of the accused in a larger network of dubious elements needed to be probed further, Assistant Solicitor General P. Vijayakumar told the court. Further probe into the money mobilised abroad for the procurement of gold, its smuggling, circulation and encashment was required. More accused would have to be roped in regarding the local marketing of the contraband gold, the NIA said. The NIA submitted that the money collected through the smuggling of gold was believed to have been used for anti-national and terrorist activities, which attracted the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prohibition) Act.  ‘No proof’ Excerpts of the statement given by Swapna were read out in the court on the day. Arguing for the petitioner, Geo Paul, her counsel, submitted that the NIA could not gather any evidence in the case to prove the terrorism angle for the case. The accused was in the custody of the NIA for more than 25 days. Yet, the agency could not unearth any evidence to prove its charges. The gold that was recovered from her was her ornaments and not gold bar or contraband gold, he submitted. The court posted the case for August 10.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||EIA norms will make polluter pay heavy penalty: Javadekar||Among the key motives of the proposed Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2020 (EIA 2020) was to bring environmental violators under a regulatory regime by imposing a heavy penalty on them, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday. He was responding to former Environment Minister and Chairman, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science, Technology and Environment, Jairam Ramesh. Last month, Mr. Ramesh, via a series of public letters to Mr. Javadekar, had castigated the EIA 2020 on several counts. A key criticism by Mr. Ramesh, and voiced by several environmentalists, was a clause that allowed illegal projects to be approved post-facto . That is, it could have been set up in contravention of existing laws but managers of the project could later on approach a dedicated Expert Appraisal Committee, called a “violations committee”, that would impose a fine and lay down additional conditions and thereby possibly legalise the company’s operations. Mr. Javadekar’s letter said that “previous actions by companies that were violative would be liable for ‘stringent’ penalties. We should not allow such companies in permanent unregulated status,” his letter notes. The Draft EIA is open to public consultation until August 11.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Eight die in Gujarat COVID-19 hospital fire||Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Kumar, Mayor Bijal Patel and Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Jayanti Ravi rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each to the families of the deceased. The State government has also announced Rs. 4 lakh compensation.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Kerala MP writes to Sonia||Lok Sabha member from Thrissur T.N. Prathapan, from the Congress, wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi protesting against Madhya Pradesh leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijay Singh’s statements on the Ram temple issue. In the letter, Mr. Prathapan said the Congress must not exclude a sizeable demographic of people who grieve the demolition of Babri Masjid. “We can’t chase an extreme religious nationalism with its soft prototype,” he said. Both Mr. Nath and Mr. Singh welcomed the construction of the temple, and claimed that it was former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi who first moved in this direction.
07 August 2020||Bhopal,||Basmati battle boils over as Chouhan joins issue||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday termed “politically motivated” his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh’s appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene against the State’s claim for geographical indication (GI) tag for basmati rice. Condemning Capt. Singh’s letter to Mr. Modi, he wondered what animosity the Punjab Chief Minister nursed towards farmers of Madhya Pradesh. “This is not an issue of Punjab or Madhya Pradesh; it’s a subject concerning the whole country’s farmers and their livelihoods,” Mr. Chouhan tweeted. Impact on exports Capt. Singh had said GI tagging of Madhya Pradesh basmati rice would negatively impact Punjab’s agriculture and India’s exports. Further, he said any dilution of registration might give advantage to Pakistan. “The case of APEDA [Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority] with Pakistan has no relationship with claims of Madhya Pradesh as it is under the the GI Act of India and is not linked to inter-country claims of basmati rice,” Mr. Chouhan said.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Local employment claim is a stunt before GHMC elections: Ponnala||Former PCC president and senior Congress leader Ponnala Lakshmaiah has ridiculed the government’s decision on ensuring employment to more locals in Telangana as a stunt before the GHMC elections. In a statement here, he said despite Telangana formation was for local employment, not a single step was taken in this direction in the last six years, and now Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao is making huge statements only to mislead youngsters keeping an eye on the GHMC elections. In fact, the KCR government removed thousands of contract employees with one signature, Mr. Lakshmaiah charged. Weren’t these people of Telangana, he asked. On the steps to be taken to spread IT growth to all corners of the city, Mr. Lakshmaiah said the Congress government had planned the ITIR project with that very intention but since 2014 it was stalled by the TRS government and no effort was made to ensure that ITIR is implemented. The project was grounded by Congress government in 2013 to cover three areas around city in 50,000 acres with potential employment of seventy one lakhs in 30 years. Even the Godavari water scheme was planned and executed for this purpose, he reminded. Mr. Ponnala also described the Cabinet’s decision on procuring lakhs of testing kits as hollow and said it reflects the government’s insincerity in treating people. The Chief Minister and Ministers misled people on various occasions claiming they had sufficient stock of kits not only for the State but also helping the neighbouring States, he said. In the last week of April, Municipal Administration Minister, K.T. Rama Rao claimed there were 3.53 lakh kits available while orders were given for another 6 lakh kits. Even the Central team was misled with false figures. “Now you are talking about procuring lakhs of kits. Doesn’t it mean you have just misled people and health workers,” the Congress leader asked.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Two held for watching child porn in Hyderabad||Two youngsters were arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber Crime police for allegedly downloading and watching child pornography. Based the information provided by the Crime Investigation Department, the Cyber Crime police tracked and arrested Mohammad Feroz, a private employee from Tarnaka, and Prashanth, an unemployed youth from Kachiguda. The CID gets information about the offenders from the National Crime Records Bureau, which get inputs from various law enforcement agencies from across the world. Cyber Crime police said that they were tracking seven people, who accessed child pornography. Based on the jurisdiction, the CID sends information to local police, who in turn arrest the offenders. Sources said that in 2019 alone, Telangana police got 612 cyber tip lines on those browsing banned pornography.
07 August 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,||Jurala project to get heavy inflows||As the Krishna river and many of its tributaries are in spate in the upstream areas in Maharashtra and Karnataka due to continuing heavy rainfall in their catchment areas of Krishna river, Jurala, the gateway of Krishna for the two Telugu States, is expected to receive heavy flood from Friday morning. Discharge of flood from Naryanpur dam in Karnataka was over 61,000 cusecs at 7.30 p.m. on Thursday and it is expected go up to 1.2 lakh cusecs by Friday morning based on the outflows from Almatti, further upstream of Narayanpur. In the evening, the discharge of flood at Almatti was 70,000 cusecs. The authorities of Narayanpur dam have alerted the flood monitoring officials at Jurala to alert the villages along the river course in view of the heavy discharge of flood. According to irrigation officials, it would take about 12 hours for the flood, being released at Narayanpur, to reach Jurala considering the continuing inflows in the river course in the range of 10,000 cusecs to 15,000 cusecs. With early flood to Krishna, discharge of flood water from Jurala to Srisailam either with power generation or from the spillway is continuing from July 14. There has been no spillway discharge from Jurala from the early hours of July 26. The Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast heavy inflows in Koyna, Warna, Doodhganga and Veer Dams based on the tributaries of Krishna and discharge of flood from them them would supplement the flood in Krishna up to Almatti dam. The inflows into Almatti which were recorded at 57,500 cusecs at 8 am on Thursday reached 1.1 lakh by 6 pm and they are expected to increase further to 1.35 lakh cusecs or more by Friday morning. “Increase in inflows into Hidkal dam across Ghataprabha river, another tributary of Krishna, and along with the supplementation of flood from Doodhganga and Panchganga the inflows into Almatti are expected to go beyond 1.35 lakh cusecs by Friday morning “, flood monitoring officials told The Hindu stating that, in turn, the inflows into Jurala too would go up and later to Srisaialm. Although the inflows into Tungabhadra dam at Hospet in Karnataka also crossed 67,000 cusecs at noon on Thursday, it still has a cushion of over 57 tmc ft water as the storage in the dam was about 42.5 tmc ft at 6 pm against its capacity of 100.86 tmc ft.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Manoj Sinha appointed J&K L-G, Murmu CAG||Mr. Murmu’s appointment was preceded by that of BJP leader Satyapal Malik, who was sent to Goa as Governor when J&K was reduced to a Union Territory. The special status of J&K under Article 370 was revoked last year and it was bifurcated into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. J&K has been under Central rule since June 2018. The 87-member Assembly was dissolved in November the same year. Interestingly, Mr. Murmu was in favour of restoring 4G connectivity in J&K, suspended since August 5 last year, a move opposed by the security agencies. The 4G ban was extended by the UT administration despite Mr. Murmu’s publicly stated views. Poll panel’s stand Last week, the Election Commission took exception to Mr. Murmu’s statement that the Assembly election would be held after delimitation. It said he had also made such remarks to the press, including to The Hindu . On November 18 last, Mr. Murmu told this newspaper that “unlike the UT of Ladakh, J&K is a UT with a legislature and there will have to be an elected government in place soon”. On July 1, all senior J&K officers as well as Mr. Murmu and Chief Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam had a detailed meeting with Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla in Delhi where development projects were reviewed. Mr. Murmu waited for more than an hour in Mr. Bhalla’s office for the scheduled meeting as the latter was stuck in a COVID-19 related meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah. The fate of Mr. Murmu’s four advisers — K.K. Sharma, Farooq Khan, R.R. Bhatnagar and Baseer Ahmad Khan — is also not known. “The President has been pleased to appoint Shri Manoj Sinha to be the Lieutenant-Governor of Jammu and Kashmir with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office vice Shri Girish Chandra Murmu,” a Rashtrapati Bhavan release said. Mr. Murmu, a former Gujarat cadre IAS officer, has worked closely with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Shah. He is tipped to be the new Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG). Centre unhappy His differences with Chief Secretary Subrahmanyam, a Chhattisgarh cadre IAS officer on deputation to J&K, was widely known in corridors of power. The Centre was also unhappy with Mr. Murmu’s reported inability to take control of the administrative apparatus and his lack of public interaction. A particular case in point was the domicile policy for government services in J&K notified by the Home Ministry on March 31 that offered protection to domiciles only in Group D and entry-level non-gazetted government posts. After an uproar by the J&K unit of the BJP, the order was reversed within 72 hours. A senior government official said the confusion happened due to the oversight by the J&K administration. “It was one of the 109 laws amended by a Home Ministry notification. The lack of application of mind by the J&K bureaucracy while clearing the domicile policy was not taken well in Delhi. They should have examined it carefully before sending it to Home Ministry, which notified it as it is,” said a senior government official. “From restoration of 4G to holding some local body polls, all of it has been only influenced by the situation in the Valley ignoring vast swathes of Jammu,” a source said. The propping up of the Altaf Bukhari-led Apni Party also did not pay off and the question of political legitimacy of political outfits remains. The Modi government now believes that a politician could do better than a civil servant.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Madras High Court orders Patanjali to pay Rs. 10 lakh||The Madras High Court on Thursday came down heavily on Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. and Divya Yog Mandir Trust for attempting to make money by exploiting the prevailing fear around COVID-19. It directed them to pay costs of Rs. 10 lakh to the Adyar Cancer Institute and the Government Yoga and Naturopathy Hospital in Chennai. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan held there was no due cause for Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. and Divya Yog Trust to name their tablets as Coronil when the medicines were not a cure for the novel coronavirus. “There is no cure for coronavirus anywhere in the world as on date. People are dying. In these tragic times, the defendants seek to make money, money, money. They seek to exploit the fear among the people by projecting that they could cure coronavirus.” The injunction was granted following a trademark infringement suit filed by Chennai-based industrial equipment cleaning company Arudra Engineers Ltd., which had been using the registered trademarks Coronil-92B and Coronil-213 SLP, since 1993, for its chemical agents used to remove corrosion from industrial equipment.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Firm up alliances in Bihar, Rahul tells team||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the forthcoming Bihar Assembly elections can change the country’s dasha (state) and disha (direction) as the State has always played a crucial part in ushering in change even during the Independence movement. He said this while addressing office-bearers and workers from Bihar through a video conference. Sources present at the meeting said Mr. Gandhi asked his colleagues, including general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal, to firm up State-level alliances soon and targeted the Nitish Kumar-led State government for its handling of the pandemic and floods. Among the leaders who spoke was Tariq Anwar, who said the party should have begun preparing a year ago and not one-and-a-half months before the polls. The term of the Bihar Assembly ends in November.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,||‘ Cabinet will soon vet rules on jobs for transgenders’||The State government on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that the process of framing rules for reserving certain posts in special reserve police constables for transgenders is in the final stages and it would be placed before the State Cabinet shortly for approval. State Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi made the submissions before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi during the hearing of a PIL petition. The Advocate-General said the Cabinet could not meet this week and in all probability, the proposed rules would be considered by in its next meeting. The petition, filed by Sangama, a city-based society working for the welfare of the transgender community, and activist Nisha Gulur said no provision had been made for appointment of transgenders in the notification to fill up 2,672 posts of special reserve police constables. It was pointed out in the petition that the apex court way in 2014 had declared transgenders will have to be treated as a “third gender” for the purpose of safeguarding their rights under the Constitution, and had directed the Centre and States to take steps to treat them as socially and educationally backward classes and extend reservation to them for admission in educational institutions and for public appointments.
07 August 2020||Patna,||Bihar police to go to court to release officer||Bihar’s Director-General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey on Thursday said the police police may move court if a police officer from the State was not exempted, and released, from 14-day quarantine in Mumbai. Superintendent of Police, Patna Central, Vinay Tiwari went to Mumbai on August 2 leading a four-member team investigating actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. “We have made a request to the BMC [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation] to exempt and release our officer who is quarantined or it can be said [is in] ‘house arrest’ there but still he has not been released… we will wait today and tomorrow [Thursday and Friday], we will discuss the situation… we may move the court as well seeking release of our officer as the case is in Supreme Court,” Mr. Pandey said. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court expressed its displeasure over the quarantine of the officer in Mumbai.
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||TRS MLA Ramalinga Reddy no more||Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA of Dubbaka constituency from Siddipet district S. Ramalinga Reddy passed away in the early hours of Thursday. The 59-year-old legislator from the ruling party fell sick nearly two weeks ago after being operated on for varicocele at Rush Hospital in Kompally, a private hospital. He got infection on one leg and eventually it began affecting his overall health. As his condition deteriorated, family members shifted him to Asian Institute of Gastroenterology in Gachchibowli nearly 12 days ago, the MLA’s close relative Srinivas Reddy said. The legislator was put on ventilator and breathed his last around 1.40 a.m. on Thursday. Large number of people from the constituency and other villages of Siddipet district thronged Chittapur and paid homage to the departed leader. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock over the sudden demise of Mr. Reddy. Remembering the active role played by Ramalinga Reddy in pro-Telagnana agitation and long association with him, Mr. Rao conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members the MLA. Ministers Eatala Rajender, K.T. Rama Rao, T. Harish Rao, Satyavathi Rathod, Puvvada Ajay Kumar and several legislators from Siddipet district attended the funeral. Before entering political arena in 2004, Ramalinga Reddy was a journalist. He served as president of the district body of working journalists union. In After reorganisation of constituencies, he contested from Dubbaka in 2014 and emerged victorious. Mr. Reddy was chairman of the Estimates Committee of the Assembly in 2014 and became its chairman again in 2018.
07 August 2020||Bhopal,||Offered brick as a ‘kar sevak’, says IPS officer||Raja Babu Singh, Madhya Pradesh Additional Director General of Police (community policing), has said he had offered a brick as a ‘kar sevak’ at the Babri Masjid demolition site. “There was euphoria about seeing the Ram Janmabhoomi, to do kar seva. So, I went there but don’t remember the date,” said the 1994 batch IPS officer, adding that he, however, did not take part in the demolition or witness it. Earlier this year, he also hosted Mahant Nritya Gopal Das of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, tasked with building the temple.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||PM can’t even name China, says Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of lacking “courage” to name China, after the Ministry of Defence removed a document from its website that mentioned about Chinese transgressions in Eastern Ladakh. “Forget standing up to China, India’s PM lacks the courage even to name them. Denying China is in our territory and removing documents from websites won’t change the facts”, Mr. Gandhi tweeted. The Congress said the document was removed from the website after Mr. Gandhi tweeted about it and cited it to ask “why the Prime Minister is lying”.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||CPI flays PM’s presence at Ayodhya event||Participation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya gives de-facto official religion status to one particular religion, said CPI general secretary D. Raja. “The Constitution makes it clear that Indian state is a secular state ... [it] must be neutral to all faiths and religions ... But on August 5, what the country witnessed was a different spectacle,” he said.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘7.5 mn people in Kashmir in virtual prison’||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday said 7.5 million Kashmiris were living in a ‘virtual prison’ for the past one year, and India’s record as a democracy was being diminished every day. Separately, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra accused the Centre of crushing democracy by treating leaders like Saifuddin Soz as prisoners and unleashing tyranny in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Mr. Chidambaram also demanded the release of former J&K Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti. In a series of tweets, he pointed out that most political leaders were under house arrest even though it was “illegal”, and in “post-truth India”, the government denied these house arrests before courts. “Today is August 6. Will all political parties and right-thinking citizens please spare a thought for the virtual prison in which 7.5 million Kashmiris are living for the last one year?” he asked. Ms. Vadra said, “Saifuddin Soz Sahab has played a big role in strengthening Indian democracy. By treating him like a prisoner, the BJP government is crushing democracy. For the past one year, there is tyranny in J&K.”
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kisan Rail to ferry fruits, vegetables||The Indian Railways on Thursday said it will begin running Kisan Rail, a service announced in the Union Budget 2020-21, from August 7. The first such train will run weekly between Devlali (Maharashtra) to Danapur (Bihar). “This train will help in bringing perishable agricultural produce like vegetables and fruits to the market in a short period of time. The train with frozen containers is expected to build a seamless national cold supply chain for perishables,” the Indian Railways said in a statement.  “This train is a step towards realising the goal of doubling farmers’ incomes by 2022,” it added.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Delhi Jamaat participants free to return’||The Centre told the Supreme Court that foreign Tablighi Jamaat members are free to return to their countries regardless of their pending trial, provided they apologise for participating in a religious congregation in the national capital during the lockdown. Ten of a total 34 foreigners who approached the apex court had not opted for plea bargaining. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar on Thursday transferred the cases of all the 10 petitioners facing trial to a court at Saket in southeast Delhi. The court ordered their trial to be completed expeditiously within eight weeks.Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said look-out notices issued against the foreigners who approached the apex court have been withdrawn. “The Solicitor General has, in all fairness, submitted that if the petitioners concerned tender apology, as envisaged by the Madras High Court, they can be permitted to leave India despite the pendency of the criminal case but subject to such orders that may be passed by the concerned trial court,” the court order said. In the last hearing, on July 27, senior advocate C.U. Singh, for some of the foreigners, had drawn the court’s attention to a system evolved by the Madras HC of releasing lockdown violators after obtaining an affidavit of apology from them.
07 August 2020||Patna,||Six policemen injured in Bihar clash||At least six policemen were injured in a clash with residents of flood-affected areas in Muzaffarpur district of north Bihar on Wednesday night. The incident happened when people from the flood-hit Bishunpur-Baghnagari village blocked National Highway-28 seeking immediate release of food and relief material. When a police team reached the spot, the villagers attacked them. “The condition of the station house officer is said to be critical,” the police said. Fifteen people have been arrested.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maharashtra against transfer of Palghar case||The Maharashtra government on Thursday objected to a plea in the Supreme Court for transfer of the Palghar lynching case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The State’s affidavit before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said a specialised unit of the State CID had been probing the case since April 20 and two chargesheets against 126 accused had already been filed. A third one was in the process of being filed against 47 persons. The State was responding to a petition filed by the relatives and fellow priests of two Juna Akhara sadhus lynched by a mob at Palghar during the national lockdown. The petition said a Central agency such as the CBI should investigate the case. The court ordered the State to place the chargesheets on record before it. The State said departmental enquiry had began against six police officers for negligence in connection with the incident. “Let the State bring the chargesheets on record. It has further been stated that a departmental enquiry against the police personnel was ordered and show-cause notices have been issued. Let details of the enquiry, including the action taken against the police personnel as well as enquiry report, be also brought on the record,” the court ordered. The Bench ordered Maharashtra to file an affidavit in three weeks. The current affidavit by the State said the case was transferred to the State CID unit considering the need for fairness, transparency in investigation and the large number of accused involved. The two chargesheets have arraigned charges against 126 accused persons each. Plea seeks stay Meanwhile, the petitioners filed an application through advocate Balaji Srinivasan for stay of all proceedings in any other court, including the Bombay High Court, with regard to this case. The petitioners have also sought a time-bound probe and have laid claim to the land on which the incident happened to construct a memorial for the two sadhus.
07 August 2020||Kolkata,||Shyamal Chakraborty passes away||Shyamal Chakraborty, a senior leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), passed away at a city hospital here on Thursday. He had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the hospital on July 30. He was 78. Mr. Chakraborty had served as Transport Minister in the Left Front government led by then Chief Minister Jyoti Basu. He had also served as a Rajya Sabha member.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU. DU professors still waiting for compensation||Almost six months after the National Human Rights Commission’s recommendation, the Chhattisgarh government is yet to compensate a group of rights defenders, including Jawaharlal Nehru University professor Archana Prasad and Delhi University professor Nandini Sundar, implicated in false cases in 2016. The NHRC had taken suo motu cognisance in 2016 of the harassment faced by the academics working in Bastar.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Shouldn’t equipment prices be capped when cases are multiplying, asks HC||Taking note of the number of COVID-19 cases multiplying since July 1, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday asked both the Union and State governments to say whether it was not necessary to control the prices of N-95 masks and hand sanitisers. The court also directed the State government inform it whether N-95 masks and hand sanitisers were available sufficiently in the open market and what the price variation of the masks was. The government was also directed to provide details of the price at which it purchased N-95 masks from time to time since the COVID-19 outbreak. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order while hearing PIL petitions related to the supply and price control of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks, and hand sanitisers. Price control There cannot be a dispute over doctors and healthcare personnel requiring N-95 masks as a safety measure, and even the common man will benefit from them as they are recognised as one of the best protections against contracting COVID-19, the Bench observed in its order. As the number of COVID-19 cases has been on the rise from July 1, it follows that there will be an increased need of N-95 masks and hand sanitisers, the Bench observed. The Bench noted that the Centre, which had controlled the price of hand sanitisers and 2-ply and 3-ply masks from March 21 to June 30, had removed price control with effect from July 1. Also, it noted, the Centre consciously decided against controlling the price of N-95 masks as it had not received any adverse reports from the States on their availability. It was also taking note of the recommendations of the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority, which said that the price of N-95 masks should be decided as per the market dynamics as the masks were available in sufficient quantities. As the cap on the price of sanitisers was also not extended after June 30, the Bench asked the Centre to explain its rationale.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad,||‘No degree admissions now in Telangana’||The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) has said that degree admissions notification has not been issued by the universities so far and colleges cannot make admissions in the absence of notification. In a statement here, T. Papi Reddy, Chairman of the TSCHE, said he received complained that some colleges under the DOST purview and also those not under DOST were making admissions. He warned of action against such colleges.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Nigerian national booked for using forged visas||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked a Nigerian national, who was earlier arrested for his role in hacking into the email accounts of two senior agency officials, for allegedly using two forged Indian visas to stay in the country. The CBI had zeroed in on Emmanuel Amaechi Esonwanne during the probe into the email hacking, through which phishing mails were sent.
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||TV actor Sameer Sharma found dead in Mumbai||Television actor Sameer Sharma was found dead at his home in suburban Malad, police said on Thursday. He was 44. Sharma has worked in serials like Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi , Kahaani Ghar Ghar Ki and Yeh Rishtey Hain Pyar Ke . No note was left behind by the deceased, Malad police station’s Senior Inspector George Fernandes said. The actor was living alone in a rented flat since February. Based on preliminary information, an accidental death report has been registered.PTI
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||CBI court rejects bail for Indrani Mukerjea||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court has rejected prime accused Indrani Mukerjea’s bail plea in the Sheena Bora murder case. Ms. Mukerjea was arrested in August 2015 and has been lodged at the Byculla Jail. The court noted, “There is no doubt that the accused [Ms. Mukerjea] is an influential and wealthy person. Therefore, the possibility of influencing prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out.”
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||BSF orders action against doctor over death of jawan||The Border Security Force (BSF) has ordered disciplinary action against a doctor of the force for alleged lapses in declaring a jawan weighing 160 kg fit for undertaking a physical fitness course during which he died, officials said on Thursday. Constable Vinod Singh, 45, died on July 17 after he “felt giddiness in the evening hours near his barracks” at the BSF subsidiary training centre in Jodhpur. BSF Director-General S.S. Deswal has ordered an inquiry.PTI
07 August 2020||London,||Nirav Modi’s custody extended till August 27||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, fighting extradition to India, was on Thursday further remanded in custody until August 27, after he appeared via videolink at a regular remand hearing before a U.K. court in connection with the nearly $2 billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud and money laundering case.PTI
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 50% of fresh cases from northern districts||Northern districts accounted for a little over 50% of the 5,684 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. For the fourth day in a row, the Health Department recorded over 100 deaths, while more than 6,000 persons were discharged after treatment across the State. Chennai reported 1,091 fresh cases, followed by Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram with 408 and 336 cases respectively. While Tiruvallur recorded 320 cases, 270 persons tested positive in Ranipet. Cuddalore continued to witness a surge in cases as 213 persons tested positive, while Vellore and Tiruvannamalai had 189 and 153 cases respectively. The number of fresh cases continued to fall in both Madurai-101 and Virudhunagar-100. However, there were 297 cases in Theni, 250 in Tirunelveli and 237 in Thoothukudi. Kanyakumari recorded 222 cases, while Dindigul had 127 cases. Coimbatore and Salem accounted for 190 and 161 cases respectively, while Thanjavur had 162. Another 42 returnees tested positive in the State. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 2,79,144. Of these, 53,486 persons were under treatment. Another 6,272 were discharged. As on Thursday, 2,21,087 persons were discharged after treatment. As 110 more deaths were recorded, the State’s toll climbed to 4,571. A total of 22 persons died in Chennai, while nine died in Madurai. There were seven deaths in Vellore and six in Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 29-year-old woman with post-Caesarean section and antepartum eclampsia, who was admitted to the government hospital in Tiruppur on August 2 with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing for three days. She died on August 5 owing to type-2 respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. Three persons in their 30s and nine in their 40s died. Chennai’s overall tally went up to 1,06,096 cases. Of these, 11,720 persons were under treatment and 92,128 were discharged. A total of 2,248 persons have died in the city. The total number of samples tested in the State crossed 30 lakh. As 67,153 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, the State has tested a total of 30,20,714 samples so far. A total of 29,10,468 individuals have been tested so far. The Government Headquarters Hospital, Kancheepuram, has been approved for testing. With this, there are 126 testing facilities — 61 in the government sector and 65 in the private sector.  Chennai’s tally went up to 1,06,096 cases. Of these, 11,720 persons were under treatment and 92,128 were discharged
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||740 tonnes of ammonium nitrate stored at Manali facility||Days after the explosion caused by ammonium nitrate killed over 100 and left thousands injured in Beirut, the spotlight is now on 740 tonnes of the explosive chemical stored at a container freight station near Chennai port. While officials at the port said the substance was not stored on the premises, Customs officials said the chemical was imported by a Karur-based firm in 2015 and since the company did not have a licence, the material was seized and stored in 37 containers at a facility in Manali. The officials said the facility was located 20 km from the city and there was no residential locality within its 2-km radius. “It has been safely stored and we did an inspection; also, we are following all precautionary measures,” a Customs Department official said. Asked why such chemicals had been kept for so many years, the Customs officials said removing the consignment involved an elaborate process. “We will auction these chemicals soon to someone who has the licence to buy them,” he added. Police sources said Fire and Rescue Service officers were planning to post two fire engines at the spot. B. Govindarajan, chief operating officer of the Chennai-based Tirwin Management Services (P) Ltd., involved in training persons to safely handle dangerous cargo, said there should be a systematic way of auditing to ensure that such chemicals are not stored for a long time. Fiat to Customs offices The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs on Thursday asked field offices to verify within 48 hours the safety of explosive material stored in various warehouses and ports. This direction was posted on the Twitter handle of the Board.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virtual walk-through at Egmore museum to be introduced soon||The Government Museum in Egmore, which was closed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, is gearing up for a post-pandemic world, and is putting in place various measures, such as multiple handwash facilities, redesigned toilets and an online ticketing system. Also in the works is a virtual reality (VR) museum experience that people can enjoy from the comfort of their homes. An app has been rolled out on a trial basis. It will enable people to virtually visit the museum and use VR sets to get a real feel of its artefacts from their homes. “This can take the museum to the people with a lot of background information about artefacts. People can zoom into the objects and details of each artefact will be made available in English and Tamil. This should be ready in about one to one-and-a-half months,” a senior official told The Hindu.  A team of youth, which was selected through a tender process, has shot drone visuals to provide a walk-through experience of the museum. Steps were being taken to ensure that when the government allows the museum to start functioning again, safety of visitors will get top priority. “Civil work is progressing on the premises. We are setting up a number of handwash facilities and toilets are being refurbished keeping in mind the practicalities and precautions to be taken against COVID-19,” the official said. The sale of tickets will mostly be cashless, with QR codes provided to make digital payments. “The number of visitors will be restricted as physical distancing must be maintained,” said the official. Groups of visitors are likely to be asked to pre-book their visits. “We are working on the modalities of the group visits,” the official added.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Let us preserve and promote Indian languages, Venkaiah urges people||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday stressed on the need to preserve and promote Indian languages. He said there should be no imposition of or opposition to any language. Delivering the first ‘Smt. Rajalakshmi Parthasarathy Memorial Lecture - A Tribute to the Legendary Dr (Mrs.) YGP’ organised by the PSBB Group of Schools, the Vice-President, who participated in the programme online, said the National Education Policy gave importance to mother tongue in schools. “It is a visionary document that lays emphasis on the holistic development of students. It focuses on adopting an interdisciplinary approach towards imparting knowledge and skill sets and in shaping the attitude of students,” he said. Pivots of society Mr. Naidu said that teachers were the pivots of Indian society. “In the highest human traditions, teachers are personification of divinity. To match these ideals, teachers must realise the primacy of their role and perform it with a sense of national commitment,” he added. The Vice-President said that Mrs. YGP was a multifaceted personality — an educationist, a distinguished journalist, art critic, teacher and scholar of Vaishnavism all combined into one. After having founded Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan, she had ensured that students learnt the puranas, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. “If we read the Ramayana, it is not just to worship Lord Rama but to worship his qualities and practice them in our lives,” he said. Sheela Rajendra, dean and director, PSBB Group of Schools, said Mrs. YGP lived a simple life with high thinking. The founder, she said, was a spirited educationist and great patron of the arts. Ms. Rajendra launched the national inter-school Mrs. YGP Memorial Quiz 2020, titled ‘A Class Apart’.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Western Ghats to get heavy rain for two more days||As the southwest monsoon picks up pace, extremely heavy rainfall will continue in the Nilgiris district for two more days. While some districts along the Western Ghats are likely to see a downpour, most other parts of the State may see subdued rainfall, according to the Meteorological Department. Avalanche in the Nilgiris, which has been receiving torrential showers this week, received 58 cm of rainfall on a single day. This is the highest amount of rainfall received in the country on a single day so far this southwest monsoon. In the past four days, Avalanche received 129 cm of rainfall, said officials. Orographic effect S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said heavy rainfall occurred in the Western Ghats whenever southwest monsoon gained momentum. The Nilgiris district experienced such a spell of heavy rain due to orographic effect where moisture-laden winds in the hilly region formed clouds. This was one of the main factors that triggered heavy rain in the region, he added. In 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, several areas in the Western Ghats received heavy rain. Gudalur Bazaar and Upper Bhavani in the Nilgiris recorded 33 cm and 32 cm respectively. While a similar weather pattern may prevail over the Nilgiris, places in Coimbatore and Theni are likely to record heavy to very heavy rainfall of up to 24.4 cm in a day. However, other parts of the State, including Tirunelveli and Tenkasi, could get light to moderate rain. The department has forecast more rain in interior districts after August 8. Cloudy in Chennai Chennai would remain cloudy for two more days and the day temperature would remain close to normal. On Wednesday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 35.2 degree Celsius and 34.6 degree Celsius, which is normal during this month. Since June 1, Chennai district has recorded about 22 cm of rainfall as against average 20 cm for the season.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sourcing milk from human milk banks is safe, say experts||In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, apprehensions about the safety of milk sourced from human milk banks for newborns are unnecessary, experts say. In a State like Tamil Nadu that has been setting up milk banks at various hospitals, adequate precautionary measures are in place, they say. As the World Breastfeeding Week that is observed during the first week of August comes to an end, experts in child health, stressing on exclusive breastfeeding, say human milk banks are safe during the pandemic. J. Kumutha, expert adviser-Child Health, National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu, said that according to the available scientific evidence, milk from milk banks was safe for newborns. “There is a three-tier safety net starting with precautionary measures during collection from donors, pasteurisation of milk at 62.5 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes and freezing it,” she said. The screening questions for mothers that included hepatitis B, HIV and other recent infections now included COVID-19, she said. According to Ketan Bharadva, president, Infant and Young Child Feeding chapter of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics and president of Human Milk Bank Association (India), there are about 80 milk banks in India established or in the process of being set up, with Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu accounting for the largest number. “Sourcing milk from milk banks is safe during COVID-19. For infants whose mother’s milk cannot be available for whatever reason, the next best option is pasteurised donor human milk from a scientifically operated standard milk bank. There is convincing evidence in pre-print scientific journals that coronavirus is killed by pasteurising milk through the Holder method. Standard milk banks routinely use the Holder method,” he said. Tamil Nadu has 23 milk banks, said S. Srinivasan, State nodal officer, Child Health. “The government’s policy is to promote exclusive breastfeeding for six months. If the mother is very sick and cannot breastfeed, we provide milk from the bank for a baby. This milk is very safe as we do a thorough screening,” he said. Already, there is a set criteria for donors. Donors whose breast milk can pose a risk to recipients are not accepted for donations. They include mothers who regularly use medications with the exceptions being prenatal vitamins, human insulin and thyroid replacement hormones, those suffering from hepatitis B and C, HIV and venereal diseases and those using tobacco products or having any severe medical illness, Dr. Bharadva added in an email interview. Now, COVID-19 has become one of the criteria. Donors who had tested positive for COVID-19, who were in close contact with a COVID-19 patient or illness suggestive of COVID-19 in the last two to three weeks could not donate milk, he noted.  There is convincing evidence...that coronavirus is killed through Holder Pasteurisation   Ketan Bharadva president, Human Milk Bank Association (India)
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear today plea to stay draft EIA notification||The Madras High Court on Thursday decided to take a call on Friday on a plea to stay all further proceedings pursuant to the issuance of a draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification until it was translated in all vernacular languages and adequate time was granted to the stakeholders to express their opinions. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha directed central government standing counsel Rabu Manohar to take notice on behalf of the Centre on a public interest litigation petition filed by K.R. Selvaraj Kumar, president of an association of fishermen, and present the stand of the Centre on Friday considering the urgency involved. When the judges pointed out that the Karnataka High Court appeared to have taken cognisance of the issue and granted an interim stay, the petitioner’s counsel Stanly Hebzon Singh told the judges that the case before Karnataka High Court was only for issuing a translated copy in Kannada whereas here he was seeking it in all languages. Stating that the Centre had now granted time only till August 11 for stakeholders to submit their views on the draft notification, he urged that some interim orders must be passed in the case until it could be disposed of finally.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No more free supply of toor dal, edible oil and sugar||The Tamil Nadu government has stopped the free supply of toor dal, edible oil and sugar to ration card holders through the public distribution system (PDS). A lack of funds forced the government to take the decision, which would help it save Rs. 450 crore a month, according to a senior official. As a relief measure after the outbreak of COVID-19, the government provided the three commodities, along with rice, free of cost to all cardholders from April to July. Initially, it had given a cash support of Rs. 1,000 each to the cardholders. In June, another round of cash support of Rs. 1,000 was provided in those districts that had intensified the lockdown. From this month, if PDS beneficiaries want to have the commodities, they will have to pay up. A kilogram of toor dal and sugar costs Rs. 30 and Rs. 25, respectively. In the case of Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cardholders, sugar is supplied at Rs. 13.50 a kg. Depending upon the cardholders’ entitlement, two kg sugar is also provided. The edible oil — palmolein oil — costs Rs. 25 a litre. Only rice or wheat is being given free, as has been the practice for years. Besides, the rice-drawing cardholders are getting additional entitlement of rice — 5 kg per person per month. In respect of priority household cards, numbering around 1.1 crore, the Central government is providing rice for free. In the case of non-priority household cards, accounting for about 90 lakh, the State is giving the commodity for free, buying it from the Centre at Rs. 22 a kg. Though the Union government has said that it will provide pulses for free to the States up to November, along with the additional entitlement of rice or wheat, it is willing to provide only channa dal,  which is not consumed by people of the State in a big way. They prefer toor dal,  which is why the State has to charge the people for it, the official said.  The government had provided the three commodities, along with rice, free of cost to all cardholders from April to July
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TN clocks higher growth rate for third consecutive year||For the third consecutive year, Tamil Nadu, during 2019-20, clocked higher economic growth rate than the national average. Against the all-India average figure of 4.2% last year, the State’s performance — 8.03% — was almost double the former, according to a perusal of growth rate figures finalised by the Centre a few days ago. The calculations on the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) data have been done at constant prices, keeping 2011-12 as the base year. Per capita income As far as the per capita income (based on Net State Domestic Product) is concerned, the State’s figure for 2019-20 was Rs. 1,53,853, which was at 6th rank at the all-India level. During 2018-19, the figure was Rs. 1,42,941 with the State standing at 12th rank. As for the value of the GSDP, the State’s rank was consistently placed at second, next to Maharashtra. During 2019-20, it went up to the first place, which could be due to the absence of data for the western State. Macro-level showing The State’s macro-level showing in respect of the GSDP has been helped by more or less even performance of three sectors — primary, secondary and services. Particularly impressive was the showing of the secondary sector, which had posted a double-digit growth rate — 10.02%. Within this sector, manufacturing and construction, the two important components, posted the double-digit figures of 10.27% and 10.49% respectively. Pointing out that the State’s economy had showed signs of recovery due to the government’s host of measures, a senior official says that unfortunately, the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic at the fag-end of the financial years 2019-20 has disrupted the process. Advance estimates As per advance estimates for 2019-20, the growth rate of the primary sector, encompassing agriculture and allied activities and mining and quarrying, stood at 6.08%, while it was 6.63% for the services, which covered real estate. The previous year’s figures for the primary, secondary and the services sectors were 8.49%, 6.49% and 7.83% respectively. Except the primary sector, the other two sectors did better this time than the previous time. Agriculture Even in the primary sector, the component of agriculture recorded higher rate – 7.43% - this time than the 2018-19 figure, which was 5.8%. The segment of livestock did extremely well last year with 11.13%, while it saw a growth of only 6.64% this time. This could have pulled down the overall growth rate of the primary sector, says another official. As for the services sector, financial services registered an impressive rate of 11.71%, whereas their figure for 2018-19 was a mere 2.21%. Likewise, the segment of real estate did well with 7.29% against the previous year’s 6.69%.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. cuts ex gratia for frontline staff||The State government has halved the ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for families of front-line workers who die while on COVID-19 duty. The families will now get only Rs. 25 lakh. Following the outbreak of COVID-19 earlier this year, the government had announced Rs. 10 lakh for families of those who die while on COVID-19 duty. Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin had demanded that Rs. 1 crore be sanctioned for the kin. On April 22, Mr. Palaniswami revised the amount to Rs. 50 lakh. According to sources, a government order (G.O.) was issued on Wednesday, granting Rs. 25 lakh to family members of each of the 28 government servants who died after contracting the infection while on COVID-19 duty. Financial reasons  A highly-placed source told The Hindu  that the ex gratia had been halved due to “financial reasons”. When contacted, a family member of one of the Greater Chennai Corporation workers, who died while on duty after contracting COVID-19, said that he was not aware of any decision to reduce the ex gratia. “We only know from media reports that the Chief Minister has announced Rs. 50 lakh each as ex gratia, and we were told to submit relevant documents to authorities concerned, including the legal heir certificate. Officials have not told us how much we will get,” he told The Hindu . Controversy over amount On May 15, the Chief Minister sanctioned Rs. 50 lakh to the family of a Village Administrative Officer in Tiruchi district, who died in a road accident while returning home from COVID-19 duty. Subsequently, controversy erupted after only Rs. 5 lakh was sanctioned for the family of a deceased matron “involved in work related to fighting COVID-19” at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai. Doctors’ and nurses’ association had demanded Rs. 50 lakh for her family. Civic staff’s plea The employees of Greater Chennai Corporation have requested the government to give Rs. 50 lakh compensation to the kin of 13 civic workers who died of COVID-19. The Corporation employees have also requested the government to release the compensation amount to the families of five workers who were not on the list of those meant to receive the compensation. Most workers who died in the COVID-19 pandemic were conservancy workers. Chief Engineer L. Nandhakumar and many other engineers had tested positive for COVID-19. Mr. Nandhakumar was later discharged from the hospital. The Corporation staff complained that health workers, including nurses, who tested positive, were forced to spend more than Rs. 60,000 in tertiary care hospitals of the government, owing to issues in medical insurance.  (With inputs from   Aloysius Xavier Lopez)   We only know from media reports that the Chief Minister has announced Rs. 50 lakh each as ex gratia, and we were told to submit relevant documents Bereaved family member of a worker
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kundrathur SSI dies of COVID-19||A 53-year-old special sub-inspector (SSI) attached to the Kundrathur police station died of COVID-19 at a private hospital in Nandanam. V. Pandi Muni, who joined the force in 1986, had a paralysis attack a few months ago and was under treatment. On July 29, Mr. Muni tested positive for COVID-19 at a private hospital in Chromepet when he went for a regular check-up. He was undergoing treatment at another private hospital in Nandanam, where he died on Wednesday night. Over 1,500 police personnel have tested positive for the virus so far across the State. About 90% of them are in Chennai. Most of these personnel were involved in containment work. Over 1,250 police personnel have rejoined the duty after recovery. On June 17, S. Balamurali, an inspector in Mambalam, was the first police officer in the city to die of COVID-19. On July 1, R. Manimaran, 57, Pattinampakkam SSI, lost his life. On July 6, G. Nagarajan, 32, an armed reserve police constable died. Another SSI, Gurumurthy, died on July 13.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI takes up work on Vanagaram junction||Work to lay concrete and strengthen one side of the Vanagaram junction on the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway will be completed in a couple of weeks. Concrete-laying work on one side of the road for a length of 200 m began a few weeks ago. The other side has been completed and is being used by motorists. The road is being used by around 85,000 passenger car units daily. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which maintains the toll road, had taken up work to repair Vanagaram, Velappanchavadi and Parivakkam junctions, following complaints of potholes and bad patches. Some stretches near these junctions were damaged because of water spilling from tankers. The stagnation of water weakened the surface and when heavy vehicles plied on them, the blue metal was eroded, which resulted in craters. The work that began in August is being carried out at a cost of Rs. 9.92 crore. Uneven surface H. Rajangam, a resident of Vanagaram, said though re-laying was welcome, the roadsides had not been repaired. The service lanes had some tar earlier but not all had been damaged and the surface was uneven. Also, vehicles, especially two-wheelers, were finding it difficult to climb up from the side onto the road. Last week, a woman riding a two-wheeler met with an accident after losing balance. Residents wanted the service lanes to be repaired after the work on the main road was completed.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Indian 2 team hands over compensation||The team of the Tamil film Indian 2 handed over compensation of Rs. 4 crore to the families of persons who died and to those who were injured in a crane accident on the sets of the film in February. Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan, director Shankar and Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI) president R.K. Selvamani met the families on Thursday. The compensation was handed over to the families of assistant director Krishna, art assistant Chandran and production assistant Madhu who died, and lightman Ramarajan, who was injured in the incident. While Lyca Productions had contributed Rs. 2 crore, Mr. Shankar and Mr. Kamal Haasan gave Rs. 1 crore each. Bitter lesson Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Haasan said that the industry had a huge responsibility in ensuring that precautionary measures are put in place to avoid such accidents in the future. “We are taking steps for the same and have already discussed with FEFSI about the precautions that have to be implemented. We have learnt a bitter lesson,” he said. Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Haasan said that precautions were needed and that the industry should look at the steps being taken internationally to ensure a safe environment for shooting and implement them here once filming begins. Mr. Selvamani said that they had laid down guidelines for safety, which need to be followed on film sets. Director Shankar said that they will take all precautions necessary to ensure that accidents like these do not happen in the future.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss seeks CM’s intervention in teacher recruitment issue||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan to direct the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) to take back its appeal in the Supreme Court against the Madras High Court directive to prepare a new list for the appointment of postgraduate teachers across schools. In a statement, he pointed out that 83 candidates from the Most Backward Classes and five from the Scheduled Castes had lost the opportunity because of improper implementation of the reservation policy. Mr. Ramadoss pointed out that the Madras High Court direction on March 19 was yet to be implemented by the TRB, and it had gone on appeal to the Supreme Court. He said the State government should not be a spectator to such social injustice. Mr. Ramadoss said the TRB going on appeal showed that its officials had some vendetta against the MBC.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IDE to issue applications from today||The Institute of Distance Education of the University of Madras will open its portal on Friday for students to download examination application forms for undergraduate, postgraduate, professional, bachelor, and postgraduate programmes in library sciences, diploma and certificate courses. Forms can be downloaded till August 21 and the last date to submit filled in forms without penalty is August 22. Candidates can submit the filled in forms with penalty till August 28, according to the Controller of Examination.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||40-year-old man held for sexual assault||The All-Women Police, Guindy, on Thursday arrested a 40-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a six-year-old girl near Perungudi. According to the police, Prabakaran, 40, of Thiruvanmiyur was working as a security guard. He had developed a relationship with the mother of the victim three years ago. A couple of days ago, he sexually assaulted the child. He fled the spot when she raised an alarm, sources said. The victim’s mother nabbed him at Thiruvanmiyur and thrashed him.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC grants bail to DMK MLA||The Madras High Court on Thursday granted bail to DMK MLA L. Idhayavarman, his brother L. Nirmal and nine others in a case booked against them for using illegal firearms to settle a land dispute with the legislator’s neighbour in Tiruporur, Chengalpattu district, on July 11. Justice N. Sathish Kumar granted the relief on condition that the MLA should sign before the Vellore Town police station every day after his release. The judge recorded that the petitioner had volunteered to donate Rs. 3 lakh to the Cancer Institute, Adyar. Making it clear that the money should be donated within a week of his release, the judge said that the bail would stand cancelled if the undertaking given by senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram, on behalf of his client, was not honoured. As far as the MLA’s brother and the nine other petitioners were concerned, the judge said that they could stay in Chengalpattu and report before the Tiruporur police every day. Three FIRs filed He pointed out that the police had registered as many as three first information reports (FIRs) regarding the incident.  However, the judge left all other issues to be decided during the course of trial and said that observations made in the bail order should not be relied upon by the trial court.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC calls for report on worker losing her hand||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Thursday called for a report from the Commissioner of Municipal Administration over an incident in Thanjavur district in which a worker, who lost her hand while on duty, has not received any government support since she was a contract worker. SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran took suo motu cognisance of a media report and called for a report within four weeks. According to the media report, 44-year old Revathi of Pattukkottai in Thanjavur district was working as a contract worker with the local administration and lost her hand while at work on June 18. Though she had an identity card which said she was involved in COVID-19 related work, she did not get any compensation since she was a contract worker, the report quoted her daughter Divya as saying. Divya’s father, a welder, is stranded abroad due to the COVID-19 lockdown and her sister’s wedding could not happen as planned.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safely dispose of chemicals: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss expressed shock over reports that 740 tonnes of ammonium nitrate have been stored in a warehouse near Chennai port for the past five years, and called for its safe disposal. In a tweet, he cited Tuesday’s explosion in Beirut, caused by large quantities of ammonium nitrate stored in the port, and warned that Chennai could face a similar danger.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-pass system unnecessary, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday said the government should dispense with the mandate of obtaining an e-pass for travelling within Tamil Nadu, if it was really interested in giving the benefits of relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown to the people. “As the government has already announced precautionary measures for those travelling to other districts on their own, the e-pass system is unnecessary,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement issued here on Thursday. Pointing out that e-passes would not provide any solution, as the Centre had made it clear that it was not necessary, the DMK leader wondered why Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who claimed to be following the Centre’s guidelines, had not withdrawn the system. “The government has permitted companies to resume work, but keep the workers inside their houses. Is making e-pass compulsory to travel between districts a good COVID-19 management protocol,” he asked.
07 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID intensifies efforts to identify deceased Sri Lankan||The CB-CID has intensified efforts to identify the man, who lived and died in Coimbatore in the name of Pradeep Singh, whether he was indeed Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera, alias Angoda Lokka, a wanted criminal in Sri Lanka. The CB-CID has sent biological samples of the deceased, collected at the time of post-mortem, to a government forensic laboratory in Chennai for DNA profiling to ascertain the identity of the individual through cross matching with that of the DNA of the blood relatives of Lokka who live in Sri Lanka. “The DNA profile-matching is one of the modes to ascertain the identity of the deceased. Certain details of Lokka are with us which can be compared with that of the deceased to ascertain the identity of the individual, a priority for the investigation team now,” said K. Shankar, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, to The Hindu on Thursday. Forged stamping It is learnt that Lokka was booked by the Tamil Nadu police in Chennai in 2017, allegedly after he made a forged arrival stamping in a fake passport he carried. He reportedly came to India through ferry, illegally, after committing a series of crimes including murders in Sri Lanka. The fake arrival stamping in the passport was detected at the airport when he tried to go back to Sri Lanka, said sources. The police had reportedly collected his biometric data. The CB-CID has now accessed certain biometric data of the man who died in Coimbatore on July 3 that can be used for cross-matching with that of Lokka. “We are hopeful of ascertaining the identity of the deceased soon,” said Mr. Shankar. Sleuths from the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) had discussions with the CB-CID on the investigation on Wednesday, considering Lokka’s crime history and alleged links he had with LTTE sympathisers. The officer hinted that the investigators were also checking whether the deceased had any money transaction from abroad. The police had recovered Qatar dinars, American and Singapore dollars from the house at Cheran Ma Nagar in Coimbatore where he lived with a Sri Lankan woman named Amani Thanji. Investigators found that bank account of D. Sivakamasundari of Madurai, who managed to get the body of the deceased and cremated it in Madurai on July 5, had several unusual transactions. Meanwhile, CB-CID officials raided S. Dyaneswaran’s house, in Tiruppur on Wednesday. A team led by M. Madasamy, SP-Special Investigation Division, CB-CID, conducted the raid at the residence in N.R.K Puram. (With inputs from R. Akileish)  The DNA profile-matching is one of the modes to ascertain the identity of the deceased K. Shankar IGP, CB-CID
07 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri MP reaches out to domestic help||Dharmapuri MP S. Senthilkumar provided cash assistance of Rs. 42,000 to K. Vatsala, a domestic help in Coimbatore who lost her job due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Hindu reported on her plight on August 3 in which she said that she was not able to pay the rent for her house for the past five months as she could not find another job as a domestic help during the lockdown. Ms. Vatsala, 51, is a single mother who lives with her 12-year-old daughter. On Wednesday, Mr. Senthilkumar tweeted that he had deposited Rs. 12,000 in Ms. Vatsala’s bank account for the house rent and an additional Rs. 30,000 to meet the expenses in setting up a shop. Ms. Vatsala said that she will be setting up an eatery on Lawley Road from Monday using the cash assistance provided by Mr. Senthilkumar. “I will be renting a push cart and I am yet to purchase the utensils,” she said. Ms. Vatsala said that she had also submitted a petition at the District Collectorate on Monday seeking assistance.
07 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs welcome restructuring of loans||Industries in Coimbatore have welcomed the announcement by Reserve Bank of India on Thursday that lenders will restructure before the end of this financial year defaulted bank loans that are declared standard as on March 1, 2020. Prabhu Dhamodharan, convener of Indian Texpreneurs Federation, said that 30 % to 40 % of companies in the textile sector are expected to benefit from the announcement. This measure will lead to revival of the entire industry. While the restructuring announcement is restricted to units with aggregate exposure of Rs. 25 crore, it should be extended to all MSMEs, the association said. R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said the move will benefit MSMEs, especially those that are hit during the lockdown period. It also shows that the government and the RBI are aware of the problems faced by the MSMEs. Industries are operating at just about 50 % capacity now and need more support. The government should extend till the end of this financial year the moratorium for repayment of loans. However, J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said the main demand of the MSMEs across the country is extension of moratorium. The one-time restructuring of loans will only bring down the NPA level for banks. It will not benefit the industries that are hit by the spread of COVID-19 spread and the lockdown, Mr. James said.
07 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CMCH witnesses more late admissions of patients||The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) is witnessing late admissions of COVID-19 patients. The media bulletin issued by the Health Department in the last several days showed that many patients died on the day of their admission. The number of such deaths were high in CMCH compared to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and private hospitals. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said that the hospital did an internal analysis after seeing many such cases involving late admissions. “1.6 to 1.9 days was the mean duration we got when we analysed the time taken between admission and death in the case of late admissions. Some persons, who were brought dead to the hospital, were later tested positive for COVID-19,” he said. Late admissions of COVID-19 patients coupled with other complications they had such as chronic kidney disease, type II diabetes, bilateral covid pneumonia and severe hypertension had led to those deaths. According to Dr. Kalidas, late admissions could have happened when people ignored symptoms of the disease. He denied allegations that private hospitals were referring serious cases of COVID-19 to CMCH. “Conducting COVID-19 test on persons who are brought dead to the hospital is important. If such deceased are not tested for COVID-19 and any one of them was indeed infected with disease, people who handle the body and those who take part in the funeral can contract the disease,” said Dr. Kalidas. ESI Hospital Dean A. Nirmala said that the hospital had a few number of patients who died on the same day of admission.
07 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work there will be no power supply in the following areas on August 7 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m: Thudiyalur, Somanur, Elachipalayam, Karumathampatty, and Kalipalayam sub-stations: K. Vadamadurai, Thudiyalur, Appanaikenpalayam, Aruna Nagar, VSK Nagar, VKV Magar, NGGO Colony, Palanigoundanpudur, Pannimadai, Dhaliyur, Madathur, Chinnathadagam, Kalayanur, Somayanur, KNG Pudur, Venugopal Hospital area, Somanur, Karumathampatty, Krishnapuram, Samalapuram, Ramachiyampalayam, Thottipalayam, Senthil Nagar, Segudanthali, Paramasivampalayam, part of Kaniyur, Segudanthali, Elachipalayam, Rayarpalayam, Karumathampatty four road, Thanneerpandal, part of Kalipalayam and part of Ayyampalayam.
07 August 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Inflow at Hogenakkal touches 30,000 cusecs||The inflow at Hogenakkal touched 30,000 cusecs on Thursday for the first time since February. The inflow at Biligundulu, which was only 4,000 cusecs at 8 a.m. on Thursday steadily increased to 10,000 cuses by 11 a.m. and then touched 15,000 cusecs at 1 p.m. It kept rising to reach 22,000 cusecs by 3 p.m. On Wednesday, Karnataka released 50,000 cusecs from Kabini reservoir and over 4,713 cusecs from Krishnaraja Sagar reservoir, in the wake of heavy rain in the State. The inflow is expected to rise to 35,000 cusecs by Friday morning. The inflow is significant since until June, the inflow had hovered between 200 cusecs to 500 cusecs lending the terrain dry. February this year saw considerable inflow, which, however, fell soon after. With the water level rising, people living in the low-lying villages fringing Hogenakkal from Alambadi to Nagamarai, including Ootamalai and Naatarkotaai, were asked to exercise caution. Besides, those living on the fringes in temporary settlements for fishing were asked to evacuate. Coracle operations Coracle operations had, however, come to a standstill since March, and tourists have been banned since the lockdown. The increasing water level and the picturesque five falls with a cascading Cauvery down the rockface will have no viewers from the proximity of the falls this time around.
07 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Kodaikanal-Adukkam road project nearing completion||A long-pending demand of people would be fulfilled soon as the work on Kodaikanal-Adukkam stretch of the ghat road leading to Periyakulam in the plains would be completed soon, said Edappadi K Palaniswami here on Thursday. Speaking at a review meeting, he said 90 % of the works were over. This road would not only reduce travel time of tourists visiting the hill station, but also reduce traffic congestion on the Batlagundu road. This road would provide a short-cut to people from Theni district and Kerala. Thanking the front-line workers for their selfless service in containing the COVID-19 pandemic, the CM said the virus infection chain could be broken only with the support of people. He said Dindigul district had attracted investments to the tune of Rs. 1,000 crore since 2016. Spinning mills had come up in Vedasandur and surrounding pockets. Amway had set up its facility in Nilakottai and had provided jobs to local people. The government would extend all assistance to the 123 lock making units in the town to improve their business. Focus would be given to improve facilities at Palani Dhandayuthapaniswami Temple. The good scope for horticulture in the district would be tapped, he added Collector M Vijayalakshmi gave an account of the COVID-19 measures taken since March 24, and the exit plan to meet expectations of the trade and industry. Forest Minister C Srinivasan and former minister Natham Viswanathan were present.
07 August 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||More teams for processing e-pass applications, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said more teams will be assigned for processing e-pass applications for inter and intra-State vehicular movement during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. There have been complaints about e-pass applications being randomly rejected, affecting the movement of people. Mr. Palaniswami said in Dindigul that more teams would be assigned for processing the e-pass applications. He assured the applicants that the time taken for issuance of the passes would be reduced. Round-the-clock work On the COVID-19 front, he said the government had been working round-the-clock since the pandemic surfaced in the State in March. The government had no issues with regard to spending money for tackling COVID-19 as the welfare of the people was important. The bed strength too, in hospitals across the State, were enough and there was no need for any apprehension, Mr. Palaniswami clarified. ‘Self-discipline is key’ He reiterated that self-discipline would in all probability not only break the virus chain, but also make the State free of the infection. Hence, keeping this in mind, the people’s role was very crucial, he said, adding that the government would continue to provide help to the masses. In Dindigul, the COVID-19 pandemic had started to witness a declining trend, he added. He appreciated frontline workers, paramedical teams, teachers, revenue officials and doctors for their selfless service to the needy in this hour of crisis.
07 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two dyeing units sealed||Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) disconnected power supply and sealed two dyeing units in the Corporation limits where effluent treatment plants were not operational. A flying squad recently inspected the units at Periyasemoor area and found effluents being discharged into drainage channels and the treatment plants lying idle. A report was submitted to the Collector and Chairman of the District Monitoring Committee C. Kathiravan, who ordered disconnection of power supply to the units. Later, the units were sealed. Mr. Kathiravan warned the dyeing and bleaching units not to discharge effluents into water bodies.
07 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for murdering woman||Two persons, who murdered their mother and buried the body in a graveyard at Surampatti Valasu, were arrested here on Thursday. Saroja (48) of V.O.C. Street was living with her sons, Vignesh (27), a van driver, and Arun Kumar (23), a plumber. The police said Vignesh had kept Rs. 2,000 in the house and Saroja took the money without informing him. Angered by it, both Vignesh and Arun came home in an inebriated condition at 2 a.m. on Wednesday and picked a quarrel with Saroja and attacked her with iron rods. As she raised an alarm, neighbours came to the house. The duo promised to take their mother to hospital and took her in an ambulance. The neighbours alerted Erode South Police Station. The police questioned the two who confessed to have buried the body. The body was exhumed and sent to the District Headquarters and Hospital for autopsy. On Thursday, the body was handed over to relatives.
07 August 2020||ERODE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Water level crosses 93 ft. at Bhavani Sagar Dam||With the inflow continuing to be over 35,000 cusecs, water level at Bhavani Sagar Dam crossed 93 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet on Thursday. At 6 p.m., the water level stood at 93.13 feet while the inflow was 35,344 cusecs. The storage was 23.681 tmc against the full capacity of 32.800 tmc. The discharge was 400 cusecs in Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals and 500 cusecs in Kalingarayan canal. PWD officials said about 17,000 cusecs continued to be discharged from Pilloor Reservoir into River Bhavani. Also, heavy rain in The Nilgiris brought more water to River Moyar that finally entered the dam. The water level had gone up by seven feet from 86.76 feet on August 4 to 93.13 feet on August 6, they added. The inflow at Mettur dam has increased from Thursday evening. According to officials from Public Works Department, the inflow increased to 6,000 cusecs from 3,625 cusecs. Water level in the dam was 64.20 ft against a total 120ft. The stored capacity at the dam was 27,915 tmc and the discharge to delta region was maintained at 3, 000 cusecs.
07 August 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Couple found dead||A youth and his girlfriend, belonging to different castes, were found dead under mysterious circumstances in front of a local temple at Eriyur, near Kallakurichi, on Thursday. Police identified the duo as R. Kavitha of Sembakurichi and P. Kumar of Attur in Salem district. While Kavitha belonged to a dominant Most Backward Community, Kumar was a member of the Scheduled Castes, police said. Kumar and Kavitha were third-year students of Tamil in a Government Arts College in Salem and were in love. The two had left their houses on Wednesday evening.
07 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two migrant workers were killed and three others injured in an accident here on Thursday. The victims had only just arrived from Bihar for employment in a garment unit in Tiruppur. Ambujkumar, Umar Sahni, Nithish Kumar and Ashok Kumar had reached Krishnagiri from the inter-State border in Athibelle from where they were picked up by a cab from a garment manufacturing unit at Kasipalayam in Tiruppur. The police said, the car was crossing Agaram flyover when the driver is believed to have lost control over the vehicle. The car hit a parcel service lorry that was ahead. Ambuj Kumar and Umesh Sahni died on the spot and Nitish, Ashok , and driver Daniel Jayachandran suffered injuries. They were admitted to Krishnagiri GH.
07 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Highest number of testing led to reduced positivity, says CM||Several States that were doing lesser number of COVID-19 testing could report higher number of cases in the coming days, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. He attributed the “declining” number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu due to the highest number of testing in the country. The Chief Minister told reporters here on Thursday that early detection of positive cases and providing due treatment helped in higher cure rate and prevented infection from spreading further. When asked where the government had failed despite the highest number of testing as Tamil Nadu remained the second most infected State in the country, Mr. Palaniswami said through highest number of testing resulted in early identification of the infected people. “But other States have not done this so far. Those States are going to see much higher number of positive cases. Tamil Nadu will not face such a situation,” he said. The Chief Minister said it might look like Tamil Nadu was having more number of positive cases, whereas it was on the rise in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana. “Andhra Pradesh is seeing 10,000 positive cases for every 25,000 tests. But the number is comparatively much less in Tamil Nadu even if we do 60,000 tests,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The positivity rate was declining in phases in the State, he added.  District-wise tests When asked as to why the State government was hesitating to provide details of district-wise number of tests done every day, Mr. Palaniswami said those details had been given three times till date. “We get the test reports within 24 hours some days and sometimes the next day. Even in the US, it takes three days to provide the test results,” he said. When it was pointed out that the opposition parties were complaining on this aspect, he defended the government asking what was wrong even if the list was given after two weeks. “Only the government knows the pain. It’s a life-related issue. The gGovernment has to be cautious in publishing the results. We are not bothered about what the opposition is saying. We are committed to save lives of the people,” he said   ‘No need to hide data’ Wondering as to on what basis the opposition was making allegations, the Chief Minister said the government was working based on the data only. “There is no need to hide the data. What is the benefit of doing so,” he said. Stating that details of some of the deaths occurred at home had been included in the COVID-19 death list as and when the information came in, he said it was the same with the case of Maharashtra and Delhi. “The opposition parties do not have a heart to appreciate the good works of the State government. Have they ever told the truth?” he added. Stating that it was the most challenging time, Mr. Palaniswami said that 210 countries in the world were clueless (in containing COVID-19) and were struggling. However, the recovery rate in Tamil Nadu was higher, he said.
07 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Terracotta ring well unearthed at Agaram||A terracotta ring well with a diameter of 86 cm has been unearthed at Agaram village during the sixth phase of excavations at Keeladi and its cluster near Madurai. “Although such ring wells have been discovered in the first, second, fourth and fifth phase of excavations, this is the first time it has been discovered in the sixth phase,” said Deputy Director of Archaeology and in charge of excavations R. Sivanandam. He said the well was unearthed a week ago. Five rings of the well - one-third - currently stand exposed at a depth of 2.28 m and rest can be seen upon further digging, he said. An official from the State Department of Archaeology said presence of a ring points to a sophisticated civilization. “Much of the migration since stone age has been based on availability of water in a particular area. The inhabitants of Keeladi created a system to ensure that they could make water available to them at all times of the day. This meant they did not have to keep migrating during summer. It could also be used for storage,” he said. The well was constructed with interlocking rings which prevent soil from entering into the well and allow percolation of water and air. The top ring is usually raised, the official said. “Ring wells show that water conservation existed 2,000 years ago. Much of the same construction techniques are still used,” the official said.  It was constructed with interlocking rings which prevent soil from entering into the well Archaeology department official
07 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to lift total lockdown||Trade bodies met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during his visit here on Thursday and asked him to lift the total lockdown on Sundays and do away with e-pass for inter-district travel. In a memorandum, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry said that inter-district travel was inevitable for business people since clients and dealers must be met in person. But it was difficult to get e-pass. Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association president B. Muruganantham said since most Sundays in August were auspicious, the total lockdown must be lifted. “Small-scale industries face a cash crunch. Dues from government departments, particularly the Electricity Board, are long pending. So all government agencies must be directed to clear their dues to small scale units. The State government must encourage foreign investors to set up units in the southern districts to arrest migration of unemployed people to big cities, he said.
07 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||500 ambulances soon||The State government would soon procure 500 ambulances, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy here on Thursday. Talking to reporters, he said the ambulances, costing Rs. 103 crore, would be delivered in a month. The Chief Minister said there was adequate stock of face masks, personal protective equipment and COVID-19 medicine. All efforts were directed at providing quality treatment to the poor. On the complaints on difficulties faced by people in getting e-pass and irregularities involved in the process, Mr. Palaniswami said additional teams had been formed in every district to ease the situation. However, the Chief Minister appealed to the people to travel only if necessary. Stating that seven COVID-19 patients were treated with plasma donated by cured patients, he appealed to people to come forward to donate the plasma. The Chief Minister inaugurated 32 development works completed at a cost of Rs. 21.57 crore. He also laid foundation stones for 31 new works that would be carried out at a cost of Rs. 304.55 crore.At a function held here, he also gave away benefits worth Rs. 19.23 crore under various schemes to 2,411 persons. Later, the Chief Minister reviewed the COVID-19 arrangements and various development works and inspected a Covid Care Centre at Vadapalanji.
07 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders temporary closure of TASMAC shop||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered temporary closure of a TASMAC shop in Andipatti in Theni district which was said to be functioning adjacent to a de-addiction centre. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the State to file a comprehensive status report on maintenance of sanitation near the outlet and whether the maximum retail prices of liquor brands were displayed there. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by T. Gopal, an ex-serviceman who complained that the TASMAC shop was functioning adjacent to the de-addiction centre situated in a residential area. He said the liquor outlet was set up in a house constructed under ‘Pasumai Veedu Thittam’. The functioning of the shop had caused inconvenience to public as drinkers left empty bottles and cups in the open space close by, he said.
07 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Child care institutions well protected||Child care institutions (CCI) in the district prevent entry of outsiders into their premises. Child Welfare Committee Chairman K. Vijayasaravanan said the committee had decided, after consulting heads of various child care institutions, to send back children, who either have single parents or are below the poverty line, to their homes in April. “We wanted to prevent any spread of COVID-19 within our 45 CCIs. Children, who were either orphaned or had been subjected to abuse, are at our CCIs. We do not allow any outsiders to come in to ensure there is no spread of the disease,” he says. Around three CCIs have completely shut down operations and will resume operations only when schools start functioning. However, a source said that only two out of 41 CCIs have admitted a number of students and provide shelter to a majority of children in these CCIs.
07 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Iron rod pierces through man’s body as he jumps from bridge in Madurai||In a swift action, Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Madurai Fire Station cut an iron rod that pierced through the body of a man when he jumped from a bridge across the Vaigai on Thursday morning. According to District Fire Officer S. Kalayanakumar, the man had jumped from Kamarajar Bridge at 7.10 a.m. The firemen who rushed to the spot found that the man had fallen on a row of iron rods that were protruding upwards at the site where work for widening the Vaigai bank roads is under way. One of the rods pierced through his abdomen and came out through his neck, he said. “With some three feet of the rod protruding out of his neck, our personnel, led by Station Fire Officer Venkatesan, cut the bottom portion of the thick iron rod on the concrete base using a manual iron cutter,” the DFO said. Within 40 minutes, the man who was stuck at the spot was freed and rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital in a 108 ambulance.
07 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai youth cracks UPSC in first attempt||Siddharth Palanichamy says he never stopped himself from watching a good movie or his favourite matches, playing tennis or checking social media during his one year of intense preparation for civil services. This 23-year-old has cracked the UPSC and secured All India Rank 155 in his first attempt. He says that holistic learning is key to ensuring that one provides a different perspective while attempting the exam. An alumnus of National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, Mr. Palanichamy says that he began considering a career as a bureaucrat only in his final year of under graduation in Mechanical Engineering. “I have regularly read the newspaper since I was in school and eventually began reading other materials including by B.R. Ambedkar, Mahatma Gandhi and popular international leaders. These influenced me. As my social awareness grew, the [civil] services seemed like a good option. It also offered a stable career choice,” he said. After graduating, Mr. Palanichamy took a year to prepare and went to Delhi. Here he studied intently, listened to podcasts and even attributed his learning to the image sharing platform - Instagram. “I think 90% of my learning came from Instagram and Twitter. Apart from books and class material, these platforms provided fresh perspective, especially while writing the Ethics paper. This was essential for clearing the Civil Services exam. Since the exam is dynamically changing every year, it helps to have a different take,” he said. Mr. Palanichamy chose Political Science and International Relations as his optional subject. He says that he hopes to influence policy someday.
07 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar held||‘Work-life balance,’ ‘ergonomics in workplace’ and ‘wellness’ - these are some of the topics discussed at a webinar conducted by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, here on Thursday. Resource persons from across the country addressed 163 participants. Technical Advisor for COVID-19 and former State Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine K. Kolandaswamy, one of the speakers, said individuals must commit themselves every single day to prevent transmission of COVID-19. Principal ergonomics consultant of Godrej, Mumbai, R. Reena Valecha who conducted an interactive session spoke about problems of working from home. She gave tips to minimise postural stress to maintain good health.
07 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 21 deaths in a week, 1,676 new cases since August 1||In the worst week yet since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, Puducherry has recorded 21 deaths and a total of 1,676 new cases since August 1. While the number of deaths, which were 49 a week ago, climbed to 70 — five deaths were recorded on Thursday, the case load has also shot up from 3,593 at the start of the month to a total of 4,621 cases now. Fresh admissions scaled a peak on Wednesday with 286 new cases reported across the Union Territory even as the positivity rate has also touched a new high of 27.9% during the period. The case fatality rate, though, has been steady at the 1.4% mark. Increased testing Officials attribute the higher number of cases to the increased testing being done in the recent days. Close to 1,000 samples are being tested every day now, which is more than thrice the average about a month ago. As many as 2,808 COVID-19 patients have been treated and discharged, including 129 patients on Thursday. So far, 44,158 samples have been tested, 38,854 of which were negative and the results of 224 are awaited. “While flattening of the curve may be the ideal goal, the highly contagious nature of the virus makes it difficult to completely stop its spread. The trace-test-treat mantra is the only viable method under the circumstances and so far we have been able to keep case fatalities at 1.4%,” Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said. The administration is not particularly in favour of complete/partial lockdowns as a response. “We have studied the experience of some other States, which resorted to varying degrees of lockdowns even after the Centre unlocked activities. The trade-off of locking people indoors is the immense loss of livelihood in an already ravaged informal economy,” the Chief Secretary said. Apart from augmenting health and manpower capacity, the administration is focusing on public messaging to raise awareness of safety protocols. ‘Vulnerable segment’ “The elderly population with co-morbidities is the most vulnerable segment, apart from children under 10 years. So, it is not good enough that they stay safe at home. The onus is on other younger members in multi-generational households to take extra precautions to prevent household transmission,” said S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health Services. From case fatality data, the high-risk groups have been identified as those with diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and respiratory illnesses. “The worst-off are those with a combination of diabetes, hypertension and obesity,” Dr. Mohan Kumar said. Meanwhile, in a bid to shore up bed capacity for needy COVID-19 patients, the Health Department has changed strategy by confining asymptomatic-to-mildly symptomatic patients under home isolation. The Union Territory saw 1,166 institutional admissions in a span of seven days. As of Thursday, there were 510 patients under home confinement, in addition to the 1,743 patients in institutional care. While Puducherry has been accounting for the bulk of the new cases, the uptick in infections in the Yanam and Karaikal enclaves, where facilities for institutional care are severely constricted, is a cause for worry for health authorities. According to updated data, the case load is 1,013 in Puducherry, 97 in Karaikal and 119 in Yanam.  The Union Territory saw 1,166 institutional admissions in a span of seven days
07 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Revenue collection dips due to COVID-19 crisis||The restrictions prevalent due to the spread of novel coronavirus has caused a substantial dip in tax collection in the Union Territory, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said here on Thursday. During an online press conference, the Chief Minister said that as in other States, the economy of the Union Territory had also suffered due to coronavirus restrictions and only 40% of tax could be collected. While internal resource mobilisation had taken a beating, the Central assistance had also not come forth. The Centre owes the Union Territory Rs. 560 crore as GST compensation, he said. Recalling the findings of a study conducted by the Madras School of Economics, the Chief Minister said the territorial administration was eligible to obtain 41% of tax collection as Central allocation. Going by the study, the Chief Minister said this year the Union Territory was eligible to get Rs. 2,900 crore as assistance but the Centre had only allocated Rs. 1,700 crore. Mr. Narayanasamy said he had written a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman apprising her of the need to immediately release GST compensation and increase the financial allocation to the Union Territory. The Chief Minister, who inspected the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute earlier in the day, said he had cleared a file allowing temporary recruitment of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff to attend to the growing number of COVID-19 patients. The testing facility has substantially improved at the medical college with the arrival of new equipment that could test around 270 samples. The medical college itself could test around 400 samples a day, he said, adding that JIPMER could test another 900 samples. The improvement in facilities had helped the Union Territory ramp up testing. From around 250 to 300 tests per day, it had gone up to 900 tests, the Chief Minister said. Six teams constituted The Health Department has constituted six teams, headed by a senior doctor, to monitor the health of people under home isolation. The medical officers heading the team are C. Sivaramachandra (9894919589), Larousse Annibal (9894911063), D. Sivaradjou (9443293479), S. Ramasubramanian (9443293001), S. Sendhamizan (99442288083) and Harsh Vardhan Sharma (9443768506). A nursing officer and ANM staff would be part of the team, said an official.
07 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman gives birth in ambulance||A woman gave birth to a male baby in an 108 ambulance while en route the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital during the late hours of Wednesday. Poovarasi (20) residing near Vaikundam here was referred from a primary health centre to the Hospital after doctors at the PHC felt that the newborn would require to be placed in incubator for a few days due to underweight. Ambulance driver P.Rajalingam and technician R.Soundariya were assigned with the case. While the ambulance was en route the Salem GH, the patient developed labour pain. Hence, the team had to handle the delivery near Kondalampatti in the vehicle itself. Mr. Rajalingam said all safety measures were taken while handling the delivery and the mother and child were safe.
07 August 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLA tests positive for infection||The AIADMK MLA from Vasudevanallur (Reserved) constituency, A. Manoharan, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. As Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is scheduled to visit Tirunelveli on Friday, the AIADMK MPs, MLAs, government officials and party office-bearers likely to participate in the COVID-19 review meeting at the Tirunelveli Collectorate, along with the Chief Minister, were asked to undergo screening for the infection. Mr. Manoharan, who was asymptomatic, gave his blood samples and throat swabs for testing on Wednesday and the results returned positive on Thursday. Subsequently, the MLA was admitted to the Tenkasi Government Hospital. Sources in the hospital said Mr. Manoharan was in a good condition. Dean of the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital M. Ravichandran and former dean of TVMCH and special officer for anti-COVID-19 operations S.M. Kannan also tested positive for the infection on Thursday after their samples were lifted for testing ahead of the Chief Minister’s meeting.
07 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||AFCCoM seeks review of draft EIA notification||The Association of Former Central Committee Members of State Bank Staff Union has sought the review and revision of the draft Environmental Impact Assessment notification 2020. In a memorandum forwarded to Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar, AFFCoM president S.P. Raman said the timing chosen by the Central government for releasing the draft notification had shocked those interested in the country’s welfare. People were facing curfew restrictions and there was no possibility of any meaningful dialogue between the people and the government. Citing two incidents, the sudden leakage of poisonous gas in Andhra Pradesh and major fire at an oil well at Assam during May as the outcome of flagrant violation of environmental law and policy of 2006, AFCCoM demanded initiation of criminal proceedings against lawbreakers. The association also sought modifications in the draft notification to protect agricultural operations since more or less 1,300 million people depend on them for their livelihood. Urging the government to follow due process for enacting a law, the association wanted the draft notification to be reviewed and revised suitably failing which would be better to reject it than retaining it in the present form.
07 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 432 new cases||The central region on Thursday recorded 432 fresh COVID-19 cases and 11 deaths — three each in Perambalur and Tiruchi, two in Thanjavur, and one each in Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Ariyalur. Three 60-year-old men from Tiruchi died of respiratory failure at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, while men aged 65, 60 and 61 from Perambalur died at a private hospital. Two men from Thanjavur aged 74 and 75, and a 74-year-old man from Pudukottai died at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. A 68-year-old man from Tiruvarur with acute respiratory distress syndrome died at Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital, while a 55-year-old woman from Ariyalur died of haemorrhagic stroke. Thanjavur recorded the maximum number of cases with 162. Among them were a staff nurse of Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, an office assistant at Thiruvonam panchayat union office, and a village administrative officer at Kaduveli. Several women, shop owners and workers also tested positive. In Tiruchi, 97 patients, including residents from Puthur, Thillai Nagar and Khajamalai, tested positive. The South Ul Veedhi in Thiruvanaikoil was barricaded and declared a containment zone on Thursday afternoon after at least two residents tested positive. They were admitted to MGMGH. Meanwhile, Collector S. Sivarasu said that following an order from the State government, the cost of COVID-19 testing at private testing facilities had been reduced to Rs. 2,000. Those with Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme cards would be charged Rs. 1,500. If a health worker was required to collect a throat swab from a residence, an additional Rs. 500 would be charged. Stringent action would be taken agaisnt those deferring norms. Meanwhile, 28 patients from Tiruchi GH and 37 patients from the COVID Care Centre were discharged after recovery. In Pudukottai, 87 tested positive, among who were primary and secondary contacts. Karur recorded 26 new cases, among who were inter-district and interstate travellers. Tiruvarur recorded 23 new cases. Ariyalur saw 24 new cases, many of who hailed from Ariyalur town. They were admitted to Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital. Of the nine patients in Nagapattinam, one travelled from Qatar, while another travelled from Andhra Pradesh. Others travelled from Thanjavur and Tiruchi, while some were primary contacts. In Perambalur, four new cases were recorded. Two were interdistrict travellers and two with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Two patients were admitted to MGMGH, while two were admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital.
07 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal woman engineer aces UPSC exam||Twenty-six-year-old R.Saranya has done Karaikal proud by securing all-India rank 36 in Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exam, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. She is also the Puducherry State topper and aced the exam in her third attempt. Significantly, Ms.Saranya had her grounding in government educational institutions having graduated in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Pondicherry Engineering College in Puducherry. She did her Plus Two in Annai Theresa Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Karaikal after completing high school from ONGC Public School. She opted for Geography as her optional subject for UPSC mains. Expressing happiness over her accomplishment, Ms.Saranya told The Hindu that the entire experience of preparing for the UPSC exams had been an enriching one personally. “Am very happy; I was confident of clearing the exam this time, though I did not expect such a good rank,” an elated Ms. Saranya said. “It has been a long journey for me. I failed to clear the interview twice. This time around, I planned my routine better which helped me. I was fully focused this time and felt completely satisfied with my effort,” she said recalling her preparation. To her, the entire process of preparing for the UPSC exam has been rewarding. “The preparation gives us a broad perspective on various issues. We develop societal concern and grow as a person. Even if we do not clear the exams, we will be much better off as an individual,” she observed. Environmental conservation, rural development and youth welfare are her interest areas, she says looking forward to her career. “I wish to thank The Hindu too. I used to read it thoroughly every day and have subscribed to its digital edition now,” she said. Ms.Saranya was felicitated by Puducherry Education Minister R. Kamalakannan and Karaikal Collector Arjun Sharma on Wednesday.
07 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Regional-level pension adalat to be conducted on August 25||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level pension adalat at the office at 11 a.m. on August 25. Due to the pandemic, the adalat will be conducted through video conference, tele-conference or video call. Complainants are requested to indicate their current residential address, phone number and the nearest post office in their complaint. Only those cases that were taken up with divisions or units and where the pensioner is not satisfied with the response from the divisional level can be brought to the adalat. No fresh case will be entertained. Grievances relating to delay or non-settlement of pension benefits in respect of officials retired from the Department of Posts, grievances pertaining to pension and family pension through post offices in respect of retired officials of other departments such as Railway and Telecom will only be entertained. Grievances should be sent to R. Swaminathan, Senior Accounts Officer, Office of the Postmaster General, Central region, Tiruchi-620001 before August 14. The grievances should be sent only through ordinary or registered post and those sent through private couriers will not be accepted. The covers should be clearly superscribed as Pension Adalat – June 2020.
07 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Union office sealed||The Andhanallur panchayat union office on Thursday was sanitised and sealed after four panchayat secretaries, a driver, two computer operators and two office assistants. All nine were asymptomatic and admitted to COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai. Their families were asked to home quarantine themselves. The office will be shut for two days to prevent spread of infection, sources said.
07 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Spurt in cases in southern districts||Southern districts have started reporting more cases again after a drop for a couple of days. On Thursday, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi district collectively reported 775 cases while the number of deaths stood at 228. The number of viral infections in Thoothukudi district, which is leading the table, moved up to 8,450 with the addition of 239 new cases. The number of active cases stood at 1,832 after 246 patients were discharged from the hospitals and 2 patients died of the viral infection. In Kanniyakumari, the number of active cases moved up to 1,933 and the district’s tally rose to 5,829 after 222 new fresh cases were reported. The district witnessed death of two patients while 242 persons were discharged from hospitals. Tirunelveli district added 250 new cases that took the total number of infections to 6,071 and the active cases to 2,274 even as 112 patients, who had fully recovered from the viral infection, were discharged. In Tenkasi, the number of fresh cases rose again as the district reported 64 new cases that took the district’s tally to 2,629. After 58 patients were discharged, the district has 870 active cases while witnessing three deaths. Madurai A total of 101 patients tested positive for COVID-19 here on Thursday taking the total number of positive cases to 11,689. All the cases were indigenous, according to the State Health bulletin. This included frontline workers and several contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. With 330 people getting discharged from different treatment centres, the total number reached 9,549. There were nine deaths recorded in the district on Thursday taking the toll to 276. The number of active cases were 1,864 as on date. Virudhunagar district has registered five more deaths taking the total number of deaths to 114. It recorded 100 new positive cases thus increasing the total number of positive cases to 9,441. With 179 patients getting discharged (total being 7,416), the number of active cases was 1,911. All the five deceased are men in the age group of 42 years to 75 years. According to the State media bulletin, the deaths occurred on Monday and Tuesday. Theni district had 297 fresh cases which took the tally to 6836, The number of people discharged from the hospital was 276. Dindigul district recorded 129 new cases and the tally stood at 3331 while 104 people were discharged after treatment. Ramanathapuram had 20 new cases and the total number of positive cases stood at 3503. Hospitals discharged 54 people on a single day. Sivaganga had 26 new cases and the tally stood at 2768 while 77 were discharged from hospitals.
07 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 relief for match factory workers||Match factory workers who have registered themselves with Employees State Insurance Corporation have been asked to submit their Aadhaar number, bank account number and ESI number for getting COVID-19 relief of Rs. 2,000. As the Chief Minister had announced that an ex-gratia of Rs. 2,000 would be given to the match factory workers registered with Employees State Insurance Corporation, compiling names of those workers, their Aadhaar number, bank account number and ESI number is going on in the Office of Joint Director of Health and Industrial Safety, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi since June 24 last. ESI-registered workers, who are yet to give details with their management, should immediately submit the particulars required and the managements in turn should verify and hand it over to the Office of Joint Director of Health and Industrial Safety, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi within a week so that the relief can be disbursed without further delay, said K. Niraimathi, Joint Director of Health and Industrial Safety, Tirunelveli in a statement.
07 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CM to visit Tirunelveli, Tenkasi today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who is visiting here on Friday, will inaugurate 20 projects and lay foundation stone for eight schemes in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts.  After reviewing anti-COVID-19 operations in the two districts, the Chief Minister will meet representatives of farmers’ associations, promoters of tiny, small and marginal industries and women self-help group members. Mr. Palaniswami will meet AIADMK office-bearers before leaving for Salem by road at 2.30 p.m.
07 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Civil services rankers felicitated||T. Sakthivel of Mannarai village near Tiruppur, who studied in government schools, secured an All India Rank of 471 in the Civil Services Examination (CSE) 2019. Mr. Sakthivel studied till Class X at Chinnasamy Ammal Government Boys Higher Secondary School and did Plus One and Plus Two in Nanjappa Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School (both schools in Tiruppur Corporation limits). “I wanted to study in English medium, that is why I shifted to Nanjappa school,” he told The Hindu . Both his parents are employed as tailors and he is the first graduate in his family. The 24-year-old cracked the CSE in his second attempt. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan invited him to the Collectorate on Thursday to congratulate him. After listening to his experiences on preparing and clearing the examination, the Collector presented him with a book, Mr. Sakthivel said. “I am happy that I cleared [CSE 2019], but I wish my rank was higher,” he said. Although his family insisted that he should join the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), it is likely that he will enter the Indian Police Service (IPS) or Indian Revenue Service (IRS). “All services are the same for me,” he said. On Thursday, Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar felicitated 24-year-old U. Vibukrishnaa, who secured AIR 473 in the CSE. Mr. Vibukrishnaa said he studied till Class IV in a private school at Dharapuram, and later in Sainik School at Amaravathinagar and Kendriya Vidyalaya at Sulur.
07 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers pour milk on road in Tiruppur||Members of Non-Political Tamil Nadu Farmers Association poured milk on the road as part of their demonstration on Thursday against alleged reduction in milk procurement by Aavin. They staged the demonstration, led by A.K. Shanmugam, State president of Non-Political Tamil Nadu Farmers Association, in front of the Aavin milk cooling centre. The members alleged in their slogans that Aavin reduced milk procurement and the procurement price from all milk producers from Tiruppur district. Procurement price When contacted, a senior Aavin official denied the allegations. “Their demand is to procure the entire milk produced in Tiruppur district,” he said. While 2.5 lakh litres of milk was being procured in Tiruppur district per day, procuring all the produced milk would be around 6 lakh litres per day, for which additional infrastructure was required, the official said.  Transmission towers Members of Federation of Farmers Associations Against Transmission Towers petitioned District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Thursday that transmission towers should not be constructed on agricultural lands.
07 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain uproots over 50 trees in the Nilgiris, 20 families evacuated after landslip||Heavy rain continued to batter the Nilgiris for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday, uprooting more than 50 trees, mostly along Ooty-Gudalur Road. District Fire Officer T. Immanuel said more than 250 trees were uprooted along the stretch in the last two days. The road had been closed for traffic since Wednesday. More than 280 fire and rescue services personnel from the Nilgiris and surrounding districts were currently stationed here and working round the clock in the rescue and relief efforts, said Mr. Immanuel. “We received 17 calls, including a rescue call,” he added. Fire and rescue service personnel spent over an hour rescuing a tribal family who were trapped inside their house in Puramana vayal in Gudalur. The family could not come out as flood water from the Kalampuzha stream surrounded their village. More than 20 families were evacuated from a village in Emerald near Udhagamandalam after a landslip threatened to damage the houses there. The Nilgiris received an average of 111.15 mm of rain over a 24-hour-period till Thursday morning. Avalanche received 581 mm from Wednesday while Upper Bhavani received more than 300 mm. Gudalur recorded more than 335 mm rainfall over a 24-hour period. The Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya said more than 140 State and National Disaster Response Force teams were working in the district. “Six more teams are being dispatched to the Nilgiris,” said the Collector. She stated that more than 900 people had been moved to 14 temporary relief shelters across the district. “Right now, the priority is to clear uprooted trees blocking and damaging roads and restore power to the most affected taluks,” said Ms. Divya.
07 August 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Gramin Dak Sevaks go beyond call of duty to help villagers||The sight of Ashwini Balaraman, 25, a Gramin Dak Sevak or postal extra-departmental employee, brings joy to the villagers of Chinnapallikuppam in Vellore district. Despite the pandemic, she pedals to villages and delivers letters and helps Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers withdraw money through the Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AEPS). She and other Dak Sevaks also sensitise the villagers on the need for wearing masks and physical distancing. There are 236 such Gramin Dak Sevaks working in the Vellore division. Twenty-three of them are women working in rural areas, including Vannanthangal, Chinnapallikuppam, Appukal, Unai Vaniyambadi, Chitteri and Palamathi. “We work for five hours every day. Work starts with collection of letters from the sub-post office. After the letters are sorted, I cycle to villages and deliver them. I cycle close to 20 km every day,” says Ms. Ashwini. The Gramin Dak Sevaks carry close to Rs. 15,000 with them to help MGNREGA workers withdraw money. “Due to COVID-19 and the lack of transport, many are unable to go to banks or post-offices to collect money. I carry an AEPS device and help them withdraw cash,” says J. Savitha, 24, a Gramin Dak Sevak at Ongapadi, Vellore. Whenever they go for delivering letters or helping villagers withdraw money, they highlight the importance of wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining physical distancing. “They have to use the fingerprint on the machine. So I ensure that they sanitise their hands before doing it,” she adds. Komal Kumar, Superintendent of Post Offices, Vellore, said the Gramin Dak Sevaks were self-motivated. R. Udayapriya, Inspector of Posts, Vellore West Sub-division, said, “The people have been able to make use of the AEPS fully during the pandemic.”
07 August 2020||Villupuram,TAMIL NADU||Artefacts of Sangam era unearthed in Villupuram||Artefacts and potteries dating back to the Sangam period were unearthed at Kodukkur village, located on the banks of the Sankarabarani river in Villupuram district during an . The artefacts, including black and red ware, conical shaped bowls, part of amphoras, various types of jars and lids with intricate carvings, were found spread in an expanse of 50 acres of agricultural lands on the southern bank of the river. The site is located close to the National Fossil Wood Park in Thiruvakkarai. The site was found by a team of researchers led by D. Ramesh, assistant professor of History, Government Arts College, Villupuram. According to Mr. Ramesh, the site came to light when a group of workers were scooping out earth in the land belonging to Jayabalan for constructing a brick kiln. An initial excavation revealed red ware, black ware, ring stands scattered around the area. “We also found bones, parts of amphora and big bricks similar to the one found in Keeladi and Adichanallur in Tirunelveli district in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar, who visited the site on Thursday, said the deposits unearthed dated back to over 2,000 years and had significant historical significance.
07 August 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishing festival: residents throw caution to winds in Villupuram village||Hundreds of residents from over 30 villages gathered at the Kalpattu tank near here on Thursday, to participate in the annual fishing festival — throwing all norms of physical distancing to the winds. A video of the festival showed local residents from Kalpattu, Nathamedu and surrounding villages entering the tank and jostling with each other to get their catch for a sumptuous meal. Local residents did not consider the lockdown orders in force, did not maintain physical distancing and did not wear masks. As per custom, a large number of fishlings are released into the tank, which is under the control of the Public Works Department. The fishes are caught and cooked by the villagers after a considerable period of growth. Accordingly, an announcement was made about the fishing festival on Wednesday. In keeping with the tradition, hundreds of villagers entered the tank with nets, hooks and cloths to catch the fish. On receiving information, police personnel rushed to the spot and sent the residents away.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||16 COVID-19 deaths, 506 new cases in western region||Districts in the western region reported 16 deaths due to COVID-19 and 506 fresh positive cases on Thursday. Coimbatore had the highest tally with seven deaths and 190 new positive cases, taking the total number of deaths in the district so far to 96 and the positive cases to 5,997. The youngest among the deceased was aged 39 and the oldest 82.  4 deaths in Salem Four patients died in Salem district. They were: a 53-year-old woman from Krishnagiri who was undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, a 58-year-old man from Attur, a 39-year-old woman from Krishnagiri who was undergoing treatment at Salem GH, and a 69-year-old patient from Tirupattur who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital. 3 die in Erode Three persons died in Erode -- two women aged 69 and 70, and a man aged 75. The total number of deaths reported in the district is 13. Tiruppur district reported two deaths. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan tweeted that a 62-year-old man from Anaimedu in Tiruppur Corporation limits died at a private hospital at Coimbatore. A 24-year-old woman from Rakkiyapalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits died at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. Tiruppur district has recorded 18 COVID-19 deaths so far. In Coimbatore, majority of the fresh positive cases were reported from the Coimbatore Corporation areas and the others from Mettupalayam municipal limits, Anamalai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Madukarai, S.S. Kulam, Karamadai and Kinathukadavu blocks. After inaugurating a 16 slice CT scan machine at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Thursday, Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani checked the quality of food given to COVID-19 patients in the hospital. Dean of the hosptial A. Nirmala said a CT scan machine in the outpatient section was being used to obtain images of the lungs of all COVID-19 patients, except children and pregnant women, before admitting them to the hospital. The Dean said 2,586 patients were scanned so far, and 20 % to 30 % of them had lung involvement. And, 60 % of the 20%-30 % had 75 % of lung involvement. Two COVID-19 patients gave birth to babies at the hospital on Thursday. Salem district reported 161 positive cases. Health officials said 159 of these were indigenous, including 95 in the Salem Corporation limits. Two patients had come from Karur and Erode districts. 30 cases in Namakkal Namakkal had 30 new cases. Health officials said two patients had returned from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh and three had travelled to Tiruchi, Erode and Salem districts. In Erode, 62 positive cases were reported, taking the district’s tally to 888. Forty-four of these cases were reported in Erode Corporation limits. While 26 cases were contacts of positive cases, 29 had no contact history. Five cases were persons who undertook inter-district travel and two who came from other States. A total of 26 persons were discharged from the hospital on Thursday while 239 persons are under treatment. 37 test positive in Tiruppur Thirty-seven new positive cases in Tiruppur raised the district’s tally so far to 1,059. The new cases included two girls aged three and seven from Udumalpet and Pitchampalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits. Cases were reported from Tiruppur, Pongalur, Madathukulam, Dharapuram, Palladam and Kangeyam Blocks also. In the Nilgiris, 22 new positive cases were reported. While Krishnagiri district did not report any positive cases, Dharmpuri reported four.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Poor sales hit Ganesha idol-makers||Ganesh Chathurti may be just around the corner, but sculptors in Tiruchi are still awaiting orders for idols. Idol-making, for instance, has been a family business for six households in Tiruverumbur. Over the years, they have introduced innovations in sculpting techniques, use of material and themes. Thanks to lockdown, there are no takers for their craft this year. “We simply have no customers,” says D. Raja, one of the sculptors. Normally, the orders come at least two weeks in advance. Depending on budget, they are for idols anywhere between two and 20 feet in height. Also, there will be at least 200 special orders, he recalls. This year, there have been none so far. But the sculptors have not been entirely idle. They have lined up Ganesha idols, most of them only between two and four feet in height, in the hope of making a sale. “We usually start work in December. So, we have ended up making more than what we can sell,” Mr. Raja says. He and six others use maida , potato flour, paper mâché and sticks to sculpt the idols. “An idol is sturdy enough for the celebrations, but quickly dissolves when immersed in water,” he points out. “Fish can eat the remains and it will not harm the environment.” In a good year, the sculptors earn anywhere between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 5,000 per idol and even Rs. 10,000 for the big ones. This year, they have curtailed production due to fear of losses and customer uncertainty. What is more, all idol-makers have borrowed money from acquaintances and banks. Now, they are unsure of how to return the money. For some, the creations are their only legacy. In the case of Mr. Raja’s family, his uncle died on August 4. “His idols are all that he has left behind for his family,” he says. The situation is no different in Kondayampettai, where some families make pots, lamps and clay Ganesha idols. With only 15 days left for the festival, they are in a dilemma: to make or not to make the idols this year. “We have bought clay, but we are not sure of the demand,” says R. Saroja, a lamp-maker. The artisans want the State government to announce norms for celebration of the festival so that customers can purchase their idols. “We do not think the authorities will allow celebrations on streets and in grounds. But if the norms are announced, customers will at least buy small idols for their homes,” she hopes.  If the authorities announce norms for the celebration, customers will at least buy small idols for their homes R. Saroja A lamp-maker of Kondayampettai
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free rice for family cardholders till November, says CM||The State government will distribute free rice to all eligible family cardholders till November, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in Dindigul on Thursday. He was here to take part in a review meeting on COVID-19. The government had procured sufficient stocks, and there was no problem in moving them to the rations shops, he said. According to him, the agriculture sector had not been hit by the pandemic. Farmers’ produce were moved to the markets and the Direct Procurement Centres. The industrial sector too would get relief in a step-by-step manner, Mr. Palaniswami added. The Chief Minister earlier laid foundation stones for projects to be implemented at an estimated cost of Rs. 8.69 crore in the district. He distributed welfare aid to the tune of Rs. 2.96 crore to beneficiaries. Mediapersons covering the event were earlier tested for COVID-19. Dindigul Collector M. Vijayalakshmi presided over the meeting, in which Forests Minister Dindigul C. Srinivasan was a participant. Beds readied Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Thursday said that 1.18 lakh beds had been readied across the State to treat COVID-19 patients. The State government was creating additional facilities in government medical college hospitals, district headquarters hospitals and taluk hospitals for treating the infected, he said. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the Government Hospital in Viralimalai, Pudukottai district, he said the Centre had appreciated the measures taken by Tamil Nadu to curb the spread of the infection. The Minister was accompanied by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Pudukottai District Collector P. Uma Maheswari and officials.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SIGC secretary dies||S. Kunjithapatham, Secretary, Shrimati Indira Gandhi College (SIGC), died in the city on Thursday. He was 59. Kunjithapatham, an advocate by profession, tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi a few days ago. The SIGC secretary had co-morbid conditions including diabetes. He succumbed to the infection early on Thursday. Son of late K. Santhanam, founder secretary, Kunjithapatham is survived by his wife, K. Meena, former Vice-Chancellor, Bharathidasan University, and son, K. Chandrasekar.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Overhauled steam loco of NMR dispatched from Tiruchi workshop||A fully overhauled metre gauge steam locomotive of the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) has been dispatched from the Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi to Mettupalayam for operation on the hilly section. This is the first steam locomotive to be dispatched during the current lockdown from the over 80-year-old workshop where it was refurbished. Belonging to the ‘X’ class type, the oil-fired locomotive which was sent to the workshop for periodic overhaul last year was originally planned for dispatch in March. However, the plan suffered a setback due to the lockdown . The workshop resumed functioning with full strength only in June. The NMR locomotive which was manufactured at the workshop six years ago had run more than 25,000 km before being sent for a complete overhaul. A 60-member technical team involved in the task dismantled the steam loco to start the work from the scratch, a senior officer said. A new generator set, a new boiler and a new cog-wheel assembly have been fitted in the loco. The loco cabin has been provided with a modified LED fitting for better illumination. The cylinder and its components were reclaimed at the workshop itself where some brass items required for the loco were also produced in-house. A 4,500 litre capacity stainless steel water tank has been installed inside the loco replacing the one fitted earlier in order to avoid corrosion of the tank. The loco has two separate fuel tanks - one to store 2,250 litres of furnace oil and another to store 725 litres of high speed diesel. The exterior of the locomotive have been given a fresh coat of polyurethane painting. Trial run of the loco was conducted in the presence of a senior technical personnel who had come from Coonoor. The loco was dispatched on Wednesday on a trailer lorry to Mettupalayam. Trial runs would be conducted on the NMR from Mettupalayam to Coonoor. The work had been carried out at a cost of Rs. 3.9 crore, the officer said, adding that overhauling of a coal-fired steam loco of the NMR would now begin at the workshop.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners threaten stir if demands not met||The State Lorry Owners Association has urged the State government to reduce VAT on diesel. It has also highlighted various other demands as their livelihood has been severely affected due to the COVID-19 crisis. M.R. Kumarasamy, president of the association said that as crude oil rates have gone down globally, the State government must consider reducing VAT on diesel like the Delhi government. The association has also sought reduction of excise tax imposed by the Centre. The association demanded exemption from quarterly tax payment and demanded extension of interest free moratorium for payment of interest to loans for another six months. The organisation also demanded extension of vehicle permits, driving licence for another six months beyond September 30 and extension of vehicle insurance for another six months. The association said that a decision would be taken regarding strike during the executive committee meeting on August 20, if the governments do not respond to their demands in two weeks.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gang attempts housebreak in Coimbatore again||After a fortnight, a group of men who were found roaming in underwear in residential areas here attempted housebreaks again on Wednesday night. The men made attempts at Poonga Nagar, near Irugur. While the men managed to break open a house which a woman entrepreneur had rented out for stocking materials for online trading, inmates of another house sensed the presence of the strangers when they opened a window. They ran away as the inmates switched on lights. The men were first caught on camera while roaming in residential areas of Deepam Nagar at Irugur in the early hours of July 23. Visuals showed seven men roaming in underwear, some of them carrying sticks. Another surveillance camera visual showed four such men roaming in Balaguru Garden at Peelamedu in the early hours of July 25. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) E.S. Uma said that multiple teams had been formed to nab the men. The police had also sought the support of residential organisations for inputs and alerts, she added.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven arrested for robbery||Tiruppur City Police on Thursday arrested a seven-member gang for burglary at houses, grocery shops and mobile shops at Veerapandi and Nallur police station limits. According to a press release, the accused were S. Vignesh, 21, M. Sivakumar, 26, S. Sidhik Ali, 46, A. Kolinjiappan, 23, C. Sakthivel, 21, M. Loganathan, 21 and A. Nagurmeeran, 30. The special team, which arrested the gang retrieved the stolen properties. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Submit report on sand quarrying: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Thanjavur Collector to file a status report on a PIL plea that sought a direction to restrain the State from carrying out sand quarrying operations in Budalur. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the Collector to file the report and asked if the sand quarried was used for construction activities of government projects or sold to private parties. In his petition, V. Jeevakumar from Budalur said the government had issued environment clearance to operate a sand quarry in Thiruchenampoondi in Budalur. But the clearance was issued in violation of norms. The hearing was posted for September 2.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Soon, Chair on ADR, AI at SASTRA||A chair on alternative dispute resolution and artificial intelligence at SASTRA, Deemed to be University, will be launched by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday. She will also inaugurate the centenary celebrations of eminent jurist Nani Palkhivala and deliver the XVI Nani Palkhivala Memorial Lecture. N. Chandrasekaran, Chairman, TATA Sons, will join the event to be held on the virtual platform as guest of honour. The link for the virtual event will be made available atwww.sastra.edu
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two drown near reservoir in Perambalur||A 25-year-old man and a 17-year-old boy drowned in a pool of water at Kottarai reservoir in the district on Thursday. They were identified as R. Ranjith, 25, and G. Parthiban, a second-year diploma student, from Siruvachur. Ranjith was preparing for MS course after completing MBBS. Poliec said Ranjith, Parthiban and two others went to the drainage point of the reservoir where water was stagnant. All four slipped and fell into the water. A few women, who were washing clothes nearby, managed to rescue two of them by throwing sarees. However, Ranjith and Parthiban drowned as they did not know swimming. A team of firefighters from Ariyalur station rushed to the spot and retrieved their bodies. The bodies were sent to Perambalur Government Hospital for postmortem. Maruvathur Police are investigating.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 6     No. of cases on Thursday: 190 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 5,997 Indigenous cases: 5,959 Imported cases: 38 No. of active cases: 1,579 Persons recovered: 4,322 No. of persons died: 96    Persons tested positive so far: 1,059 Persons recovered: 712 Deaths: 18 Active cases: 329
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s recovery rate goes up by 11 percentage points in a week||Although the State has seen a sudden surge in COVID-19 cases in the past one month, the good news is that Karnataka’s recovery rate has seen a considerable jump in the past one week. With 80,281 of the total 1,58,254 patients recovering, the recovery rate as on Thursday was 50.73%. The national average is 67.54%. The recovery rate, which was quite good in the State till June 18 at 62.72%, plummeted to 36.5% as on July 20 and stood at 39.36% on July 30. Now, it is again going up, sending out positive signals, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. In the past one week, while the overall rate in the State has increased by 11.37 percentage points, in Bengaluru it has risen by 20.7 percentage points, going from 29.59% on July 30 to 50.34% as on Thursday. While Yadgir district has the highest recovery rate (73.7%), Vijayapura is second at 70.07%. Belagavi has the lowest recovery rate (26.37%). Yadgir Deputy Commissioner Kurma Rao attributed the high recovery rate in his district to early detection and early intervention. “While most of the cases, initially from among the Maharashtra returnees, were asymptomatic, we have involved private doctors through the district unit of Indian Medical Association for treatment and management of critical cases,” he told The Hindu . Recovery rate has seen an upward revision in the north Karnataka districts that had the highest influx of Mumbai returnees. While the rate is 66.9% in Uttara Kannada, it is 66.72% in Bidar, and 65.69% in Raichur. Mr. Sudhakar said the rates were likely to go up further in the next week. “Positive cases in Karnataka started going up only in the last one month, whereas a few other States saw their peak in May and June. Hence, our recovery rate may be low when compared with such States. But the trend has reversednow.”
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bed management app launched||As many as 1,200 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANM) and link workers in the city may soon be given tablets which they will use to collate data of various surveys. This is a part of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) initiative to improve public health infrastructure and capabilities in its Urban Primary Healthcare Centres (UPHC). This was announced during the launch of the UPHC portal and an app to track the hospital bed management systems at the BBMP head office on Thursday. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said the civic body, in collaboration with the United Way of Bengaluru and its healthcare technology experts, has taken up the initiative. Under the first phase, the 141 UPHCs in the city will start collecting data about patients visiting the centres and their health condition. “This initiative empowers ASHAs, ANMs and link workers in UPHCs to perform various surveys using efficient mobile applications that include immunizations, larvae, dengue, vulnerability assessments etc,” he said.    Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwathnarayan, who launched the initiatives said the BBMP will set up 57 PHCs in outskirts of the city, as well as improve the existing facilities in the 141 UPHCs. With the portal, information related to healthcare services that was earlier in silos would now be integrated. “The UPHC portal will help improve healthcare services, as the GPS-enabled app will integrate analytics. This will also help the BBMP make informed policy decisions about communicable and non-communicable diseases, vulnerable populations and health needs in each of the 198 wards,” he said. Private hospitals and laboratories in the city were mandated under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act to regularly update data on infectious, non-infectious and communicable diseases on the UPHC portal as well. The COVID-19 hospital bed management system app will capture real-time data. The BBMP already has a dashboard on bed availability.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, log in to virtual court to pay fine for traffic offences||Traffic rule violators now need not physically appear before the jurisdictional courts in Bengaluru to plead guilty to minor offences and pay the meagre fine after the police report the violation to the court. They can simply log in to a virtual court 24x7 from any remote location and seek closure of the case by admitting the violation and paying the prescribed fine through the online payment gateway integrated to the virtual court system. This is among the six e-services launched by the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday to speed up justice delivery system using technology. Filing of cases in petitions in electronic mode in the High Court and all the district courts, online application system for receiving certified copies of orders, payment of court fee and other charges, and a dedicated website for commercial courts in the State are the other e-services. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, SC judge and chairperson of e-courts committee, who launched the e-services, said that similar courts in Delhi, Chennai, Pune, Kochi, and Faridabad helped dispose of 15.19 lakh traffic cases as only 49,000 violators chose to contest the violations. He said e-seva kendras would be set up in all 3,300 district court complexes in the country to facilitate lawyers and litigants like autorickshaw, truck or cab drivers, who have no facility or knowledge to access virtual courts. One regular court was sufficient to deal with cases of six courts for traffic offences in Bengaluru, he added. Justice Chandrachud said the apex court’s e-committee had prepared training module for various stakeholders, including members of the Bar, in 22 languages on use of technology. Justice Aravind Kumar, HC judge and chairperson of the court’s computer committee, said cases can be disposed of in a few minutes to a few hours through the virtual court as against months to years before regular courts. Virtual court can be accessed through vcourts.gov.in
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Despite precautions, gyms unable to draw customers||Despite getting the green signal to open, gyms and fitness centres in the city continue to stare at huge losses. Fitness enthusiasts are still not convinced about the safety of heading to their favourite workout places, leaving those running such centres saddled with mounting costs of keeping the place open, maintaining equipment and putting in place new precautions for COVID-19. Pappu Ale, who owns Aero Fitness Centre, which has two branches in the city, said they were open on Wednesday with everything ready as per the government’s guidelines. But customers are not coming in. “People are scared. We have invested in everything from PPE kits and sanitisers to providing patrons with free masks. But I don’t see people coming in for the next six months. On Wednesday, not a single person turned up,” he said. The pandemic and the subsequent lockdown has had a very hard bearing on the sector, he added. “Many gyms in Koramangala have closed. How will they pay rent, electricity? In five months, my losses were Rs. 11 lakh,” he said. Online classes are providing some cushion, but to a very small extent. “We had to give certain complimentary equipment, such as dumbbells and boxing kits, to our customers. I’m planning to downsize and close portions of the gym in order to sustain it,” he said. ‘Shorts not allowed’ Kumar Velu, owner, Powerfitness gym in Hennur, said everything that the government prescribed was in place: mandating the Arogya Setu app, thermal scanning, sanitisers, disinfecting shoes, face shield and gloves. “We are not allowing people to wear shorts and sleeveless clothes. We have asked them to bring towels, one to wipe equipment with sanitiser and one for themselves. They are not allowed to use the showers,” he said. The gym has reduced the equipment so that social distancing can be maintained. “Yet, from more than a 100 people in a day, now only 12 customers are coming in. We have requested the owner to allow us to pay the rent in instalments,” he said. It is not just gym owners. The rest of the ecosystem is also hurting, said Kiran Aachar, one of the owners of Fit Fine Fitness gym, Mathikere. “Many gyms are up for sale. Trainers are out of work and many have gone back to their hometowns. Owners of stores that sell fitness supplement are also hit. They are unable to get imported stock and what’s available is nearing the expiry date. They don't know what to do with it,” said Mr. Aachar. Only 18 people turned up at his gym on Wednesday. He believed one of the reasons was that their main clientèle were students, most of who are no longer in Bengaluru. “We are making a conscious decision to allow only patrons who live within a four-kilometre radius because we don’t want anyone from a containment zone to enter. We have cut down one hour sessions by 20 minutes to accommodate sanitisation. But we have gone back 15 years. I see this getting better only after a vaccine is found. Right now, it’s a question of survival,” he added.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CLAT: law schools may have to devise own plans||With the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 put off indefinitely, individual national law universities may inevitably have to develop their own strategies to conduct admissions to their undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, said sources. The executive committee of the Consortium of National Law Universities, which met on Wednesday, had announced that CLAT 2020, which was to be held on August 22, would be postponed keeping in mind the increase in number of COVID-19 cases. They have not given a new date for the examination. CLAT is the gateway for students into 22 national law schools across the country. “As the academic year is being pushed, individual law schools in the country may have to develop their own strategies and explore various options to conduct admissions,” a source said. Sources pointed out that some university heads were not in favour of putting off the exam. A notification put out on August 5 stated that it was “unanimously” decided to postpone the exam. A new notification, which was later published on the consortium’s website, omits the word “unanimously”. At the executive committee’s meeting, a few university heads had reportedly battled for CLAT to be held and did not want the individual law schools to be empowered to conduct their own admissions. “Different entrance exams have been conducted already and we were hoping that CLAT would be conducted with all safety measures in place on August 22. With the consortium announcing that it has been postponed, and with no new date given, law schools are now in a spot and may have to develop their own strategies,” a source said.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Speaker holds meeting on convening session||As the State legislature session has to be convened before September 23, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Thursday held a meeting with officials on conducting the session by following social distancing norms. The Speaker said the place for holding the session would be decided by next week after discussions with Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhakar, and officials of the State legislature. Mr. Kageri explored options of holding the session outside the State Secretariat in Bengaluru to ensure social distancing in seating arrangements of members and Ministers. The Speaker discussed various steps to be taken during the session to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Kageri told presspersons that he had begun discussions with the State government on holding the legislature session and was also monitoring steps to be taken by Parliament and other State governments for conducting sessions. Article 174 of the Constitution stipulates that “six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session”. The principal Opposition, the Congress, has also been demanding that the State legislature session be convened to discuss issues related to handling of COVID-19 by the government, and various amendments made to laws through Ordinances.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||44-year-old pourakarmika ends life||A pourakarmika allegedly ended his life on Wednesday evening after getting discharged from a private hospital where he had been admitted for a week when he tested positive for COVID-19. According to the police, Ranganath, 44, stayed with his family near Magadi Road. “After being discharged, he went home. But he left his house and went to his friend’s place nearby. As they were good friends, Ranganath had the key to his friend’s room,” a police official said. The incident came to light when his friend returned home. A case was filed at Magadi Road police station. The police said he was advised by the hospital staff to be under home quarantine after he was discharged. “But his family did not know that he had COVID-19. They thought he was hospitalised because of a stomach infection,” said a police officer. Babu, president, BBMP Pourakarmika Sanghagala Okkuta, said the government should do something to boost the morale of pourakarmikas as over 150 of them had tested positive recently. “They need to be counselled, and given proper information about the virus,” he said. ( Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.)
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Highest daily increase of 6,805 cases in State||With 6,805 new cases recorded on Thursday — the highest single-day increase so far — the total number of positive cases in the State touched 1,58,254. The number of cases had crossed the one-lakh mark on July 27. The toll touched 2,897, with 93 new deaths. This is apart from eight non-COVID-19 deaths. Of the 75,068 active cases, 671 are being monitored in the ICU. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,544 cases on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 67,425. Fifteen of the 93 deaths were reported from there, taking the toll to 1,178. Meanwhile, the number of recoveries continued to outnumber active cases for the second straight day. With 5,602 people discharged on Thursday, the total recoveries touched 80,281, as against 75,068 active cases. Karnataka has been recording more than 4,500 recoveries per day since Monday.  The State conducted 48,421 tests in the last 24-hour period, including 27,930 rapid antigen tests. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said the civic body was planning to increase testing to 10 times the daily reported cases. “As of now, we are conducting nearly 16,000 tests daily in Bengaluru,” he said. Hospitals with over 100 beds have handed over 3,000 to thegovernment so far.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Act immediately to provide relief: Congress||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to identify shelters and relocate people from risky areas in the rain-affected districts. “The government failed to provide relief for the people who had suffered during the floods in August–October last year. In spite of repeated protests, the government had turned a deaf ear. Innocent people are paying the price,” the Congress leader, who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19, said. KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre tweeted videos and images of large tracts of land inundated by the Krishna in parts of north Karnataka and urged the government to act.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Eight products to help fight COVID-19 launched||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwathnarayan, who is also the Minister of IT, BT and Science & Technology, on Thursday launched eight products aimed at mitigating the impact of COVID-19 through an online platform. These products include four “immunity boosters” (tea, tablet, chapati, drops) and apparatus for contactless monitoring of vitals, water sanitiser, fruits and vegetables sanitiser, and AC air sanitiser. These products have been developed by startups at the Bangalore Bioinnovation Centre (BBC), an initiative of Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society (KITS). The Deputy CM said, “These technologies and products show that Karnataka has emerged as a leading State in developing solutions to fight the pandemic, which is a result of the robust innovation ecosystem here.” Dr. Jitendra Kumar, Managing Director of BBC, said they have launched a support platform for innovators developing products for fighting COVID-19. BBC signed an MoU with IIM, Bangalore. Prof. K. Kumar, Dean, IIM said that expertise and capabilities of IIM in market analysis and scale-up of businesses help in access to venture capital, including hand holding of startups after they have done proof of concept studies at BBC.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CET results by August 20||The results of the Common Entrance Test will be declared by August 20. The consensual agreement on seat sharing with engineering colleges will be completed in a week, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan has said. With regard to medical colleges, he said there is no reason why the earlier seat sharing agreement could not continue this year as well.
07 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||e-launch of handloom council today||The Women’s Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (WICCI) will e-launch the Karnataka Handloom Council of the WICCI — WICCI-KHC — on Friday. According to a WICCI press release, the mission of the KHC will be to promote and support women in the handloom industry working across the value chain — from auxiliary services to weaving, designers to entrepreneurs.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BIAL sets up guidelines||With a rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases among staff at KIA, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) has issued a set of guidelines, including for testing “in the case of employees with high exposure”. Extensive measures have been taken to ensure hand, respiratory and environmental hygiene across the airport. Pool testing will also be conducted. Two ICMR approved swab sample collection facilities at the KIA campus are in place out of which one is “extensively” used for passengers.
07 August 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Monsoon in full vigour across State; red alert in 6 districts||In the wake of southwest monsoon in full vigour across the State leading to deaths and extensive damage to crops and property, the government has issued a red alert in six districts of Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, and Hassan. Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Thursday chaired an emergency meeting with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and held a videoconference with the Deputy Commissioners of the rain-affected districts. The Revenue Minister said he would visit the affected districts on Friday. He said 12 houses were fully damaged and 375 partially damaged in the affected districts. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa directed officials to provide relief of Rs. 5 lakh for completely damaged houses. Since hostels, schools and colleges in district headquarters have been converted into COVID Care Centres, he instructed officials to use schools, colleges, and other public places in villages as relief centres. Mr. Yediyurappa directed the district in-charge Ministers to remain in their constituencies and visit the affected areas.  No power supply Meanwhile, rivers in spate have inundated low-lying areas while reservoirs are fast filling up in many parts of the State. Life has been hit in Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, and Hassan districts owing to continuous rain and flooding in low-lying areas. Hundreds of villages in the three districts have no power supply for last two to three days. The water level in the dams built across Hemavati, Tunga, and Bhadra rivers is on the rise. Belagavi bore the brunt of rain fury in north Karnataka. Though rain subsided on Thursday after lashing for two consecutive days, water release from Maharashtra continued to increase. Water was released at the rate of over 1.31 lakh cusecs (around 10 tmcft) into the Krishna and its tributaries, which led to inundation of several villages in Belagavi district. Heavy rain in the Krishna basin in Maharashtra has increased the inflow into the Hipparagi reservoir in Jamkhandi taluk of Bagalkot while the inflow into the Lal Bahadur Shastri Reservoir at Almatti in Vijayapura district was at the rate of 57,505 cusecs. The overflowing Ghataprabha has submerged an old bridge across the river between Mirji and Mahalingapur in Bagalkot district. Several folds more Kalaburagi district has received 48% excess rainfall — 412 mm as against the normal average of 278 mm during this monsoon so far — resulting in crop damage on a large scale. Standing crops on over 29,500 hectares of land have been damaged. The coastal belt comprising Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada districts have received a cumulative rainfall of 342 mm as against the normal of 200 mm for the period of August 1 to 6 which is 71% above normal. The Malnad region, including Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu have received a cumulative rainfall of 227 mm as against the normal of 107 mm during the same period, which is 112% above normal, according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). In the Cauvery basin, the inflow into the Krishnaraja Sagar in Mandya district was at the rate of 37,068 cusecs and the water level was at 110.13 ft as against the full-reservoir level of 124.8 ft.  (With inputs from Hassan, Belagavi, Hubballi, and Kalaburagi)
07 August 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||18 localities identified as highly vulnerable to floods in Hubballi-Dharwad limits||In the wake of incessant rainfall in Dharwad district and the neighbouring districts, Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil held an emergency review meeting on the flood situation here on Thursday and asked officials to work in coordination to take up precautionary and relief measures. Chairing the meeting, Mr. Patil emphasised the need for officials of the Revenue, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Panchayat Raj departments, Fire and Emergency Services and National Disaster Response Force to work in close coordination to mitigate the hardships of the people in case of any calamity. Referring to losses reported during the previous year because of heavy downpour and floods, he said that as there was a possibility of more rain this year, the officials should work in close coordination to take up relief measures at short notice. Floods possibility He said that as per an assessment, there was a likelihood of floods in various waterbodies, including the Benni Halla, the Tuppari Halla, the Dodda Halla, the Huli Keri, the Mugad Keri, the Unkal Lake and the Kelageri Lake, and 83 villages and 43 localities were likely to be affected. Mr. Patil said that 37 houses in various villages of the district had been damaged due to heavy downpour and crop loss had been reported from Navalgund taluk. He asked the officials of the Agriculture, the Horticulture and the Revenue departments to take up survey to estimate the loss and report it to the district administration at the earliest. He asked the officials to form teams of 10 volunteers in each village where there was a likelihood of floods and involve them in flood relief works whenever needed. He said that a district-level officer had been appointed as nodal officer for each taluk for monitoring flood relief measures. “Wherever there is a necessity, identify buildings for setting up relief camps and for providing food, water and other basic amenities,” he said. Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat B.C. Sateesh asked the officials to involve the local people for effective implementation of the flood relief works. Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal said that a total of 43 localities were likely to get affected due to floods and of these, 18 had been identified as highly vulnerable. Already, 17 marriage halls had been taken over for providing shelter to people from low-lying areas. The municipal staff have the keys of these halls in their possession, he said.
07 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Take up crop loss survey: Bommai||Home Minister and in-charge of Udupi Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday asked the Udupi district administration to conduct a survey of crop loss due to heavy rain and distribute compensation to the affected farmers at the earliest. Speaking to Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha through a video conference from Bengaluru, the Minister asked him to constitute taluk-level teams, comprising Revenue and Agriculture department officials, to conduct the survey. He asked the Deputy Commissioner to ensure that the farmers did not face dearth of fertilizer for paddy cultivation and other farming activities. The Minister also asked him to distribute compensation to those whose houses have been damaged in the rain, at the earliest. People in flood-affected areas should be given ration on priority, he said. The Deputy Commissioner told the Minister that the flood situation now does not warrant shifting people from any area. Mr. Jagadeesha said that the district required 1,000 tonnes of fertilizer and Mangaluru Chemicals and Fertilisers will supply it on Friday. As much as 88 % sowing has been completed. Referring to COVID-19, he said that of the 2,100 active cases, 1,100 patients are taking treatment in their houses and the remaining are in care centres and in hospitals. The district has reported 46 COVID-19 deaths. The death rate is on the rise as patients are getting themselves admitted at the last minute, he said. The Minister instructed the Deputy Commissioner to take up rapid antigen tests for COVID-19 only if its absolutely necessary. Otherwise, RT-PCR should be followed, he said.
07 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Debris cleared on Charmadi Ghat||Charmadi Ghat on National Highway 73 connecting Dakshina Kannada and Chikkamagaluru districts that had witnessed landslips along with boulders falling since Tuesday due to torrential rain was cleared for traffic by Wednesday evening. Heavy boulders had fallen on the carriageway near Curve 3 in Dakshina Kannada district early on Tuesday almost blocking vehicular traffic. Officials had to divert traffic to clear the debris. By Tuesday night, the boulders were removed from the carriageway facilitating vehicular movement, said Ganapathi Hegde, Executive Engineer, National Highways Division of the State Public Works Department. Meanwhile, there were minor landslips after the Jenukallu Annappaswamy Temple coming under Hassan Division of the PWD. They too were removed by Wednesday evening, Mr. Hegde said. Only light motor vehicles were allowed to operate via Charmadi Ghat during this monsoon as several stretches of the ghat that had witnessed landslips last year were yet to be restored. The district administrations of Dakshina Kannada and Chikkamagaluru have also banned vehicular movement during the night through the ghat road.
07 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman slips into overflowing storm-water drain, dies||Incessant rainfall since Wednesday has left several houses damaged in Kundapur and Brahmavar taluks of Udupi and in some parts of Dakshina Kannada. Major rivers in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada are in spate. A 60-year-old woman, Gulabi, from Puttur village of Udupi died after she slipped into an overflowing storm-water drain in Hanumanth Nagar of Nittur on the outskirts of Udupi on Wednesday night. The Udupi Town Police said that passers-by rescued Gulabi but she passed away. She is the second woman to have died in floods in Udupi. On August 3, Sooramma Poojary was washed away in an overflowing stream in Mururu of Kaltodu village near Byndoor. According to the Udupi district administration, 16 houses are partially damaged and horticultural crops were damaged in 11 villages of Kundapur taluk. As many as 11 houses are partially damaged and horticultural crops were damaged in nine villages of Brahmavar taluk. A house in Renjal village of Karkala taluk was also partially damaged. High tide in Padukere damaged the fisheries road between Udupi and Kaup. Sea erosion was reported in Kodi of Kundapur. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the district administration has identified 26 flood-prone villages. So far, 116 houses have been partially damaged and two houses were completely damaged in heavy rain. Relief amount has been given to the affected families, he said. In Dakshina Kannada, heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds lashed several parts on Thursday. Major rivers in the district are in spate. Nearly 20 electricity poles were damaged in Gurupura resulting in disruption in power supply. A transformer was damaged in Yedapadavu. A few houses were damaged in Baikampady in the city. According to India Meteorological Department, strong winds with speeds reaching up to 60 kmph and high tides in the sea ranging up to 5.7 m are likely to prevail along the coast on Friday. Fishermen have been advised not to go fishing.
07 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Wall collapses inside Pernem tunnel||The services of several trains on Konkan Railway network have been suspended till August 20 following after a tunnel-lined wall inside Pernem tunnel in Goa collapsed in the early hours of Wednesday. A release from KRCL here said that the wall of the tunnel between Madure and Pernem stations in the Karwar region of the corporation collapsed at km 384/6-7. There were no casualties. KRCL officials rushed to the site for early restoration of traffic. Consequently, the Railways has diverted some of the trains operating via Konkan network, including Train No 02617 Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin Superfast Special Express which was operated via Madgaon-Londa- Miraj- Pu- ne-Panvel-Kalyan. Train No 06346 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak (T) Special Express was diverted via Madgaon-Londa-Miraj-Pune and Panvel. Train No 02432 New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central Rajdhani Special Express was diverted via Panvel-Pune-Miraj-Londa and Madgaon. Train Nos 02283/02284 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin Weekly Duranto Express Special (two trips each) would be diverted via Pune-Londa-Madgaon.
07 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ranganathittu sanctuary closed for visitors||The Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary was closed for visitors from Thursday in anticipation of water discharge from the Krishnaraja Sagar as the reservoir has been getting heavy inflow from the last few days following heavy rain in Kodagu. Another reason for the early closure of the tourist attraction, ahead of water discharge into the river, is poor footfall to the site since its reopening, in view of increase in COVID-19 cases in the region. Until further orders Deputy Conservator of Forests Alexander told The Hindu that the sanctuary and boating at Srirangapatna was closed from Thursday until further orders.
07 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||KBJNL releases water from Basavasagar||Due to considerable inflow at Basavasagar Reservoir at Narayanpur in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district, officials of Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited (KBJNL) have started releasing water into the Krishna. By 7 p.m. on Thursday, they had released water at a rate of 61,350 cusecs from the reservoir through seven gates. The inflow was recorded at 60,000 cusecs.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State govt.’s back and forth on syllabus leaves schools at sea||With the government removing the proposed trimmed school syllabus from its website and putting it up for review following criticism, private schools that follow the State board are at a loss over which lessons to teach. To add to the confusion, the government is yet to approve the report that lays down the rules for conducting online classes. The report was submitted a month ago by the expert committee appointed by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. The report, ‘Continuation of Learning in School Education of Karnataka’, puts a cap on the number of hours devoted to technology-enabled education during the COVID-19 pandemic. For now, many schools are conducting online classes as per the guidelines stipulated by the report. “The Department of Primary and Secondary Education is working at a snail’s pace. We are teaching lessons from the old syllabus. The government needs to publish the revised syllabus at the earliest so that teachers can prepare accordingly,” said D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Private school managements had started online classes in June, with most conducting refresher courses comprising lessons from the previous grade. By mid-June, many began classes for the 2020-21 academic year. In July-end, the government shortened the syllabus by 30%. Chapters pertaining to Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan, some parts of the Indian Constitution and complete lessons on Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed were dropped from the class VI and VII curriculum. Many teachers said that they had already covered portions of the curriculum which the government trimmed or deleted. “We then decided to follow the revised syllabus, but now, even that is under review. Our teachers do not know what to teach,” said a teacher from a high school in north Bengaluru. Parents are unhappy with the government’s responses to e-learning. “The government has been extremely lax about laying out a structured plan for learning during the pandemic,” said Chandana R., whose son is in a pre-primary class. K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that schools can teach the entire syllabus till the trimmed syllabus is published. “Textbooks were distributed to schools. Regarding guidelines pertaining to online classes, schools have to follow the High Court order. Based on the interim order, the government will not cap the number of hours,” he said, adding that schools can conduct online classes based on consultation with parents.
07 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Caseload high in Alappuzha||COVID-19 cases continue to spike in the district with 99 people diagnosed with the disease on Thursday. Among the fresh cases, 94 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Three persons who came from other States and two from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the total contact cases, 39 were reported from Pattanakkad and another 25 from Chettikkad in Mararikulam South grama panchayat. The Chettikkad COVID-19 cluster, in particular, is turning out to be a major cause for concern. Between July 31 and August 6, at least 96 cases were reported from there. M.G. Laiju, vice president, Mararikulam South grama panchayat, said the local body had so far logged 191 COVID-19 cases. Of this, the Chettikkad cluster accounted for 80% of the cases. 30 cured Thirty persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the disease on the day. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 961. Wards 1 and 16 in Alappuzha municipality, wards 2 and 15 in Punnapra North and wards 1 and 21 in Chettikulangara grama panchayat were declared as containment zones. District Collector A. Alexander issued an order directing to close Valiya Market in Alappuzha to tackle the spread of the pandemic. Meanwhile, a COVID-19 review meeting attended by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac decided to increase the number of tests in the district.
07 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Nehru Trophy Boat Race cancelled||The 2020 edition of the Nehru Trophy Boat Race has been cancelled. The event is usually held on the second Saturday of August. District Collector A. Alexander, who is also the chairman of the Nehru Trophy Boat Race Society, on Thursday said that this year's race was cancelled in view of COVID-19. In 2018 and 2019, the race was held on November 10 and August 31 respectively after an initial postponement because of heavy rain and floods.
07 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Another landslip on Gap Road||A major landslip was reported on the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway following heavy rainfall on Thursday. Initial reports say vast areas of farmland at Kilavipara were damaged in the landslip. Tonnes of rocks and debris came down the hill and a check-dam gave away on impact. The area was witnessing minor landslips since Wednesday. A minor road at Kilavipara was damaged in the landslip, local people said. It is estimated that nearly five acres of a plantation in addition to standing crops in seven acres of private land were destroyed in the landslip. Over 20 landslips had been reported from the area since road widening works started two years back and the stretch had remained closed for traffic considering the chances of landslips there. A major landslip on Gap Road on June 17 had damaged cardamom crops in 13 acres. Marayur and Kanthallur remained cut off after a temporary bridge built at Periyavarai was destroyed in the flood. A bridge constructed there by the British was destroyed in the 2018 floods. The water level in minor dams in the district was nearing the full reservoir level (FRL). The Headworks dam in Munnar was opened and it prevented the Muthirapuzha river from flooding Old Munnar. The water level in Ponmudi dam was 704.20 m (FRL 707.75 m) and that in Kallar dam 821 m (FRL 824.48 m). The Pambla, Mattupetty, and Malankara dams were opened following heavy rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday. The water level in the Idukki and Mullaperiyar dams had risen considerably in the past three days. There was an increase of over 10 ft in Idukki and six ft in the Mullaperiyar water level. The water level in the Idukki reservoir on Thursday was 2,347 ft (FRL 2,403 ft). In Mullaperiyar it was 123 ft (maximum level 142 ft).
07 August 2020||Idukki,KERALA||58 test positive in Idukki||Fifty-eight people tested positive for COVID-19 in Idukki on Thursday, 24 of whom contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of three persons from Thodupuzha, a 52-year-old woman, a 29-year-old health worker, and a 36-year-old man, could not be traced. Thirty-three persons who returned from other States and two who came back from abroad tested positive. Twenty persons recovered on Thursday. Ward 11 of Chakkupallam panchayat was declared a containment zone.
07 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Floods hit Chellanam, again||After a gap of more than three weeks, once again flooding brought misery to the people of the coastal village of Chellanam, already under a COVID-19 lockdown. According to residents in the village, 10 houses sustained serious damage and some of them are no longer inhabitable, having turned into a heap of dirt and damaged walls and roof as heavy waves washed over the seawall in several places from about 11 a.m. on Thursday. Antony Joseph, a fisherman, who has been out of job for the past three months, was in tears describing how his house in Saudi, near Mundamveli, came tumbling down after high waves hit its walls repeatedly. “We are seeking shelter in the parish hall of the Saudi church tonight,” he said.  Babu George in Bazaar area, another part of Chellanam seriously affected by Thursday’s high tide and flooding, said that at least a dozen houses had been damaged. Repeated waves brought loads of sleet into scores of houses along the coastal area on Thursday in the high tide that started about 11 a.m. and lasted up to 4.30 p.m. . The villagers were unable to take any pre-emptive measures against flooding because of the lockdown and most have complained against the official apathy to their plight. ‘Steps taken’ All steps had been taken to rush emergency help to areas in Ernakulam district that are vulnerable to flooding, landslips and other natural disasters, said District Collector S. Suhas in a press release. Measures have also been taken to open camps if needed. In Chellanam, steps were under way to ensure smooth flow of water that entered canals, said the release.
07 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Start-up bucks the trend, hikes staff pay||At a time salary cuts are being widely reported across industries under the economic impact of the pandemic, SurveySparrow, a customer experience platform start-up, has bucked the trend by announcing a salary hike of up to 30% to boost employee morale besides extending its remote work policy. What more, the start-up is even door delivering office ergonomic furniture to their employees, thus helping them overcome the lack of comfortable furniture, which many studies have found to have marred the Work From Home (WFH) arrangement by adversely affecting their physical and even mental well-being. “As an experience-oriented company, SurveySparrow has always believed in delivering refined experiences. We have not halted our hiring process or slowed down our expansion. We owe it to our relentlessly working teams and appreciate their hard work”, said Shihab Muhammed, founder & CEO, SurveySparrow, which claims to be on target to clock more than 30,000 customers by the end of this year. Based in the U.S., SurveySparrow was founded in October 2017, and the start-up has offices in Palo Alto and Kochi. It has expanded and strengthened its internal collaboration and productivity tools to support the teams to make a smooth shift towards remote working, realising that many organisations tend to overlook the need to keep active employee communications, team interactions, employee wellness and the culture in remote working arrangements. From virtual logins to productivity tools to continuous peer recognition, employees are helped to adopt to remote working. The start-up has also equipped employees with Internet connections and other necessities taking into account the need for dedicated workspace and connectivity. SurveySparrow has marked 3x growth by the first two quarters of this year and is continuing the growth curve. It boasts over 20,000 customers in 108 countries that include Godrej, Oyo, PaySafe, FedEx, Deloitte Digital, SAP, and Siemens. The company has also managed to raise seed funding of $1.4 million.
07 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court raps civic body||The Kochi Corporation has come under fire from the Kerala High Court for its “callous attitude” toward pedestrians as it allowed construction of stalls and other structures on footpaths and paved tiles in an uneven manner on the walkways. Justice Anil K. Narendran slammed the civic body when a petition filed by Praveen George, seeking a directive to the Corporation to prevent unauthorised construction of fish stalls on the footpath in front of his property on Chilavannoor Bund Road, came up for hearing. The court observed that “the conduct of the Kochi Corporation in constructing the fish stall/structure on the footpath of Chilavannoor Bund Road after spending considerable amount for the construction and maintenance of the footpath showed its callous attitude toward pedestrians, including those with disabilities and reduced mobilities, as well as scant regard to the law” laid down by the High Court. The court reminded the Corporation that the convenience of pedestrians should be the paramount consideration. The court directed the Corporation to file an affidavit in three weeks, stating the steps taken to ensure the mobility and safety of pedestrians.
07 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Keep footpaths free of encroachments, says HC||The Kerala High Court on Thursday held that no local authorities should permit any unauthorised constructions on public streets, including footpaths, and all such encroachments would have to be removed to ensure mobility and safety of pedestrians, including those with disabilities and reduced mobility. Justice Anil K. Narendran made the observation while dealing with a writ plea by Praveen George of Kochi seeking a directive to Kochi Corporation to remove a fish stall being built on the footpath near his property. Mobility and safety The court observed that in view of the guidelines for pedestrian facilities formulated by the Indian Road Congress, no constructions were legally permissible on the footpath which was a portion of right of way of the road used for the movement of pedestrians. Such constructions on public streets would force pedestrians to walk in unsafe circumstances, adversely affecting the mobility and safety of all pedestrians, including those with disabilities and reduced mobility. In fact, such encroachments would have to be removed invoking the provisions of Sections 367(3), 369, and 372(a) of the Kerala Municipalities Act and Section 220 of Kerala Panchayat Raj Act. The court observed that footpaths of a public street were meant for the movement of pedestrians, including those with disabilities. They should have an even surface without cracks or bumps for comfortable walking, and be wide enough to accommodate pedestrian flow at any given point of time. It had to be maintained without any obstructions. The construction of stall/structure, either temporarily or permanently, on footpaths by any persons, including local bodies, was not legally permissible since such an obstruction would force pedestrians to walk in unsafe circumstances. The court recalled that it had earlier held that parking of vehicles was not legally permissible on footpaths and that an effort should be made to create a condition in which pedestrians were not forced to walk in unsafe circumstances.
07 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||When ladoos landed cops in the soup||How much damage can a few ladoos cause? Quite a lot, going by the predicament in which the police personnel at the Muvattupuzha police station along the eastern suburbs of Kochi now find themselves in. Accepting a packet of ladoos on Wednesday, the day the bhoomi pujan marking the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh was conducted, has landed the station in the soup. Regardless of whether the police personnel knew they were taking part in the celebration of a contentious development, the incident got leaked on the social media and was widely circulated. And it assumed a propagandist slant as messages began circulating that a police station under the Left Front government which had always been against the demolition of the Babri Masjid, celebrated the bhoomi pujan . In the wake of the controversy, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), K. Karthik, ordered a probe into the incident. “The Muvattupuzha DySP has been asked to submit the inquiry report at the earliest”, he said. As per the version doing the rounds among the cops, a BJP supporter running a shop in front of the station reportedly handed over a packet of ladoos as a celebratory gesture to a policeman on sentry duty. He took it and kept it in the station. It is not clear whether the policeman knew why the ladoos were being served. Later, the police personnel at the station ate them, which they claim, was done without knowing the celebratory purpose for which the sweets were shared. Asked whether the police unknowingly had the sweets, Mr. Karthik declined to comment and said he would rather wait for the probe report.
07 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online art shows keep alive Hiroshima, Nagasaki||With COVID-19 continuing to restrict all activities, artists and art students are increasingly exploring online activities as a vent for their creativity and a means to express their solidarity with the world. Typical of the new normal in the art world are two online art shows this week that intend to share the pain of war on the 75th anniversary of the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. On Sunday The shows are being organised under the aegis of White Rose Movement, a cultural forum that stands against fascism and war, says former chairman of Kerala Lalithakala Akademi T.A. Satyapal, who is also curating the shows. The first show, ‘Sky Blue, Shadows of Hiroshima,’ was inaugurated on Thursday by Hindi poet Ashok Vajpeyi. The second, ‘Sky Blue, Shadows of Nagasaki,’ will be inaugurated by scholar Kalyan Kumar Chakravarty on Sunday. Over 70 artists from all over India and 150 of their works, which include paintings, sculptures and photographs, are part of the show, says Mr. Satyapal. The show is open to the public at the White Rose Movement Facebook site and on YouTube (facebook.com/ 2020whiterose; www.whiterosemovement.in and 2020whiterose. blogspot.com).  Art classes too are finding ample patronage on cyberspace. Seema Suresh, an art teacher from Kochi, says her online classes have drawn students from across Kerala besides expatriate Malayalis from places such as Sydney, Uganda, Zambia, and the U.S. The online idea was explored as the pandemic spread, shutting down all institutions. Ms. Suresh, who specialised in murals from Mahe Kalagramam, decided to take the digital route for her classes.  Tremendous response In another online venture in the city, a month-long exhibition of around 50 works by 25 artists in the district drew tremendous response as the pandemic-induced lockdown grew more stringent in June, recalled district secretary of Purogamana Kala Sahitya Sangham Joshi Don Bosco on Thursday. “The exhibition had a big reach with hundreds sharing the link to the show,” he says.
07 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fisherman falls off boat near Vypeen, drowns||A fisherman from Karthedam, near Ochamthuruthu, drowned after he fell into the backwaters near the Panchayat Boat Jetty, near Valappu on Vypeen island on Thursday. He was identified as Palalthussery Augustine, 66, said the police. Fishers from Valappu, near where the accident occurred, said that the fisherman had apparently collapsed and fallen over his boat. The body was fished out by a team of Fire and Rescue Department personnel, police and local people, who had launched a search immediately after the incident was noticed. Meanwhile, personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services Department recovered the body of one of the three persons who went missing in the early hours of Wednesday near Elamkunnappuzha while on a fishing expedition. The body has been identified as that of Santhosh, 45, from Nayarambalam.
07 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rape survivor continues to make progress||The 75-year-old woman who was suspected to have been raped continues to make slow progress though her condition remains critical at the Kolancherry Medical College Hospital, where she was admitted Sunday night. She remains at the surgical intensive care unit following her surgery on Monday. As per a medical bulletin, her vitals are stable while kidney functioning is normal. She continues to be on oxygen support.
07 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||73 positive cases in Ernakulam||Seventy-three persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. They include 14 persons who arrived here from outside the State. Fifty-nine persons got infected through local contact. Twelve patients are from Fort Kochi, five from Thripunitura, seven from Puthenvelikkara, four from Mattancherry, three from Kuzhuppalli, and three from Keezhmad. As many as 145 persons recovered from COVID-19 on Thursday. Two deaths An 84-year-old native of Thrichattukulam in Cherthala and a 64-year-old from Palluruthy who were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here with COVID-19 symptoms died on Thursday. Their swab samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology lab in Alappuzha.
07 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Heavy damage in Kollam||The district incurred a loss of Rs. 49 lakh in the heavy rain and strong wind on Wednesday. A house was destroyed and over 125 houses were damaged. Damage to wells and cattle sheds was also reported. Fifty-five houses were damaged in Kunnathur. A loss of Rs. 35 lakh has been estimated for Kunnathur while Kottarakara taluk suffered a loss of Rs. 12 lakh. Several houses were damaged in Punalur, Aryankavu, Edamulakkal, Ayiranellur and Channapetta. In Pathanapuram taluk, Vilakudy, Pattazhi Vadakkekara, Piravanthur and Thalavur were affected. Similar incidents have been reported from Thevalakkara and Arinallur in Karunagappally taluk.
07 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 31 new cases||A total of 31 people from the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. While 23 patients contracted the virus through contact, seven had travelled from Tamil Nadu. A 38-year-old health worker at Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, tested positive. Mobile medical unit The Health Department has introduced a mobile medical unit comprising a medical officer, lab technician, nurse, and driver. Initially, the unit will focus on old-age homes and shelters for the destitute and the differently abled. . It will provide vaccination, mother and child care, and palliative care along with attending vector-borne and lifestyle diseases. The unit has provision to collect blood and sputum and conduct tests for haemoglobin, dengue fever, rat fever, ETP, and diabetes.
07 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||A rubber society looks to bounce back||Meenachil Rubber Marketing and Processing Cooperative Society Limited (MRMPCS), a cooperative concern that had served as the backbone of Kerala’s latex-based economy for nearly five decades, finally looks set for revival. Meetings of the society’s investors and employees will be held in Keezhthadiyur here on Friday to chart out the future course of action for the factory units under the society, which have been lying defunct for over five years now. A consortium of over 20 primary cooperative societies from Meenachil taluk, with the Keezhthadiyur cooperative society as the lead bank, will finance the revival plan. “The consortium will raise Rs. 4 crore while the society is due to receive Rs. 2.90 crore and interest from the Kerala State Rubber Cooperative Ltd. Using the amount, a part of the deposits due will be paid after agreeing for a moratorium on the remaining payments for at least 18 months,” said Mani C. Kappen, MLA. A plan for the 200-odd employees will be worked out after paying a part of their salary dues. The remaining amount will be set aside for latex collection from farmers. Plans are also afoot to open another unit manufacturing surgical gloves, sources said. A detailed project report for the unit is being prepared by experts from the Rubber Board, Kottayam. In 1962 Founded in March 1962, the society comprises a centrifugal latex factory, crumb rubber factory, besides Neethi medical stores and a couple of supermarkets. As per estimates, over 14% of the rubber produced in the country was from the area of operation of the society that has 12,000-odd members. In its prime, the society had operated more than 60 centres to collect natural rubber and recorded an annual turnover of Rs. 50 crore. The losses of the society, however, rose to Rs. 155 crore in 2013-14.
07 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Concern in Kottayam over two clusters||The number of COVID-19 patients continue to rise in Kottayam with 40 persons testing positive on Thursday. Thirty-five persons, including a health worker from Velloor, contracted the virus through contact. The situation in Ettumanoor cluster and Kottayam municipality continues to be alarming with a significant number of contact cases reported from these two municipalities. As per official records, 12 persons in Kottayam municipality and seven in Ettumanoor contracted the virus through local contact on the day. Among the new cases in the district, five persons were employees of a mall in the town, and a homemaker and her three children in Thazhathangadi. Of the positive cases, two had landed from abroad and three had returned from other States. Madappally, Kurichy, Kumarakom and Athirampuzha grama panchayats remain vulnerable to local transmission for the virus. Though not added in the official tally, one person tested positive after his death in Kottayam on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Vasappan, 89, from Karappuzha .
07 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Former MLA passes away||Communist Party of India (CPI) leader and former Vaikom MLA P. Narayanan died here on Thursday. He was 69. Mr. Narayanan, who was under treatment for prolonged illness, breathed his last around 6 a.m. Having entered mainstream politics through the CPI’s students’ wing, All India Students Federation (AISF), he had also served as a member of the CPI at various levels. Mr. Narayanan contested and won the byelection held in 1998 following the demise of M.K. Kesavan. He represented Vaikom till 2006. He leaves behind wife Radha, and children Anilkumar, Aneesh and Ambili.
07 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rain wreaks havoc in Malabar||Torrential rain accompanied by strong winds continued to wreak havoc in several parts of the Malabar region on Thursday. Several families were evacuated from areas that faced flood-like situation. In Kozhikode, several acres of agricultural land got submerged in floodwater in villages such as Mukkom, Thiruvambady, Karassery and Mavoor. Many families staying closer to the Iruvazhinhi river were asked to relocate themselves to safer locations. Most of them shifted temporarily to the houses of their relatives. In Mavoor, seven families were shifted to safer locations. The Chembukadavu bridge at Kodenchery remained under floodwater for several hours on Thursday. Traders along Mukkom-Chennamangallur road were forced to shift their stock after the area remained waterlogged the whole day. In Wayanad Most parts of the district experienced very heavy rainfall on the day. The Chooralmala region in Meppadi grama panchayat received 530 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours, while Mundakkai region in the panchayat got 330 mm and Erumakkolly region in Vengapally grama panchayat received 251 mm. The rain severely affected the crops, especially plantains, rubber, and rice. In Malappuram Attempts by a group of volunteers to supply groceries and drinking water to the marooned tribespeople of Nilambur failed as the river turned dangerously furious. “We have been totally cut off from the rest of the world since Wednesday. A few of our houses were ravaged by the floodwaters. With an increase in rain, elephants too have begun to come out in herds from the forest,” said Sudha V., a resident of Vaniyampuzha colony. In Palakkad Incessant rains raised the water level in several rivers in Palakkad. District Collector D. Balamurali warned people living at Kottathara to maintain extra vigil as the Shiruvani river began to swell. In Kannur, Kasaragod Farmers in the hilly regions of Irrity and Taliparamba taluks in Kannur suffered a huge loss of property and crops. In Ayyankkunu, plantain cultivation spread over seven acres was completely destroyed. Farmers in Udaygiri panchayat lost over 10,000 plantain trees. According to the Agriculture Department, crops in an estimated 125 hectares were destroyed. Fear gripped the residents living at Thottilpalam at Peratta near Ullikal when the water gushed near their houses from the Karnataka border on Wednesday night. The heavy gush of water could have been due to landslip. Electricity was cut off in most parts of Kasaragod district. In many places, trees fell on the road and traffic was disrupted. In Thrissur Heavy rain and wind that lashed the district on Thursday caused widespread destruction. A whirlwind lasting about three minutes wreaked havoc at Mothirakkanny near Chalakudy on Thursday. Many trees were uprooted in Thirur and Kolazhy. Traffic was disrupted as a huge tree fell on the road at Padavarad.
07 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fresh cases surge to 174 in Kozhikode district||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases peaked in Kozhikode district on Thursday when 174 people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 124 of these are locally transmitted infections. In Palakkad Palakkad saw the biggest COVID-19 spike ever in the district on Thursday when it reported 136 cases. As many as 54 of them were found to have got the infection through local contacts. In Malappuram As many as 129 persons tested positive in Malappuram district on Thursday. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 109 of them had been infected through local contacts. In Thrissur As many as 73 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Thursday. Among them, 65 persons were infected through contact. In Wayanad The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Wayanad as 46 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. All the patients contracted the disease through local transmission. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 152 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus on Thursday. Of these, 139 were infected through local contacts. In Kannur Thirty-three persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus in Kannur. Among them, 17 persons contracted the disease through contact.
07 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Aim high, IIM-K students told||Suresh Narayanan, chairman and managing director, Nestle India, has exhorted the newly enrolled students at the IIM-K to set the bar high amidst the challenges and uncertainties in the COVID-19 situation that is gripping the world. He was delivering the inaugural address at the e-inauguration of the four full-fledged programmes on the IIM-K campus here on Thursday.
07 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New MCH Superintendent takes charge||M.P. Sreejayan on Thursday took charge as Superintendent of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. He replaced K.G. Sajeeth Kumar, who had been in the post for the past three years.
07 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||33 cases in Pathanamthitta||Thirty-three persons, including six linked to the COVID-19 cluster in Adoor, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. Of this, 11 persons contracted the virus through local contact while 13 persons came from other States. The remaining nine persons landed from abroad. The persons who contracted the virus through local transmission included a 47-year-old health worker of the Kozhencherry District General Hospital.
07 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 continues to rage in capital with 219 cases||COVID-19 continued to rage across the capital district as 219 more cases, including a death, were reported on Thursday. Indicating the critical nature of the pandemic that unfolded in Thiruvananthapuram, over 99% of the cases were found to be due to local transmission. The 17th COVID-19 death was recorded in the district after a 63-year old Vizhinjam native, who died on Wednesday, was confirmed to have been suffering from the ailment. Among the fresh cases, 217 people were found to have contracted the infection locally. They included seven health workers. Local transmission in the district has hovered above 90% since the first week of July. On Thursday, the district’s active caseload also crossed the 3,000-mark for the first time. As many as 3,177 patients are currently being treated in various hospitals and COVID-19 first-line treatment centres. As many as 137 people recovered from the illness. While recent trends appeared to suggest that the coastal areas of the district have gone past the worst of the COVID-19 situation, the emergence of new cases in large numbers has disproved the theory. Large cluster As many as 104 out of the 440 people who were tested in Anchuthengu on the day were diagnosed with the disease. Other coastal areas including Beemapally, Valiyathura and Poonthura also reported several cases. Meanwhile, the district administration has declared new containment zones in Office ward in Kalliyoor grama panchayat; Malayamadam ward in Kilimanoor grama panchayat; Idinjar ward in Peringamala grama panchayat; and Mundukonam and Ponneduthakuzhi wards in Poovachal grama panchayat. Containment zones were withdrawn in Kazhakuttam, Chala, Kudappanakunnu, Thycaud and Thampanoor wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Bharathanoor ward in Pangode grama panchayat; Theeppukal, Kuttiyani and Neduveli wards in Vembayam grama panchayat; and Cheruvalam, Thengumcode, Parappil, Kallavarambu and Muthuvila wards in Kallara grama panchayat.
07 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,298 cases; 800 recover||COVID-19 cases continued to rise in the State with 1,298 fresh cases and 800 recoveries being reported on Thursday. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the first case was reported on January 30 has now climbed to 30,449, with 11,983 patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals in various districts. The State has registered 18,333 recoveries so far. On Thursday, the Health Department added three more deaths to the toll tally, which now stands at 97. These deaths, which had taken place on July 31, August 2, and August 5 in Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, entered the official data only on Thursday after retesting at the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha. Over 65 % of the new cases reported on Thursday – 1,050 – were locally acquired infections, with the authorities unable to trace the source of infection in 76 cases. Health-care workers continue to be affected in large numbers, with 29 of them testing positive on Thursday.  Thiruvananthapuram district reported 219 new cases, with all cases except two being locally acquired infections. The number of active cases in Thiruvananthapuram now is 3,177, which is close to three times the number of active cases in Ernakulam, which has the second largest number of active cases at 1,147. Alappuzha, Kozhikode and Kasaragod have active cases close to 1,000 while the rest of the districts have between 300 and 500. District tally The new cases reported in districts on Thursday are Malappuram, 129, Kasaragod 153, Ernakulam 73, Alappuzha 99, Thrissur 74, Kannur 33, Kottayam 40, Kozhikode 174, Palakkad 136, Idukki 58, Pathanamthitta 33, Kollam 31, and Wayanad 46 . Of the 1.48 lakh plus people quarantined in the State, 11,437 with mild COVID-like symptoms have been isolated in hospitals in districts. The number of samples in the last 24 hours is 25,205. The total number of hotspots in the State is 511.
07 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One killed as rain, gusty winds disrupt life in capital||Heavy rainfall and strong winds which lashed the district on Thursday claimed the life of a Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) staffer. Trees were uprooted at several places affecting traffic and causing damage to houses and power lines. Ajayakumar, an electricity worker at the KSEB section office, Nedumangad, died after a tree fell on him at Uzhamalackal. The tree was uprooted in the strong wind which lashed the region in the morning. Ajayakumar, who lived at Suvarna Nagar, Uzhamalackal, was riding his motorcycle to work on the Uzhamalackal-Manjamoola road. The tree crashed down on a 33 kV transmission tower and over Ajayakumar, according to the Aryanad police and the KSEB. Although he was rushed to the Government Hospital at Nedumangad, he could not be saved. The body was shifted to Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital for COVID-19 test. Ajayakumar leaves behind wife Kavitha and two children. Two houses were destroyed in Thursday’s rain while 47 others - majority of them in the Nedumangad region - sustained partial damage in the district. Five families were evacuated after the sea entered 20 houses at Cheriyamuttom at Poonthura. Various stations of the Fire and Rescue Services in rural Thiruvananthapuram received numerous calls pertaining to fallen trees and damaged power cables. In the city limits, trees were uprooted at Keraladityapuram and Paruthippara. At Pankavu, a tree fell over an anganwadi building. No one was hurt, the Fire and Rescue Services unit at Neyyar Dam said. A tree fell over a house at Balaramapuram in the Neyyatinkara fire station limits around 7 a.m. on Thursday. No casualties were reported. Traffic hit Traffic was hit at many places after trees fell across roads. This included the Panavur-Attinpuram road, Anad, Iravur-Mandackal road, Uzhamalackal-Manjamoola road, Paruthipally, Kottoor, Panniyode and Vattavila. Power supply was yet to be restored in many areas. Meanwhile, two shutters of the Peppara dam were raised by 10 cm each following increased inflow from the catchment areas.
07 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chamber opposes curbs on retail trade||The Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Thiruvananthapuram, has written to the government that ‘impractical’ curbs on retail trade, mobility and life will push the tottering local economy off the brink. Its president, S.N. Reghuchandran Nair slammed the decision of the police not to allow workers from suburbs into the city. In a letter to the Chief Secretary, the chamber said indefinite lockdowns with no predetermined end or deadline for review had imperilled the livelihood of lakhs of daily wage earners and manual workers. It has caused businesses to collapse, some irrecoverably. The Opposition and various traders’ organisations have also protested what they termed as ‘indefinite lockdowns.’ The rumblings of political and social discontent with the imposition of curbs on commerce and life appeared to get louder by the day. On Wednesday, residents thwarted an attempt by the police to place barricades on an arterial bridge at night.At Chala, traders had warned that they would defy police curbs and open shop on Friday. However, they have postponed the protest at the last minute after a conflict resolution meeting with the police. The law enforcers agreed to allow the entry of freight lorries from 11 p.m. to 11 a.m. and shoppers from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.
07 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown in coastal areas till August 16||The district administration has decided to continue total lockdown in the coastal area until August 16 midnight. In the order issued by the District Disaster Management Authority, District Collector Navjot Khosa pointed out that the continuation of the existing curbs was necessary in view of the community spread of COVID-19 from Edava in north to Pozhiyoor in south. The coastal region has been divided into three zones, viz., from Edava to Perumathura, Perumathura to Vizhinjam and from Vizhinjam to Pozhiyoor. The Thiruvananthapuram district authorities have permitted fishing and allied activities from August 10 onwards in Vizhinjam harbour only. To be reviewed The relaxation will be reviewed after a week, the oreder said The order said all scheduled banks have been permitted to function on Monday, Wednesday and Fridays with usual working hours with 50% staff.
07 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines for fishing issued||The maximum number of fishing boats allowed from Vizhinjam harbour is 600, while from Muthalappozhi it is 400, as per the District Collector’s guildelines. Retail fish sales at the harbour and household-level distribution are not allowed.
07 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Norms for shops, banks||The police have warned shop owners of prosecution if they allow customers to swarm their premises. They should display the number of persons allowed on their premises at a given time. Owners of kerbside shops should mark circles on the road. The number of customers in a 100 sq ft shop has been limited to six. Only minimal staff should be deployed. Violators would face fines, closure and prosecution. Banks have to ensure physical distancing. Ideally, banks should allocate time to customers to transact business.
07 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Relentless rain forecast till Sunday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the State till Sunday. A second low pressure area is likely to take shape over the westcentral and northern parts of the Bay of Bengal around Sunday. Nevertheless, a reduction in rainfall over Kerala is expected after Monday. A red alert has been issued for Malappuram for Friday. Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Idukki, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod are likely to experience isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Orange alerts have been issued for these districts. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall has been forecast for all districts, except Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, on Saturday.
07 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Helping hand for the needy||Citizens driven to penury by COVID can now look foward to a helping hand, thanks to an initiative involving volunteers from different communities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday inaugurated the initiative which will provide a monthly aid of Rs. 1,500 each to 100 families for six months.
07 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Applications invited for M.N. Student Award||Applications have been invited for the 13th M.N. Student Award of Rs. 25,000. The award instituted in memory of freedom fighter and Communist leader M.N. Govindan Nair is given annually to a student from Laksham Veedu Colonies who secures the highest marks in the SSLC examination. The applications should be accompanied by a copy of the mark list and certificate of residence in the Laksham Veedu Colony Applications should reach: Secretary, M.N. Family Foundation, Mulackal 09, Subhash Nagar, Thiruvananthapuram-695 008 on or before August 31.
07 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MUST Webinar on workplace safety during COVID-19||Participants in a webinar organised by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), in association with the Factories and Boilers department, on Thursday stressed the need to adopt safeguards while returning to the workplace during the COVID-19 pandemic. Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan inaugurated the webinar.
07 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur district records 10 deaths||Anantapur and Kurnool districts continue to report sharp spike in COPVID-19 cases, with 1,112, and 1,285 new cases being reported respectively on Thursday. Anantapur reported 10 deaths, while two COVID-19 patients died in Kurnool, taking the toll to 142 and 223 respectively. Anantapur administration on Thursday appointed nodal officers for every hospital— both private and government— to monitor the admissions, deaths, treatment and needs of patients getting treated there. They will coordinate with the Anantapur GGH in case the patients need critical healthcare services. The arrangements were done with the intervention of Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas.  Ambulance services Nodal officers have been appointed for monitoring of ‘108’ ambulance services. The officers will ensure that the ambulances reach the patients in time and no death will take place due to lack of support. District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad said that all care was being taken to ensure availability of doctors to treat COVID patients as and when they approached the call centre from home and COVID care facilities. Active cases The number of active in cases in Anantapur and Kurnool districts stand at 6,768 and 9,811 respectively, with 14,263 and 13,314 discharges.
07 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRIT opens 240-bed COVID care facility||The Srinivasa Ramanujan Institute of Technology (SRIT) has opened a 240-bed COVID19 care facility on its premises at Rotarypuram. Singanamala MLA Jonnalagadda Padmavathy and her husband Aluru Sambasiva Reddy, inaugurated the facility.
07 August 2020||GOPALAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA to build temple for CM Jagan||An MLA has decided to show his love and affection towards Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy by constructing a temple for him. The legislator of Gopalapuram Assembly Constituency, Talari Venkat Rao, performed the ground-breaking ceremony at Rajampalem village on Wednesday. The MLA said he, along with a local YSRCP leader, Kurukuru Nageswara Rao, were constructing the temple in five cents of land. The “Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Temple” was being constructed to express their gratitude to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy who was taking up many welfare programmes for people, he told The Hindu on Thursday. “Former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekara Reddy won a place in the hearts of crores of people by introducing Arogyasri, fee reimbursement, housing and other schemes. Now his son Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is launching many welfare schemes for children, women and the poor in the State,” said Mr. Venkat Rao. A group of YSRCP leaders had proposed the idea, he said. ‘First time in State’ “Fans of many film personalities constructed temples in Tamil Nadu and other States. We want to construct a temple for a Chief Minister for the first time in Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Statues of the late Rajashekara Reddy and Jagan Mohan Reddy would be installed in the temple. “The temple will have carvings depicting Nadu-Nedu, Goru Mudda, Amma Vodi, Jagananna Cheyuta and other schemes and highlights of the YSRCP government,” the MLA said. The temple would be completed in a few months.
07 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts share tips to stay safe online||Cyber experts have advised the users to control privacy settings available on social media handles which allow them to secure their personal information. As part of E-Rakshabandhan, a webinar -- 'Cyber peace talks- how to stay safe online in social media,' -- was conducted by AP Police and Cyber Peace Foundation. Shagufta Kamran, senior manager, Public Policy, Twitter India, Shruti Moghe, policy program manager, Facebook, Anindita Mishra, Mission Cyber Safety, spoke on various privacy controls. P.V. Sunil Kumar, Additional DG, AP CID, said that the many users of social media websites were unaware of the perils of social media usage and personal troll and abuse. Ms. Shagufta and Ms. Shruti spoke about the operational guidelines of Facebook and Twitter and what to post or comment and what not to post or comment on FaceBook and Twitter and explained about technology. Users can also proactively use to self moderate and delete the abusing content before the user reports to them. Language reviewers They also said that they have language reviewers who were able to review 50 global languages which help them in finding abusing content posted on Facebook and Twitter in any regional languages. On this occasion Ms. Radhika spoke about the safety tips one should follow to be safe online and also how people can report cybercrime by calling toll free number 112 and 4S website. She also informed people to lodge complaints and preserve the post URL and screenshot of abusing posts through CID 4S WhatsApp number. Around 2,000 children,students, women and teachers participated in the webinar. The innovative idea to conduct webinars for a month is a brain child of Mr. Sunil Kumar as more people are engaging on the internet. Online shopping, online classes, online meetings and work from home and also usage of social media increased. The viewing of porn films, especially child pornography, has doubled. To curb this, as a preventive measure, AP CID and Cyber Peace Foundation wanted to create awareness among the public on cybercrime. On Friday, a webinar on 'Digital shakti-misinformation # end infodemic campaign' by Janice Varghese, Techno Cyber lawyer, will be held. One can viewhttps://m.youtube.com/ channel/ UC9HKNl3zt EyKgSq8DcnLHMQ
07 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for plasma donation in Guntur||The district administration has given the nod for plasma donation. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that plasma collection would begin at the Red Cross Society branch at Guntur and the treatment would begin at NRI Medical College and Government General Hospital, Guntur. A district-level ethics and clinical expert committee would decide on the guidelines for plasma collection. Those who want to collect plama from private blood banks should register themselves at the experts committee. The persons eligible for plasma collection would include COVID-19 recovered patients aged between 18-50 years, those without any comorbid conditions and those who tested negative and within 28-60 days can donate their plasma. Indian Red Cross Society is an authorised plasma donation centre. Ponnur MLA Kilaru Rosaiah has become the first elected representative to give a consent letter to the Collector and said that he would give his plasma. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar, GMC Principal Babulal, GGH Superintendent K. Sudhakar and IRCS vice-chairman Ramachandra Raju and doctors were present on the occasion.
07 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘JC family will not buckle under pressure’||Pavan Kumar Reddy, son of former MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy, anticipates that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government will foist more “politically motivated” cases against his family in the days to come. Mr. Pavan Kumar Reddy arrived here on Thursday to call on his paternal uncle and cousin, J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and Ashmit, who were housed in the central prison. He, however, was not allowed to meet them. Their followers and admirers, who gathered in large numbers, were chased away from the spot by the local police. ‘Political vendetta’ Addressing the media later, Mr. Pawan said the family would face the “political vendetta” rather than buckle under pressure. “It will be a tit for tat after we capture power,” Mr. Pawan said.
07 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma collection begins at Kakinada GGH||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has appealed to those who have recovered from COVID-19 to save more lives by donating their plasma. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy, accompanied by Joint Collector Ch. Kirthi, on Thursday launched a plasma collection drive at the Government General Hospital at Kakinada, a designated COVID critical care facility. “An estimated 9,000 people who have been won the battle against the coronavirus have been found eligible to donate plasma in the district. Plasma therapy can help save more lives in this crucial juncture,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. At least 14,000 patients have been recovered from the COVID-19 infection in the district and nearly 9,000 of them are in the age group of 20-40, a preferred lot for plasma donation. “We began collecting plasma from the donors on Thursday, which will be administered to the patients put under critical care at the GGH,” said Kakinada GGH Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao said. Eligibility Referring to the eligibility criteria, Dr. Rao said that the donors should have completed four weeks of recovery period. “The plasma can be donated up to eight weeks of their recovery. The donors should not have the history of blood pressure and sugar,” he said. There would be no health complications owing to donation of plasma, said Dr. Rao to allay the fears surrounding plasma donation. The doctors would collect antibodies for the plasma therapy and maximum of 400 ml of blood would be collected from a donor. 24X7 registration People eager to donating plasma can register their names at the Kakinada GGH round the clock, he said. “We are hopeful that the youth will turn up for plasma donate which can give a new lease of life to the COVID patients,” said Dr. Rao.
07 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 dies in boiler pipeline blast||A senior fitter of SPY Agro Industries Limited at Nandyal died in a hot water boiler pipeline blast at its Extra Neutral Alcohol plant. The 63-year-old worker was identified as P. Lakshmana Murthy. The incident took place at 9.20 p.m. on Wednesday and he was admitted to a hospital in Kurnool, but died on Thursday morning. Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories V. Ramakrishna Reddy said that one of the high-pressure boiler pipeline burst resulting in severe burns to Lakshmana Murthy and minor injuries to two others. The other workers were discharged after first aid. Earlier instance On June 27, an Ammonia pipeline of Nandyal Gases, a subsidiary of SPY Agro Industries Limited, burst resulting in the death of Srinivasa Rao, 50, manager of the factory. A byproduct of SPY Agro Industries - Carbon Dioxide (CO2) is liquefied at Nandyal Gases.
07 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally crosses 18,000-mark in Nellore, Prakasam districts||People in south coastal districts continue to reel under the impact of coronavirus as 1137 more persons including 788 in Nellore district and 349 in Prakasam district were tested positive during the last 24 hours. The toll in both the districts have gone up to 160 with six each succumbing to the virus during the period. With this, 86 patients in Prakasam and 74 patients in Nellore died so far, a health bulletin said late on Thursday night. The number of cumulative cases have gone up to 18,244 in the two districts with 11,224 cases in Nellore and 7,020 in Prakasam, health officials said. As many as 957 patients have been discharged from designated COVID-19 hospitals in Nellore district, bringing the active cases to 5,771. So far, 5453 patients have been cured of the viral infection in the district, a bulletin released by the Health Department said here on Thursday. Stringent lockdown Meanwhile, a stringent lockdown was enforced in Ongole with the tally increasing to 1,449 including 89 new cases during the last 24 hours. Municipal services in the city were disrupted after some municipal workers tested positive. Korisapadu, a remote village, reported 25 new cases, taking the total to 77. Other places which reported high incidence of infection included Kandukur (39), Kangiri (21) and V.V.Palem (13). As many as 2,297 persons were tested negative in the last 24 hours in the district, where more than 1.60 lakh people have undergone test till date. Courts go online Meanwhile, courts in Prakasam district led by Principal District Judge P.V. Jyothirmayi started hearing cases in virtual mode. Judgments in cases were delivered online, she said after inspecting the arrangements in courts, She was accompanied by Ongole Bar Association president B. Bhaskar Rao and others.
07 August 2020||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 50 lakh ‘stolen’ from office of Polavaram contractor||Unidentified persons allegedly stole Rs. 50 lakh cash from the office of a contractor, who is executing Polavaram project works. The contractor brought the cash and kept in his office in Polavaram on Wednesday night. He reportedly found the cash missing on Thursday, said West Godavari SP K. Narayan Naik. “The miscreants removed the grills and committed the theft. We suspect the role of insiders in the crime,” he said. The police have registered a case and are trying to trace the accused.
07 August 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door-to-door campaign to explain importance of mother’s milk||Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) department are at present on a door-to-door campaign to create awareness among the pregnant and lactating women about breastfeeding. As part of the ongoing World Breastfeeding Week, being observed from August 1 to 7, the officials, Anganwadi teachers and supervisors are visiting villages and explaining to mothers about the importance of breastfeeding. WD&CW Principal Secretary A.R. Anuradha visited Giripuram area in the city on Wednesday and explained to lactating mothers about the World Breastfeeding Week. She asked the elder women in the families to explain to their daughters and daughter-in-laws on the importance of mother’s milk. Ms. Anuradha distributed groceries, including rice, dal, oil and other material, under Take Home Ration programme to the beneficiaries. Earlier, she visited Bala Sadan and Working Women’s Hostel, being run by the WD&CW department and enquired with Project Director K. Uma Rani about the facilities for the inmates. Speaking to The Hindu , Director, WD&CW, Krithika Shukla said that instructions had been given to the Anganwadi teachers and supervisors to visit houses and explain to lactating women on the ongoing World Breastfeeding Week. Assistant Project Director M. Prameela Rani, Child Development Project Director (CDPO) Suvarna, Working Women’s Hostel Superintendent Poornima, Disha One Stop Centre administrator Sravanthi, Bala Sadan superintendent Sudha Rani and other participated in the campaign. “As per the data available with the Anganwadi Centres across the State on pregnant and lactating women, the WD&CW and the Anganwadi staff will visit and explain to the mothers the importance of breastfeeding. The staff met some thousands of women in each district in the last five days,” Ms. Shukla said. The State government is also planning to organise a webinar on the World Breastfeeding Week with experts, the Director added.
07 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fever survey to identify suspect cases in Srikakulam||With the number of coronavirus positive cases in the district crossing the 9,000-mark, the Srikakulam administration has asked all the village volunteers to conduct a fever survey and inform the respective Tahsildars about the suspected cases at the earliest. Hiding symptoms The decision has been taken in view of the infection spreading to rural areas and many people hiding fevers fearing social boycott. Many people, despite running fever and developing other symptoms, are ignoring treatment, resulting in many complications. Hiding fever and COVID symptoms are leading to death in many places, observes Collector J. Nivas. “The Revenue Divisional Officers have been told to inquire about every COVID-19 death so that the corrective steps could be taken. They will monitor the door-to-door survey and take the necessary steps in coordination with the health and other departments concerned,” he says. The Collector says that a casual approach amid the sharp spike in cases is dangerous as the suspected patients could spread the infection. Meanwhile, the administration is improving the testing facility in rural areas too. As many as 1,78, 436 persons have been tested so far and the daily testing capacity has been increased to 4,000. As the caseload has gone up to 9,062, the officials are keen on conducting more tests. Recruitment of doctors Meanwhile, the administration has launched measures to fill up the vacancies at hospitals. “As many as 15 doctors and 180 medical staff have been recruited in the last five days,” says H. Kurma Rao, a special officer who is coordinating the appointments in the district. He assured to conduct more interviews to recruit doctors and other staff.
07 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman consumes sanitiser at Kotabommali police station||A woman consumed sanitiser on the premises of Kotabommali police station on Thursday, alleging harassment of her family members at the hand of police by foisting false cases. According to sources, the woman, Puti Yerramma, reportedly had a dispute with another woman P. Kalpana. Ms. Yerramma alleged that Kotabommali sub-inspector Lakshmana Rao had foisted cases under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act without listening to her version. Ms. Yerramma consumed sanitiser she brought with her to the police station and fell unconscious. The police immediately shifted her to Kotabommali hospital and she recovered. Ms. Yerramma’s son and village volunteer P. Chiranjeevi alleged that the police did not listen to their versions. However, the sub-inspector claimed that the case was registered against Ms. Yerramma after receiving a complaint from Ms. Kalpana. People having suicidal tendencies can seek assistance by dialling the helpline number 100.
07 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD priest succumbs to COVID-19||A TTD priest, N.V. Srinivasacharyulu, died on Thursday reportedly after testing positive for COVID-19. He was admitted to SVIMS a few days ago. Srinivasacharyulu, working at Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple in Tirupati, was deputed to Tirumala last month after 18 priests working at the hill temple contracted the virus. He is the second priest to succumb to the virus. Meanwhile, the health of Sri Pedda Jeeyar swamy who also tested positive, is said to be stable.
07 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing or treating, we are on top: Health Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) has claimed that Andhra Pradesh is in the first place in conducting COVID-19 tests and treating patients. On the last leg of his three-day visit to the Rayalaseema region, Mr. Srinivas, accompanied by Ministers K. Narayanaswamy and P. Ramachandra Reddy, visited the State COVID Hospital on SVIMS campus here on Thursday, where he took stock of the medical infrastructure, quality of food being supplied and manpower requirements. The visit is primarily aimed at monitoring the implementation of the Central government guidelines at the district level, steps to contain the virus spread and the sanitary conditions prevailing in the COVID Hospitals and care centres. Later, addressing the media, Mr. Srinivas said the government was leaving no stone unturned to check the spread of the virus. “We are spending Rs. 350 crore every month on the containment measures. We rank first in the country in terms of testing and also in reaching out to the nook and corner of the State through the Sanjeevani vehicles,” he said. Referring to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s promise to provide bed within half an hour to every patient, the Minister said the bottlenecks in enforcing the same had been identified and would be addressed. ‘Improve food quality’ After personally interacting with a few patients on the facilities being extended at the hospital, Mr. Srinivas saw the need to enhance the quality of food and sanitise the premises thrice a day. “Non-vegetarian food is not served since it is a TTD-run hospital, but the authorities are ensuring that the nutritional quotient is not missed,” he observed. Extending a stern warning to certain hospitals charging exorbitant amount for treating COVID, he expressed anguish that such dubious hospitals, though a handful in number, were causing disrepute to the entire medical set-up. “The treatment is the same every where. Please don’t rush to other places out of panic,” he urged people, citing some “affluent” among the patients rushing to the private and corporate hospitals in metropolitan cities. Earlier, the Minister participated in a review meeting with APIIC chairperson R.K. Roja, MLAs B. Karunakar Reddy (Tirupati) and Nawaz Basha (Madanapalle), Members of Parliament B. Durga Prasad (Tirupati), N. Reddeppa (Chittoor) and P.V. Midhun Reddy (Rajampet), and Collector N. Bharat Gupta and SVIMS medical superintendent Ram.
07 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD clarifies on Ayodhya ‘Ram mandir bhoomi puja’ issue||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Thursday clarified that its official broadcaster, Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC), could not live telecast the Ram mandir bhoomi puja programme at Ayodhya on Wednesday as it ran concurrent with the live telecast of the ‘Srivari Kalyanotsavam’ from Tirumala Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple. The temple management issued the clarification following the controversy that erupted after certain political outfits expressed anguish over the SVBC not telecasting the prestigious event, thus denying the benefit of translated content to the Telugu audience. A TTD release said the Kalyanotsavam performed exactly at the same time every day had to be accommodated, in order not to disappoint the thousands of regular viewers watching it daily. It also pointed out that the ‘recorded’ programme, along with animated content, was aired in the 1 p.m. bulletin. It reiterated that the TTD was committed to propagating the Hindu Dharma.
07 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Value of Renigunta lands set to go through the roof||Even as the land value is upwardly revised to the extent of 10-20% across Andhra Pradesh, lands in Renigunta are all set to go out of reach of the common man with the State government proposing an increase of up to 500% in certain pockets from August 10. Renigunta Sub-Registrar’s office, falling under the Tirupati-headquartered Sri Balaji Registration district, is among the prominent areas pegged for development. The presence of Tirupati international airport, industrial clusters and educational institutes are some of the major growth engines that have apparently pushed up the land prices. However, there is no justification for effecting such an unrealistic increase in the land value, say those in the real estate sector. For example, an acre of land in Annagunta is currently valued at Rs. 5.78 lakh. After August 10, it is likely to cost a whopping Rs. 35 lakh. A buyer, who hitherto pays Rs. 43,350 towards registration charges, will have to cough up Rs. 2,62,500. Similarly, an acre of land costing Rs. 9.83 lakh in Elamandyam village will soon touch Rs. 50 lakh. The registration charges will be Rs. 3.75 lakh against the present Rs. 73,000. There is no respite in the plots segment too. In R. Mallavaram village on Srikalahasti highway, a square yard of land costing Rs. 1,300 has been revised to Rs. 4,000. In Chennayagunta (Tirupati-Kadapa highway), the land rate is revised from Rs. 3,700 to an unbelievable Rs. 18,000 per square yard. ‘Adverse impact’ “At a time when COVID-19 situation has hit every section hard, such an unprecedented increase will have an adverse impact on registration. Buyers will shy away from registration, causing direct loss to the government,” observes P. Satyanarayana, a realtor. In fact, real estate dealers staged a dharna in front of the Renigunta Sub-Registrar’s office recently and submitted a representation to the officer. Though the rates are normally revised every year by the panel comprising the Joint Collector, TUDA Vice-Chairman and Revenue Divisional Officer, officials are, however, silent on the unprecedented hike in this particular area.
07 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT Tirupati to set up Tech Innovation Hub||The Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) is all set to establish a ‘Technology Innovation Hub’ with the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) the Union Department of Science and Technology (DST), selecting it as the host institute. As the DST invests about Rs. 100 crore over five years in the hub, the premier institute will now focus on ‘Positioning and Precision Technologies’ (PPT) and act as a national resource centre for technology and skill development and create an ecosystem for startups and entrepreneurs, besides nurturing international collaborations in the area of PPT. According to IIT Director K.N. Satyanarayana, these technologies are at the core of the application areas like precision agriculture, navigation, timing and sensing, precision manufacturing, disaster management, water resources management, transportation, surveillance and survey, satellite communication, guided defence technologies and logistics. Its governing body will have the IIT Director as the Chairman and members from industry and academia.
07 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No role in choice of capital city, Centre tells HC||Lending credence to the BJP’s argument that the Central government had nothing to do with the State’s policy decision on the capital city, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA) filed a counter-affidavit to that effect in the High Court on Thursday. A senior official of the MoHA stated in the affidavit that under Section 6 of the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, the Central government had constituted an expert committee on March 28, 2014, under the chairmanship of retired IAS officer K.C. Sivaramakrishnan to study alternatives for a new capital of the State. It said that the committee had submitted its report on August 30, 2014, and it was sent to the State government on September 1, 2014. Subsequently, the State government had notified Amaravati as the Capital city through a G.O. on April 23, 2015. “It may further be mentioned that the Capital city of a State is decided by the respective State government. The Central government has no role in it,” the MoHA official informed the court. The Central government’s affidavit was in response to a writ petition filed by Poluri Srinivasa Rao of Prakasam district on March 29, 2018, under Article 226 of the Constitution. The prayer was for declaring the non-implementation of Sections 6, 90, 92, 93 and 94 of the Act and the denial of Special Category Status to A.P. as illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional. In its affidavit, the Centre said that the 14th Finance Commission did not make a distinction between special and general category States, and its approach had been to fill the resource gap of each State through tax devolution and give revenue deficit grant for certain States if such devolution could not cover the assessed gap. Resource gap The Finance Commission had then recommended a total award of Rs. 22,113 crore to the State for a five-year period, of which a sum of Rs. 22,111.88 crore had been provided during 2015-20. Besides, an amount of Rs. 3,979.50 crore was released to bridge the resource gap between June 2, 2014 and March 31, 2015. As regards the Polavaram project, the affidavit stated that a Central assistance of Rs. 8,614 crore had been released since April 1, 2014, and the project’s revised cost estimate of approximately Rs. 55,549 crore at 2017-18 price level was approved on February 11, 2019. For further release of funds, the Ministry of Finance had sought a clarification on the audited statement of expenditure and revised cost estimate at 2013-14 prices, the affidavit said.
07 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases inching closer to the two lakh-mark||The State has yet again reported over a 10,000 new COVID infections and 72 new deaths in a day taking the overall tally close to the two-lakh-mark and the deaths to 1,753. The tally reached 1,96,789 cases including the 10,328 reported in the past day as of Thursday morning. Currently at 57.36%, the recovery rate has been going up gradually from many days and so far 1,12,870 patients overcame the disease. In the past day, 8,516 patients were discharged. There are 82,166 patients undergoing treatment at their homes, COVID Care Centres and COVID hospitals, including government and private. With 205 deaths, including 10 latest deaths, East Godavari became the second district after Kurnool to see over 200 deaths. Krishna district saw 198 deaths and registered highest death rate while Kurnool continues to top in the number of deaths at 223. East Godavari and Anantapur saw 10 deaths each in the past day, while Guntur reported nine, Chittoor reported eight and Krishna, Prakasam and Nellore reported six deaths each. Visakhapatnam reported four new deaths while West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Kadapa reported three new deaths each. Kurnool and Srikakulam reported two new deaths each. Meanwhile, three districts reported more than a thousand new cases. They are East Godavari (1,351), Kurnool (1,285) and Anantapur (1,112). Similarly, Guntur reported 868 cases, West Godavari 798, Nellore 788, Visakhpatnam 781, Chittoor 755, Srikakulam 682, Kadapa 604, Vizianagaram 757, Prakasam 366 and Krishna 363. The district tallies and percentage of active cases are as follows: East Godavari (27,580, 46%), Kurnool (23,348, 42%), Anantapur (21,173, 32%), Guntur (19,419, 37%), Visakhapatnam (16,682, 58%), West Godavari (15,786, 25%), CHittoor (14,306, 43%), Kadapa (11,493, 51%), Nellore (10,705, 50%), Srikakulam (9636,45%), Krishna (9042,33%), Vizianagaram (7468, 62%) and Prakasam (7256, 39%). So far 22 lakh samples were tested comprising the 63,686 samples tested during the past day. The positivity rate of tests has increased to 8.56% and the tests per million ratio is at 43,059.
07 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colleges to reopen on Oct. 15||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday said that the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in the higher education sector should improve remarkably with the State providing fee reimbursement and implementing schemes like Vasathi Deevena. Mr. Jagan reviewed various aspects of the higher education sector with the department officials and asked them to focus on improving the GER from the current 32.4 % to around 90 %. The Chief Minister said colleges would be reopened on October 15 and all Common Entrance Tests (CETs) should be completed by September. Mr. Jagan said funds for implementation of programmes like Vidya Deevena and Vasathi Deevena would be released immediately after colleges reopen. New pattern Explaining the new pattern of the education proposed to be implemented from the fresh academic year, Mr. Jagan said a three-year degree course would include a 10-month apprenticeship period. Students who desire to continue would study the fourth year that would comprise skill development and job orientation courses and the four-year course would be called degree honors. At the time of admission, a student would have the choice of selecting a three-year degree course or a four-year course. Similarly, a 10-month apprenticeship would be compulsory in the fourth year of professional courses like B. Tech. Students who secure 20 credits would be given the honors degree, he said. Mr. Jagan said his government had been working really hard to bring in sweeping reforms in the education sector and warned that stringent action would be taken against the colleges that flout norms. The Chief Minister also gave his nod for filling up 1,100 vacant posts of assistant professors in universities in the State and wanted the government colleges to aim for self-sustenance. Nadu-Nedu Mr. Jagan said under Nadu-Nedu, old medical colleges, which were in a bad shape during the previous government, were being renovated. Announcing that the Nadu-Nedu programme would be implemented in colleges also, he asked the officials to prepare an action plan for it. Mr. Jagan also asked them to start works for the proposed tribal engineering college at Kurupam and also to start universities at Prakasam and Vizianagaram districts besides construction of a Tribal University at Paderu. He also gave his nod for establishing Telugu and Sanskrit Academies. Chairman of the Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Vangala Eshwaraiah, Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Satish Chandra and others were present at the review meeting.  All Common Entrance Tests should be completed by September Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister
07 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu calls on Chiranjeevi||BJP State president Somu Veerraju met actor K. Chiranjeevi in Hyderabad on Thursday. Felicitating him on his appointment as party State president, Mr. Chiranjeevi urged Mr. Veerraju to work in tandem with JSP president Pawan Kalyan for the resolution of problems being faced by the people. Mr. Chiranjeevi wished that the BJP-JSP combine should come to power in the State in 2024. Mr. Veerraju told the media a few days ago that his party had worked out a strategy for not merely emerging as an alternative to the regional parties but to capture power in the State.
07 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No visitors at Endowments Commissioner’s Office||Visitors will not be allowed into the Endowments Commissioner’s Office located at Gollapudi, near here, in view of COVID-19. In a press release on Thursday, Endowments Commissioner P. Arjun Rao said generally the officers and employees of the Endowments wing are uniquely positioned to respond quickly to any issue that comes to their notice. But in the face of Corona pandemic situation, the health of the staff members is paramount, and they have been allowed to work from home with a few exceptions and have been asked not to meet any visitors, he said. Since the matters pertaining to the public are equally important, it has been decided that any urgent issue that needs the immediate attention of either Special Chief Secretary (Revenue, Endowments), J.S.V. Prasad or Mr. Arjun Rao can be sent by email to endow-commr@gov.in. If the matter is very urgent and needs a physical copy to be presented to the higher authorities, a copy of the necessary documents can be dropped in the box installed for the purpose or handed over at the counter at the main entrance gate, he added.
07 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||My expulsion is unfair: Ramana||BJP leader O.V. Ramana, who was suspended for reportedly writing an article in a Telugu newspaper that purportedly differed with the party’s stand on three capitals, denied the allegation that by airing his personal views, he had brought disrepute to it. Addressing media on Thursday, he said it was unfair to expel him.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Capital blues: house rentals to see a spike in coming months||Rental prices in the city are expected to shoot up in the coming months with the decks being cleared for the establishment of the capital city in Visakhapatnam. Flats and houses located near NH-16, Anandapuram, Madhurawada, Yendada, PM Palem, Kommadi and Mithilapuri VUDA Colony are expected to witness a spike in rental prices once the Chief Minister’s Office, Secretariat and other key government establishments shift base to the Rushikonda Special Economic Zone. Some homeowners had already begun raising rental prices since the beginning of this year after it became clear the government was firm in making the city the State capital. However, rents again hit a plateau and even dipped slightly in some areas after the outbreak of COVID-19. Now, with the Governor giving his approval to the Bill seeking to establish three capitals in the State, homeowners feel this is the right time to jack up rental prices. “Earlier, we used to rent out our 2-BHK for Rs. 7,500. The house is vacant now and we have decided to now rent it out for not less than Rs. 9,000. In the future, we may increase the rent further keeping in view the demand and how other apartments are increasing their rentals,” said K. Prasad, a resident of Madhurawada. However, some owners feel that it is too early to decide about increasing the rents. Some homeowners are also of the opinion that this is a very inopportune time to be raising rental prices as many families have been financially affected due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “I was thinking of raising the rent for my 3BHK flat in Madhurawada last December. However, with the outbreak of the pandemic, I asked my tenant to continue paying me the same rent,” said Jammi Subrahmanyam, a resident of Lawson’s Bay. With the availability of PSUs, educational institutions and business establishments, a large number of people have migrated to Vizag and have been residing here for years. These residents, especially middle-class employees and students, fear an increase in the rents in the coming months which would push them into distress. “This may be too early to increase the rents. But there will definitely be a hike once government departments begin to shift. Many people prefer staying close to office or near the beach, so the hike may be witnessed only in some areas and not across the entire city,” said S. Raju, a real estate broker. AP Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAS) vice-president K.S.R. Murthy said that even before COVID-19, rents of apartments and individual houses in core areas of Visakhapatnam were high. “There will be an increase in rentals in the northern part of the district, especially Zone I, where the administrative blocks are likely to come up,” he said.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concerns raised over storage of ammonium nitrate in Vizag||After huge quantities of ammonium nitrate reportedly stored in a warehouse exploded in Beirut, the capital city of Lebanon, killing at least 100 people and injuring over 4,000, concerns have been raised over the import, storage and transportation of the substance in the city. Speaking to The Hindu , former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma said on Wednesday that the Visakhapatnam Port alone had witnessed an import of 2,60,505 tonnes of ammonium nitrate during 2018-19. The Home Ministry should direct the State government to mount surveillance on the import, storage and distribution of ammonium nitrate consignments, he said. What the rules say The Ammonium Nitrate Rules, 2012, stipulate rigorous norms for storing the chemical, and it requires the local authorities to conduct periodical and surprise inspections to detect lapses that can lead to major accidents, or misuse of the chemical. “I am not sure whether the private companies concerned have in place emergency accident plans in conformation with the Rules. In case of an accident in Visakhapatnam, the HPCL Refinery, the airport in its vicinity, and the thickly populated residential colonies nearby will be severely affected,” Mr. Sarma feared. “Every truck carrying the chemical substance should be fitted with GPS tracking facility” he added. Every year, on an average, about 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh tonnes of ammonium nitrate is imported from various countries, especially Russia, through the Visakhapatnam Port. According to Sambasiva Rao, managing director of Sravan Shipping, the sole CFS agent for the chemical, the stock is usually lifted in one week by the importers, mostly fertilizer and coal mining companies. “But, at any given point of time, a stock of 25,000 to 30,000 tonnes is maintained in the enclosed and fully secured stockyards,” he claimed. ‘Sought-after by Maoists’ Though ammonium nitrate that is imported is of fertiliser grade, it is a potent explosive substance and much sought-after by the banned CPI (Maoist). In 2010, a truck carrying 16 tonnes of the chemical from Visakhapatnam to Jharkhabd was hijacked by the Maoists near Jagdalpur. In 2016, two trucks carrying 44 tonnes of the substance was seized near Etcherla in Srikakulam district. According to a senior police officer engaged in the anti-Maoist operation, most of the ammonium nitrate from Visakhapatnam goes to States such as Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, which are part of the Red Corridor of the CPI (Maoist). “Ammonium nitrate is sought by the Maoists as it is the basic ingredient to make IEDs. But now, with the tightening of the transport procedure, they are falling back on Cordtex. An IED can be made easily by using ammonium nitrate, as all it requires is a catalyst in the form of diesel. That is why it continues to be the favourite of the Maoists,” he said. ‘Safety measures in place’ “The chemical cannot explode on its own. It needs a reactive catalyst, and that is why we do not allow any other chemical into the warehouse where it is stored,” said Mr. Sambasiva Rao, who had been importing it since 20 years. “Moreover, all safety measures such as CCTV cameras and manual security are in place. Fire safety arrangements have been made as per the prescribed standards. As per the government order, to avoid pilferage and spillage, it is now imported in 1,000 kg bags and not in bulk. Even the transporter is regulated and approved by the government for accountability,” he added. “The warehouses are periodically checked by the departments concerned such as the police, fire, PCB and PESO,” he added.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more arrested in child trafficking case||The city police on Thursday arrested two more persons, including a renowned doctor from another hospital, in connection with the child trafficking case of Universal Srushti Fertility & Research Centre for allegedly selling a newborn, after informing the mother that she gave birth to a still born baby. The arrested were identified as Dr. Ch Padmaja, DGO of Padmaja Hospital, Seethammadhara, and N. Nooka Ratnam, a resident of Cheedikada mandal in Visakhapatnam district. On July 26, the city police arrested Dr. Patchipala Namrata, managing director of Universal Srushti Hospital; K Venkata Lakshmi, B Annapurna, both ASHA workers from V. Madugula mandal; A Ramakrishna, son-in-law of Venkata Lakshmi; Dr Tirumala, staff at Universal Srushti Hospital; and L. Chandra Mohan, on charges of child trafficking. They allegedly sold a newborn baby boy to a couple from Kolkata. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena said that after the Universal Srushti Hospital child trafficking case came to light, yet again on July 30, the police received a complaint from a woman, Ch. Venkata Lakshmi from Chodavaram. She stated that while she was pregnant, she visited a private hospital at Chodavaram for a medical check-up in November 2019, where she met Nooka Ratnam, who said she was a doctor from Universal Srushti Hospital in Visakhapatnam city and assured to perform the operation free of cost. After believing in her, Venkata Lakshmi got admitted in Universal Srushti Hospital later was referred to Padmaja Hospital, where she delivered a baby on January 31, 2020. But Nooka Ratnam along with Ramakrishna, Dr Namrata and a few others, allegedly informed Ms. Venkata Lakshmi that she had given birth to a stillborn. Thereafter, Venkata Lakshmi was discharged from the hospital on February 3. Police said that after the child trafficking case came to light, Venkata Lakshmi approached the police and lodged a complaint, suspecting that the hospital might have sold her child. After registering a case, the police carried out searches at Universal Srushti Hospital and also Padmaja Hospital. Police investigation revealed that Dr. Padmaja had received the medical reports of Venkata Lakshmi from Universal Srushti Hospital through one doctor (whose role is yet to be established) on January 30, 2020, who informed her that Dr. Tirumala of Srushti hospital would be referring a pregnant woman for delivery at Padmaja Hospital. The polcie chief said Ms. Venkata Lakshmi underwent C-section on January 31 at Padmaja Hospital, where the woman had given birth to an underweight baby girl. The infant girl was referred to Neo-Natal care at another hospital for incubation. “However, the hospital staff informed Venkata Lakshmi that she had given birth to a stillborn. Dr. Padmaja then prepared the case sheet using the name of another woman to whom the baby was later allegedly sold. The doctor also prepared a birth form with her signature with the wrong names of father and mother of the girl and sent it to GVMC for registration of birth,” Mr Meena said.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks statement on ammonium nitrate imports||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Thursday demanded that the Visakhapatnam Port Trust issue a public statement on imports of ammonium nitrate through the port. “The ammonium nitrate blast in Beirut has horrified people all over the world. Reports that ammonium nitrate is being imported into India mainly through VPT is a major cause for concern for residents of Visakhapatnam,” CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao said in a statement on Thursday. A series of industrial accidents in Visakhapatnam city, due to a lack of adherence to safety norms, and the recent blast in Beirut, have added to the fears of residents,” Mr. Narasinga Rao said, adding that 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate reserves that were stored in Beirut for the last six years caught fire and exploded, with the resulting shockwave being felt as far as 400 km away.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP cadres oppose Ganta’s ‘move’ to join the party||Over 300 YSRCP activists and leaders on Thursday staged a protest and formed a human chain at Thimmapuram junction at Bhimili against TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao’s reported move to join the party. Holding placards, the YSRCP leaders said that Mr. Srinivasa Rao was trying to switch loyalties to save his skin as he had several corruption cases against him. When Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, during his padayatra in October 2018, proposed to install the statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Thimmapuram junction, it was Mr. Srinivasa Rao who had objected to it, they alleged. “And now, Mr. Srinivasa Rao wants to join the YSRCP,” said Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao. The YSRCP leaders said a representation had been sent to party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy highlighting the corruption charges against the TDP MLA. The Minister alleged that the TDP leader was in the habit of joining the party in power and that he was not loyal to any party.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu using every trick to stall development’||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana has accused TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu of using all the tricks up his sleeve to stop the overall development of the State. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Satyanarayana also ridiculed Mr. Naidu’s statement that that YSRCP leaders were not willing to accept his challenge to dissolve the Assembly and seek a fresh mandate on the capital issue. Mr. Satyanarayana said the Central government, in an affidavit to the High Court, had clarified that the capital of a State is decided by the respective governments. ‘Promises fulfilled’ “The YSRCP was founded on the principles and ideals of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. The party has fulfilled all the promises it made in the run-up to the elections. It is also committed to the development of all the regions of the State, and the three capitals are a step in that direction,” he said. “A government should work for the development of all the districts and all the communities. But Mr. Naidu is batting only for one region and one community. Are people residing in other districts not a part of Andhra Pradesh?” he questioned. “The TDP government did nothing for the development of the North Andhra region. When the YSRCP government wants to develop the region, the opposition party is putting spokes in its wheel,” the Minister said, and wondered why were the TDP leaders from the region silent when Mr. Naidu was opposing its development.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||When PV spoke on women empowerment||Exactly on this day, 21 years ago, former Prime Minister of India P.V. Narasimha Rao delivered a speech on women empowerment in the city. He was here on August 7, 1999, on an invitation from the Centre for Policy Studies to release a book on Emancipation Before Empowerment: A study of Women’s Problems in Visakhapatnam , which was authored by Professors M. Vijaya Laxmi, B. Meena Rao and P.V.L. Ramana. After releasing the book, he delivered a stirring speech. Women had always played a major role in public life and participated actively in the freedom struggle under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi. After independence, however, property rights became an issue on which women were not encouraged and allowed to make decisions, he said. Women empowerment gained momentum and a milestone in the history of women’s emancipation had been reached with the 33% reservation for women in employment and in public positions, he said. According to Prof. A. Prasanna Kumar, the director of CPS, the former Prime Minister suggested that every town, city and village must provide a forum for active public participation, especially by women, and then only development would be possible in all areas. This year is being celebrated as the birth centenary year of the former PM, and many who attended that meeting say PV held the audience captive with his oratory skills.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist link with ganja smugglers unearthed, claim police||For the first time the district police claimed that they have been able to establish a link between ganja smugglers and the banned CPI (Maoist), with the arrest of a ganja smuggler. The police on Thursday arrested Kolakani Kamesh (36) of Maddigaruvu village of Boyathalli panchayat and subsequent investigation reportedly revealed a new angle to the Maoist movement and their nexus with ganja smugglers. Till now we were suspecting the nexus but the Maoists had been denying the allegations about their direct connection with ganga cultivators and smugglers, said the OSD, Narsipatnam, Satish Kumar. As per the police, Kamesh, who belongs to the Valmiki tribe, came in contact with one Prabhakar alias Ashok, who had worked with the Maoist party till about four years ago. Since then Kamesh had been procuring ganja from Prabhakar and his wife Lakshmi and selling it to traders in Odisha and Maharashtra. The Maoist party used Kamesh to sell ganja and procure necessary items such as milk powder, tea, batteries and medicines from the traders, police said. Contraband seized He was caught while transporting Cordtex detonating wire, steel carriages, live detonators, nuts and bolts, Rs. 1.76 lakh cash and 24 kg of dry ganja. He revealed that the Maoists had direct connection in ganja smuggling and it was one of their major sources of revenue, said Mr. Satish. Maoists were turning tribal youth into ganja smugglers, the police claimed.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One held for smuggling liquor from Telangana||SEB officials arrested a person who was allegedly smuggling liquor from Telangana through courier services. Officials seized more than 180 liquor bottles. The arrested was identified as M. Aadinarayana. SEB officials checked his call data, and found that someone sent him a courier.  Police went to the courier services office at Gajuwaka where they found liquor bottles in large numbers. The SEB officials suspect the role of some more persons in the case.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases breach the 17,000-mark||Coronavirus cases continued to be on a relentless rise in Visakhapatnam district, with 781 positive cases being reported on Thursday. The district's cumulative tally now stands at 17,094. Four more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 116. Meanwhile, as many as 862 persons recovered from COVID-19 and were discharged on Thursday. The total number of active cases now stands at 8,569 while the number of discharged persons is 8,409, according to a health bulletin released by the administration. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 Dr P.V, Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district is 851. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact the COVID-19 Control Room at 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Education Policy’s merits discussed||The New Education Policy (NEP) is student-friendly and will provide skill-based opportunities, Vice-Chancellor of Ambedkar University K. Ramji said. The V-C was speaking as the chief guest at a webinar hosted jointly by the Regional Outreach Bureau along with All India Radio (AIR) on the ‘New Education Policy and New Opportunities’ on Thursday. “NEP will help students make their career choices from Class IX itself. It will also enable the students to enhance their skills to meet global challenges,” Mr. Ramji said. Additional Director General, Information and Broadcasting (Andhra Pradesh), B.Murali Mohan, said that NEP enhances Ease of Doing Business, and vigorous training of teachers will enable them to better equip students with desired skills.
07 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain alert in State||Thunderstorms with lightning and heavy rainfall are likely to occur at isolated places in north-coastal A.P. and Yanam on August 8, 9 and 10. Thunderstorms are likely to occur at isolated places in south-coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema on August 8 and heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places in south-coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema on August 9 and 10.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In high spirits||
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Multi-tasking mom||
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cool cat!||
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legal metrology officials book 429 cases in four months||The legal metrology officials have been raiding fertilizer retail shops and dealers since the past 10 days, in the wake of scarcity of urea and hoarding allegations Anantapur district. The officials have booked seven cases and collected Rs. 95,000 as penalties from the violators of norms. Assistant Controller N. Swamy and Inspector Mohammed Ghouse on Thursday said all the cases were related to violation of Maximum Retail Price (MRP) norms. The officials said that many cases of hoarding of oil, pulses and other items came to their notice during the inspections in Kalyandurg, Kuderu, Rayalacheruvu, and Madakasira. “We have booked 429 cases and collected Rs. 30,54,500 as penalties between April 1 to July 31,” Mr. Swamy said. Many shops are allegedly selling oximeters, sanitisers, handwash, and other package products with no mention of name and address of the manufacturers, generic name, net quantity, the officials said.
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2,092 positive in State, highest on a single day||The State registered over 2,000 COVID positive cases on a single day for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, with 2,092 swab samples testing positive. This is the highest number of cases registered on a single day overtaking the previous highest of 2,083 cases registered on July 31 and 2,012 on August 4. The total number of affected people is inching closer to 75,000 mark reaching 73,050 on Wednesday and 13 persons succumbed to the virus during the day taking the total to 589. In all, 1,289 persons recovered during the day taking the cumulative to 52,103 and the number of active cases as on Wednesday was 20,358. The GHMC continues to contribute the bulk of positive cases with 535 swab samples testing positive on Wednesday. Rangareddy with 169 positive cases and Medchal-Malkajgiri (126) continued to register cases in excess of 100 while Warangal Urban with 128, Karimnagar (123) and Sangareddy (101) too breached the three digit mark. According to the bulletin, Nizamabad with 91 and Sircilla with 83 positive cases, registered cases on the higher side. A total of 21,346 swab samples were collected on Wednesday taking the total to 5.53 lakh and of the total samples collected, reports relating to 1,550 persons were awaited. As many as 17,857 beds out of 20,396 available were vacant. Of these, regular beds constituted 11,520, 5,861 oxygen and 1,882 ICU beds.
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Arranging food a matter of huge concern for quarantined families||According to the latest Telangana medical bulletin, 13,793 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV2 virus are in home and institutional quarantine. The individuals are scattered throughout the city and State. While the Telangana government is distributing home isolation kits containing medicines and supplements, one of the major problems facing quarantined families and individuals is food. “I have tested positive for COVID-19 and my wife is also having symptoms. I am extremely worried about food for my two young daughters aged 6 and 8. Can you please suggest any caterers who can deliver healthy food at XXX Cross Roads area?” This was one of the queries posted in a foodies group on August 2. This set Ravikanth Reddy, the admin of the group, thinking. He began a workaround to help people with COVID-19 who were looking for home cooked meals over the two-week quarantine period. “I started gathering information from various queries or responses on the group. I also posted about it and asked people to share information in a particular format - Name Of Vendor, Contact Number, Location and Area Of Delivery, Veg or Non Veg and Home Made or Restaurant style. I and group moderator Sailaja Reddy contacted everyone personally, verified each number and then compiled the list,” says Mr. Reddy, whose list in the Food & Travel Group is being shared in multiple social media groups. “Currently, we are supplying food to 25 families in the 10 km radius of Charminar. We are supplying as per customer requirement. We have a tie-up with delivery teams and delivery apps,” says Farah Sultana, a home chef from Mir Alam Mandi area. “Initially my husband did the food deliveries. Now, we have a tie-up with a delivery app. I am in touch with the patients and meet their food choices,” says Vandana Mehra, a home chef from Karkhana, who is now delivering food to COVID-19 quarantined families in Begumpet and Vikrampuri Colony. Even restaurants have listed out packages for supplying food for 14-day quarantine period inclusive of breakfast, lunch and dinner. One of the hotels in Kothapet is offering a 14-day breakfast, lunch, dinner package for Rs. 8,000. “After I tested COVID positive, I had very low energy levels. Moving around the home was also very difficult Then there is the issue of supply of fresh vegetables and groceries. Without the help of a maid I had to take care of the utensils. We used disposable plates and cups to reduce the work load,” says a person, who tested negative after the 14-day quarantine period.
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR urges Centre to set guidelines for COVID vaccine development||Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has urged the Centre to unveil guidelines that will help facilitate in the timely development of safe and effective vaccines for COVID-19. Such a move will “remove subjectivity and allow all manufacturers to adhere to common guidelines and standards,” he said in a letter to Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan on Thursday. Expediting approval for clinical trials and manufacturing, delegation of more powers to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) zonal office in Hyderabad, and evolving a robust procurement policy as well as enhanced funding for vaccine development were other aspects he highlighted, while pointing to how three city-based firms were working to developing COVID vaccine. On the need for the Centre to frame guidelines, he said the country has one of the most complex regulatory systems in the world for vaccine approvals with six different ministries at the Central and State level required to give approvals. “India needs to have a regulatory framework that can hold good for global competition and ensure quality with speed,” the Minister said, calling for a strict but simple and transparent regulatory regime to fast track development of vaccines and also the biotech industry in general. “Further, there is a requirement for clear guidelines on the licensing of the vaccine. USFDA and WHO have already published the guidelines on the development and licensure of COVID vaccine. There is a need for similar guidelines in India to help facilitate the timely development of safe and effective vaccines for COVID-19,” he said, urging the Centre to make them available at the earliest to facilitate Indian vaccine manufacturers. Favouring decentralisation of authority for fast-tracking testing and approvals for vaccines, Mr. K.T. Rama Rao requested the Union Minister to instruct the CDSCO to delegate more powers and authority, with additional resources, to the zonal office here. “That will help industries with expeditious clearances and immensely contribute to the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat,” he said.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Focus on treatment: TPCC||TPCC has asked IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao to focus on corona treatment and extend facilities to hospitals first rather than “politicise the issue of COVID vaccine from Telangana”. TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayan Reddy said that Hyderabad has pharma giants like Bharat Biotech, Shanta Biotech, Dr. Reddy’s Lab, and Hetero Drugs, among others, with rich history of producing several vaccines and drugs much before TRS or KTR came into the picture. “Many companies are into research and production of vaccines since decades and KTR must not give an impression that he is playing a personal role in the production of vaccine for COVID,” he said. “KTR was a student when Genome Valley was commissioned as S.P. Biotech Park in 1999. Not even an inch of the 600 square km of land in Genome Valley was allocated by the TRS government. The entire infrastructure was developed and expanded under the Congress regime from 2004-2014. We never tried to politicise the scientific community and never interfered with research. But, KTR is trying to take credit for something which he or his government is not involved with,” he said. “Mr. KTR should focus on improving facilities for COVID patients in government hospitals,” he added.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. insensitive: Jagga||Congress MLA of Sangareddy Jagga Reddy found fault with the government for its focus on Cabinet meeting on Secretariat rather than on dealing with the rising corona cases in the State. In an interaction with the media here on Thursday, he said the insensitivity and inhuman attitude of the government towards people was reflected when Rs. 500 crore was allocated for construction of Secretariat while only Rs. 100 crore for corona. “Is this how the government responds when lakhs of people are suffering from the disease and fear that they won’t be treated at the hospials? People have lost confidence in this government and the medical infrastructure due to its negligent attitude,” he said. The Congress leader welcomed Minister Talasani Srinivas’s statement that he would go to Gandhi Hospital if he tested positive but asked whether every normal patient was treated the way he would be treated. “Ministers should behave responsibly rather than confining themselves to making political statements,” he said. He reiterated his demand for including COVID treatment under Aarogyasri. He condoled the death of TRS MLA Solipeta Ramachandra Reddy. “He tried to sort out differences between me and Harish Rao by personally arranging a meeting,” he recalled.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Meet held on issues facing Kummari caste||A meeting on the issues and problems related to the Kummari (potter) caste discussed the need to reskill them with modern techniques and provide equipment for those who continue in the profession. The meeting organised at the Centre for Economic and Social Studies by TRS leader Marri Rajashekar Reddy under the guidance of State Planning Board vice chairman B. Vinod Kumar also discussed the schemes of the government for those practising the profession. Preparing document Mr. Reddy said the meeting was aimed at preparing a comprehensive document on the social and financial conditions of people involved in the profession. He said availability of mud and teakwood is a major issue apart from the need for modernising the equipment used for making pottery. Several G.O.s on their welfare are yet to be implemented in letter and spirit and this was brought to the notice by the elders of the community. “One of the major demands is the rights for acquiring mud,” he said. The document would be forwarded to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao for coming out with a new policy to safeguard the potters and those involved in the profession,” he said.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie found dead in Mansoorabad||A 27-year-old techie was found dead at her residence in Mansoorabad of LB Nagar here on Wednesday night. According to LB Nagar inspector V Ashok Reddy, the victim Lakshmi, a software engineer with Access Meditech at Mehdipatnam, ended life as she was not interested in getting married. “She was depressed as her family was looking for matches for her. For the last two years, the family members were looking for a match for her,” he said. On Wednesday morning, her family members went to ECIL and returned around 2 p.m. only to find Lakshmi in a shocking state. They shifted her to Global Hospital, where doctors declared her dead. A note purportedly left behind by the victim stated: no one is responsible for my death and don’t get upset over it. Based on the complaint lodged by her parents, a case was registered and body was handed over to the family members after autopsy at Osmania General Hospital morgue.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Infected mothers can continue to breast feed’||COVID-19 infected mothers can continue to breast feed as the virus will not be transmitted through breast milk. However, the mother should wash her hands with soap and running water, wear a face mask and surfaces near her have to be sanitised. Breast feeding initiated within the first hour of birth, provided exclusively for six months, and continued up to two years or beyond with safe and appropriate complementary foods, is one of the most powerful practices for promoting child survival and well-being, said public health expert and former GHMC chief medical officer of health Dr. M. Jayaram on Thursday. Addressing a meeting on the occasion of “Breastfeeding week” from August 1-7 here, Dr. Jayaram, also the senior academic registrar of the Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH), said that the theme this year is “Support breastfeeding for a healthier planet” as lives of 8.20 lakh children can be saved and 20,000 mothers can avoid breast cancer by breast feeding. Breast feeding mothers get protected from diseases such as type-2 diabetes, post-partum depression, breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eatala for counselling of coronavirus patients||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has directed all district collectors to regularly monitor COVID patients in home isolation by providing them proper counselling with doctors. Collectors should ensure that patients get proper medical care as this would go a long way in instilling confidence in them. They should also seek suggestions from district ministers while extending treatment to coronavirus patients, he said. The Minister, accompanied by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, conducted a video conference with collectors, medical and health officers and hospital superintendents on COVID management in districts on Thursday. The Chief Secretary underlined the need to test all those who come for testing after being enrolled in the app. People testing positive should be counselled along with the medical kit. The district collectors were asked to furnish proposals for new testing centres, details of vacancies of medical staff for treatment of coronavirus and proposals received from private hospitals seeking permission to declare them as designated COVID hospitals. Information was also sought for proposals for extension of oxygen supply to all the beds in district hospitals, area hospitals and those attached to medical colleges across the State. They should submit pending bills related to COVID in prescribed format besides preparing a circular on medicines provided to patients in home isolation and issuing guidelines for treatment protocol, the Minister said.
07 August 2020||Hyderabad/NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Prof. Jayashankar will inspire generations to come’||The 86th birth anniversary of Telangana idealogue Prof K. Jayashanker was celebrated by garlanding of his portraits in different parts of the State on Thursday. Ministers S. Niranjan Reddy and Satyavathi Rathod paid floral tributes to the late leader at TRS office here. Another Minister T. Harish Rao and ex-Nizamabad MP K. Kavitha took to Twitter to heap praise on Prof. Jayashanker. Prof. Jayashankar’s unflinching determination for the separate statehood of Telangana will continue to inspire generations, said Nalgonda District Collector Prashant J Patil said. ‘Mass leader’ Garlanding his portrait along with the staff at the Collectorate, Mr. Patil said Prof. Jayashankar’s efforts as a teacher, Vice-Chancellor and an ideologue mobilised people for Telangana movement in its various phases. Addittional Collector V. Chandra Shekar described him a visionary who brought awareness among the masses through his work and mentored several leaders during the movement. Staff in the various departments in Suryapet and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri also displayed portraits of the leader and paid tributes. ‘Unrelenting leader’ For members of Telangana Joint Action Committee, Nalgonda unit, Prof. Jayashankar remains a selfless and unrelenting leader since 1952 — till the achievement of separate State in 2014. Dusarla Satyanarayana of Jala Sadhana Samithi recollected the slogan the professor gave — neellu, nidhulu, niyamakalu (water, resources and jobs) and for self-rule — as crucial for the movement. For Telangana Vidyavanthula Vedika’s Pandula Saidulu, the aspirations of Prof. Jayashankar for Telangana remain to be achieved, even six years after the formation of separate State.  The aspirations of Prof. Jayashankar for Telangana are yet to be achieved. Pandula Saidulu,    Telangana Vidyavanthula Vedika.
07 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘COVID threat downplayed’||CPI (M) State secretariat member P Sudarshan Rao alleged that the State and Central governments were trying to downplay the scale of the COVID-19 threat. “While the Central government is trying to privatise the public sector entities, the State government is focusing on construction of a new building for the State Secretariat, unmindful of the travails of millions of distressed people hard hit by coronavirus crisis,” he said.
07 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Bihar worker killed in accident at YTPS||A 22-year-old worker hailing from Bihar was killed in an accident at the Yadadri Thermal Power Station (YTPS) in Damaracherla on Wednesday. The incident came to light on Thursday after a few workers, who wished to remain anonymous, spoke to The Hindu and alleged that authorities were trying to cover up the issue. According to information, at around 7 p.m. on Wednesday, one Aqeel climbed on the cement mixer to check if the content was fully unloaded. However, he slipped and fell into the rotating mixing drum and suffered severe injuries. He was taken in an ambulance, and post-mortem was conducted at Nalgonda general hospital. “They were not paid any compensation and the remains were packed off to Bihar,” they said. According to police officer Kota Karunakar at YTPS, the deceased Aqeel Alam was a lorry helper employed by a private contractor. “He climbed on the mixer without informing the driver or the operator. He died while being taken in an ambulance to Hyderabad for emergency care, and so the post-mortem was conducted at Nalgonda,” he said. “He was wearing the safety equipment,” the officer added. Wadapally police, when enquired, said a case of accidental death was opened after a cousin of the deceased, Imtiyaz submitted a petition. Officials, however, did not confirm if the family of the deceased employee was paid any compensation as per law.
07 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,TELANGANA||Watershed project bails out tribal ryots||At a time when many areas of Srikakulam district are facing shortage of water owing to deficit rainfall this monsoon; the hilly region near Seethampeta have plenty of water, thanks to the effective implementation of watershed programme. With the support of District Water Management Agency (DWMA) , a non-governmental organisation, ARTS, has been implementing the programme in 11 panchayats effectively. “Launched six years ago, the programme have started yielding the desired results. As many as 4,985 hectares of barren land has been brought under cultivation as part of the project,” says ARTS director Nuka Sanyasi Rao. He says that tribal farmers have been made a part of the watershed committee and they are generating a decent income by growing various crops . “Apart from paddy, millets are also being grown with the availability of water in the ponds which get recharged by percolation and run-off. The watershed project is providing livelihood to 1800 tribal farmers and each farmer is able to generate around Rs. 15,000 per annum,” says Mr. Sanyasi Rao. Aquaculture The residents of Mandal, Killada, Garapadu, Pedarama, Haddubangi, Manda and others are also practising aquaculture by utilising the pond water which is available through out the year. “Fish varieties grown up in fresh water has a huge demand in market. It is helping us generate additional income,” says S. Savara Gopal, a tribal farmer. Manda Watershed programme Project Officer Bendi Sankara Rao says that horticulture crops are also being promoted in the tribal areas. Zero-based natural farming “Mango, banana, cashew and other crops certainly ensure decent income for tribal farmers. With the support of the NABARD, we are sensitising the tribal people about marketing so that they can get remunerative prices for their produces,” says Mr. Sankara Rao. Experts are imparting training to tribal farmers about zero-budget natural farming (ZBNF) and setting up vermi-compost units.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Checking on top gear||
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||PD Act against history-sheeter||Md. Mohsin Khan, a town resident, involved in six criminal cases in the Town-I police station limits, was sent to Warangal central prison on Thursday after he was booked under the Preventive Detention Act. In the past, he was an accused in a murder and two attempt to murder cases, among others. According to Inspector N. Suresh Kumar, Mohsin was earlier remanded under the PD Act in 2018, and served one year in jail. “Even after the release, he was found indulging in extortion. He did not show any change in his nature, and for continuing anti-social behaviour, the SP ordered invoking of PD Act against him,” the Inspector said.
07 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana records rise in infant deaths||Haryana has registered a rise in deaths of infants in the age group of 28 days to one year between April and June this year, with 1,208 such deaths reported as against 828 during the corresponding quarter in 2019. State health department officials, however, said the rise revealed by the civil registration system data cannot be attributed to any one factor and could be ascertained only after analysing individual cases. The infants dying this year included 649 males and 559 females, while in the corresponding period last year 418 males and 410 females had died. As for the age of infants who died this year, 691 were below seven days, and increase compared to 439 last year. Infants aged between seven days to 28 days that died in 2020 numbered 182, as against 110 in 2019. In the age group of 28 days to one year, 335 infants died this year as against 279 in the corresponding period in 2019. Rohtak district reported the maximum infant deaths at 377 while 97 deaths were recorded in Nuh followed by 79 in Faridabad. In April-June 2020 close to 1.07 lakh births have been reported in comparison to 1.04 lakh in 2019 for the same period in the State. “Between April-June all emergency services were in place and working efficiently across the State. The actual cause in the rise can be ascertained only after analysing individual cases,” said Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General, Health Services, Haryana. Rohtak civil surgeon Anil Birla also said individual cases would have to be looked at to arrive at a definitive conclusion. “In Rohtak, we have the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences where referral cases from adjoining districts come. That is a reason for high number of cases being reported here,” he said.
07 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Sadia Dehlvi, who explored the unexplored in Delhi, bids adieu||Renowned author and activist Sadia Dehlvi, 63, who passed away on Thursday, loved to explore the unexplored. A devout Sufi, Dehlvi was a guide to the uncharted spots in Delhi where ‘the heart of Islam’ blossomed. An advocate of pluralistic aspects of Islam from food to music, a prolific writer and a persevering activist, she unravelled the layers of the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeeb through her works and life. The author of The Sufi Courtyard: Dargahs of Delhi often criticised the separation of religion from spirituality. She would say you could not have Vedanta without Hindusim and Sufism without its Islamic roots. It is about taking the first step and then spreading your horizons. She was born to Yunus Dehlvi at the famed Shama House on Sardar Patel Road. Her grandfather Yusuf Dehlvi was a cultural connoisseur and the force behind Shama , the literary and film magazine. Dehlvi, who edited Bano , an Urdu journal of the group, would fondly talk about the evenings in the company of the likes of Ismat Chughtai, Ali Sardar Jafri, Dilip Kumar, Raj Kapoor and Nargis. The talk would eventually shift to their food habits as Dehlvi was a deft cook, someone who would not like to keep her recipes a secret. She generously shared them in her book Dilli Ka Dastarkhan and Jasmine & Djinns: Memories and Recipes of My Delhi, in which she talked about the evolution and inclusive nature of the Delhi food, which she described as a fusion of Persian and Indian styles and how it gained in sophistication when the Turkish chefs came in contact with the Kayastha cooks of Delhi. In the same breath, the raconteur in her would talk of jinns of different faiths who inhabited the Shama Kothi and how they had a sweet tooth! She successfully dabbled in television as well, with Amma and Family for Home TV that opened a window to an urban Muslim family, with the irrepressible Zohra Segal playing the adventurous Amma. Part autobiographical, it broke some of the stereotypes that popular culture associates Muslims with. She shared a strong bond with Khushwant Singh and a common love for Delhi and Urdu poetry. Singh dedicated his book Not A Nice Man To Know to Dehlvi and she produced a tele-series in which he interviewed successful women from different fields. When Shama House was passed on to the Bahujan Samaj Party, she saw it as a symbol of changing Indian polity in which Muslims were increasingly moving away from the centrestage because of various reasons. Often found at the Nizamuddin Dargah, the activist in her would question the filth around Muslim localities and places of worship and how they could not easily find rented accommodation in a city that once embraced everybody. She tirelessly worked for preserving the cultural heritage of the city that was increasingly becoming, as she would say, too boisterous and a show-off. Like a true Sufi, Dehlvi carried many a pain in her heart but, like the title of one of her series, she always believed in Zindagi Kitni Khoobsurat Hai .
07 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Indian Muslims are silent but sad, says intelligentsia||The events of August 5 and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech in Ayodhya are being analysed across the co-untry. A section of Muslim intelligentsia feels that he said “nothing to assuage” the feelings of the community which has been most affected by the Supreme Court verdict. “Most Muslims had reconciled to the Supreme Court verdict but August 5 events and the speech were mounted as a day to celebrate it as a victory and rub salt into the wounds of Muslims,” said Mirza Asmer Baig, professor of political science, Aligarh Muslim University. On the change in the slogan from Jai Shri Ram to the supposedly more inclusive Jai Siya Ram, Prof. Baig said it was the tone that mattered. “And it was that of a victor. I guess Mr. Modi can’t afford to be inclusive even if he wants to as his hardcore voter doesn’t want to give even an inch to the Muslim community,” he said. ‘Illiberal democracy’ By putting August 5 parallel to August 15, Prof. Baig said Mr. Modi “pushed India towards an illiberal democracy and a Hindu Rashtra”. “Holding the bhoomi pujan on the day when Article 370 was revoked was more of a political move than a plan according to planetary equation. It seems it will be marked as a day of cultural liberation.” With this, he said, Mr. Modi had decisively moved India towards the right and, ideologically, the opposition parties would have to play on the ground of cultural nationalism set by him. “Words like secular are no longer being uttered during election campaigns as we had seen in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections,” said Prof. Baig. He feared that the Muslims would become political pariahs and the likes of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi would gather traction in the community. “I guess that is what the BJP wants because whatever they say, their electoral politics is still based on perpetuating hatred against Muslims.” Noted historian Ali Nadeem Rezavi said, Mr. Modi, by invoking 500 years of waiting, was probably hinting at the Mughals, a period when many of the valiant Rajputs were co-rulers. “Did they not think of the Hindu ‘ asmita ’ (pride)? Even the Maratha clans gained prominence during these 500 years. All these groups sho-uld ponder over their role,” he said. “Wish he would havealso referred to the second directive of the SC: the building of a mosque on different land. Right now, Indian Muslims are silent but sad.” Suhaib Sherwani, former professor of English literature at AMU and a member of CPI’s U.P. State Council, said there should be no place for theocratic states in the modern world. “I personally oppose both the conversion of Hagia Sophia [museum in Turkey] into a mosque as well as the participation of state machinery in bhoomi pujan . Those who justify the conversion of Hagia Sophia into a mosque have no right to feel offended by the state-sponsored bhoomi pujan and vice versa. In this sphere, the Indian Muslims need to do a lot of soul searching,” he said.
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||In a first, Maharashtra ties up with Google to facilitate remote learning||Maharashtra on Thursday became the first State in the country to announce a partnership with Google to promote remote learning for students. The initiative will enable 2.3 crore students and teachers to access free of cost the technology giant’s digital tools such as G Suite for Education, Google Classroom and Google Meet. Launching the Google for Education initiative, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “The State government’s stance has always been how and when to restart education rather than schools following the pause caused by the pandemic. Google’s tools will help students learn from their homes, empower teachers to provide excellent educational experiences, nurture individual needs, and enable them to learn better together.” Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said around 1.5 lakh teachers have so far registered to use the tools on offer. The government will provide educators and students with G Suite IDs to ensure every student experiences continuity in learning, while enhancing the teaching capabilities of educators. Each tool has been designed in a way that makes sure it is easy to use, flexible and scalable. The tools will help students learn from anywhere, at any time, and on a range of devices. Google Classroom will help educators easily create, review, and organise assignments, as well as communicate directly with students. Google Forms is a simple question and response tool, which allows educators to fill out or import questions to quickly create quizzes and tests. The Assignments tool enables educators to quickly and securely create, analyse, and grade coursework, and also provides students more flexibility in learning.
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sheena Bora case: court rejects Indrani’s bail plea||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case. Ms. Mukerjea was arrested in August 2015, and has been lodged in the Byculla jail from October the same year. She was charged with killing her daughter Sheena on April 24, 2012. Special CBI court Judge J.C. Jagdale, while rejecting her bail plea, said, “Some important case witnesses like Rahul Mukerjea (son of co-accused Peter Mukerjea), Vidhi (daughter of Ms. Mukerjea), and co-accused Sanjeev Khanna (her ex-husband) are yet to be examined.” The court said there was no doubt that the accused (Ms. Mukerjea) was an influential and wealthy person. “Therefore, the possibility of influencing prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out.” Ms. Mukerjea sought bail on the grounds that the case was “false and baseless” and she had nearly 120 documents to prove it. Her lawyer had also argued that there was no scientific evidence to prove that the murder took place. It was contended that there had been several inconsistencies and contradictions in the testimonies of witnesses like her driver Shyamvar Rai, who turned into an approver. The Judge, however, said, “At this point, the court cannot conclude that the evidence led by Mr. Rai has falsified or suffered from fatal infirmities due to cross-examination of the said witness.” The court also said at this stage of the trial, the court could not pass a final conclusion about the value of the witnesses and said the accused and the advocate should cooperate to finish the trial. On July 15, the court had rejected her plea for a 45-day interim medical bail sought on the grounds of the outbreak of COVID-19. On November 3, 2018, while rejecting Ms. Mukerjea’s bail, Judge Jagdale had said, “She has been charged with a very serious offence. Although majority of the trial is completed, the key witness, Mr. Rahul Mukherjea, is yet to depose.”
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC hearing suspended for second time in week||The principal Bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday suspended hearing via videoconferencing of all matters due to the acute shortage of staff owing to disruptions in train services caused by heavy rain. This happened for the second time in the week. On August 4, matters had to be suspended due to heavy rain, leading to flooding and waterlogging in several areas. Another notice was issued on the HC website by M.W. Chandwani, prothonotary, and V. R. Kachare, registrar, which said matters on the board on Thursday would be heard from 2.15 p.m. to 5.15 p.m. on Friday and preference would be given to matters which were urgent. The India Meteorological Department had predicted heavy showers this week and said there would be light to moderate rain over the weekend.
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||Court rejects Indrani’s bail plea||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case. Ms. Mukerjea was arrested in August 2015, and has been lodged in the Byculla jail from October the same year. She was charged with killing her daughter Sheena on April 24, 2012. Special CBI court Judge J.C. Jagdale, while rejecting her bail plea, said, “Some important case witnesses like Rahul Mukerjea (son of co-accused Peter Mukerjea), Vidhi (daughter of Ms. Mukerjea), and co-accused Sanjeev Khanna (her ex-husband) are yet to be examined.”  ‘Influential person’ The court said there was no doubt that the accused (Ms. Mukerjea) was an influential and wealthy person. “Therefore, the possibility of influencing prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out.”
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC hearing suspended for second time in a week||The principal Bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday suspended hearing via videoconferencing of all matters due to the acute shortage of staff owing to disruption in train services caused by heavy rain. Heavy rain This happened for the second time in the week. On August 4, matters had to be suspended due to heavy rain, leading to flooding and waterlogging in several areas. Another notice was issued on the HC website by M.W. Chandwani, prothonotary, and V. R. Kachare, registrar, which said matters on the board on Thursday would be heard from 2.15 p.m. to 5.15 p.m. on Friday and preference would be given to matters which were urgent. The India Meteorological Department had predicted heavy showers this week.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Pharmaceutical wholesalers held for smuggling prohibited drugs to Iraq||Two pharmaceutical wholesalers have been arrested by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) in connection with the smuggling of prohibited drugs to Iraq. Four Iraqi nationals have already been arrested in this case. The two have been identified as Hariom Tikiwal and Amit Aggarwal. Hariom (42) belongs to Jaipur. Amit (45) runs a wholesale pharmaceutical business with his brother Mukesh in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra.
07 August 2020||Pune,||State hits new high of 11,514 COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra reported its highest single-day case jump on Thursday, with 11,514 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total cases to 4,79,779. As many as 316 more deaths saw the State’s death toll rise to 16,792. This is the second time that the State has recorded more than 11,000 cases in a single day, with the previous jump of 11,147 cases being reported on July 30. However, the surge was offset by a high number of recoveries, with 10,854 patients being discharged, taking the cumulative recoveries till date to 3,16,375. State Health Department officials said a record 74,000 samples had been tested in the last 24 hours while the number of active cases currently stood at 1,46,305. “Till date, of a total 24,87,990 laboratory samples, 4,79,779 (19.28%) have been tested positive with nearly 74,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate is 65.94%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stood at 3.50%.As per figures, Pune district reported more than 3,000 new cases and 62 deaths, taking its total case tally to 1,04,353 and its death toll to 2,496. The district administration, however, said the number of active cases was a little over 27,000. 910 cases in Mumbai In contrast, Mumbai reported just 910 new cases as its total cases reached 1,20,150, of whom only 20,546 are active. With 57 more deaths, the city’s fatality toll has risen to 6,648.In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane district reported 38 fatalities, taking its death toll to 1,152. The district recorded 475 new cases as its total cases crossed 36,500. After Pune district, Solapur in Pune division reported 15 deaths and 272 new cases. The district’s total case tally has reached 10,565, of whom 4,141 are active. Rain-hit Kolhapur in western Maharashtra saw a huge spike in cases, reporting 564 new ones to take its total tally to 7,651, of whom 4,644 are active cases. With 13 more deaths, the district’s death toll has climbed to 190. Nashik and Jalgaon districts, the virus hotspots of north Maharashtra, continued to witness case surges. Nashik saw new single-day high of 815 fresh cases as its total tally rose to 18,054, of whom 6,037 are active. With 13 more deaths, the district’s death toll has reached 521.Jalgaon reported 480 fresh cases as its total cases climbed to 13,031, of whom 3,505 cases are active. With 13 deaths, the district’s fatality toll has touched 575. Ahmednagar reported 533 new cases, as the district’s total cases rose to 7,440, of whom 3,260 are active.Dr. Awate said 9,76,332 people across the State were in home quarantine and 37,768 were in institutional quarantine.
07 August 2020||Pune,||Panchganga in spate: spectre of flood looms large over Kolhapur||The spectre of floods loomed over Kolhapur district with water levels in the Panchganga river crossing the danger mark on Thursday after heavy showers over the past two days. The river crossed its danger mark of 43 ft. at Rajaram Bridge and is flowing at 43.2 ft. till late afternoon. In addition to two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) already stationed in the district since late July, two more teams of 22 jawans each reached Kolhapur on Thursday morning. While one team will remain in the city, the other has reached Shirol taluk, said Kolhapur district authorities. Last year, unprecedented rain wreaked havoc in western Maharashtra, especially in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, resulting in the death of 60 people. Barrages under water According to the district administration, 102 barrages have now gone under water. Gaganbawda tehsil continued to be pummelled by heavy showers on Thursday, recording 243 mm rain in a 24-hour period. After Gaganbawda, Radhanagari (152 mm) and Chandgad received (145.17 mm) the highest rain since yesterday. However, in spite of intense showers throughout Wednesday, the rain took a break to Kolhapur on Thursday morning, with the sun coming out for a while to offer the beleaguered residents of the district some measure of respite. “We are well-prepared to tackle any emergency. Fifty-five boats are in harness while four NDRF teams are in readiness in the district,” said Kolhapur’s Guardian Minister Satej Patil, appealing to people to adhere to the evacuation directives and move to safer zones with their livestock. Urging people not to crowd needlessly at places at a time when the district was coping with the twin onslaught of heavy rain and the Covid-19 pandemic, he said he had directed authorities to arrange for adequate medical facilities for the residents of the 18 most-afflicted wards who were being shifted to safer zones in high ground. By evening, two sluice gates of the Radhanagari dam, which had filled to more than 70% of its capacity were opened, with a discharge of 2,800 cusecs of water, said authorities, adding that a massive discharge of 31,922 cusecs of water from the Almatti dam was on as well. At the same time, irrigation department authorities said that discharge from the upstream Koyna dam in Satara district would commence only after it was filled to 80 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) of its 105 tmcft capacity.“Right now, Koyna’s capacity is 67.27 tmcft. In comparison to the very heavy rainfall received earlier in the week, the intensity has been comparatively less in last few hours. So, we will begin discharging water only when the capacity exceeds 80 tmcft,” said an irrigation department official. Heavy rain The dam had received 11 tmcft water in barely 36 hours due to to the tremendous heavy rainfall in the catchment areas, especially in the hill station of Mahabaleshwar which received as much as 13 cm rainfall over the last 24 hours. Earlier, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, through videoconference with Mr. Patil and senior members of the administration, reviewed the situation in Kolhapur. Mr. Thackeray said 16 NDRF teams were stationed throughout the State. “Besides the Panchganga river, the Kodavli in Ratnagiri and the Kundalika in Raigad are flowing above their danger levels. There is a need for the authorities in these three districts to remain on high alert,” Mr. Thackeray said.
07 August 2020||Thane,||Man swept away in nullah||A 47-year-old man fell into a swollen nullah and was washed away in Thane, district authorities said on Thursday. The incident took place in Mira-Bhayander.
07 August 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka’s Oppn. suffers a huge setback||The likely decisive parliamentary majority secured by the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP, or People’s Party) in the island nation’s recent general elections is set to change its political landscape in significant ways. The political opposition to the Rajapaksas that was in fragments prior to the poll, could be decimated, going by results released until Thursday night. Pandemic factor Three months after his election, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa was faced with a raging pandemic. His government, mainly its public health officials with help from the Army, contained its spread early, earning global praise and goodwill within the country. With President Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa leading the party’s campaign ahead of the August 5 polls, crafted by their brother Basil Rajapaksa — known for skilfully cracking poll arithmetic — their victory was certain. Only its extent wasn’t. But the government’s successful pandemic response, a weak and fragmented opposition, and a full-throated campaign appears to have led the party closer to its desired two-thirds majority in parliament. Chief casualty Meanwhile, the chief casualty of the poll appears to be the United National Party (UNP), one of Sri Lanka’s oldest parties led by former PM Ranil Wickremesinghe. The Samagi Jana Balawegaya, led by Sajith Premadasa who broke away from the UNP, had secured less than 25% of the votes as of Thursday night. With the rump of the historic Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) having merged itself with the SLPP, the Rajapaksas have an unprecedented opportunity to consolidate power. Apparently recognising this, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first world leaders to call Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa, whose former government was widely accused of tilting towards China. In a press statement, the Ministry of External Affairs said Mr. Modi noted that the incoming election results indicated “an impressive electoral performance” by the SLPP. The two leaders stressed the significance of early progress in all spheres of bilateral cooperation, the media release said. Further, Mr. Modi informed Mr. Rajapaksa of the establishment of an international airport in the Buddhist pilgrimage city of Kushinagar in India, and said that the city looked forward to welcoming visitors from Sri Lanka at an early date. Tamil vote The Tamil National Alliance suffered a setback in the north and east, particularly in Jaffna district. Though the final tally is awaited, that it has ceded considerable space to allies of the ruling party and to the Tamil nationalist All Ceylon Tamil Congress (ACTC) was clear from early trends. Sri Lanka follows a proportional representation system of elections where voters mark up to three preferences in candidates. The total tally of seats secured by each party will be known on Friday.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.S. Congress panel flags restrictions in Kashmir||A year after the government altered the status of the former State of Jammu & Kashmir by diluting Article 370, the leadership of an important committee of the U.S. Congress noted “with concern” that conditions in the region have not returned to normalcy. In a letter dated August 5 and addressed directly to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, Chairman of the powerful House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC), Democrat Eliot Engel, and Ranking Member (a Republican) Michael McCaul — who formerly headed the House Homeland Security Committee — underscore the bipartisan nature of the concerns over Jammu and Kashmir and the larger context of the bipartisan support for the U.S.-India relationship. “It is because of our support for the bilateral relationship that we note with concern that conditions in Jammu and Kashmir have not normalised one year after India’s repeal of Article 370 and the establishment of Jammu and Kashmir as a Union Territory,” the Congressmen wrote. “We acknowledge the ongoing serious security and counter-terrorism concerns in the region and look forward to working with your government to address them while upholding our shared commitments to the democratic values and freedoms on which our countries’ bond was built,” they said. In December last year, Mr. Jaishankar had cancelled a meeting with the House Foreign Affairs Committee, after a human rights hearing held on the issue of J&K, and a resolution critical of New Delhi was moved in the House by US Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal. India has faced a series of statements from the U.S., the European Union and the U.N. agencies over the past year. Earlier this week, several U.N. human rights experts issued a statement calling on the international community to “address the alarming human rights situation” in J&K. “Urgent action is needed,” the experts said in a letter issued by the Office of the High Commission for Human Rights (OHCHR) in Geneva. “If India will not take any genuine and immediate steps to resolve the situation ... then the international community should step up,” it said. Responding to questions about both statements, the Ministry of External Affairs said it would be “happy to brief the U.S. Congress” on the situation in the Union Territory. “There have been several positive changes in the UT of J&K in the past year, whether be it in terms of good governance or socio economic development or ensuring justice to disadvantaged sections of the population,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday, without addressing the statement from the U.N. experts. In its letter, the HFAC also mentioned China’s ‘belligerence’ at the Line of Actual Control, assuring U.S. support as “India faces aggression from China along [the] shared border, which is part of the Chinese government’s consistent pattern of unlawful and belligerent territorial aggression across the Indo-Pacific”. The August 5 letter “demonstrates that support for the relationship remains bipartisan and contrary to thoughts in certain quarters, concerns about religious pluralism in India are also bipartisan,” a Congressional staffer told The Hindu .
07 August 2020||San Francisco,||FB, Twitter take aim at Trump ‘misinformation’||Facebook and Twitter took aim at U.S. President Donald Trump and his campaign on Wednesday over a video post, in which he contended that children are “almost immune” to the COVID-19, a claim they said amounted to “misinformation.” In an extraordinary move, Facebook removed the clip from the President’s account — the first time it has taken down one of his posts for violating its content rules. The video — an excerpt from a Fox News interview — “includes false claims that a group of people is immune from COVID-19 which is a violation of our policies around harmful COVID misinformation,” a Facebook spokesperson told AFP. Twitter, meanwhile, said it had blocked Mr. Trump’s official campaign account over a tweet containing the same video, in which the President made the case for reopening U.S. schools come September. A spokesperson for the San Francisco-based service said the tweet was “in violation of the Twitter rules on COVID-19 misinformation,” adding that the campaign would have to remove it before being allowed to tweet again. Soon thereafter, the @TeamTrump account was active, suggesting the contested video had been taken down. President’s defence “Another day, another display of Silicon Valley’s flagrant bias against this President, where the rules are only enforced in one direction,” the Trump campaign’s deputy national press secretary Courtney Parella said in a statement. Mr. Trump defended his comments about the virus’s effect on children when challenged during a White House press briefing earlier on Wednesday. “I’m talking about (being immune) from getting very sick,” Mr. Trump said. “If you look at children I mean they are able to throw it off very easily.”
07 August 2020||Washington,||Pompeo against vote for Cuba on Human Rights Council||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has urged UN members not to support Cuba’s bid to join the organisation’s Human Rights Council. “It’s outrageous that the Human Rights Council would offer to seat Cuba, a brutal dictatorship that traffic its own doctors under the guise of humanitarian missions,” the top U.S. diplomat said on Wednesday. Mr. Pompeo has described Cuba’s sale of medical services, Havana’s main source of foreign exchange, as a form of human trafficking. “No country should vote Cuba onto the council,” he said. Under President Donald Trump, Washington has reversed an opening with Cuba initiated by former president Barack Obama, hardening a trade embargo in effect since 1962. Cuba, which sat on the UNHRC in 2014-2016 and 2017-2019, has applied to fill one of the regional vacancies for 2021-2023. The seats are distributed geographically and are awarded for a period of three years. Members are not eligible for immediate reelection after serving two consecutive terms. Washington withdrew from the council in 2018, with Ambassador Nikki Haley calling it a “cesspool of political bias” and a “hypocritical and self-serving organisation that makes a mockery of human rights.” In particular, Ms. Haley had slammed the council for adopting resolutions condemning Israel, which has come under scrutiny by the council for its treatment of Palestinians.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. examines if Riyadh has nuclear goals||U.S. intelligence agencies are scrutinising efforts by Saudi Arabia to build up its ability to produce nuclear fuel that could put the kingdom on a path to developing nuclear weapons. Spy agencies in recent weeks circulated a classified analysis about the efforts underway inside Saudi Arabia, working with China, to build industrial capacity to produce nuclear fuel. The analysis has raised alarms that there might be secret Saudi-Chinese efforts to process raw uranium into a form that could later be enriched into weapons fuel, according to U.S. officials. As part of the study, they have identified a newly completed structure near a solar-panel production area near Riyadh that some experts suspect could be a undeclared nuclear site. U.S. officials said that the Saudi efforts were still in an early stage, and that intelligence analysts had yet to draw firm conclusions about some of the sites under scrutiny. Even if the kingdom has decided to pursue a military nuclear programme, they said, it would be years before it could have the ability to produce a single nuclear warhead. Saudi officials have made no secret of their determination to keep pace with Iran, which has accelerated since President Donald Trump abandoned the 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman pledged in 2018 that his kingdom would try to develop or acquire nuclear weapons if Iran continued its work toward a bomb. Last week, the House Intelligence Committee included a provision in the Intelligence Budget Authorisation Bill, requiring the administration to submit a report about Saudi efforts since 2015 to develop a nuclear programme, a clear indication that the committee suspects that some undeclared nuclear activity is going on. The report, the provision stated, should include an assessment of “the state of nuclear cooperation between Saudi Arabia and any other country other than the U.S., such as the People’s Republic of China or the Russian Federation.” An article in The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday said that Western officials were concerned about a different facility in Saudi Arabia, in the country’s northwest desert. The Journal said it was part of a programme with the Chinese to extract uranium yellowcake from uranium ore. That is a necessary first step in the process of obtaining uranium for later enrichment, either for use in a civilian nuclear reactor or, enriched to much higher levels, a nuclear weapon.NY Times
07 August 2020||BEIJING,||China sentences third Canadian to death||A Chinese court sentenced a Canadian to death on Thursday for making drugs, the third Canadian to be sentenced to death for allegedly making drugs in China since Canada detained a top executive of Chinese company in 2018. The Canadian, identified as Xu Weihong, was sentenced after a trial in the southern city of Guangzhou, the Guangzhou Intermediate Court said in a notice on its website. It did not say what drugs he had been convicted of making, nor give any other details about his crime. The court ordered his property to be confiscated. Reuters was not immediately able to determine if Mr. Xu has a lawyer. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin, asked about the case at a regular briefing, said drug crimes were very serious and everyone was equal before the law. “I don’t think it should have any effect on China-Canada relations,” Mr. Wang said. A Chinese national, Wen Guanxiong, was also charged with making drugs in the same case and jailed for life, the court said in its notice. Relations between China and Canada deteriorated sharply after Canada detained Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of Huawei Technologies, in Vancouver in late 2018, on a warrant from the U.S.
07 August 2020||Dublin,||TikTok to open Ireland data centre for Europe||Popular video-sharing app TikTok, threatened with a ban in the U.S. over its Chinese ownership, on Thursday announced plans for its first data centre for European users in Ireland. Roland Cloutier, TikTok’s global chief information security officer, said the 420-million-euro ($498 million) project would be operational by early 2022. In a blog posting, he said it would “play a key role in further strengthening the safeguarding and protection of TikTok user data, with a state of the art physical and network security defence system planned around this new operation”. “This new regional data centre will deliver tangible benefits, including enabling faster loading time,” he wrote. Data from TikTok users is currently held in the U.S. and Singapore. President Donald Trump has threatened to ban the firm, which is owed by China’s ByteDance, unless its U.S. operations are sold swiftly to a U.S. company. Officials say the app poses a national security risk as it could share Americans’ data with Chinese intelligence.
07 August 2020||Berlin,||German envoy killed in blast||A German diplomat was killed in the huge explosion in Beirut, the first confirmed German fatality. “All of us at the Foreign Ministry are in deep mourning for our colleague,” said Minister for Foreign Affairs Heiko Maas in a statement. He added that the female employee had died in her apartment in the Lebanese capital.
07 August 2020||Baghdad,||Iraq acts to prevent repeat||Iraq announced on Thursday it will create an inventory of all hazardous materials at ports and airports. A committee chaired by the head of Iraq’s border agency said it had been tasked with carrying out the work and had given itself 72 hours to complete it. The goal was to “avoid repetition of what happened in Lebanon” in Iraq.
07 August 2020||Hiroshima,||Japan marks 75 years of atomic bombing||Japan on Thursday marked 75 years since the world’s first atomic bomb attack, with the coronavirus pandemic forcing a scaling back of ceremonies to remember the victims. Survivors, relatives and a handful of foreign dignitaries attended this year’s main event in Hiroshima to pray for those killed or wounded in the bombing and call for world peace. But the general public was kept away, with the ceremony broadcast online. Hiroshima Mayor Kazumi Matsui warned against the nationalism that led to Second World War and urged the world to come together to face global threats, like the pandemic. Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to do his best for the “realisation of a world without nuclear weapons”.
07 August 2020||Paris,||Paris, Aug 6, 2020 (AFP) -||Droughts like the record-breaking one that gripped Central Europe from 2018 to 2019 could become much more frequent if the region fails to curb greenhouse gas emissions, a study warned.AFP
07 August 2020||Islamabad,||Islamabad, Aug 6, 2020 (AFP) -||Pakistan on Thursday said it would be lifting most of the country’s remaining restrictions after a drop in new COVID-19 cases for several weeks. All restaurants and parks will re-open from August 10, as will cinemas and public transport, said Minister of Planning Asad Umar.AFP
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||An invisible humanitarian crisis in India||India’s labouring poor have largely disappeared even from the inner pages of many newspapers and from television screens. It is as though, after the country has gradually unlocked and most migrants have returned home, the wrenching distress of mass hunger and sudden unemployment that racked their lives has somehow passed. The reality is entirely the reverse. The devastating impact of the unprecedented closure of the entire economy, which was already in recession, will endure for a long time. However, the immense suffering of the poor has been rendered invisible by the collective indifference of the state and the rich and middle classes. Slipping deeper into want On the banks of the Yamuna, adjacent to the largest cremation ground in Delhi, is an embankment called Yamuna Pushta, home to 4,000 homeless men. In normal times, they survived by doing casual wage work, mostly in eateries or construction. Work was uncertain and always underpaid; still they managed to keep raw hunger at bay by eating food provided by religious food charities in gurdwaras, temples and dargahs. I met them recently. Their destitution and desperation were palpable. There is still no work, and shrines have still not adequately revived their food charities. The Delhi government has mostly ended its free cooked food distribution programme. At the peak of the programme, about 10 lakh people were being fed in over 1,000 centres. I was critical then of the indignity of forcing people to line up for hours each day for a ladle of food. But although it could have been organised with more compassion and respect, that was still a crucial public lifeline for people thrust suddenly into mass hunger. With that lifeline snapped, there is nothing except for some small private charities to shield them from the blistering winds of hunger. My comrades, including those working with homeless people in other cities, activists of the right to food campaign countrywide, and volunteers for food relief of the Karwan-e-Mohabbat, all report conditions of even more worrying precarity and deprivation from around the country. There are communities in the countryside — in forests, deserts, hills, river islands and Dalit ghettos — who even in normal times survived on the edge of hunger. They used to depend on remittances from migrants for their survival; today they have to feed the migrants who returned. Casual daily wage workers, weavers, artisans, home-based workers, rickshaw-pullers and street vendors have always lived precarious lives too. But they have slipped much deeper into want. And there are millions of new entrants into the ranks of the hungry, including laid-off employees of small enterprises and eateries, domestic workers, sex workers, workers in the gig economy, and even teachers in low-income private schools and those taking private tuitions. All of these workers, and tens of millions more, are bracing themselves for the ways that the dispossessed have learnt, from time immemorial, and that are hardwired into their DNA, to live with chronic hunger. The first is to eliminate nutritious but unaffordable portions of one’s diet, including dal, milk, vegetables, fruit, eggs and meat. Many families report that they are eating only coarse rice and roti with salt. The next step is to reduce food intake, cutting down on both the quantity eaten during each meal and the number of meals, teaching one’s body to endure with less and less. As households slide further down this steep slope, there are increasing numbers of nights when they have to sleep hungry. Children who could earlier depend on the school or preschool centre for at least one nutritious meal are now being sent out to work, including scrabbling through waste for anything which can be eaten or sold. Public policy failures A number of global reports warn that hundreds of millions of people are being thrust into extreme poverty and hunger because of the economic impacts of the lockdown and the raging pandemic. A United Nations University paper (‘Precarity and the pandemic’, June 2020) estimates that 400 million new workers are at risk of slipping into extreme poverty, of less than $1.90 a day. What is even more worrying is that “the location of global poverty is likely to shift towards middle-income countries and South Asia and East Asia.” The impact could intensify because of “pre-existing conditions of fragmented or insufficient social protection systems” and could last for “years to come”. The UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, Philip Alston, similarly estimated in a study published in early July that more than 250 million people are at risk of acute hunger. This impact, he believes, “will be long-lasting”. He is critical of governments which “rather than acknowledging how badly the efforts to ‘end poverty’ have been faring, and how relentlessly the pandemic has exposed that fact... are doubling down on existing approaches that are clearly failing”. His angst about public policy failures to deal with the scale and depth of the humanitarian crisis is entirely justified. First, at senior levels of the Indian government, there is little acknowledgement of the depth of the crisis of hunger and the annihilation of livelihoods. To revive the economy and, in particular, MSMEs — the sector employing the most people outside agriculture — the Finance Minister relies mostly on credit rather than on fiscal transfers, unmindful that when both demand and production have crashed, credit will have few takers and can accomplish little. Second, governments also sought to revive the broken economy by excluding workers from regimes of labour rights protections, ostensibly for attracting capital investment. Instead of atoning for the immense distress of unprotected workers and mitigating future suffering by building sturdy legal walls for their protections, many State governments used the pandemic to further weaken the scant protections which the law currently provides informal workers. Some governments attempted to extend the workday to 12 hours, to suspend the protections of various labour laws for three years, and regulate the movement of workers across State borders. Abandoned by the state Even prior to the pandemic, India slipped to the 102nd position in the Global Hunger Report of 2019 that ranked 117 countries. It had fallen behind its neighbours Nepal, Pakistan and Bangladesh. The economy was also stuttering, with unemployment at a 45-year high. In the midst of this smouldering crisis, the most stringent lockdown in the world was imposed, nearly halting both demand and supply overnight. As the COVID-19 infection spreads to States with the most broken public health systems, such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and with the homeless and the poor being excluded from highly privatised health facilities in cities, the problems of the poor will further exacerbate. As the virus ravages bodies enfeebled by hunger and distress, they remain abandoned by the state, with no reliable access to care. Through all of this, the political establishment, sections of the media and the middle class remain culpably indifferent, preoccupied instead with buying legislators and toppling governments; purchasing military aircraft; jailing dissenters; and divisive agendas like the triumphalist construction of a Ram temple at the site of a demolished medieval mosque. With millions slipping invisibly into chronic hunger and intense poverty, India is hurtling silently into its gravest humanitarian crisis in over half a century. Harsh Mander is a human rights worker, writer, teacher, and author of several books including ‘Partitions of the Heart: Unmaking the Idea of India’
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Can the NEP fix access to universal education?||The new National Education Policy (NEP), approved by the Union Cabinet last week, seeks to align itself with the Sustainable Development Goal of ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education for all in the next 20 years. The policy has brought into its ambit children in the age group of 3 to 18 years. Leena Chandran Wadia and Anita Rampal share their thoughts in a discussion moderated by D. Suresh Kumar . Excerpts:  Is the NEP’s 10-year deadline, to make all children entering Grade 1 school-ready through Early Childhood Care and Education, practical? Leena Chandran Wadia (LCW):I think we have to be ready because every year that we lose, we lose some children. You know, at the time that their brain is developing fast and they can learn a lot, we must help them learn as much as possible. So that is a deadline we must try to meet. Anita Rampal (AR):Since April 1, 2010, we have a Right to Education Act making it a fundamental right of every child aged between 6 and 14 years to get free and compulsory education, in a neighbourhood school. This has been a fundamental right for the last 10 years. So there is no question of having a target of another 10 years. What this policy is doing is, it is very quietly, very problematically, going back on a fundamental right of a child, enacted by law. With the NEP silent on last year’s draft proposal to expand the RTE Act’s scope to cover children from 3 to 18 years, can universal education be attained? LCW:So I saw that too. And I am a little surprised… but the document does say that it wants to achieve universalisation of education. So, we have to wait and see until the implementation plan comes on how they propose to deliver on what they claim they want to do, which is universalise education between 3 and 18 years… this move to actually bring children into sort of formal education fold at age three, had a timeline because there are lots of practical issues with the anganwadis and preschools. But it doesn’t take away from the rights embodied in the RTE Act, which begins at age 6, which we felt was too late. AR:It [NEP] is clearly trying to abandon that [RTE] Act. It says it is not going to have a regular schooling with well-qualified teachers. This policy is saying we will be allowing open schooling. This clubbing of three years of ECCE with Grade 1 and 2 of primary school and then calling this a ‘foundational literacy and numeracy mission’, it is so worrying because we know that an anganwadi [worker] is not professionally trained to be a teacher. Can we believe it that a national policy says children will become tutors for others in their classes? It is very clear that it is really trying to abandon its responsibility of even providing a good, professional teacher for the earliest years. The policy says education is a public service, but also advocates philanthropic private participation… LCW:I would like to underline that all existing resources should be pressed into service to ensure that every child gets quality early childhood care. The anganwadi workers score a lot because they are actually, sort of, replacing the parents of the children. And so that is alright as a way to begin teaching the children… The NEP committee members were completely clear that the policy’s focus has to be that government education is of very high quality. This is the only way we will make sure every child, no matter where they are, are given education. It is very unlikely that the private sector is going to open schools in remote areas with less than 10 children. The only hope is to strengthen the government education system. But, of course, we are not going to stand in the way of private education. In the last 25 years, we have had nearly 50% private school education and nearly 70% of enrollment in higher education in private hands. The concern is there are too many players who are not of good quality. We have to find a way to weed them out. Everywhere in the world, it is usually philanthropy, private sector that participates in education. What we have in India is a lot of people under the umbrella of not for profit really working for profit... [To] filter them out, we have made some suggestions. What about concerns on the proposal to create school complexes? The Kothari Commission recommended it. AR:Kothari Commission spoke about a ‘school complex’ to have a collaborative synergy between high or higher secondary schools, which normally are better resourced, and the smaller neighbourhood and primary schools, which actually then become feeder schools for the high school. That word is being used now in a completely different sense. Here we know the background… 14,000 schools in one State have been closed under the name of consolidation, saying that small schools are sub-optimal. So, schools which actually provide access in the proximity of the child, within the community; those have been closed or merged. NEP says we should have larger institutions, right up to higher education, have a college which has 2,500 students. So it is trying to make an economic argument of viability. This is playing with the child’s right. How can you expect that this will be considered as access? The proposed 5+3+3+4 school structure has triggered apprehension that it could lead to exits at each stage… LCW:This is a pedagogical alignment, where we would like to assess students at Grade 3, 5 and 8 to make sure that they have attained the outcomes designed for them. This is an attempt to refocus attention on learning outcomes at different stages. In fact, we think there is also provision to make sure that the biggest dropouts that start to happen from beyond Grade 5 are halted. The NEP advocates equitable and inclusive education but there is no mention of a common school curriculum. Even the proposal to impart education in the mother tongue is open-ended. Wouldn’t these broaden inequities? LCW:State governments have actually decided that teaching will happen in the regional language, which is, for instance, Kannada in Karnataka, ignoring that there are large swathes of areas on the borders of Maharashtra, where children speak Marathi; on the Andhra Pradesh border, where children speak Telugu, etc. It should be possible for a school in a certain community to teach students in the dominant language. But there is another problem as State governments transfer teachers. You hire somebody from Bengaluru and post them at the Maharashtra border and the children are listening to Kannada, which is a foreign language. So, when they don’t attain foundational literacy and numeracy, it is because they are also struggling with the language. The whole idea is to try to get State governments to allow local schools to teach in their own language by hiring local teachers. How far we will succeed remains to be seen, because education is [also] a State subject. As for the common school curriculum, the discussion about different boards was there [in the NEP committee]. There is an exodus towards CBSE boards in many States but that is partially because the State boards are quite weak. This policy has tried to strengthen SCERTs so that they can attend to children’s need to be educated within their own context and culture. We need to open up that opportunity so that children can relate to their real life through their education. That is the reason we have let the various boards be. Will the thrust on vocational education weaken students academically, perpetuate hereditary occupations or lead to early exits? AR:The notion of vocational education as something which is only preparing you for vocations should not be pushed early in school. From the first Radhakrishnan Commission right down, our [Education] Commissions have said let’s not have different statuses for different kinds of programmes and instead give students a chance to study together. Our vocational education has no education in it. It is skill-based and based on hierarchy between knowledge for some and skill for the others depending on this constructed version of what is ‘ability’. This needs to be really questioned, because we already have many hierarchies within our system. This clubbing together of Grades 9, 10, 11 and 12 is extremely worrying and problematic because it says that you will be given vocational courses. Instead of sorting children out, give them a choice to be together and support them right through that. There will be a lot of dropping out, pushing them away into vocational courses or open school. With such sweeping school reforms, is a National Testing Agency needed to assess students for university admissions? LCW:This was debated a lot. The policy is very clear about where we would like to go. So many things are being dismantled, so many new attitudes and mindsets need to be built. The interim is going to be very difficult and most parents are anxious about the handful of so-called good opportunities that they have a perception for, like IITs. And so there are insane levels of competition. We felt it is better that only the people who want to try for JEE, for example, need to study for that entrance exam. The rest in school can be liberated to experiment with so many other of their interests. Also, higher education institutions are going to have some autonomy in deciding who they admit, which again, makes parents nervous. So, if at least some percentage of scores can be used for admission through the NTA then there will be a sense that there is at least an attempt to provide a partial level-playing field till such time that some trust is built in the system. Instead of trying to examine every child through an exit exam in Grades 10 and 12, it is better to introduce an entrance exam. Does the NEP’s broad categorisation of Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Group (SEDG), hamper equity? AR:I totally agree… disadvantage just doesn’t come from the air. It is historical, it is social. That is the way identities have been shaped with declarations of exclusion. Clubbing everyone under ‘SEDG’, shying away from saying ‘Dalit’ or ‘minority’ will not really get us to even acknowledge what the issue is. This is sort of glossing over it. We have to understand what ‘caste’ is. And what does it mean when we say that a child is from the Muslim community? How does a child fare within the system? How do the others look at this child? What are the backgrounds of this child? Trying to understand the diverse social realities, disadvantages and exclusion is key.  The committee members were clear that the policy’s focus has to be on making government education of very high quality Leena Chandran Wadia, Consultant, Kasturirangan Committee
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Academic research is necessary, but not sufficient||The Government of India is in the process of revisiting the Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) Policy. The policy will guide the agencies of the government mandated with funding research in higher education institutions and national laboratories. At this stage we need to ponder the question: what kind of research should be funded? That leads one to look at the nomenclature used by researchers for this purpose. Here it is pertinent to recall what William Shockley said in his Nobel lecture in 1956, that words like “pure, applied, unrestricted, fundamental, basic, academic, industrial, practical etc.” are being used frequently “in a derogatory sense, on the one hand to belittle practical objectives of producing something useful and, on the other hand, to brush off the possible long-range value of explorations into new areas where a useful outcome cannot be foreseen.” Alternate frameworks Experts in science and technology studies have come up with alternate frameworks and terminology to provide a comprehensive picture and avoid any value judgement. One approach was proposed by NASA in the form of Technology Readiness Levels (TRL), a type of measurement system used to assess the maturity level of a particular technology. TRL-1 corresponds to observation of basic principles. Its result is publications. TRL-2 corresponds to formulation of technology at the level of concepts. Then the TRL framework advances to proof of concept, validation in a laboratory environment, followed by a relevant environment, and then to prototype demonstration, and ending with actual deployment. The framework uses terms as applicable to aerospace applications, but one can come up with alternate terms depending on the field of application, including health sciences where the term ‘translational research’ is commonly used. The number of levels can also be adjusted to suit the application. An alternative is to use the terminology ‘Academic Research (AR)’, and ‘Post-Academic Research (PAR)’. One can easily establish correspondence with the TRL framework, with AR corresponding to TRL-1 and the rest to higher levels. To provide some granularity, one can divide PAR into early-stage PAR, and late-stage PAR. Late-stage PAR has to be done by large laboratories (national or those supported by industry), while AR and early-stage PAR can be done at higher education institutions and large laboratories. Both AR and PAR generate knowledge which is necessary for national development. When examined from the perspective of national development, pursuit of AR alone, while necessary, is not sufficient. AR and PAR when pursued together and taken to their logical conclusion will result in a product or a process, or a better clinical practice, or a scientifically robust understanding of human health and disease, or provide inputs for a policy decision. It is often said that India’s investment in research is lower than that by advanced countries. Here two observations need consideration. First, countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) report research statistics according to the Frascati Manual, which was first drafted in 1963, and has gone through five revisions since then. We cannot compare data with other countries without having correspondence between India’s data and data reported by others. Second, India has to decide where to increase investment: in AR or in PAR. Investment in research can translate into national development only through pursuit of PAR. This is not a call for abandoning AR, but a call to look for useful outcomes including via spin-offs and serendipity, and to prioritise research in areas that relate to national development. During my talks with academics on this topic, some observed that our industry has not reached a stage where they can absorb research being done by higher education institutions. This observation reveals that research being pursued is either not addressing national needs or is limited to AR. The lukewarm response of industry is a message for academia to orient its priorities to address national needs and engage in both AR and early-stage PAR and provide inputs necessary to raise the technology intensity of industry. Pursuing AR and PAR One can cite several examples to illustrate how AR and PAR can be pursued together. A programme in high energy physics can be designed to pursue accelerator technology along with high energy physics. Research in electro-chemistry can be accompanied by development of battery technologies. Judging the growth of S&T based only on publications provides an incomplete picture. Why is it that industries that have high technology intensity, such as aircraft and spacecraft, medical, precision and optical instruments, and communication equipment, have a low presence in India? What should be done to increase value addition to raw materials in India? The answer lies in increasing the technology intensity of industry, which was identified as one of the goals of the STI policy issued in 2013. This needs reiteration and a mechanism should be devised to monitor progress with the objective of becoming an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. The STI policy should emphasise PAR to ensure that investment in research results in economic growth. To motivate the research community to pursue at least early-stage PAR, the reward system needs significant reorientation. The current system for rewards relies heavily on bibliometric indicators despite the knowledge that publications alone do not lead to national development. The reward system in higher education institutions and national laboratories should be reoriented to promote PAR. Academics in higher education institutions pursuing AR should pursue early-stage PAR themselves, or team up with those who are keen to pursue PAR. In short, academic research is necessary, but not sufficient. R.B. Grover is Emeritus Professor, Homi Bhabha National Institute, and Member, Atomic Energy Commission
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Straying into troubled waters||Along the coastal areas of Porbandar, Mangrol, Veraval in Gujarat and the Union Territory of Diu on India’s western coast are hundreds of families whose lives have been torn asunder, the men of their households missing with only stray hopes of their return, women and children struggling to make ends meet and see another sunrise. The men are currently in jail in Pakistan, their families barely aware of their health and welfare. Their only ‘crime’ was that they were doing their work in the waters between India and Pakistan. These are fishermen who inadvertently crossed the invisible line in the water between the countries. As fishermen do not get ample fish on the Gujarat side, they have no option but to go farther and farther out into the sea. As they fish in mid-sea, they end up in waters controlled by Pakistan and are arrested for inadvertently entering into that country. India and Pakistan exchanged lists of prisoners on July 1 as per which 270 Indian fishermen and 54 civilian prisoners are in Pakistan’s prisons. India has 97 Pakistani fishermen and 265 civilian prisoners in its jails. In more friendly or less antagonistic circumstances, they would have been released after a formal procedure to check that they were really fishermen and not spies, but, in these times of suspicion, the value of their lives lies at the altar of bilateral relations. Consequently, their families suffer. On average, these men would have spent one-and-a-half years in prisons. Uncertainty hangs over them like the proverbial Damocles’s sword, given that in their prison cells, they have little knowledge of when they will be released and repatriated. The 2008 proposal This is not a new problem; it has dragged on for years together, without a resolution in sight. To address this issue, in 2008, India and Pakistan had formed a judicial committee consisting of four retired judges from each country. The committee used to visit prisons of the other country specifically to meet the prisoners, examine consular access, status of their cases, delay in release and repatriation, their health condition, and so on. It unanimously suggested release and repatriation of fishermen and a few women prisoners. The governments of both countries praised their work but did not implement the recommendations. The last meeting was held in October 2013. Five years later, there was a move to revive the panel. India nominated its four members but Pakistan did not. It is yet to take a step in that direction. Islamabad must do so urgently and call a meeting, given that the last meeting was held in India. Returning their boats Further, when fishermen are arrested, their boats are also confiscated. Their release means little till they get back possession of their boats from the other country. Both the countries should release those boats which can sail with some repair work. It is also time that the two countries now consider adopting a ‘no-arrest policy’ in the case of fishermen. In the coastal villages of both the countries, when men are imprisoned in the other country, women bear the brunt of the load, while somehow holding their families together. The pain is the same on both sides of the border. There are many examples across villages where the children of the arrested fishermen have lost their childhoods. As the COVID-19 pandemic wreaks havoc in both countries, there are growing concerns for the health of the arrested fishermen among their families. There is hardly any communication between the two except for some stray letters which are delayed. The families have no definite way to know that their loved ones are safe from the virus. For the arrested fishermen, it is an issue of survival. For India and Pakistan celebrating their Independence Days this month, it should become a humanitarian issue and an appropriate occasion to release and repatriate fishermen. Let the fishermen too have their freedoms back. Jatin Desai is with the Pakistan-India Peoples’s Forum for Peace and Democracy
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Groundbreaking||The bhoomi pujan or the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a grand temple for Lord Sri Ram in Ayodhya on Wednesday marks an end and a beginning. What it ends and what it begins can both be interpreted in different ways; how India collectively makes meaning out of it will define the future of the country hereon. One view is that the rising Ram temple signifies the end of perceived humiliation of the Hindus and the beginning of a new phase of their political ascendancy; the other is that it denotes the end of strife that shackled India’s potential for decades and heralds a new dawn of fraternity among religious communities. The end and the beginning, therefore, are not just open to interpretation, they hold the possibilities of change. For those who yearned for a temple at the site which they believe is the exact spot of Sri Ram’s birth, the journey so far has been tumultuous and violent. A Muslim place of worship that stood there for 464 years was demolished in 1992 to make way for the temple — a serious crime according to the Supreme Court order last year that handed over the site to the Hindus. The proponents of the temple must consider this an occasion to seek conciliation over conquest, dialogue over diatribe, and tranquility over triumphalism. The ceremony itself manifested multiple possibilities for the country’s future. In symbolism and rhetoric, the line of separation between state and religion was ominously crossed, notably by the role of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in it. In his speech, however, he cited Lord Ram’s adherence to justice, fairness and empathy for the vulnerable. He emphasised the importance of these values for the present. But while outlining a road map for an inclusive future, his interpretation of the past echoed familiar tropes of sectarian politics. Relitigating historical wrongs has rarely been the foundation for a harmonious and prosperous future. In India’s case, many of them are an outcome of its unpleasant encounter with British colonialism. Recent path-breaking studies in genetics have unearthed India’s past of being a melting pot of populations and cultures over millennia. India must put the acrimonious political mobilisations over religious issues behind it, and look forward to modern, secular governance. The construction of the temple is the logical result of the Supreme Court judgment; it should mark the end of an older, bitter phase of India, and the beginning of a new, harmonious phase.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Cartographic challenge||The Ministry of External Affairs has termed Pakistan’s announcement of a new political map, which asserts its claims on Jammu and Kashmir, Siachen and Sir Creek, and lays a new claim to Junagadh, as an exercise in “political absurdity”, and accused Pakistan of attempting a form of “territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism”. Pakistan’s decision to issue the map, a tit-for-tat manoeuvre in return for India’s decision to reorganise Jammu and Kashmir a year ago, appears to reset several agreements with India that have been concretised over the past 70 years. The map the Imran Khan government unveiled lays claim to all of Jammu and Kashmir, thus far shown as disputed territory, draws a line demarcating Gilgit-Baltistan separately from the part of Kashmir under its control (Pakistan occupied Kashmir), and renames Jammu and Kashmir as “Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir”. The new map leaves the claim line with Ladakh unclear. While each of these acts is outrageous for New Delhi, it should also be questioned in Islamabad. Pakistan’s claim to all of Jammu and Kashmir, but not Ladakh, goes against its own commitment to adjudicate the future of all six parts of the erstwhile royal state of Jammu-Kashmir (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, PoK and Aksai Chin) with India. The claims to Siachen and Sir Creek, that have been the subject of several discussions between India and Pakistan, are also a regressive step. While both sides had reached an impasse on Siachen, the Sir Creek agreement had made considerable progress, and was reportedly even resolved, pending a political announcement in 2007. Either way, both were without doubt disputed areas, and Pakistan’s unilateral claim over them is not helpful or conducive to future resolution. Finally, the move on Junagadh, a former princely state whose accession to India was accepted by Pakistan, opens up a whole new dispute. While Junagadh was in contention at the time of Partition, the issue was successfully resolved after a referendum was conducted there in February 1948, in which an overwhelming 95% of the state’s residents voted to stay with India. As New Delhi considers its next moves on this provocation, it should be prepared for Pakistan taking all the issues it has raised with its new map to the international stage. Pakistan’s actions, while on completely bilateral matters, come in conjunction with map-related issues India faces today on two other fronts: with China at the Line of Actual Control on Ladakh, and with Nepal at Kalapani and Limpiyadhura (which Nepal’s government has also issued a new map about). It is surely no coincidence that all three countries objected to the map New Delhi had issued in November 2019, albeit for different reasons, and New Delhi must be well-prepared to deal with the three-pronged cartographic challenge it will face in the coming months.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Verify before reporting||As millions around the world watched Wednesday’s blast in Beirut playing out on their telephones and television screens, U.S. President Donald Trump’s words could have had an even more incendiary effect. Speaking at a news conference, he said that his generals had informed him that the powerful explosions had been caused by a “bomb of some kind”. “...They seem to think it was an attack,” Mr. Trump said. Given Lebanon’s current troubles, daily protests over its fractured polity and sinking economy, sectarian tensions, as well as the upcoming trial verdict on the assassination of former President Rafik Hariri, such a comment could have sparked more violence. Within a short time, however, the claim was denied, first by the U.S. military and then by Lebanese officials, who said the explosion had come from a consignment of explosives in a port warehouse. Unfortunately, gaffes by Mr. Trump are all too common in the aftermath of any violence worldwide, and one of the biggest perils for journalists on the job. Typically, an explosion of any kind is difficult to investigate in the first few hours, given considerable risk from fires, unexploded devices or ordnance, and the priority to rescue those injured. However, each potential terror attack in this age of instant media is followed swiftly by speculation and jostling between reporters, who don’t always verify the information they receive. ‘Get it first’ As a result, conspiracy theories, unchecked lists of suspects, and even the quantity and origin of the explosives are put out before they can be assessed. In theory, journalists are trained to “get it right” before trying to “get it first”, but in practice, it is often the reverse that is true. The result has led to some interesting outcomes in the world, like the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia, which brought down the communist regime in the country, and brought Vaclav Havel to power in 1989 on the back of protest strikes that a mammoth two-thirds of the population took part in. The protests were sparked by a rumour that a student, Martin Smid, had been killed by the police, which later proved to be untrue. However, by the time the lie was called, hundreds of thousands had been mobilised on the streets of Prague. I remember a strange story I was given to follow during the Gujarat 2002 violence, that could have had a much more diabolical impact. Local newspapers one morning reported that “rocket launchers” had been smuggled in from Pakistan. The weaponry had been confiscated by the police, the reports said, and fear was rife across Ahmedabad that mobs would go after those accused of procuring these ‘rocket launchers’, whose make and type was already being discussed feverishly on television shows. When I reached the police station in the hope of getting some visuals, officials were rather sheepish. After some persistent inquiries by us, they agreed to open their “armoury”, which was in fact a small wooden cupboard. There, on the shelf , lay two peashooters, no bigger than the size of a catapult each. The “missile launchers” that could have unleashed so much more mayhem turned out to be just improvised schoolyard toys, and the subject of a salutary lesson for me. Each of these events is a red-letter reminder that a journalist’s sacred duty is to ‘trust, but verify and only then to report.’
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Taming the Brahmaputra||The floods in Assam have been exceptionally severe this year. They have caused, in addition to epidemics like cholera, serious disruption of communications which brings in its wake a shortage of commodities leading to rising prices. All the plains districts have been flood affected simultaneously and there has been loss of life and property. Even at the best of times the communication links between Assam and the rest of the country are not adequate enough and the need for strengthening them is realised widely. This year the situation was further complicated by a railway strike at the time of the floods. The Army, as usual, has been doing excellent relief work. It is against this background that the importance of successfully implementing flood control measures in the Brahmaputra valley has to be studied. A minimum expenditure of about Rs. 250 crores has been estimated as necessary for such measures really to be effective and only Rs. 35 crores have been allotted for this purpose in the Fourth Plan. All the Governments of the States in the northeast realise the importance of flood control but all of them plead inadequate funds to do anything worthwhile. The new North-Eastern Council should give high priority to the problem but this organisation does not yet seem to be in a position to act decisively on any issue.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Letters||The situation is the opposite of what the honourable Minister portrays (“Books, not bullets in J&K”, August 6). Students don’t have access to 4G Internet and this is especially difficult during a pandemic. Online classes have turned into a joke. The faces of teachers are barely visible and students merely attend classes to mark their attendance. While we welcome the fact that new colleges are being opened in J&K, we request the government to not let the already established set-up crumble. Samiya Shah, Baramulla   The Congress needs to wake up to the truth that India rejected it not because it is not a Hindutva party but because it became, over time, a corrupt party with a weak rank and file and with no strong leader, among other things. It also needs to wake up to the fact that the BJP tenaciously clings to its ideology, unlike the Congress which is jettisoning its ideology of secularism, and implements all its promises. The BJP also has a highly committed, though indoctrinated, cadre at the grassroots level, unlike the Congress party. Instead of introspecting and reworking the functioning of the party, the Congress today is busy attempting to project itself as being “more Hindu” than the BJP. It seems to believe that it can win over the Hindu votebank by doing so, but this isn’t so easy. Mani Shankar Aiyar seems to be saying just that, but will the party listen to him (“Secular fundamentalism in a time of bhoomi pujan”, August 6)? Krupakar Pothula, Hyderabad Learning seems to be a two-way process in India. While the Congress seems to be gradually adopting the Hindutva agenda of the BJP, the latter is successfully following the political culture of the former by using the Governor’s Office for political gains, by destabilising elected governments, and by concentrating power in the hands of one individual. M. Rama Rao, Visakhapatnam   Constructing a temple over the debris of a mosque is not an achievement and should not be hailed as the modern symbol of Indian culture or a golden chapter in our history (“Modern symbol of Indian culture: Modi”, August 6). That the BJP government is constructing a Ram temple is no surprise. But the pomp and excessive religiosity displayed at a simple event such as abhoomi pujan— and that too spearheaded by the Prime Minister — goes against the tenets of the Constitution. It was also unfortunate that the government was celebrating the occasion even as J&K marked an entire year of living without certain rights; there is no Ram Rajya there. Manoharan Muthuswamy, Ramanathapuram
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Inflation to stay elevated: RBI||India’s GDP will shrink in 2020-21, while inflation will continue to stay elevated in the coming months, the Reserve Bank of India said on Thursday. However, the RBI refrained from projecting an estimate for the contraction, with an early containment of the COVID-19 pandemic being the only hope for a positive surprise. The RBI is hopeful of inflation easing during the second half of 2020-21. Headline inflation had gone up from 5.8% in March to 6.1% in June 2020, with price pressures evident across items, including food. A good monsoon and a bumper kharif crop could ease food prices, especially those of protein-based food items and vegetables that are propping up food inflation, the central bank noted. ‘Fresh infections’ RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said the global economy had been stuttering again after some signs of recovery in May and June, as a wave of fresh COVID-19 infections had taken hold. “The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) noted that in India too, economic activity had started to recover from the lows of April-May; however, surges of fresh infections have forced re-clamping of lockdowns in several cities and States. Consequently, several high frequency indicators have levelled off,” Mr. Das said, adding that imports also fell sharply in June, reflecting weak domestic demand and low crude oil prices. “Given the uncertainty surrounding the inflation outlook and extremely weak state of the economy in the midst of an unprecedented shock from the ongoing pandemic, the MPC decided to keep the policy rate on hold, while remaining watchful for a durable reduction in inflation to use available space to support the revival of the economy,” he added. “The decision to hold was correct as trajectory of economic growth, inflation, and external demand continues to be uncertain,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBI. “The calibrated approach is in consonance with evolving situation while keeping enough headroom for the future,” he added.
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Jewel loan-to-value ratio raised to 90% from 75%||With a view to further mitigating the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on households, entrepreneurs and small businesses, the RBI has decided to increase the permissible loan-to-value ratio (LTV) for loans against pledge of gold ornaments and jewellery for non-agricultural purposes to 90%. Under the current guidelines, loans sanctioned by banks against pledge of gold ornaments and jewellery should not exceed 75% of the value of gold ornaments and jewellery, which has now increased to 90%, the RBI said in a circular. “This enhanced LTV ratio will be applicable up to March 31, 2021 to enable the borrowers to tide over their temporary liquidity mismatches on account of COVID 19,” the circular said. Accordingly, fresh gold loans sanctioned on and after April 1, 2021, shall attract an LTV ratio of 75%, it added. “Gold loans by banks will get a fillip from the increase in permissible LTV. It is expected that gold loans will be one of the preferred options for raising funds in the current environment for many borrowers as individuals and micro enterprises go for it to meet immediate funding needs,” Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director, CRISIL Ratings said. “However, with gold prices at all-time highs, banks may be wary of increasing LTV all the way to 90%,” he added.
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Debt resolution plan to help borrowers, lenders: bankers||The central bank’s debt resolution plan for corporate and personal loans has been welcomed by analysts, bankers and corporates. Under the facility, lenders can go for a one-time restructuring of loans under stress due to the pandemic. The move will help soften the impact on both banks as well as borrowers on the twin dimensions of controlling a rise in NPAs and supporting credit flow, said Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director, Crisil. “The relaxations permitted, subject to certain conditions being fulfilled, will limit the rise in NPAs in the banking system in the near to medium term,” he said. Mr. Sitaraman said the restructuring option had been extended to retail personal loans as well since many of these borrowers had faced challenges in debt servicing due to salary cuts and job losses. “MSMEs, who have been substantially impacted by disruptions , also get a relief in the form of a three-month extension in the existing restructuring scheme,” he added. “The industry is encouraged by RBI’s decision to provide a window under the Prudential Framework to enable lenders to implement a resolution plan,” said Uday Kotak, president, CII. “Extension of timeline of MSME restructuring, incentive scheme for priority sector lending shall work favourably towards the stability of financial sector to support growth and recovery in the economy,” said A.K. Das, MD and CEO, Bank of India.
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||Easy liquidity led to faster monetary transmission: Das||The Reserve Bank on Thursday said monetary transmission had improved considerably due to comfortable liquidity conditions and that banks had passed on the benefit to borrowers by reducing lending rates by about 1.62 percentage points in the last nearly one-and-a-half years. Defending the easy liquidity stance, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said private sector entities had seen benefits from the policy. Mr. Das said the measures had also ensured faster transmission of policy rates into the actual lending by banks, in turn helping the economy. At present, the overall excess liquidity is at over Rs. 5 lakh crore. Since February 2019, the RBI had slashed benchmark lending rate by 250 basis points (bps). Of this, cuts of 115 bps have taken place this year. “Monetary transmission has also improved considerably. The weighted average lending rate (WALR) on fresh rupee loans sanctioned by banks declined by 162 bps during February 2019-June 2020, of which 91 bps transmission was witnessed during March-June 2020,” Mr. Das said. Although non-food bank credit has slowed to 5.6% (as on July 17), credit to non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) grew at 25.7% in June, loans to services at 10.7%, and to housing at 12.5%.  Observing that a comfortable liquidity condition has brought down the cost of raising capital, the Governor said that lower borrowing costs had led to record primary issuance of corporate bonds of Rs. 2.09 lakh crore in the first quarter of 2020-21. “In particular, mutual funds have stabilised since the Franklin Templeton episode. Assets under management of debt MFs, which fell to Rs. 12.20 lakh crore as on April 29, 2020, improved to Rs. 13.89 lakh crore as on July 31, 2020,” he said.
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Voda-Idea loss widens fivefold||Vodafone Idea Ltd. (VIL) first-quarter consolidated net loss widened to Rs. 25,460 crore from a net loss of Rs. 4,874 crore in the year-earlier period. Revenue declined 5.42% to Rs. 10,659 crore, impacted by the nationwide lockdown, the company said. It reported strong data volume growth of 10.6%, the highest in the last six quarters while data usage per broadband subscriber increased to 13 GB per month. The company had embarked upon new cost optimisation initiatives to drive further organisational efficiencies and targets to achieve Rs. 4,000 crore in annualised operational expenditure savings over the next 18 months. “We continue to make progress on our strategy with integration largely complete, enabling us to realise cost synergies well ahead of our initial targets,” said Ravinder Takkar, MD and CEO. “We have launched a cost optimisation initiative that will drive further cost savings. We also continue to actively engage with the government seeking a comprehensive relief package for the industry, which faces critical challenges.” The telco’s gross debt as stood at Rs. 1,18,940 crore, of June 30, 2020, including deferred spectrum payment obligations due to the government of Rs. 92,270 crore.
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Offline retail payments set for fillip||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has unveiled a scheme of offline retail payments using cards and mobile devices to foster financial inclusion. “There has been a considerable growth in digital payments using mobile phones, cards and wallets,” it said. “Lack of Internet connectivity or low speed of Internet, especially in remote areas, is a major impediment in the adoption of digital payments. Against this backdrop, providing an option of offline payments through cards, wallets and mobile devices is expected to further adoption of digital payments,” said the RBI.  It has also decided on an Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) mechanism for digital payments as the number of digital transactions are rising significantly giving rise to more disputes. “Accordingly, the Reserve Bank shall require payment system operators (PSOs) to introduce online dispute resolution (ODR) systems in a phased manner,” it said. To reduce instances of fraud occurring on account of tampering of cheque leaves, the RBI has decided to introduce a mechanism of Positive Pay for all cheques of value Rs. 50,000 and above. Under this mehcanism, cheques will be processed for payment by the drawee bank based on information passed on by the issuer at the time of issuance of the cheque, according to the central bank.
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Credit discipline: current account norms tightened||In a move aimed at improving credit discipline, the Reserve Bank of India has instructed lenders not to open current accounts for customers who have availed credit facilities in the form of cash credit (CC)/ overdraft (OD) from a bank, and directed them to ensure that all transactions are routed through the CC/OD account. The new rules will be applicable to existing current, CC/OD accounts with various banks. Curbs on debits “Where a bank’s exposure to a borrower is less than 10% of the exposure of the banking system to that borrower, while credits are freely permitted, debits to the CC/OD account can only be for credit to the CC/OD account of that borrower with a bank that has 10% or more of the exposure of the banking system to that borrower,” the RBI said in a circular. Further, credit balances in such accounts cannot be used as margin for availing any non-fund based credit facilities, the RBI added. In case there is more than one bank having 10% or more of the exposure of the banking system to that borrower, the bank to which the funds are to be remitted may be decided mutually between the borrower and the banks, the central bank elaborated.
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Regulator extends debt recast plan for MSMEs||In view of the continued need to support viable MSME entities on account of the fallout of COVID-19, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday extended the one-time debt restructuring for small businesses by another three months to March 2021. Besides, the central bank has also relaxed some existing provisions for availing of this scheme by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). With COVID-19 continuing to disrupt normal functioning and cash flows, the stress in the MSME sector has got accentuated, warranting further support, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said while announcing the central bank’s bi-monthly monetary policy outcome. As per the existing scheme, the borrower account had to be standard as on January 1, 2020. Commenting on the scheme, PwC Partner Kuntal Sur said it was a good move by the RBI and would help MSMEs impacted by COVID-19 to get time and space to service debt when cash flows are under pressure due to uncertainty.
07 August 2020||mumbai,||Priority sector lending to include start-ups||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday decided to broaden the scope of priority sector lending (PSL) by including start-ups and enhancing borrowing limits for renewable energy sectors. The central bank would also increase the targets for lending to ‘small and marginal farmers’ and ‘weaker sections’ under the PSL. Eligible entities get access to credit on easier terms from banks under the PSL. Banks are required to assign 40% of adjusted net bank credit or credit equivalent amount of off-balance sheet exposure, whichever is higher, to priority sector, including agriculture and micro-enterprises, it said.  “With a view to align the guidelines with emerging national priorities and bring sharper focus on inclusive development, the guidelines have been reviewed after wide ranging consultations with all stakeholders,” the RBI said.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,||NCLAT sets aside bid for Ricoh India||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), New Delhi, has set aside the approval given to investor Kalpraj Dharamshi and Rekha Jhunjhunwala consortium’s takeover bid for imaging and printing company Ricoh India. The tribunal said the Resolution Professional committed a grave error in accepting the resolution plan after the expiry of the deadline for submission of bid/resolution plan without notifying/publishing the extension of the timeline for submission of expression of interest as per IBC provisions, it said. It also directed the committee of lenders to take a decision afresh on the resolution plans already submitted, within ten days from its order dated August 5.
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Nod for banks to invest in debt via MFs||With a view to expanding the bond market, the RBI on Thursday permitted banks to invest in debt instruments through mutual funds (MFs) or exchange traded funds without allocating additional charges. As per RBI’s extant Basel III guidelines, if a bank holds a debt instrument directly, it would have to allocate lower capital as compared to holding the same debt instrument through a mutual fund (MF)/exchange traded fund (ETF). “It has been decided to harmonise the differential treatment existing currently. This will result in substantial capital savings for banks and is expected to give a boost to the corporate bond market,” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said while announcing the monetary policy review.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Total, Adani to apply for fuel pump licence||A newly formed joint venture of French supermajor Total and an Adani group firm will soon apply to the government for permission to open petrol pumps in India. Total-Adani Fuels Marketing Ltd will apply for licences to offer the full bouquet of auto fuels at retail outlets, Adani Gas CEO Suresh Manglani said in the first-quarter earnings call. Last year, Total had bought 37.4% stake in billionaire Adani Gas to enter the world’s fastest-growing fuel market. He said the JV will seek licence under the liberalised fuel retailing regime announced by the government.
07 August 2020||Mumbai,||Bank, realty, auto stocks see mixed trend||Interest rate-sensitive bank, realty and auto stocks closed on a mixed note on Thursday after the RBI left interest rates unchanged but maintained an accommodative stance. Shares of Bandhan Bank declined 3.57%, RBL Bank 0.49%, Axis Bank dipped 0.43% and SBI, 0.29% on the BSE. But, City Union Bank rose 2.5%, ICICI Bank gained 1.97%, HDFC Bank 1.24% and Kotak Mahindra Bank 0.44%. Among auto firms, TVS Motor rose 2.22%, Tata Motors 1.13% and Maruti Suzuki 0.49%. However, M&M dipped 0.75%, Bajaj Auto 0.67% and MRF 0.42%. Prestige Estates jumped 8.49%, while Godrej Properties fell 1.48%.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||WFH: security product firms have key role||Indian security product companies have a significant opportunity to help address security challenges that have emerged as a number of enterprises continue to ‘work from home’ (WFH) amid the COVID-19 pandemic, a report said on Thursday. The Data Security Council of India (DSCI), said in a report amid the fear of contagion, work from home has become the new normal for many professionals. “As organisations grapple and brace this new normalcy...some of the Indian security product companies can assist you in this journey,” it added.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Adani Enterprises Q1 loss at Rs 65.67 cr||Adani Enterprises on Thursday reported a consolidated loss of Rs. 65.67 crore for the first quarter ended June 30.pti
07 August 2020||KOLKATA,||CAB curator uses technology to take care of grounds||In the time of the pandemic, chief curator Sujan Mukherjee is taking the help of technology to monitor the upkeep of major grounds of the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB). Staying indoors during the lockdown period, 65-yeare-old Mukherjee has been keeping a tab on the condition of the grounds and pitches at the Eden Gardens, Jadavpur University (second campus) ground at Salt Lake and Bengal Cricket Academy ground at Kalyani. Extraordinary situation “This is an extraordinary situation. We are all working from home. But being around the grounds for over three decades has given me an idea of what each ground requires. “I keep talking to the groundsmen over video calling and they show me the grounds and ask for suggestions,” said Mukherjee. Mukherjee said the grounds were ready to host matches. “We did not have many matches last season. This season, with the IPL not happening in India, wear and tear is much less. “What we are looking after is fertilization of the grounds, regular cropping of the grass and stopping fungal attack. We are working with a skeletal staff but they have ensured that the grounds are well maintained and ready for games.” Meanwhile, the CAB is exploring the possibility of keeping the Kalyani ground bio-secured for camps to take place later this year.
07 August 2020||Kochi,||Coach’s hat comes with more pressure, says Tom Joseph||He has dominated the national volleyball scene for more than 15 years with his fine attacking play. But when Tom Joseph changed roles, from player to coach six months ago, he realised that the new hat came with a lot of pressure. “A coach’s job is tougher. When you play, there is some tension at the start. But as a coach, you have to worry over every rally,” said Joseph, currently the coach of the BPCL team, in a chat with The Hindu .  Having played with them for many years, Joseph knows his players well. That helps him fit in comfortably in his new role. “It’s an advantage and they are eager to work with me,” said the 40-year-old former international, an assistant manager with the BPCL, Kochi. Joseph had planned to start a volleyball academy after his playing days and two years ago, he did his FIVB Level-1 coaching course in Chennai. “My plan earlier was to start an academy in my home district Kozhikode. But after finishing the course, I became the BPCL coach. Now, that I'm employed in Kochi, I want to start the academy in Kochi, probably at the Regional Sports Centre,” said the Arjuna awardee. With India team stars like Jerome Vinith, G.S. Akhin, Ajithlal and A. Muthuswamy, Joseph believes BPCL could be back to winning big trophies again. “But we are just eight, we need to have 12 players. I hope a few more are recruited.” Joseph came into prominence in 1999 when he helped Cochin Port Trust win the Federation Cup in Pathanamthitta. A year later, he joined BPCL and the team won a number of trophies including the Federation Cup and National League.” Disappointed But he is disappointed with volleyball’s slide. “Teams like ONGC, Railways, HSIDC and IOB, which ruled the national scene, are struggling because there is not much recruitment happening.” “Kerala is probably the State with the most number of institutional teams now. We have Cochin Port Trust, Indian Navy, Kerala Police, KSEB, apart from the BPCL. “But the number of tournaments have come down. We used to have some 10 State-level and five all-India events a few years ago. Last year, we just had two all-Kerala tournaments and one all-India. The sport needs a big revival.”
07 August 2020||Turin,||Juventus striving to get Dybala ready||Serie A champion Juventus, which trails French side Lyon 1-0 going into the second leg of the round of 16 of the Champions League, is feverishly trying to get its injured talismanic forward Paulo Dybala up and running for the showdown here on Friday. Despite winning the league with two matches to spare, the form of Maurizio Sarri’s side at the end of the campaign has raised concerns that it might not make the tournament’s final eight in Lisbon. Pep Guardiola says Manchester City will want to impose its game when it meets Real Madrid, which trails 1-2, at home on Friday. Impose our style “We want to impose our own style on the game and take the game to certain areas of the field where we can hurt Real Madrid, where we can show the qualities of our players,” said Guardiola.
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Ashwini training separately won’t affect our Olympic goal’||The women’s duo of Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy will not be training together in Hyderabad. But Sikki feels the duo can continue to stay focused to realise the long-term goal of making it big at the Olympics. Ashwini, a World Championship bronze medallist in women’s doubles, has preferred to train in Bengaluru under coach U. Vimal Kumar. “Yes, Ashwini said she would be joining a few days before any major tournament so that we can train together. It is understandable given the current situation where travelling is not very welcome,” 26-year-old Sikki told The Hindu. “I don’t see it as an issue, though. It would have been better if we trained together, but having played together for so long, it is only a question of a few practice sessions together to get us back as a formidable force,” she added. Good draw Sikki said the draw for the Thomas and the Uber Cups appeared good for the Indian team and that she hoped to put up a stand-out performance. The biennial international championship, scheduled for October, could be the first major event since March. “I am not sure how the training schedule will be once it resumes at the Gopichand Academy. But safety will take precedence over everything. This being the Olympic qualification year, we are motivated to chase a specific target – to be there in Tokyo [next July]. “Right now, under the frozen world rankings, Ashwini and I are ranked No. 26. But, we have a long way to go and hope to make the cut by doing well in the run-up to the Olympics.”
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||ICC Board meeting to be held today||The ICC Board meeting on Friday is set to discuss the venues for the next two T20 World Cups, finalise the election procedure for the next chairman and provide an update on next year’s Women’s ODI World Cup in New Zealand. Last month, the ICC, while postponing this year’s T20 World Cup in Australia to 2022, did not specify the new venue. India has been allotted the 2021 edition, but confirmation is subject to the BCCI acquiring the requisite tax sops from the central government. It is unlikely that a final decision on the venues for the 2021 and 2022 editions will be taken on Friday. The ICC Board is expected to deliberate on the conduct of the Women’s World Cup scheduled for early next year. Despite New Zealand being affected only marginally by COVID-19, it will be interesting to see if the ICC and host broadcaster prefer to postpone the tournament.
07 August 2020||MUMBAI,||It’s official: Vivo no longer IPL 2020 title sponsor||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and Vivo announced on Thursday that the Chinese firm’s Indian arm will not be the title sponsor for the Indian Premier League’s 2020 edition, set to be played in the United Arab Emirates from September 19 to November 10. “The BCCI and Vivo Mobile India Pvt. Ltd. have decided to suspend their partnership for the Indian Premier League in 2020,” the BCCI said in an unsigned media release. A statement by the mobile phone manufacturer said both parties “have mutually decided to pause their partnership for the 2020 season of the Indian Premier League”. Vivo, which replaced Pepsi as the title sponsor in 2016, had signed a five-season deal from 2018 to 2022 worth a whopping Rs. 440 crore per edition. It appears that a combination of the company seeking a reduction in the sponsorship amount because of the COVID-19-caused economic crisis, as reported in The Hindu , and the public sentiment in India following the border tension with China has led to the parting of ways. The BCCI, in all likelihood, will now initiate the process to find a new title sponsor, with the season-opener just six weeks away. It’s a given that any bid will fetch far less than Vivo’s sum. Operational issues In addition to the financial hit, the franchises will also have to deal with operational issues. “All our sponsors are in place and we had placed the order to manufacture kits in bulk,” said a franchise executive. “Now fresh kits will have to be made all over again once we know the title sponsor.”  New title sponsor will have to be found with season opener just six weeks away
07 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Edu Garcia signs deal with ATK Bagan||Spanish attacking-midfielder Edu Garcia signed a fresh contract of two seasons with ATK Mohun Bagan. The ISL champion ATK, which acquired I-League winner Mohun Bagan this year, is looking to retain the key players who helped it clinch the crown in Goa. Having decided to retain Spanish coach Antonio Lopez Habas immediately after securing its third ISL title, ATK Mohun Bagan secured the services of its successful striker Roy Krishna earlier this season. The retention of the Fijian striker meant contract extension for the likes of David Williams (Australia), Carl McHugh (Ireland) and the Indian names like Prabir Das and Pronay Halder, who formed the nucleus of the side that lifted the title. Garcia, who made 10 starts under Lopez Habas last season, also played a big role in the team’s success. “I am very happy to continue playing in Kolkata and in the ISL for another two years. I am looking forward to wearing the green and maroon jersey and will give my best to the club,” the Spanish midfielder said.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tough to set targets with so much uncertainty: Divij||These are uncertain times for Divij Sharan. The 34-year-old doubles specialist, ranked 56 in the world, is still unsure if he will get into the reduced U.S. Open draw, and hence may play the Challengers in Europe, and possibly get ready for Roland Garros in Paris in late September. “’It is tough to set a target for the rest of the season with so much uncertainty. It will be good to finish inside the top-50 by the end of the year. It will give me an opportunity to move up in the rankings next year and make the cut for the Olympics,” said Divij, who won the Asian Games gold with Rohan Bopanna in 2018. “I look forward to training with Rohan and playing some events together in the lead up to the Olympics in Tokyo.” Confident of Arjuna Having missed the nomination deadline by a day for the Arjuna award last year, Divij was confident that he would be able to make it this year. “I understand that my Asian Games gold medal will be considered. So, I am hopeful that I will get the award this time." Divij had won the doubles bronze with Yuki Bhambri at the 2014 Asian Games. He also has a gold and a silver in mixed and men’s doubles respectively from the SAF Games. In the Davis Cup tie against Italy in 2019, Divij won the doubles rubber with Bopanna. Divij won two ATP Tour titles last year, in Pune and St. Petersburg.
07 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kovalam FC’s stadium inauguration on August 15||Professional football club Kovalam FC (KFC) will celebrate a significant milestonewhen the club’s own stadium complex will be formally inaugurated on August 15. The Rs. 2 crore complex houses a football pitch, two dressing rooms, a hostel building and a modern gymnasium. The stadium complex was constructed on land leased from M.V. Higher Secondary School, Arumanoor, for 25 years. However, the inaugural ceremony will be a low key affair with a simple flag hoisting ceremony on Independence Day. Construction began two years ago and was made possible with monetary help from NRI T.J.S. Mathew, who is also the president of KFC. The KFC’s residential football academy will function from the hostel building which can accommodate 60 inmates. The Mathew-Sally Foundation, a charity organisation run by Mr. Mathew and his wife, and London based RME Solutions is bearing the educational expenses of the trainees. The club received a boost this season when Federal Bank decided to sponsor it. The club has also tied up with KIMS Hospital as its medical partner. Kovalam FC is strengthening its senior football team and has signed three new players and hopes to add more players before the transfer window ends this month. Former FC Thrissur striker Salman Faris, RBI striker Muhammed Ashiq and FC Kerala defender Akhil Johnson have joined the club which aims to make a significant impact in the KPL this season. The club is on the lookout for an experienced defender and a goalkeeper and has held talks with a couple of players and hopes to sign them soon. Coach from London KFC will have the services of London-based football coach Patrick Raman for this season. The club plans to conduct a football tournament this season to provide exposure to its players before the KPL starts. KFC has also decided to compete in all age group academy tournaments of Kerala Football Association this season. It has held talks with with a California-based football academy and will soon announce a tie-up.
07 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Training for Olympic probables from today||Sports Authority of India has sent a communication on Thursday to all the Olympic probables in badminton, asking them to attend a coaching camp at the SAI-Gopi Chand Academy here from August 7. The shuttlers include World champion P.V. Sindhu, K. Srikanth, B. Sai Praneeth, Saina Nehwal, and doubles specialists R. Satwiksairaj, Chirag Shetty, Ashwini Ponnappa, and N. Sikki Reddy. The doubles players may not start training immediately as everyone, except Sikki, is not based in Hyderabad. Even Srikanth, stuck in Guntur now, may not be able to begin training. The chief National coach, P. Gopi Chand, is ensuring that all safety guidelines by SAI are in place. “We are in no mood to rush things. It will be a slow process with the safety of everyone being the top priority,” he said.
07 August 2020||Paris,||United advances||Manchester United edged LASK, while Inter beat Getafe on Wednesday to clinch places in the Europa League quarterfinals.  Important results: Shakhtar Donetsk 3 (Moraes 89, 90+3, Solomon 90+1) bt Wolfsburg 0. Shakhtar wins 5-1 on aggregate.   Manchester United 2 (Lingard 57, Martial 88) bt LASK 1 (Wiesinger 55). United wins 7-1 on aggregate.   Inter Milan 2 (Lukaku 33, Eriksen 83) bt Getafe 0. First leg postponed so played as a one-off tie.
07 August 2020||NEW YORK,||Less money for US Open winner||The US Open singles winners will receive $850,000 less prize money this year, the United States Tennis Association said on Wednesday, with first-round prize money increasing. The $53.4 million total prize pool is down from last year’s $57 million pot, the richest in the tournament’s history, with 2020 first-round prize money jumping 5% to $61,000 from $58,000. Singles winners will receive $3 million, down from $3.85 million in 2019. Runners-up will receive $1.5 million, down from $1.9 million the year before. Semifinalists and quarterfinalists will also see their winnings dip.
07 August 2020||CHENNAI,||PSA Tour from September 16||The Professional Squash Association (PSA), on Thursday, announced that it is planning to resume activity on September 16, with the Manchester Open, a PSA World Tour silver event. In addition, the domestic PSA Challenger Tour events are planned to begin from September 10. The world rankings will be unfrozen on October 1, with a new ranking system coming into effect. when the PSA Tour restarts.
07 August 2020||Milan,||Sanchez joins Inter Milan||Manchester United's Chilean forward Alexis Sanchez has signed a three-year contract with Inter Milan, the Italian club announced on Thursday. “Alexis Sanchez has joined the Nerazzurri on a free transfer,” the Serie A side said in a statement. The 31-year-old, who had been on loan at Inter this season, signed a contract until June 30, 2023, the club added. Sanchez scored four goals for Antonio Conte's Serie A runner-up.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||National tennis postponed||The Fenesta National tennis championship, scheduled to be staged in October, has been postponed. “In the current scenario, players travelling from across the country and staying in guest houses, hotels might not be advisable. Keeping this in mind we have decided to postpone the championship till we are sure about the situation,” said organising secretary Aman Pannu. The organisers have been monitoring developments and did want to go ahead with the championship till they were absolutely sure of ensuring safety of the players.
07 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Sadia Dehlvi, who explored the unexplored in Delhi, bids adieu||Renowned author and activist Sadia Dehlvi, 63, who passed away on Thursday, loved to explore the unexplored. A devout Sufi, Dehlvi was a guide to the uncharted spots in Delhi where ‘the heart of Islam’ blossomed. An advocate of pluralistic aspects of Islam from food to music, a prolific writer and a persevering activist, she unravelled the layers of the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeeb through her works and life. The author of The Sufi Courtyard: Dargahs of Delhi often criticised the separation of religion from spirituality. She would say you could not have Vedanta without Hindusim and Sufism without its Islamic roots. It is about taking the first step and then spreading your horizons. She was born to Yunus Dehlvi at the famed Shama House on Sardar Patel Road. Her grandfather Yusuf Dehlvi was a cultural connoisseur and the force behind Shama , the literary and film magazine. Dehlvi, who edited Bano , an Urdu journal of the group, would fondly talk about the evenings in the company of the likes of Ismat Chughtai, Ali Sardar Jafri, Dilip Kumar, Raj Kapoor and Nargis. The talk would eventually shift to their food habits as Dehlvi was a deft cook, someone who would not like to keep her recipes a secret. She generously shared them in her book Dilli Ka Dastarkhan and Jasmine & Djinns: Memories and Recipes of My Delhi, in which she talked about the evolution and inclusive nature of the Delhi food, which she described as a fusion of Persian and Indian styles and how it gained in sophistication when the Turkish chefs came in contact with the Kayastha cooks of Delhi. In the same breath, the raconteur in her would talk of jinns of different faiths who inhabited the Shama Kothi and how they had a sweet tooth! She successfully dabbled in television as well, with Amma and Family for Home TV that opened a window to an urban Muslim family, with the irrepressible Zohra Segal playing the adventurous Amma. Part autobiographical, it broke some of the stereotypes that popular culture associates Muslims with. She shared a strong bond with Khushwant Singh and a common love for Delhi and Urdu poetry. Singh dedicated his book Not A Nice Man To Know to Dehlvi and she produced a tele-series in which he interviewed successful women from different fields. When Shama House was passed on to the Bahujan Samaj Party, she saw it as a symbol of changing Indian polity in which Muslims were increasingly moving away from the centrestage because of various reasons. Often found at the Nizamuddin Dargah, the activist in her would question the filth around Muslim localities and places of worship and how they could not easily find rented accommodation in a city that once embraced everybody. She tirelessly worked for preserving the cultural heritage of the city that was increasingly becoming, as she would say, too boisterous and a show-off. Like a true Sufi, Dehlvi carried many a pain in her heart but, like the title of one of her series, she always believed in Zindagi Kitni Khoobsurat Hai .
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Faith: The Lord’s Sankalpa||Krishna avatar, celebrated as the most fascinating and eventful one, has left a tremendous imprint on posterity. It is held that the Supreme Lord descends on earth as Krishna to relieve Goddess Earth of the increasing burden on her. He chooses to be born in the Yadava race and lives as part of them with ease and familiarity. He reduces the earth’s burden to a certain extent by killing the many asuras who had been harassing people as rulers and also the many kings who had fought in the Mahabharata war. He then decides that the avatar has to come to an end and that the Yadava clan also should be destroyed before He departs. To provide a reason for this, He plans the event of the iron pestle and the curse of some rishis. Though the Lord’s incarnations are the manifestations of His leelas born of His Sankalpa and not on account of karma as is the case with all beings, He subjects Himself to be a part of the curse, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. By abiding by the curse, He establishes to the world that His word is Supreme and that a lawmaker cannot be a law breaker. For, though He is capable of counteracting the effects of the curse, He does not do so. The Yadava youth play a prank on the rishis and are cursed that they would be destroyed by the iron pestle. Following the advice of king Ugrasena, the pestle is powdered and thrown into the sea. The particles that are washed ashore grow into wild grass and the Yadavas destroy themselves with this in a fight amongst themselves. One small bit is swallowed by a fish that is later caught by a fisherman. He fixes it to the tip of his arrow and it provides the excuse for Krishna’s exit from this world.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 07:24 IST,||Sudoku - August 7, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||As strong as rice||The pandemic and a delayed monsoon managed to push Kerala’s pokkali rice sowing season to late June this year. The farmers who grow this indigenous rice variety, however, know that its grit and resilience will see them through: after all, pokkali is hailed as a climate adaptive food. P.K. Hormis Tharakan was a late entrant to the tribe of pokkali growers. The retired police officer began farming this variety in 2016 in his ancestral land in Thaikkattussery, on the eastern side of Vembanad lake. He learned of its virtues after his crop weathered the 2018 floods, even when the bund broke and drowned the field. That year, the crop survived huge winds in Kadamakkudy until the grain was harvested. There is further proof of its hardiness: a 2018 documentary Njan Pokkali by environmental consultant Ranjith Rajendran, traces the history of the rice. Washed away by floodwaters in the Western Ghats, the seed survives a long and tumultuous journey to finally germinate in Kerala’s salty coastal waters. The plant grew to a height of five feet, defying low tidal waves. Slowly, it became part of the State’s heritage and lore, and rituals attached themselves to its cultivation. Over time, however, this traditional rice lost its place to more lucrative agricultural produce and was reduced to small pockets. This caused the loss of a social and ecological ecosystem. However, the tide is now turning in its favour. Since pokkali cultivation does not use either pesticides or fertilizers, it has been popular as an organic variety for around a decade. Ecologically, its significance lies in its ability to resist sea erosion. After 2018, it is being seen as a potential climate change-resistant food and a responsible tourism farming produce. In 2011, Gopinath Parayil, a Responsible Tourism pioneer, began to associate with the pokkali cause. He has been popularising farming tours in Ezhikkara and Kadamkkudy panchayats. “Here is an amazing wild nutritious indigenous rice that survived the floods but its growers are struggling. It is labour-intensive and does not fetch a good market rate. We need to retail it strategically for its unique properties.” Parayil tried to market the rice to “conscious consumers” in Kerala initially and also link it with tourism by taking the story of this rice to 17 hotels and creating a demand. He even introduced the rice to students of the prestigious Culinary Institute of America. Last year, as part of Sampoorna Pokkali, a re-generation programme by Paliyakkal Service Cooperative Bank, Rajendran began pushing pokkali as food security produce and streamlining its collection and marketing from 34 panchayats. “We are doing value-addition products with almost 12 derivatives from pokkali , like tooth powder from its husk,” he says. K.G. Padmakumar, director, International Research and Training Center for Below Sea Level Farming (IRTCBSF), Kuttanad, points out that the world is looking at saline-resistant crop varieties, now that sea levels are rising. Pokkali received GI status in 2008, but is farmed only in 1,500 hectares nowé. The area was 20,000 hectares 30 years ago. Feeding grounds It grows well in the tidal wetlands of Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Alapuzha. The farming season is April to October and fields are given over to prawn and shrimp cultivation for the rest of the year. Padmakumar points out the symbiotic aspect: decayed pokkali stems feeds prawns, while prawn shell waste nourishes the paddy. Padmakumar says prawn farming is lucrative whereas pokkali rice productivity is low. He says, “Many farmers opt to shift to prawn farming completely, but this poses the danger of turning the soil entirely saline.” Tharakan says ADAK (Agency For Development of Aquaculture) offers 80% subsidy to pokkali farmers. “After the Paris Agreement on climate change, reviving pokkali cultivation gained impetus. These drew me to its cultivation.” Marketing remains a problem, he admits, but the demand for its seeds is vibrant. First line of defence Padmakumar feels pokkali cultivation should be encouraged for its ecological benefit. He explains that paddy draws fresh water, while the crop itself prevents the entry of seawater. The fields are used for rainwater harvesting. This, he says, is significant in times of climate change. “ Pokkali is the first line of defence against seawater entry. This ecological angle is not being taken seriously,” he laments. Francis Kalathungal, a farmer from Chellanam who formed Samrakshana Samithi, says, “Cropping in pokkali fields performs the vital function of letting rainwater percolate into the subsoil. This fresh water offsets salinity pressure on the water table. The benefits are innumerable and palpable. Often, development planners judge paddy cropping only on the basis of productivity. True, the per-acreage yield of pokkali is low, but its benefit to ecology is deep and long.”  Pokkali farming has also reduced because its harvesting is labour-intensive. Getting labourers is a problem as most farms are near cities and people are drawn to more lucrative jobs. Rajendran, however, is optimistic. Post the pandemic, he is ready with plans to promote the rice, emphasising its potential for food security and combating climate change. “We have guided tours and souvenirs,” he says, hoping that farmers will benefit from this reinterpretation of the heritage rice.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Behold, the chocolate biscuit pudding||The lockdown has been far from a ‘crunch’ for biscuit companies in India. With more people opting to stay in, sweet and savoury snacks, particularly cookies, have proved to be a popular choice to keep hunger at bay. But biscuits do have a life beyond being the ‘dip-dip-dip’ companions of hot beverages, be they sweet or sugar-free and cardboard-like. Just like banana bread, recipes featuring biscuits in layered puddings have become the favourites for many work-from-home chefs on the lookout for Instagrammable food shots. Some may see this as a spinoff on ‘icebox cakes’, a no-bake dessert trend that started in the 1930s in the United States, mainly to popularise the refrigerator (then known as the icebox). Featuring powdered or crushed biscuits, the dishes had whipped cream or custard as a binding agent that would be arranged in layers and set in the fridge. They have now evolved into several regional variations around the world. Lovers of chocolate biscuit cake are in august company, for the delicacy also happens to be the favourite of the British royal family. Darren McGrady, royal chef, has said the dessert, made by mixing and refrigerating crushed Rich Tea Biscuits with melted butter, a beaten egg and melted dark chocolate, and then iced with ganache, is one dish that the Queen prefers to eat till the end, even getting her staff to transport the dessert tin from palace to palace until it is over. It was the cake of choice at her grandson Prince William’s reception in 2011. Closer home, the chocolate biscuit pudding (CBP), is a British colonial institution of sorts in Sri Lanka. Featuring Marie biscuits dipped in milk and arranged with alternate layers of chocolate buttercream and nuts, the CBP is a rich dessert despite its simple ingredients. “The key to a great CBP is to keep the Marie biscuits very lightly soaked, so that the pudding is crisp. A mushy pudding doesn’t taste so nice,” says Shyama Jeyanathan, a former air stewardess and HR professional who later trained as a baker and runs the Cakes By Design bakery in the Battaramulla suburb of Colombo. She says infusing brandy or cognac into the buttercream can give a posh spin to the CBP. “Other versions would be to top it off with a chocolate ganache and strawberries, or salted caramel, or a mocha cream. You can use your own variations to suit your palette,” says Jeyanathan as she shares her recipe.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Have an elephantistic day||Dumbo is one, Kala Nag another and Horton yet another one. Who are they? Elephants, of course. August 12 is celebrated as World Elephant Day. Created by Canadian filmmakers Patricia Sims and Michael Clark of Canazwest Pictures, and Sivaporn Dardarananda, Secretary General of the Elephant Reintroduction Foundation in Thailand, the day was meant to bring attention to the plight of elephants and threats to their survival. The two major threats they face today is human greed for ivory and habitat loss. Trade in ivory, though banned in many countries, continues to thrive. In the black market, it is said to cost more than the value of gold, making poaching a lucrative activity. Loss of habitat has reduced their feeding pastures and confined them to smaller spaces making it easier for poachers to hunt them down. A hundred years ago, there were more than 12 million elephants in the wild. Today, there may be only around 400,000. Quick facts Elephants are intelligent. They are family oriented. They have great memory. They are capable of feeling joy, grief, elation, empathy. They have a great sense of self-awareness. They live in complex, supportive societies just like humans. What you can do Find out more about elephants from books and documentaries like Return to the Forest (2012). Share this knowledge with friends and family. Spread the word through social media. Talk about the dangers and threats they face. “Training” these gentle giants for use on safaris and in holiday camps often involves beating them into submission. Create awareness about this, so that these activities lose popularity. Do not buy ivory products. Finally, remember, “No one in the world needs an elephant tusk except an elephant”.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Here to stay||Hello! It’s me, your friendly neighbourhood Bug Boy, back from a brief vacation with the grandparents. You know, I want to say that going away and chilling with the grand folks was just the break I needed from this pandemic. That all I did was eat gulab jamuns for breakfast, read comics and plan the roll out of my epic multi-media empire (YouTube channel, graphic novels, t-shirts, snack bars), and that online school and COVID-19 were a distant memory. But trust grown-ups to ruin your plans for world domination. Our History and Geography teachers joined hands to dump a massive research project on us over the mid-term break. And I’d have loved it if the topic was something like Manic Mughals or Pole-axed Pandavas or Murderous Monsoons and Dead in the Desert. THAT would have been fun to research. But when have teachers ever made life fun and easy? Our topic was… wait for it… PANDEMICS! Dark humour I mean, if you thought your teachers don’t have a sense of humour, meet mine. But their sense of humour is pure evil. We had to pick a pandemic and research about its origins, spread, impact, and how it ended. So, instead of socially distancing myself from the pandemic, I found myself going back in time to meet a whole host of them. Did you know that we’ve had pandemics around since 3000 BC? That the first plague (there have been something like eight plagues in history) was in Athens in 430 BC? That the flu is really short for Influenza, which has taken all shapes and forms (Spanish Flu, Avian Flu, Swine Flu) through time? But I have to say the most interesting pandemic I read about was the Dancing Plague of 1518. The outbreak began when a woman began to dance feverishly (pun intended) in a street in Strasbourg, Germany. Soon, more women joined in, and the dancing did not stop for days. Apparently, it lasted for such a long time that doctors had to put the dancers in a hospital. If you think about it, this was clearly the first flash mob in history. I wonder what they danced to? Well, as depressing as reading about pandemics was, the project also gave me a little hope. How? Well, it seems like humankind has been battling pandemics for a super long time now. Not just for the last few months. And even though each pandemic is horrible and sad and difficult, we manage to make it through to the other side. So, if you think about it, COVID-19 can’t hang around forever, can it? I like to think that, 100 years from now, some 12-year-old is going to be writing about COVID-19 for his/her school research project. Because pandemics may come and go, but homework is here to stay forever.  Well, it seems like humankind has been battling pandemics for a super long time now.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||War of the gods||This month, we’re going back in time to the beginnings of Greek mythology. Today’s story is going to be about the Titanomachy, or the war between the Titans and the Olympians. The Titans were the original Greek gods and were led by Cronus, the god of time. Rhea, the goddess of motherhood and fertility, was Cronus’ wife. There were 12 Titans, including Oceanus, the god of sea; Hyperion, the god of light; and Lapetus, the god of Mortality. Cronus was the son of Uranus (heaven) and Gaia (Earth). Uranus had imprisoned the Cyclops (one-eyed giants) and the Hecatonchires (creatures with 100 hands and 50 heads) and this made Gaia furious. She encouraged Cronus to overthrow his father. When the blood of Uranus fell on earth, the Gigantes (huge monsters), the Erinyes (three female goddesses who punished anyone who took a false oath or did something evil) and the Meliae (the nymphs of the ash tree) were born. Some of the blood fell into the sea and Aphrodite, the goddess of love, was born. Before he died, Uranus made a prophecy that Cronus would also be overthrown by his child. To prevent this, Cronus swallowed the babies Rhea gave birth to. In this way, Hestia, Demeter, Hera, Hades and Poseidon disappeared. When the sixth child, Zeus, was born, Rhea hid the child and gave Cronus a stone swathed in baby clothes to swallow instead. With Gaia’s help, the child was hidden in the caves of Mt Ida. Here he was looked after by a nymph called Amalthea. To hide him from Cronus, who ruled over the earth, the heavens and the sea, Amalthea tied a rope to the child and suspended him from a tree so that he was neither on earth, the heavens or the sea. Every time the child cried, young warriors called the Curetes would make a noise with their weapons so that he wouldn’t be heard. When Zeus grew up, he became Cronus’s cup bearer but the latter was unaware that this was the son who would overthrow him. With the help of Metis, a Titan goddess, Zeus fed his father a mixture of wine and mustard. This caused Cronus to vomit out the children he had swallowed. Zeus now convinced his sisters and brothers to take his side and rebel against their father. He also released the Cyclops and the Hecatonchires and took them into his side. Thus began the Titanomachy or the Titan wars, which lasted for 10 years. Of the Titans, only Themis and Prometheus helped the Olympians. Finally the Titans were overthrown and Zeus became the new king of Gods. The defeated Titans wer jailed and guarded by the Hecatonchires. Zeus became the king of gods, Poseidon of the sea. Hades became the ruler of the underworld.  When Zeus was born, Rhea gave Cronus a stone to swallow and saved the baby.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Being different Shorty finds friends||Once upon a time, two ducks lived in Srinagar’s beautiful Dal lake. Drax, the elder brother, was big and strong while his younger brother was small, and his left wing was a little shorter than his right wing. All the ducks of the lake called him Shorty. When winter came and the cold north wind howled and the lake gradually began to freeze, it was time for the ducks to migrate to warmer territories. Drax flew ahead, leading the flock, while Shorty followed behind. “Faster, Shorty!” Drax called. “I’m flying as fast as I can,” Shorty shouted back. But, no matter how hard he flapped his wings, he just couldn’t keep up with the others. Shorty also couldn’t fly for long distances at a stretch and needed to take breaks. “I need to rest,” Shorty said, settling onto a branch of a poplar tree. That’s when he heard sniffing. “Who’s there?” asked Shorty. “It’s Crow!” shrieked a female Koel. “Hello, Crow,” said a baffled Shorty. “Did I upset you?” “Upset me!’ exclaimed Crow. Her shrieks made Shorty cover his ears with his wings. “You’re the only bird to care about my feeling. But that’s because you haven’t heard me sing yet.” “Why?” asked Shorty. “Aren’t koels one of the best songbirds?” On the move “I’m tired of hearing that. My voice is so shrill that, whenever I sing, all the birds fall off the branches and animals flee for fear of their eardrums bursting. I don’t have friends. My family is ashamed of me.’” “I’m Shorty, and that’s half as bad as your problem,” replied Shorty and spread his wings. “See, you can at least learn to sing, but I can’t grow a wing!” Crow gasped. For a moment, she forgot her own woes. “Hurry up, Shorty,” called the other ducks, impatiently. “Why don’t you come with us, Crow?” asked Shorty. “Many songbirds come from far-off lands to the place where we’re going. They could give you singing lessons.” “Really?” shrieked Crow, and all the ducks covered their ears. But Drax didn’t have time to argue with Shorty or dismiss Crow. “If we are late, the lake will be taken by other migratory birds and we’ll have no place to feed or roost,” he said worriedly. After a while, they came across a colony of baya weavers. Once again, Shorty decided to take a break. But as Shorty and Crow settled among the baya weavers colony, they saw a terrible sight.  To be continued    When winter came and the cold north wind howled, it was time for the ducks to migrate...
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Magnificent mentor||It was a marriage ceremony. Amid the milling crowd of guests, a young man approached an elderly person and asked if he recognised him. The latter took a hard look and said, “Yes, you studied in the school where I taught, although I may not recall your name. It doesn’t matter. But where are you now? What are you doing these days?” “Sir, I am Rizwan, and I am teaching in a primary school. I was inspired into taking up the teaching profession because of you,” said the young man. “Surprising! How come? Tell me, what have I done to guide you?” asked the old teacher. Down memory lane “Sir, I hope you remember that a student of yours once complained that his expensive watch was lost in the classroom. You appealed to us to return the watch if any of us had taken it. No one came forward. In fact, it was I who had stolen the watch. I wanted to return it to him but felt ashamed and could not muster the courage to do so. Since there was no response from the students, you ordered all of us to close our eyes and stand facing the walls of the classroom. You then went about searching our pockets. The watch came out from my pocket and was restored to its owner. Though the watch was recovered from me, you avoided announcing my name and saved me from great embarrassment. It was then that I decided to be a teacher.” The old teacher, feeling pleased with the young man’s revelation, said, “Perhaps you don’t know that even I had closed my eyes while I searched the students’ pockets. It is only today that I have come to know the truth. Children commit mistakes, but shaming them before others is not the right way to reform them. I wish you all success, Rizwan. You have chosen the right profession for yourself. Today, I feel rewarded.”     “Yes, you studied in the school where I taught, although I may not recall your name.”
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Celestial sightings||The month began on a bright note. The skies were lit with a Full Moon on August 3. Early Native American tribes called this the Sturgeon Moon because the large sturgeon fish of the Great Lakes and other major lakes were more easily caught at this time of year. This moon was also known as the Green Corn Moon and the Grain Moon.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Wonder pig to the rescue||Movie: Babe (1995)  Genre: Comedy, drama  Gentle farmer Arthur Hoggett wins a piglet named Babe at a county fair. Narrowly escaping his fate as Christmas dinner when Farmer Hoggett decides to show him at the next fair, Babe bonds with a motherly border collie, Fly. He also befriends Ferdinand, the duck who thinks he is a rooster. What’s more, he discovers that he can herd sheep too. But this little pig doesn’t quite know his place in the world — he thinks he has what it takes to become the greatest sheep pig of all time, and that farmer Hoggett knows it. Indeed, when Babe alerts the farmer to thieves stealing sheep from one of the fields and separates the brown hens from the white, Hoggett is impressed. Consequently, he takes Babe to the fields and allows him to try to herding the sheep. Unfortunately, Rex the sheepdog, sees the turn of events as an insult to sheepdogs and attacks and injures Fly and also bites Hoggett. What happens next? Will the other animals accept a pig who doesn’t conform to the farm’s social hierarchy? The film, which was released on August 4, 1995, has just completed 25 years.   Trivia  As piglets grow up fast, 48 pigs were used for Babe’s role.  The film had 56 animal trainers on the sets to handle nearly 1,000 animals.  The talking pig is a combination of 48 real Yorkshire pigs plus an animatronic double. A make-up artist added toupee and eyelashes, and computer digitisation manipulated pictures of the snout so that the pig appeared to talk.  Pre-production took eight months, shooting six and post-production 12 months.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Read between the words||Have you heard of this one? ‘A stitch in time saves nine.’ It’s an idiom — something that means a little more than what the words actually say. For example, there’s an idiom that goes, ‘the grass is greener on the other side of the fence.’ All it means is that we think that other people have a better life than we do. But, in reality, they may be having problems just like you and me. In real life, when you stand at one end of a lawn that’s not been well maintained, it would look like the grass at the other end is greener and fresher. But if you actually go to the other end, the grass would be just the same as it was where you had stood. Probably that’s how this idiom originated. Don’t put things off Let’s get back to ‘A stitch in time saves nine.’ When a shirt or any article of clothing gets torn, you mend it by stitching it. If you stitch it immediately, the gash will not get bigger. The cloth would look good. But if you neglect to stitch it, the tear would get much bigger and then you would have to make nine (or many more) stitches to make the cloth okay. So what this idiom means is that we have to tackle problems as soon as they appear and not let them grow. It will be easy to handle them now, but very difficult later. If you don’t understand the basics of a subject, make every effort to understand it as soon as possible. Get your parents’/friends’/teachers’/Google’s help and get it cleared up. But, if you keep learning without understanding the basics, you will face a lot of problems later. So, nip the problem in the bud! There, that’s another idiom.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Hair-raising experience||Avantika brushes and brushes, but there’s no keeping her curly hair down. How she wished her hair was straight and smooth, like Amma’s and Appa’s and her brother Avnish’s. Their parents had adopted both of them when she was three-and-a-half years old, and Avnish, a six-month-old baby. Avantika knows they are adopted and it usually doesn’t bother her, except when it comes to her hair. She often wonders if their birth mother had curly hair. There are so many questions in her head. The school year has started with hair-raising troubles. The kids in her class tease her about her hair, calling her ‘Medusa’ and ‘Sai Baba’. This makes her self-conscious and feel like she’s different. But Amma is busy at work. One day, Avantika meets a mysterious paati in the park, and their friendship quickly blossoms over conversations about Harry Potter and life, in general. However, is their more to the old woman? Now, that’s a mystery that the book slowly unravels. Lakshmi Iyer’s Why Is My Hair Curly is a celebration of curly hair and the courage it takes to be yourself. Interspersed with black-and-white illustrations by Niloufer Wadia, this chapter book explores genetics, family dynamics and adoption identity through a light-hearted and sunny coming-of-age tale.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The Artist||ACROSS  1 Coloured wax (6) 4 To make a picture (4) 6 A shading technique (5) 7 A thin coating (5) 8 A painting done directly on a wall (5) 9 Engrave (4) 12 A ___scape is a scenery that features the ocean (3) 14 Tanjore paintings use ____ foil (4) 15 To rub out or remove (5) 16 To change the colour of a fabric (3) 17 Circle, triangle, square, and so on. (5)  DOWN  1 Art created by sticking many pictures (7) 2 A type of paint (7) 3 A shade of yellow (5) 4 Decorating objects with paper cut-outs (9) 5 A colour ____ shows complementary colours (5) 10 Liquid paints are stored in these (5) 11 Colour (3) 12 Size of objects in relation to other objects (5) 13 Borders (5)
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why do houseflies rub their hands?  They may look sinister when they do this, but the truth is that they are just cleaning themselves! Flies rely on their compound eyes, antennae and the bristles on their bodies and legs to sense the world around them. They have to keep these sense organs clean, so that they can fly with precision to find food and mates and avoid predators. Flies spend a long time carefully cleaning their whole bodies. They don’t just rub their legs together; they run their legs over their bodies, heads and wings too to clean themselves.  Why do we have two eyes instead of one?  We need two eyes because humans have a horizontal field of view of about 150° with one eye and about 180° with two eyes. Therefore, two eyes provide us with a wider horizontal field of view, meaning we get to see more. It’s kind of like having ‘twice’ as much vision. Here’s a quick experiment, close your right eye and mentally note what you can see with only the left one. Now try the same by closing your left eye. Now open both your eyes and appreciate the full field of vision available to you. You can see more, right?
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||He made every role his own||Amid recollecting his glorious past, Kalamandalam Vasu Pisharody often breaks into guffaws that belie his inner gloom. At 76, the actor-dancer has been largely off the Kathakali circuit for one-and-a-half decades due to an unexpected slide in health. It began in 2005 when Pisharody was at the peak of his career. Knee pain began to challenge him on stage. Both legs became increasingly unwieldy, even though the master chose not to miss any assignments that summer. After all, the impending monsoon was the traditional rejuvenation season. Treatments taken since haven’t proven too successful. Yet his passion for Kathakali prompts Pisharody to make occasional appearances on stage.When invitations come for roles that demand less exertion, the exponent travels from his home in the heritage-rich Kongad in Palakkad district. So Pisharody has mostly been in hibernation, a far cry from his heyday. An all-rounder, he used to present a whole range of protagonists: hero, anti-hero, jester. From completely stylised to part-natural. Mostly male; rarely female too. He used his physique to ground his dance in the classicism of Kathakali, but never at the cost of facial expression. This always lent finesse to his method acting, which is the essence of the form’s mainstream Kalluvazhi school with moorings in south Malabar. Overarching influence “I owe my style to Vazhenkada Kunchu Nair,” says Pisharody, explaining his guru’s life-long interest in nuanced character portrayals. “Once the pupil got the basics right, he would take us into the mental labyrinths of the dramatis personae. That way, the training is akin to Koodiyattam.” Kunchu Nair (1909-1981) was fascinated by the intellectuality of this ancient Sanskrit theatre form, a feeling shared by his prime disciple Pisharody. The duo’s essay of Nalacharitam, which shows how the king weathers repeated tides to regain the peace of his younger times. Easily the most popular Kathakali play, the 18th-century poem requires four nights for an unabridged show and provides huge scope for not just extempore acting, but background vocals, percussion, costume and make up. Playing Nala carries the risk of the actor opting for an explosive, turbulent portrayal, much to the harm of Kathakali’s sobriety. “Pisharody seldom falls prey to this,” points out aficionado K.B. Raj Anand. “He could unearth the intricacies of the story and its manifold layers, while never slipping into melodrama.” He even brought out Ranga Naishadham , a performance manual on Nalacharitam. Pisharody’s restrained histrionics vis-à-vis those of stalwart Kalamandalam Gopi made for a professional rivalry that graced Kathakali with its complementariness for nearly four decades . “I must say he’s more contemplative than most of us, distancing from quick applause,” says Gopi, 83. “What’s more, he is an ideal teacher too. It’s a rare mix.” K.K. Prasanth, a pupil at Kalamandalam where Pisharody taught for two decades from 1979, agrees. “If you are earnest, the master was doubly keen,” he says. “The pedagogy is different. On a Monday if he chose a Kathakali story, you would be trained in its sequences the whole week. This guaranteed continuity and, hence, indelible lessons in choreography.” Vivid vignettes Pisharody, who also trained under titans Ramankutty Nair and Padmanabhan Nair at Kalamandalam, retired from his alma mater as vice-principal in 1999. His Kongad home has remained open for advanced students, one of whom is Haripriya Nambudiri. “Staying at his house over weekends since 2004, the master showed me the vitality of eyes in expressions,” says Haripriya. “Two years later, I could perform a character as dense as Urvashi. He boosted my efforts to challenge the general notion that women are misfits in Kathakali.” Linguist-teacher Pazhoor Damodaran points to Pisharody’s penchant for improvising on shlokas. “The depiction may not be spectacular, but the core idea will leave us ruminating,” he says. Pisharody smiles when asked about such remarks or the awards he has received. But ask him about those busy days when he started lessons under his first guru Balakrishnan Nair and the dancer turns eloquent. Sitting in his armchair, he talks about an eventful career spanning six decades, punctated by loud and resonant laughter.  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s traditional performing arts.   “He could unearth the intricacies of the story and its manifold layers, while never slipping into melodrama: K.B. Raj Anand   “He could unearth the intricacies of the story and its manifold layers, while never slipping into melodrama - K.B. Raj Anand
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Pure harmonics||At a time when the acoustic tanpura is bidding a quiet adieu to the classical concert stage, a book Acoustical Analysis of the Tanpura, Indian Plucked String Instrument written by a team of physicists, Asoke Kumar Datta, Ranjan Sengupta, Kaushik Banerjee and Dipak Ghosh (published by Springer, Singapore), shows how we are letting some significant features of our tradition fade away. The book not only reaffirmed my faith in the tanpura, but prompted me to relook at the instrument’s history and its place in the music world. My love affair with the tanpura, spanning over six decades, began the day my Master saab, pleased with a four-year-old student’s melodic memory, brought his own tamburi (a small tanpura) and placed it in my lap. While doing so, he also narrated the legend of how Tumburu, a leader of the Gandharvas, with the blessings of Lord Siva, created the tumbura or tanpura. According to history, the tanpura owes its origin to an instrument that came here from the Balkan region. It is also said that Indian folk instruments like tamburi, tuntuni and gopi-yantra are the precursors of the tambura, which derived its name from a gourd called tumba. The resonator of the tanpura is referred to as tumba and it is made of gourd shell in North India. In the South, it is carved out of wood. It came to be known as tanpura simply because it is capable of generating pure harmonics, unhampered by chikaris or supporting strings, as in a sitar, for a longer period than any other string instrument. This act of stretching (taan) became its identity. Trance-like state According to theists, the origin of the tanpura is deeply rooted in the philosophy of Naad-yoga. An ideal instrument to produce the anaahat by means of aahat, it represents the three constituent sounds of the omkaar, that is, a-u-m, which comes from the navel, heart and throat points of the spinal cord in the human body. Thus, the tanpura plays a pivotal role in the arduous task of musical awakening, commonly known as sadhana or riyaaz. With its resonant sound, it creates a trance-like state that helps musicians cut themselves off from everything around, even their own thoughts, and drown in the ocean of music. Life’s changing priorities have not been able to break the bond with my tanpura, although it is cumbersome to carry during travels and needs careful handling even at home. Bad weather affects its strings and they have to be frequently tuned. Despite all the care, it may refuse to respond favourably on some days. Finally, I was forced to swap my old companion with an electronic one. But soon I began to miss the physical touch of the tanpura, its warm whisper in my ears and the overpowering tumba (resonator) near my heart. This realisation raised a question. How do modern Indian musicians do without the tanpura and opt for the impersonal digital one? Musical therapy There was a time when legends like Ustad Faiyaz Khan had four tanpuras at his concerts. An innovative Ustad Amir Khan used tanpuras with six strings and introduced Nishad to tanpura tuning. Ustad Ali Akbar Khan slapped his tanpura accompanist once. Why? Because a little more or a little less weight of the fingers can destroy the entire setup of microtones that emanate from the resonance of the three notes the tanpura offers. This is said to be based on pure science. In fact, scientist C.V. Raman came out with the scientific principles that govern this amazing instrument. According to the authors of the new book , “The sounds of the tanpura help to reach a trance-like state of consciousness, in which subconscious images and feelings can easily emerge. Since 2005, therapists, especially in Germany, working in schools, old age homes, hospitals and hospices, began using the Body Tambura, a new instrument, inspired by the tanpura, in the field of music therapy, for treatment.” The book evaluates the research on the tanpura — its making, physical and mechanical properties, playing technique, the acoustic analysis of its signals, and its relation with gharana music. But, as Ranjan Sengupta, co-author, says, “The electronic tanpura may be a practical option but it cannot replace the tonal and emotional quality of the traditional one.”  The writer is Kolkata-based critic and musicologist
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Something new will be born’||‘Welcome to Rangashankara, please switch off your mobile phones so that there is no disturbance during the performance.’ These are the unforgettable opening lines that greet anyone who has watched a play at this iconic theatre in Bengaluru, delivered in the voice of the late playwright-actor Girish Karnad. Now, both Karnad and the performances are gone. And, ironically, it is the mobile phone that has come to the fore, with audiences watching digital play screenings. Rangashankara, which once bustled with people and plays being staged six days a week, wears a desolate look today. Arundhati Nag, the founder of the theatre, speaks about what these unprecedented times mean to her as an actor and as someone running one of India’s most vibrant theatre spaces. Rangashankara has been closed for four months now. How do you assess the impact?   In not-for-profit organisations like ours, money is never in surplus, but we have survived well. Now, there are no shows, no sponsorships. It is a situation so overwhelming we don’t know what to do. Each time we plan to reopen, there’s another lockdown. We are faced with questions. What are institutions like Rangashankara for? What is their role? What are the signals of stability I can give the theatre community? All we have been able to do is reach out to groups. Is there a new way of performance they are thinking of? I have always opposed the digital route; I believe the real thing is the real thing. But there’s no turning a blind eye to technology. It is time to get clever and use this new medium to our advantage. That is what Rangashankara is doing right now; it is open-heartedly engaging with anything that facilitates a connect with the community. Can you speak about this community and its relationship with Rangashankara for the last 15 years?  It is amateur theatre that has been keeping this space vibrant. Out the 400 shows every year, the bulk is performed by amateur theatre groups who do it out of passion. We have kept the rent at Rs. 2,500. So if they make Rs. 5,000, they can pay the rent, pay for idli-coffee, the make-up man and the carpenter. They feel happy that they are able to perform Karnad, Sophocles or Shakespeare. That community is waiting to come back, it is a large contingent of theatre people. They are not dependent on theatre for their livelihoods. I believe amateur theatre is such an intangible wealth — both in terms of what they give and what they get. Nobody can place a price on it. When human beings attach value without being commercially worried, it is very precious. That is the safety valve of theatre, and Rangashankara is that safety valve. We have stopped having theatre of great content for a while now. I am hopeful it will come back. How do you feel as an actor about the lockdown?   The actor has an intense relationship with the world. This is the only way I know to live after having spent 45 years of my life performing. Suddenly, that has become an impossibility. In just a month after the lockdown, I began to feel a withdrawal. But that has not happened to the audience yet. They are living the routine of fear in their everyday lives, and have had no time to miss theatre. Music is still accessible, but theatre is such a physical art that it can happen only when the theatres open. Do you think this is an opportunity to reimagine theatre?  I have been listening to Maya Krishna Rao’s “audio theatre”, if one may call it so, and have wondered if it is an emerging form. Something new will be born. I recall Abhishek Majumdar’s short story ‘Salt’. It is performed in Belgian by three actors. The imagery is so different, so is the narrative. Definitely there will be a churning. What I am really worried about is the dignity of artistes. In a world where there is no money, dignity is the only thing they have. To protect dignity, one becomes arrogant. We, the theatre community, were not in intimate relationships, but the performance space bound us all. There are no profit and loss accounts between us. But now I am scared by the number of people who need help, how they will survive. The government, of course, doesn’t know we exist. Some of us who run theatre spaces came together as a collective and submitted a letter to the Chief Minister of Karnataka. To tell him that we have been closed for several months and are not generating revenue; to slap fixed electricity and water charges on us is unfair. I just learnt that our case has been passed on to the Disaster Management Department! (laughs). Are you thinking of reinventing the space? In terms of giving it a new dimension and meaning? I am sure everyone is thinking of bringing people back when they reopen. The one common concern is how are we going to regain the confidence of people. With social distancing, we will not be able to have a full auditorium of 300 people but will be restricted to 100. In such a situation, how can we help groups recover their costs? You stage the play, then stream it, and earn the balance money. But digitising comes with a whole lot of other issues. The performances have to be monetised and that involves copyright issues. Right now, we are testing the legal template for this. It is going to be a new world and we are getting ready for it. Digital will be the new normal, a great amount of fatigue is going to set in, those magical moments that happen in the shared space of actor and audience will be gone for a while now. So it has been a period of reflection and dreaming... We have to repurpose our physical space. In these 15 years, it has been a transactional relationship. You buy your ticket and watch the play. You buy a sabudana vada and sit in the café, you buy a book and hangout in the bookstore. We want to think of more than the money that exchanges hands. We want to have poetry workshops, readings, and more. Typically, it should become home. Can Rangashankara have that heart, that warmth of a home?  The biggest fallout of COVID is mental health. Each of us has been affected. We want to bring in a counsellor who will talk real. That is the kind of repurposing I am dreaming of. A group of Corona warriors used our space to pack food and supplies. That was a moment of enlightenment. I feel life will become easier when you take the focus away from money. If someone had told me this six months ago, I would have said: ‘You must be joking!’ But Corona has been a moment of learning. We are here for something else, certainly not money. Indeed. That is the essence of theatre. Of all arts.  Will they, in a crisis, have the confidence to take shelter in Rangashankara? Can this double up as a hospital? A few days after [the lockdown], we arranged sign language classes for ten of us. My dream is to have someone inside the theatre translating plays in sign language. Why are trans people seen only at traffic signals and not at the theatre? If we are evolved people practising the arts, all these issues have to be addressed. I am hoping that when we reopen, we will be more generous.  Digital will be the new normal. Those magical moments that happen in the shared space of actor and audience will be gone for a while
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Dagarvani dhrupad’s strong French connect||Tohmat-e-chand apne   zimmedhar chale    kisliye aaye thhe kya kar chale         (I leave, taking with me all the onus and blame What I accomplished is not that for which I came) In 1978, a young French woman, Laurence Bastit, arrived in Delhi as part of France’s initiative to provide translators and interpreters. She began teaching at the Jawaharlal Nehru University. In 1979, she was coaxed by a friend into attending a Dhrupad concert by the Ustads, Nasir Zahiruddin and Nasir Faiyazuddin Dagar, my uncle and father. As the concert began at Max Mueller Bhavan, Laurence was seated in the last row. Towards the end, she had moved to the first. After the concert, she made bold to go backstage and meet the singers who had mesmerised her with their meditative and powerful music, which for the large part is abstract and not dependant on words. She told my father Faiyazuddin Dagar that she wanted to meet him again. The next day, Laurence turned up at our home in Nizamuddin, asking if they would teach her. “I am taking Hindi and yoga classes. Besides, I do French interpretation for a living. I don’t know if I’ll do justice to the rigours of this demanding art of yours,” she said. My father told her to set aside her anxieties and come for the classes. I was 11 when Laurence walked into our home; I barely registered her presence. She later told me about the day she was invited to dinner for the first time by my father. In their music room, the entire spread had been laid out on the floor on newspapers. Laurence stood there perplexed and my father told her, “This is the Indian dining table. Come join us.” That she would become an integral part of the family and its idiosyncratic ways and serve the cause of Dhrupad till she breathed her last on July 14, 2020 (French National Day), at the age of 75, was something neither she nor my father could have predicted then. Born in Paris in 1945, Laurence was the sixth and last child. Her father died soon after she was born, and her mother raised the children on her own. Save for a few months in Paris when her mother was ill and died in 1981, Laurence lay down her roots in Delhi. If Dagarvani Dhrupad, which has continued unbroken for 20 generations, is like a banyan tree, Laurence grafted herself in like a determined branch. Enthusiastic learner She had a keener ear than voice. She recognised this and remained undeterred in her enthusiasm to soak herself in the experience of Dagarvani Dhrupad. I learnt from her the art of listening: she taught me to lend an ear to the most mundane, and sometimes even unacceptable, uninteresting conversations. She lingered on in the house after class. First, it was for a few hours, then she would be there the whole day. She started calling my father Guruji and my mother, mummyji. We began calling her Laurence baaji (older sister). She joined the many baajis in our household — I have five sisters and many aunts. Realising that she could help, Laurence began to pitch in with correspondence and organisational matters. Like a pakhawaj player offering rhythmic support, she melded into the role of a manager. From 1982 to 1984, three of the first Dhrupad Samarohs were organised in Jaipur — the city where the legendary founder of Dagarvani, Baba Behram Khan, had breathed his last. Laurence played a pivotal role in organising them. In 1984-1985, Dhrupad Society was registered in Delhi with Laurence as founding member and secretary. She became the force behind the many Dhrupad Samarohs and baithaks across India and the world. Laurence quickly evolved into an excellent tanpura player and could sit for four to five hours at a stretch. In Dagarvani, two or even three tanpuras are used, and the player has to single-mindedly focus on maintaining a steady and sensitive strumming to inspire the singer to go deeper into a raag. Carrying on the mantle When my father died in 1989, Laurence managed the Dhrupad Society on her own since Bamaji, my uncle, was focused only on singing and teaching. I was then 21, and soon began singing with Bamaji till he passed in 1994. Laurence then became even more involved with Dhrupad and the Dagar family. She was many things to me — friend, sister, mother, grandmother, daughter, all rolled into one. Yet, Laurence remained a true Parisian at heart, enjoying her wine and an occasional cigarette. A sought-after interpreter in French, English and German, she trained many Indians in interpretation. The circumstances in which Laurence Bastit died are a metaphor for the kind of times we live in. The weekend prior to July 14, my elder sister Musarrat or Meenu baaji, who had a history of respiratory illness, passed away. But everyone assumed that the novel coronavirus was the reason and our large joint family became Covid-19 suspects. Laurence was devastated not just by Meenu baaji’s death but also by the divisive discourse in the name of social distancing. While I was in the burial ground performing Meenu baaji’s last rites, my phone rang and I was told that Laurence had collapsed at our home. She had died of grief. In a matter of hours, I lost two people very dear to me. While a performing musician gets all the accolades, there are many who work behind the scenes to ensure that the musician can focus on his or her art. They often remain unsung. Laurence Bastit came out of nowhere and did more for Dhrupad than I have done by merely singing. I recall how, a few years ago, she told her brother Loic that her true family was the Dagar family. Revival of Dhrupad Society In the last year of her life, she successfully motivated my younger students to revive the Dhrupad Society that had crept into inaction. After COVID, she said she wanted me to support and strengthen the artiste community. Laurence’s favourite raag was Sohini and she loved the ‘Jagat Janini’ composition in raag Bhairavi. On Guru Poornima on July 5, when I began a marathon four-hour online session to teach raag Shuddh Sarang to some 30 students worldwide, Laurence commented on our WhatsApp group: “I am not just lying down, I am in your music. The raga seems sometimes like a happy cat offering its back, its paws… for patting.” I’ll close with the signature couplet of the ghazal by Sufi poet Khwaja Mir ‘Dard’ (1721–1785), whose lines I opened with:  ‘Dard’ kuchh maloom hai ye log   sab   kis taraf se aaye the kidhar chale  (Pain, do you know anything about these people where did they came from, where did they go?)  (The writer is a renowned Dhrupad singer)
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Whose words are they anyway?||In 2012, a retrospective of Shailendra’s films was held at the Habitat Film Festival in New Delhi. His swansong ‘Teesri Kasam’ was being screened and his son Dinesh Shailendra was in the audience. But on the billboard outside, the poster showed wrong names for producer and lyricist. Outraged, I rushed to the curator. She apologised, the poster was taken off, but the damage was done. Dinesh explained later that a US-based company had violated copyright, and one of the family members was involved, but action had been taken and the anomaly corrected. The posters, however, kept floating in the digital space and the curator had inadvertently downloaded them. So, ‘Sajan Re Jhoot Mat Bolo Khuda Ke Paas Jaana Hai’ became the property of some unknown Mehta that evening. Appeal through music I remembered this incident when I saw the video of some eminent lyricists pleading via song for credits to be accorded to them in online music portals. Clearly, not much has changed since Sahir Ludhianvi took on the babudom of All India Radio on the same issue and won. Those who have grown up listening to Vividh Bharati will remember how programme anchor said ‘aur bol hain...’ (and lyrics by….) It gave songwriters their rightful place. The practice kept alive the names of the likes of Raja Mehdi Ali Khan, Yogesh, Neeraj, Naqsh Lyallpuri, who were not as prolific as the well-known names but no less in terms of quality. Today, Basu Chatterjee’s ‘Manzil,’ starring Amitabh Bachchan is better known for Yogesh’s song ‘Rimjim Gire Saawan’. And Mahesh Bhatt’s ‘Rog’ survives in public memory only because of Neelesh Mishra’s ‘Maine Dil Se Kaha Dhoond Lana Khushi’. When private FM channels took over the airwaves, the RJs talked of everything under the sun except about the song they were about to play. Similarly, when posters and inlay cards of cassettes gave way to digital archiving, lyricists lost out to composers and singers. It became worse with online portals, whose claim is that their algorithm is drawn from the American system where the singer and lyricist is usually one person. But those who are running these portals should take into account the Indian reality, where a lyricist is a very important factor in the song. Singer-lyricist Swanand Kirkire cites the example of Spotify. “When I search for myself, I find all the data regarding my work as a singer but not of myself as a lyricist. They say it is because of the American algorithm, but it is like driving an American left-hand drive car on Indian roads. It will lead to an accident.” It is not just about the moral right of who gets credit, says Swanand, but it could affect royalty payments as well each time. Performing right societies cannot check the metadata, which is with the music company, each time. Agrees lyricist Mayur Puri, who is on the board of the Indian Performing Right Society (IPRS). “Sometimes, half information is given and at others wrong information is given. You can go to the court, but it is a complicated process. The Copyright Societies and Copyright (Amendment) Act 2012 is very strong, but its execution remains weak.” No royalty paid As lyricists have the least visibility, says Puri, telecom companies and music labels feel free to take liberties. “The telecom companies have no right to sell caller ringtones of film songs for free as the rights don’t belong to them. Similarly, any contract that talks of advance royalty or surrendering of royalty in favour of the music company is illegal even if a new composer or a lyricist signs it.” Looking at the bigger picture, it seems that these big companies see artistes as brands who might ask for their share of the pie if they are allowed to grow and get a place in people’s minds. Lyricist Raj Shekhar, known for being true to the characters while writing songs, says that dropping his name means that he gets no critique or analysis of his work, good or bad. “It puts a spanner in understanding a lyricist’s chronology of thought. In Yahan (2005), Gulzar wrote ‘Aao Aao Na, Jhelum Mein Behne De, Waadi Ke Mausam Bhi Ek Din To Badlenge’, exuding hope that things will change in the Valley. But in 2014, in Haider , he came up with ‘Suraj Dooba Kin Aankhon Mein, Dooba Suraj Kin Aankhon Mein, Jhelum Hua Khara, Jhelum Jhelum Dhoonde Kinara’, showing that the scenario had not changed the way the poet had expected it would.” The song also underscores Gulzar’s fascination with his hometown in present-day Pakistan. There is one school of thought that argues that lyricists simply put words to tunes, and hence deserve little credit. There was a time in the 1990s when some lyricists wrote gibberish to fit the tunes of Rahman and Illiyaraja. Remember ‘Telephone Dhun Pe Hansne Wali’? But perhaps it has as much to do with listener sensibilities. The Hindi film industry has been a melting pot of artistes from different states. In the 1950s and the 1960s, a number of composers emerged from Bengal and some of the most meaningful songs emerged when S.D. Burman joined hands with Hasrat Jaipuri and Shailendra. Gulzar stepped in to write his first song ‘Mora Gora Ang Lai Le’ (Bandini) to a tune composed by Burman after the legendary composer had a tiff with Shailendra. But Gulzar, for all his poetic prowess, gets an Oscar for ‘Jai Ho’? Was the non-Hindi speaking jury perhaps swayed by the tune rather than the lyrics? It is not just the digital world that is erasing the presence of lyricists, but traditional media too that refuses to take note of their contribution. Shekhar points out that few film critics today understand or appreciate the lyricist in their reviews. Of course, there are some music reviews, but can we separate a film’s music from its narrative? Like the dialogue writer, isn’t a lyricist expected to write according to the emotional language of the characters? There was a phase where the Hindi film song was reduced to an item number that could fit anytime, anyplace. But now, the likes of Irshad Kamil, Swanand Kirkire, Raj Shekhar and Varun Grover are fighting again to give the song’s lyrics its rightful space. May their tribe increase.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Giving instrumentalists their due||During the lockdown, when All India Radio (AIR) uploaded a series of recordings of Vadya Vrinda— also known as the National Orchestra — from the 1990s, it made a compelling case for the revival of this important initiative in the Indian classical music legacy. The present context could not have been more opportune. First, rejuvenating it would be a fitting tribute to the late sitar maestro Pt. Ravi Shankar, whose birth centenary was in April this year. Vadya Vrinda was a pioneering initiative of this musician, who took charge as composer/conductor of the orchestra in AIR Delhi in 1952. Pt. Ravi Shankar’s idea was to establish Indian orchestral music as a genre in its own right. He felt that the unique use of a single key or sruti, and scale or raga, would represent an oriental counterpoint to the formidable status occupied by instrumental symphonies in the Western classical arena. The novel format would, Pt. Ravi Shankar believed, also ensure the continued relevance of the vast array of Indian instruments, which were in danger of being forgotten amidst the growing influence of modern technology and commercial music. Real purpose There was another, more pragmatic rationale behind the idea in the heady years after Independence. There was a need to create employment for the country’s rich pool of instrumental musicians at a time when conventional forms of patronage for the fine arts were in decline. It could be argued that the pronounced economic impact of the pandemic and lockdown on the performing arts has been such that it calls for a similar urgent approach to find mitigating measures. Akashvani Hyderabad’s recent offering includes some 18 productions from the Chennai division of Vadya Vrinda, recorded over a five-year period in the 1990s. That was the time when the multifaceted musician, P. Purnachander, who straddled India’s diverse music traditions with aplomb, held the position of conductor for the Carnatic music segment of this project. For the better informed among music lovers, the Akashvani compilation offers a wide assortment of Carnatic ragas, from Begada to Jayantasri. More casual listeners will find the many tracks that stretch to nearly three hours affording them a continuous stream of companionable tunes; no small comfort in today’s relative isolation. Looking back to his years as a conductor, Purnachander expresses mild dismay over the predominance of mostly three instruments in the Carnatic repertoire — the veena, venu and violin. There appears to be far more variety in Hindustani ensembles, he says. Only the saxophone made a rare appearance, as in the piece in Denuka ragam in the Vadya Vrinda collection, when M.S.V. Raja, or Sax Raja as he was known in film circles, grasped the nuances of the ninth Melakarta scale perfectly, recalls Purnachander. A strong votary of Vadya Vrinda, Purnachander says that the concept was, by definition, what he describes as “absolute music.” That is to say, the score written for Vadya Vrinda serves its own purpose and is thus an end in itself, says the veteran. It is distinct from “applied music,” where compositions are written for specifically preset lyrics, or to embellish particular situations, as in a movie or play. Such music is valuable as a means to realise given ends and is, therefore, applied music, Purnachander clarifies. This distinction does not amount to passing judgement on the quality of music, as much as recognising the difference of purpose and context in each case, he explains. Another distinguishing mark of orchestral music, says Purnachander, relates to its structure and character. The symphony is, in essence, a balanced blend of a high degree of co-ordination, sequencing, order and teamwork among participating artistes. Musicians who handle the bowing, blowing, strumming and percussive instruments are each required to diligently adhere to a specified script to the last letter. Rather than showcase their individual prowess, they submit to the creative foment as conceived by the conductor. Purnachander recalls with nostalgia the charged atmosphere that prevailed at the annual Akashvani awards function, when scores of artistes, cutting across the traditional divides, would perform orchestral compositions to hugely appreciative audiences. These were preceded by intensive rehearsals that were both emotive and instructive. A milestone in Vadya Vrinda’s journey was the exclusive Carnatic music division set up in Chennai in the mid-1970s, under veena maestro Emani Sankara Sastri. But Pt. Ravi Shankar’s innovative venture became history by the turn of the century, with Purnachander as the last conductor of the Chennai Vadya Vrinda. Akashvani Delhi’s Hindustani segment suffers from a similar lack of manpower and motivation. While the curtains have not been formally lowered on Vadya Vrinda yet, it has lain dormant for far too long. The nation must honour Pt. Ravi Shankar’s legacy by more than mere words in his centenary year.  In the years after Independence, Vadya Vrinda created employment opportunities for the country’s rich pool of instrumental musicians at a time when conventional forms of patronage for the arts were in decline
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Saluting a cultural crusader||She was not just a visionary educationist, but an icon of culture. Rajalakshmi Parthasarathy, whose first death anniversary was observed yesterday (August 6), believed in nurtutring art to make the world a better place to live in. She was especially keen that children be initiated into music, dance or theatre to help them appreciate and value our cultural herritage. A reason why she established Bharat Kalachar, one of the well-known sabhas in the city. Besides featuring senior dancers and musicians, it offers a platform to talented youngsters. The Yuva Kala Bharti award given by the sabha during the annual Margazhi festival honours promising young artistes. Mrs. YGP did not stop with ideation, she made it a point to attend performances, not just in her sabha but other venues too. Music and dance lovers in the city would have often spotted her sitting in the front row. Even when old age prevented her from moving around with ease, she was often spotted at auditoriums in a wheelchair, with an attendant in tow. Such was her enthusiasm for the performing arts.   Veterans such as Vyjayantimala Bali and Padma Subrahmanyam shared a special bond with Mrs. YGP. Many of their productions were premiered at Bharat Kalachar. Her keen sense of observation and deep reading helped her enjoy the performances beyond movement and expression. With her love for old-world values, she advised young artistes on the importance of the guru-sishya parampara and on the essence of our tradition. She was always busy thinking of ways to prepare the next generation of artistes. She was someone who thought the past has to be celebrated, but the future needs to be secured too. Mrs. YGP was a woman with foresight and fortitude, who braved all odds to become a well-known educationist and a cultural crusader.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The rhythms of rain||Music, like rain, knows no boundary. Earth Day Network India recently organised a celebration of Rain Day with a 90-minute presentation of curated artistic interpretations from across 20 countries. The importance of rain was beautifully put by environmentalist Sonam Wangchuck, also an ambassador for Earth Day Network. He pointed out that even in dry places like his home-state Ladakh, “life is possible only due to glaciers. But climate change is having a visible impact on glaciers, which could eventually vanish. And in another 30 years, we may become climate change refugees. That’s why we need to learn how to use every drop of rain we receive; every drop of rain can make a difference between a desert and an oasis.” Art, as an important means of communicating a message, was used effectively in the presentation. From senior Carnatic vocalist and Earth Day Network ambassador Bombay Jayashri introducing an excerpt from the dance drama ‘Meghadootam’ (Cloud Messenger) to modern Japanese artist Akinori Oishi showing his popular cartoon characters Parka and Bao enjoying the rain, the art forms featured were diverse. Challenging task Describing the logistics of the endeavour, Neela Mazumdar from the Earth Day Network team said, “It was a challenge finding artists from different continents who could use their brush and voice to spread the environmental message. But they were all delighted to join the campaign. For instance, Portugal-based singer/ songwriter Mariana Root, who sings on water issues, composed a new song for us invoking rains during hot summer days in Portugal.” Mariana played the traditional Portuguese drum Adufe while she crooned. According to the U.K-based sarod exponent and Earth Day Network ambassador Soumik Datta, who helped conceive the concept, “The sheer number of artistes involved in the global event is a testimony to the gratitude we have for Earth, our shared home. I played Nat Malhar, a monsoon raga, that always brings alive memories of my hometown Kolkata and my guru Pt. Buddhadev Das Gupta.” Raga Nat Malhar, a combination of Malhar and Nat, has a small yet distinct identity and with Soumik’s expert handling, it took on a new role as a harbinger of rain. The melodious piece was composed by Soumik’s gurubhai, Pt. Prattyush Bannerji. It was to Soumik’s credit that he chose to play something simple and identifiable to celebrate rain. Short videos on rainfall from around the world and cartoons by Australian artist Mali and Sophie Cousinie from France preceded the concert. Raag Megh’s power The importance of monsoon was conveyed in an unique way by Jasbir Jassi. He sang the verse, ‘Saawan aaya he sakhi’, of Guru Arjan Dev, fifth of the Sikh gurus, from the Guru Granth Sahib. Jassi’s heartwarming rendition of the verse, which he had composed in raag Megh, brought out the essence of the appropriate lyrics. It was interesting to see this popular pop singer from Punjab in a new avatar. Anantha Krishnan, the Chennai-based mridangist, chose to reproduce the sound of rain by playing with both his hands on just one side of the instrument. With impeccable control on volume and speed, he took listeners on an aural journey of simulated rainfall. Malini Awasthi’s kajri (songs sung in the rainy season) showed that the Indian tradition of welcoming the rainfall is not confined to the classical arts; it is as much part of folk music too. The presentation offered an interesting medley of music and dance performances themed on rain. It was streamed online, and also broadcast on Insync, the TV channel dedicated to music. The Delhi-based author writes on classical music  The sheer number (30) of artistes involved in the global event is a testimony to the gratitude we have for the Earth, our shared home - Soumik Datta   Art, as an important means of communicating a message, was used effectively in the presentation
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Changing track||For music director Ghibran, the lockdown has been a busy time. He has put together a new spiritual music series, which will see him releasing one new song every Friday. Ghibran shares some interesting facts about the series in this interview. What is the concept behind the new series? It is pandemic time. All the people are indoors. I wanted to give something new to listeners, particularly young listeners. Something that will give them self-confidence and help them overcome obstacles. We selected around a dozen songs and started working on it. The series has the works of religious philosophers such as Adi Shankaracharya, Arunagirinathar and Annamacharya. When we released the first song in the middle of COVID-19, we got an overwhelming response. How long have you been working on the series? For me, it started many months before the lockdown. To be precise, the first in the series was ‘Ganesha Pancharatnam’ written by Adi Shankaracharya, which was released on June 12. Because of the response I decided to continue and followed it up with Aruniginathar’s Tiruppugazh, ‘Muthai Tharu’, sung by Ananthu, ‘Harivarasanam’ in the voice of Sharreth, and ‘Tandanana Ahi’ (Brahmam Okate) of Annamacharya sung by Sowmya Mahadevan, to name a few. Is this timed with the festival season? Since the Tamil month of ‘Aadi’ is considered special at various Amman temples, we are concentrating on Amman songs. Then will come the Vinayagar songs to coincide with the Vinayaka Chaturthi festival. What makes this series special? People can sing along as the lyrics are highlighted on the screen while the song is played in the background. I have tuned the spiritual songs with symphony music, and Budapest Orchestra has played for some of the numbers. The result is amazing.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Sukrtam Foundation’s music carnival is back||Sukrtam Foundation, led by senior vocalist S. Sowmya, will present the second edition of its annual event, musiCarnival’20, for three days from today. To engage rasikas during the pandemic, the team brings an exciting line-up of events to be hosted on the digital platform. The carnival will be inaugurated on August 7 at 6 p.m. by N. Murali, president, The Music Academy, and Cleveland V.V. Sundaram, art patron. Two live quiz sessions — ‘Music and History,’ hosted by V. Sriram, and ‘Music, Art and Architecture,’ hosted by Prof. Madhusudhanan Kalaichelvan; live interactive games, an online treasure hunt, musical video shows by children and a unique gridlock skit are among the many components of this package. Some special programmes such as a leather puppet show are also on the anvil for the carnival. And an anthakshari programme will be hosted by well-known singers Ranjani and Gayathri, with artistes such as Gayathri Girish, Gayathri Venkatraghavan, Nisha Rajagopalan, Amritha Murali, Bharati Ramasubban, Sriranjani Santhanagopalan, Rithvik Raja and Vignesh Ishwar as participants. Online games like aMaze, Wheel of Fortune, Make your Own Music and Bingo will add to the extensive line-up created exclusively for the event. Dumb Charades to be hosted by Saketharaman, and a game of Pictionary by Aishwarya Vidya Raghunath, Crosswords, Anagrams, Jumble, and a Make your Own Instrument session, which can be played on www.sukrtamcarnival.com at any time during the three days, are also in the offing. There is to be a grand event finale game of Jeopardy and it concludes with a valedictory function on August 9 at 9 p.m. in which singers Sudha Ragunathan and Nityashree Mahadevan will be the special guests. The musiCarnival team consists of L. Ramakrishnan, Bharat Sundar, K. Gayathri, Vidya Kalyanaraman, Ashwath Narayanan, Ramanathan Iyer, Bhavya Hari, Preethi Sethuraman, Praveen Sparsh, Shreya Devnath, Chandrashekara Sharma, Subashri Venkatramanan, Ranjani Sivakumar, Brinda Manickavasakan, Swati Renganath, Pooja Narayanan and Meena Kalyanaraman.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Many roles in a music video||International artiste Katyayani considers life a melting pot. Raised in Singapore, Australia and India, the musician went to the U.S. to immerse herself in learning, creating and performing. With a double degree from the Berklee College of Music, Katyayani brings many talents to the table, evolving through her work in song writing, performance, production and content creation. She has announced her second single ‘No time’, after releasing her debut single ‘Feel’ earlier this year. How do you make sense of the challenges the pandemic has posed through your diverse cultural experiences? Anything we create is the product of our perception of the surroundings we find ourselves in. To me, the moving-around and travel that occurred as I was growing up was so crucial for my learning and growing curiosity. The more you learn, the more amazed you are by the world. I guess it really enhanced my ability to absorb, adapt and analyse certain circumstances I’ve been placed in. From adapting to different lifestyles and expectations to dealing with racism, it’s been interesting. It’s an extraordinary feeling when someone tells you how much your music has impacted them. I believe that could only happen because I was vulnerable enough to tell a story that someone else could feel was their own. I see my music as little stories strung onto a giant tapestry. A faint echo in an expanding abyss. How was it filming this single, directed by Patrick Gdovic from Los Angeles, during the lockdown? I was left with no other choice but to play many roles and learn on the go. I was my own stylist, make-up artist, set designer, light artist, and videographer. Talking about it now, Patrick and I realise we didn’t think much about it before going in headfirst; we just found ways to troubleshoot everything between ourselves, and let the creativity submerge every thought train. One major difficulty was time. Each scene took about 6-10 hours to develop and shoot, excluding editing hours. Once I had shot everything and uploaded the huge amount of footage to Google Drive, the real work of actually putting the video together began. Patrick and I sat on screensharing calls for up to 10 hours at a stretch, meticulously selecting the best shot for each moment, weaving a narrative from copious amounts of footage. We ran into plenty of technical issues as one would with a project of this size, but we made it. I’m thankful for the reception the video has been receiving.  Did it feel a little voyeuristic, being in your own space and filming yourself? I guess it was my way of opening the channel that the lockdown has blocked. You forget what it feels like to be in someone’s space, in that familiar way, since we’re all locked away from each other. I had to detach from myself, be objective and not too self-critical. I wanted to symbolise the solitude we suddenly found ourselves in, , and the ability to detach from yourself as you heal and grow from painful experiences. The video was a form of personal empowerment and expression.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The joys of genre hopping||Right until my formative years, I was a hardcore philistine, who had managed to carefully insulate himself from all music. I stuck to the other boys, climbing trees, plucking mangoes and playing football. Growing up in Kerala, Carnatic music had a wide following, perhaps only a little less so than in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, where music was a way of life. But to my untrained ears, its frenetic pace and emphasis on technical virtuosity was unappealing. Concerts were held in sabhas or temples and in the ambient noise, the music was lost on me. Deep down, I was perhaps seeking harmony. That I found in choral music and, from there, I embarked on a Western classical music sojourn. My resistance to Carnatic music crumbled one rainy August night under a gentle fusillade by Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer. Surajit Sen had read the 9’o clock English news on All India Radio. At its end, the announcer heralded the National Programme of Music, AIR’s flagship programme launched by B.V. Keskar, aimed to take classical music to everyone. Earlier that evening, there had been a thunderstorm with occasional lightning and a stiff breeze. The radio antenna swayed like a vane and there was continuous crackle. But in a moment of magic, it all settled down. Semmangudi was rendering ‘Vatapi Ganapatim’ in Hamsadhwani. A dim moon floated over the coconut palms and the fragrance of wet jasmine and champa wafted in. The cache of music I became a believer and Semmangudi for me was the all-time Carnatic great. Later, I added M L Vasantakumari and Maharajapuram Santhanam to my favourites. One day, a flautist knocked on my senses and I warmly embraced him: T R Mahalingam. His brilliance was like spangled light. Along the way, I discovered the tonality in M S Subbulakhsmi’s unadorned singing, particularly the ‘Venkatesa Suprabhatam’ and ‘Vishnu Sahasranamam’, which have a deep spiritual quality akin to the monophonic Gregorian Chants. The National Programme also hosted the Hindustani greats: Bade Gulam Ali Khan, Mallikarjun Mansoor, Vilayat Khan and Gangubhai Hangal. They all made nightly visits to our home and have stayed with me forever. Much later, I added to my cache of music, Ustad Rashid Khan, whose versatility in the Hindustani version of Hamsadhwani when he sings ‘Lagi lagan pati sakhi sang’ made me his ardent fan. Soon I found myself travelling to the hill station, Mussourie. I reached there on a melancholic afternoon of low-scudding clouds and interminable rain. It was during my training days here that I discovered ghazal. Mehdi Hasan applied soothing balm on the fragments of our fleeting infatuations.  Classics on AIR Soon, I was posted to a dusty town in Karnataka. Heat rose at first light and the nights gave no respite. By then I had acquired a Philips transistor for Rs. 400. To beat the afternoon heat, I hit upon a plan - I would reach home for lunch sharp at 2 p.m., and switch on AIR Delhi ‘B’, which would broadcast ghazals for half an hour. Yunus Malik, Mehdi Hasan, Begum Akthar, Jagjit Singh… I revelled in them all. Sometime in the 1980s, Doordarshan telecast ‘Mirza Ghalib,’ and later I found the Delhi-Bombay Rajdhani Express playing from the serial during the journey. Between tea and dinner, it was all Ghalib ghazals, the music sometimes barely audible over the rattle of the train or when another train roared by on the parallel track. When I came back to Delhi on posting, I returned to AIR Delhi B’s ‘Classically Yours’ and indulged in hours of Beethoven and Schubert, Bach, Pachelbel and Tchaikovsky. Yet, I find that the depth and range of Indian classical music, both Hindustani and Carnatic, are so pervasive that Western music hasn’t made a great impact on us. As for me, I continue to be eclectic. I listen to the London-based Academy of St. Martin in the Fields, and then rediscover the joys of Bhimpalasi the very next day. During the lockdown, music has been my great solace.  I became a believer and Semmangudi for me was the all-time Carnatic great.
07 August 2020||August 07 2020 00:00 IST,||07fr-calendar||Kolkata Centre for Creativity in association with Attakkalari Centre for Movement Arts is conducting an exclusive workshop titled ‘Introduction to Contemporary Dance: Session 2’ till August 9, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. The module, conducted by choreographer-dancers Hemabharathy Palani and Jayachandran Palazhy, will train participants in Attakkalari’s body alignment techniques and exercises centred on breath and focus.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police summon Jamia students in riots case||Delhi Police Special Cell has summoned students of Jamia Millia Islamia University, including Jamia Coordination Committee media coordinator Alameen Kabeer, for questioning in connection with the February communal violence. Mr. Kabeer, a third-year student, was sent a notice via WhatsApp on Wednesday and has been asked to join questioning on August 10. He was the media coordinator along with Safoora Zargar at the time of Jamia protests in December last year. ‘JCC being targeted’ “For the last two months, I have been here at my hometown in Kerala. On August 5, a police officer sent a notice for questioning. I have informed them that I won’t be able to join physically as I can’t travel due to the pandemic, but I’ll cooperate fully using other means of communication,” he said. Talking about the reason for being called for questioning in connection with the communal riots, he said that he feels Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) is being targeted. “I am a student and we are all students who have come to study and we felt it was necessary for us to question authorities for their decision [on Citizenship Amendment Act] and that’s all we did… nothing else,” he said. In the last three-four days, the police have sent notices to at least five students to appear for questioning. Another third-year student, who has been served the notice, said that he has no idea about the reason. “I was not a part of any organisation or committee. I only participated in the protest at the university where thousands of students gathered,” he said. The student, who didn’t wish to be identified, said that he was served the notice on August 4 to appear for questioning on August 5. “I told them that I cannot join because I was at my hometown in Uttar Pradesh. But I said I will fully cooperate if they need to interrogate on video call or by any other means,” he said. The FIR 59/2020 has been registered on charges of murder, attempt to murder, conspiracy, rioting and sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.  We were a part of the movement but we have nothing to do with the riots. We don’t know why we are being called but we’ll cooperate with the police Jamia student
07 August 2020||Chandigarh,||Akali Dal, BJP demand dismissal of Cong. govt.||A joint delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday urged Punjab Governor V.P. Singh Badnore to dismiss the Congress government and recommend an inquiry by a sitting judge of the High Court or the CBI into the hooch tragedy that has claimed over a 100 lives. The delegation also demanded an Enforcement Directorate probe into the illicit liquor trade. SAD president Sukhbir Badal and BJP State chief Ashwani Sharma said attempts were being made by the government to divert attention from the role of distilleries by conducting raids against bootleggers making country liquor despite knowing that it was denatured spirit procured from distilleries that led to the tragedy. The leaders alleged that the illicit liquor trade had already caused a loss of Rs. 5,600 crore to the treasury. Meanwhile, a group of Ministers hit out at the Akalis and the Aam Aadmi Party accusing them of using the hooch tragedy to play with the sentiments of people with an eye on the Assembly elections. “The Opposition was so busy playing to the gallery that even the sufferings of the victims and their families seemed not to have affected them,” said Sukh Sarkaria, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Sunder Sham Arora and Bharat Bhushan in a joint statement. Question for Badal Reacting to the demand for the CM’s resignation, the Ministers asked the SAD chief how many times he had stepped down after the numerous deaths due to alleged illicit liquor, drugs, police atrocities etc during the ‘Badal’ rule.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. resends proposal to open hotels and weekly markets||The Delhi government on Thursday resent a proposal to open hotels and weekly markets in the city to the Lieutenant Governor, according to the authorities. The government has also requested to open gymnasiums in the city. The fresh proposal was sent by Revenue Minister Kailash Gahlot. On July 31, L-G Anil Baijal had rejected the Delhi government’s proposal to allow hotels and weekly markets to open. According to the Unlock 3 guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, gymnasiums and yoga institutes were also allowed to open from August 5, but no order regarding it has been issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) headed by the L-G. The situation in Delhi is improving as the number of active cases is decreasing every day. The Delhi government has the right to decide the unlock guidelines as per the Central government’s norms, an official statement said. “Since the time, the L-G rejected our recommendation [to open up these sectors last week], there has been a huge public uproar. The entire Delhi now wants to work towards its economic recovery. Delhi should not be stopped. The Capital showed the way to the country to tackle COVID-19. It will now show the way for economic recovery also,” the Minister said in the proposal. “I would urge that considering the improved COVID-19 situation and the sentiments of Delhiites, we should open up these sectors. Also, it has been a week now since our recommendation was rejected by the L-G. We urge the L-G to reconsider his decision,” he added.  The Capital showed the way to the country to tackle COVID-19. It will now show the way for economic recovery also Kailash Gahlot Revenue Minister
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested two days after raping minor||Two days after a 12-year-old girl was raped and stabbed multiple times in west Delhi’s Paschim Vihar, the police on Thursday arrested a 33-year-old man in connection with the case. The girl is said to be undergoing treatment at AIIMS. Joint CP (Western Range) Shalini Singh said over 20 police teams of Outer district scanned more than 100 CCTVs in the area. In one of the footages, a suspect was seen. Further inquiry was done and the suspect was held for questioning. “During interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime. The accused, Krishan, is a resident of Mangolpuri. He was previously involved in a murder, attempt to murder and burglary. The case is under investigation,” said Ms. Singh. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the family of the 12-year-old. After meeting the victim’s family, Mr. Kejriwal had said: “According to doctors, she was admitted on Tuesday in a very serious condition. She has to remain under observation for the next 24-48 hours and is still very critical after surgery.” He had also said that he had spoken to the Police Commissioner. ‘Strictest punishment’ “The best lawyers will be put in court so that the strictest punishment is meted out to the accused. We are praying that she recovers soon,” the Chief Minister said. Both Mr. Kejriwal and Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) Chief Swati Maliwal visited the hospital to meet the victim’s family. Following the arrest, Ms. Maliwal said, “There should be no delay in justice. Rape cannot be allowed to become a common practice in the country.” Earlier in the day, she had hit out at the police over delay in the arrest. DCW seeks report The women’s panel also issued summons to senior policemen, seeking a detailed action-taken report in the matter on August 8. “The girl has been brutally assaulted to the extent that every body part has injury marks. The DCP has been summoned so that details about the investigation can be known. What CCTV footage has been scanned? How many statements have been recorded so far?” Ms. Maliwal had said. Stating that the accused should be sentenced to death, the DCW chief reiterated her demand of handing out the death penalty within a period of six months to convicts accused of sexually assaulting minors. Following the incident, the police had registered a case under POCSO at Paschim Vihar police station. An officer had said apart from the local police, a team of Crime Branch and Special Cell were also working in the case. They were making the list of locals who have left the area on the day crime took place. A separate team was working on technical surveillance to get a clue in the case. Robbery motive On Tuesday, a 12-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a man, who also hit her face and head with a sharp object, at her home in west Delhi. The accused had entered the house for robbery but on seeing the minor alone, he sexually assaulted her. She had injuries all over her body. The neighbours had said that on seeing the girl lying in a pool of blood, they had immediately informed the police and her parents.  There should be no delay in justice. Rape cannot be allowed to become a common practice in the country Swati Maliwal Delhi Commission for Women chief
07 August 2020||Guwahati,||Assam clash: Army conducts flag march||Army personnel on Thursday carried out a flag march in the troubled areas of north-central Assam’s Sonitpur district where members of two communities clashed after a motorcycle rally was organised by Bajrang Dal activists to celebrate the rituals for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The district authorities had clamped indefinite curfew in areas under the Thelamara and Dhekiajuli police stations on Wednesday evening after the bikers crossed a minority-dominated area playing loud music and shouting slogans while on their way to a Shiva temple at Bharahingori. Police said at least 20 people belonging to both communities were injured in the clash and several motorcycles set on fire on Wednesday evening. Some vehicles, including that of District Magistrate Manvendra Pratap Singh were also damaged. “The situation is under control. We are keeping a close watch and adequate forces have been deployed,” Additional Director-General of Police (Law & Order) G.P. Singh said after a tour of the violence-hit areas.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||With 1,299 fresh cases, Capital’s COVID-19 tally reaches 1,41,531||As many as 1,299 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,41,531, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. With 15 more deaths being reported, the death toll has climbed to 4,059. Recovery count Of the total cases, 1,27,124 people have recovered and there are 10,348 active cases at present. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1. Currently, there are 466 containment zones. As per Thursday’s bulletin, testing has also picked up pace. A total of 20,436 tests have been conducted in the past 24 hours, which is a little more than the average number of tests done per day in July. The number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 21 consecutive days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 – highest so far – and since then it has been dropping. Of the total 20,436 tests done in the past 24 hours, 71.9% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity compared to RT-PCR tests. The number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has been decreasing. On July 1, a total of 5,892 beds in COVID-19 hospitals were occupied and it has decreased to 3,024 on Thursday. Home isolation During the same period, the number of COVID-19-positive people in home isolation has also decreased from 16,703 to 5,244.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Don’t make appointments on 2 posts, says HC||The Delhi High Court has ordered the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) not to make any appointments on two posts — professor and associate professor — which has been challenged by two candidates. A Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Talwant Singh passed the direction on a petition filed by two assistant professors who are laying their claim to the two posts. The two assistant professors in their petition has sought stay on the advertisement issued by JNU in August last year for the two posts contending that the categories for the two posts have been altered. Reserved posts Senior advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing on behalf of petitioners, stated that although in the earlier advertisement issued by the JNU in 2017, certain posts were reserved. Mr. Sibal said the two posts are now shown in the altered categories namely Scheduled Tribes (ST) and unreserved categories in the August 2019 advertisement. One of the posts, earlier reserved for SC candidate, has now been converted into an ST post. And the other post, which was reserved for the ST candidate, has now been dereserved and converted to an unreserved post. According to the petitioners, they are eligible for consideration against these reserved posts, respectively, according to the roster points and this action of the varsity in altering the category “has adversely affected their consideration”. Advocate Monica Arora, appearing for JNU, submitted that no appointments are being made in the next Executive Council meeting.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for ‘robbing’ client for failing to clear ‘dues’||A 30-year-old man and his accomplice were arrested for allegedly robbing his client for failing to clear his “previous dues” after having sex with him, the police said on Thursday. The matter came to light after an incident of robbery was reported on July 30 from south-east Delhi’s Sarita Vihar. However, later during probe, the police found that one of the accused was known to the complainant and he worked as a sex worker for him, they said. While reporting the incident of robbery, the complainant hid the facts from the police in his complaint. The accused worked for the complainant as a sex worker but when he failed to pay him for his service as per the “deal”, he along with his accomplice decided to take revenge upon the complainant by “robbing” him of his mobile, gold chain and cash, the police said. The complainant works as a sales head of a private firm. Based on his complaint, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said “We have registered a case and later with the help of CCTV footage and call tracing, we located them to Sagarpur and arrested them on Wednesday.” Two robbed mobile phones, gold chain and one stolen scooty were recovered from them, he said.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. told to act against illegal lab aggregators||The High Court on Thursday ordered the Delhi government to act against online health service aggregators, who are operating illegally and collecting samples for COVID-19 tests. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan gave the direction on a petition seeking a ban on collection and testing of samples for diagnosis by illegal and unregistered online health service aggregators. Rohit Jain, in his petition filed through advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, claimed that many of the online health service aggregators are misrepresenting themselves as Medical Diagnostic Laboratories. Mr. Sudhi alleged that these illegal aggregators are not following the rules or regulations for the process of collecting diagnostic samples and are acting contrary to the guidelines issued by theICMR and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The petition stated that a “large number of unauthorised pathological labs is being run by underqualified technicians who are providing totally unscientific diagnostic test reports” rendering people vulnerable to the loss of life.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Parties will have to file affidavit of assets in matrimonial dispute, says High Court||Taking cue from international best practices, the Delhi High Court on Thursday ordered a major overhaul of the manner in which parties disclose their “true assets, income and expenditure” for determining quantum of maintenance in a matrimonial dispute. The High Court framed a new affidavit format that is much more comprehensive than before to help the family courts, adjudicating matrimonial litigations, help gauge the correct capacity of the spouse to pay maintenance or permanent alimony. “Maintenance is not merely a legal right. It is part and parcel of basic human right,” Justice J.R. Midha remarked, while ruling that from now on parties will have to mandatorily file their affidavit of assets, income and expenditure in the prescribed form. In terms of assets, the new format mandates a salaried person to disclose the particulars of his employment, including salary, Dearness Allowances, commissions, incentives, bonus, perks, perquisites, other benefits, Income Tax, etc. A self-employed person is required to disclose the nature of business/profession, share in the business, net worth of the business, number of employees, annual turnover/gross receipts, gross profit, Income Tax, net income and regular monthly withdrawal/drawings from the business. With respect to the assets, the parties are required to disclose the particulars of the immovable properties, financial assets and movable assets.   The court asked the Centre to consider incorporating the modified format in the statutes, as in the developed countries.
07 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police conduct operation before Independence Day||Ahead of Independence Day, the police here conducted ‘Operation Black Rose’ to check alertness and preparedness of their staff on Thursday.  A senior officer said in order to check the efficiency and reaction time of their staff, the police flashed a message regarding a group of terrorist entering the city in a car. A brief description of the car was also passed on to all units of the police. Soon SWAT commandos, PCR vans and staff of local police stations rushed to markets and put up barricades on main roads to intercept the car. The operation is a city-wide drill exercise that is conducted to check the alertness of security personnel. “We are getting feedback of the operation. After evaluating all aspects, if there were any shortcomings. then it will be rectified. The city is already on high alert after intelligence agencies got inputs of a possible terror attack,” added the officer. He said more such drills will be conducted before Independence Day. A report will be prepared on how did SHOs respond, how much time taken to place barricades, coordination among PCR and police stations, among other matters, he added. The suspected car was located and the occupants were apprehended. Meeting with DCPs A senior officer confirmed that recently a meeting was held with district DCPs and they were instructed to intensify patrolling and random checking at busy places.  We are getting feedback of the operation. After evaluating all aspects, if there were any shortcomings then it will be rectified Senior officer
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||DU to hold first phase of final exams starting August 10||Delhi University announced that it would be holding the first phase of its final semester open-book examination starting August 10. The exams, petitions against which are being heard in the High Court, are being held to “facilitate students to take their careers forward in the prevailing situation”, the university’s notification states. Students appearing for the exam will receive a download link for the question papers at their registered email address on the date of their exams. Those who fail to upload scanned answer sheets to a portal set up by the university will be allowed to send their scripts to the email ID of their respective college or department. Nodal officers for all departments and their contact details have been notified on the website.
07 August 2020||Guwahati,||Arunachal CM Khandu seeks discussion on autonomous councils||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu has broken his silence and sought a debate on the demand for two autonomous councils that has stirred a hornet’s nest. He also denied any personal or hidden agenda in “raking up” the issues of Mon Autonomous Region (MAR) and Patkai Autonomous Council (PAC) amid the COVID-19 pandemic. “As a Chief Minister of the State, I honour the demand placed by a demand committee for MAR. At the same time, I also respect the objections raised by people,” he told journalists in the State capital Itanagar on Wednesday. The Chief Minister suggested a “proper discussion” with all stakeholders supporting and objecting to the creation of the autonomous councils toward finding a solution. Such discussions, he felt, would help amend the Arunachal Pradesh Statehood Act for ensuring “unity and integrity of the people”.
07 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Ministers seek action against two Cong. MPs||After Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar sought strict action against party MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, the entire Punjab Cabinet on Thursday also pitched for the duo’s immediate expulsion for their alleged ‘anti-party and anti-government’ activities. The actions of the two Rajya Sabha MPs call for immediate and strict action by the party high command, said the Cabinet Ministers, seeking the dismissal of Mr. Bajwa and Mr. Dullo for attacking their own government in the State over the hooch tragedy.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Four persons held for robbery and murder||Four persons, including a minor, have been held in connection with robbery-cum -murder in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Tuesday night, the police said on Thursday. One accused is on the run and a manhunt is on to nab him, said Additional DCP (West) Sameer Sharma.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||DU launches programme to facilitate online teaching||Delhi University on Thursday announced the launch of ‘OneDU,’ an online education programme, to facilitate online teaching. Owing to the pandemic, online teaching and learning had become an integral part of education, with DU also adopting such practices in the last semester. The university is setting up an integrated online platform which would be facilitated by the DU Computer Centre.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- DU colleges||Education Minister Manish Sisodia, hit out at Delhi University colleges funded by the government over their reported inability to pay salaries on account of lack of funds, alleging corruption at these colleges. The budget allocated to these colleges had increased by about 70% in the last five years, he said.
07 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC refuses to entertain plea seeking audit of pvt. hospitals run by charitable trusts||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to entertain a petition seeking audit of private hospitals being run by charitable trusts on concessional land given by the government, alleging that they were charging COVID-19 patients heavily. The court said the petition did not have any necessary particulars as to how the trusts and private hospitals were conniving to siphon off money or how much money has been siphoned off. It gave the petitioner liberty to move the court with a fresh plea which would have all the necessary details.
