07 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Opposition grows against merger of Mangaluru PCIT with Panaji||Leaders and organisations from the coastal region have opposed the proposal of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to merge the office of the Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Administration), Mangaluru, with that of Panaji in Goa. Joining other leaders, Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to intervene in the matter and allow the continuation of the office in Mangaluru in the interest of the coastal districts in the State. Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari, Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry and others have already opposed the proposal and urged the Finance Ministry to rescind the decision. Inconvenience In a tweet later in the day, Mr. Kateel said that he has also spoken to Ms. Sitharaman on the issue. He said that the government would not inconvenience honest tax-payers of the region. Mr. Kateel said that the merger move has left assessees and professionals rendering service in the coastal districts in utter resentment. He said that besides speaking for citizens of his constituency, he was speaking for citizens of neighbouring Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts. He noted that Panaji, located far away from Mangaluru, would pose severe accessibility problems for tax-payers and their authorised representatives. Easy access The MP said that institutions required to meet re-registration requirements under Section 12AA and approval under Sections 10(23C) and 80G of IT Act 1961 would need to go to Panaji for the process. The Mangaluru IT office provides easy access to assessees from rural areas, he said. The shift also presents issues in PCIT, Panaji, honouring the directions of the High Court of Karnataka, he added. Mr. Kateel said that being honest and tax compliant must be rewarded; but in the case of the coastal districts, it looks the other way as compliant citizens were left deserted by the government. The least the government could do was to retain the PCIT office in Mangaluru which, in turn, would result in growth and development in the State, Mr. Kateel said.  ‘Panaji, located far away from Mangaluru, will pose severe accessibility problems for tax-payers and their authorised representatives’
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. suspends FCRA clearance of four Christian groups||Of the six NGOs whose licence under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) was suspended by the Union Home Ministry this year, four are Christian associations. An FCRA licence is mandatory for a non-profit organisation to receive foreign funds. At least two U.S.-based Christian donors are also under the Ministry’s scanner for funding NGOs and groups here, a senior government official said. Probe under way “Concerns have been raised regarding the impact of U.S.-based evangelical donors, including Seventh Day Adventist Church and Baptist Church, in regard to Indian associations. A probe is on,” the official said. The four groups whose licence was suspended are Ecreosoculis North Western Gossner Evangelical in Jharkhand, the Evangelical Churches Association in Manipur, the Northern Evangelical Lutheran Church in Jharkhand and the New Life Fellowship Association (NLFA) in Mumbai. The reasons for the suspension or violation were not specified. The Bajrang Dal, the youth wing of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, had obstructed prayer meetings organised by the NLFA in Mumbai in April and September last year. It alleged that the meeting was a pretext for religious conversion, and later submitted a complaint to the police. The FCRA licence of NLFA was suspended on February 10, according to Home Ministry data.
07 September 2020||Belagavi,||State for four more cities under Smart City scheme||The State government has urged the Union government to include Ballari, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura and Mysuru in the list of Smart Cities in the coming year, Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj said in Hubballi on Sunday. He was speaking to journalists after inspecting on-going works there and after talking to officers. He said that he had given strict instructions to officers to complete all works on time. “I see that there is not enough progress in several works. They need to be completed on time. I will not tolerate any delay,” he said. Several of the Smart City projects and other projects were completed. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar would inaugurate them on October 5, the Minister said. Coronavirus has led to reduction of 10 % of municipal taxes. Efforts would be made to make good the loss, he said. Earlier, during an inspection of various work sites in the city, the Minister reprimanded officers for the slow pace of works and the delay in completing projects. He visited roads in Gokul industrial area that are being taken up at a cost of Rs. 27 crore. Officers told him that they would be completed by October. The command and control centre is being built at a cost of Rs. 7.5 crore. The re-development of the Indira glasshouse is being taken up at a cost of Rs. 17.5 crore. He said that a meeting of all stakeholders, including members of the morning walkers association, would be organised to look into complaints of low quality construction. Toilets and lamps would be put up near the glasshouse. A 100-bed hospital is being built at a cost of Rs. 19.5 crore. A fish market would be built to rehabilitate street vendors. The Tolan Lake would be developed in three months and a sewage treatment plant would be inaugurated soon, officers told the Minister. The Janata Bazaar would be shifted. The government High School in Ghantikeri is being repaired. Hubballi-Dharwad City Corporation Commissioner Suresh Itnal and Smart City Managing Director Shakeel Ahmed and others were present.
07 September 2020||KAKINADA,||‘Miscreants’ set fire to Antarvedi temple chariot||Miscreants allegedly set fire to the century-old wooden chariot of the Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district in the early hours of Sunday. The incident was said to have taken place between 1.30 a.m. and 3 a.m. at the chariot shed located outside the main temple complex. “Some miscreants have reportedly set fire to the century-old, 50-foot-high wooden chariot. It is made of teak wood, and is used in the procession taken out during the annual kalyanotsavam celebrated in April,” K. Prasad, Assistant Commissioner (Endowments Department - Rajamahendravaram) told The Hindu . “At least two persons allegedly involved in the incident have been taken into custody by the police. A joint investigation is under way,” Mr. Prasad said. The temple is located near the point where the Vashista Godavari, a tributary of the Godavari, meets the Bay of Bengal. Meanwhile, the Endowments authorities decided to build a new chariot with Rs. 84 lakh insurance cover available for the chariot. The Amalapuram police rushed to the spot and investigation is on.
07 September 2020||Kolkata,||Left questions WB’s claim of no farmer suicide in 2019||The Left parties and farmers’ associations have raised questions about the West Bengal government’s claim that the State did not witness a single occurrence of suicide by any farmer in 2019. “West Bengal has not witnessed a single occurrence of suicide by any farmer in 2019, according to the NCRB Report-2019. The State government is committed towards overall socio-economic development of the families of all the farmers,” Egiye Bangla, the digital interface of the State government, tweeted on Saturday. A number of Trinamool Congress leaders, including Minister Sovandeb Chattopadhay and MP Arpita Ghosh, tweeted the information from their official Twitter handles. The latest report of the NCRB, titled Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India (ADSI), 2019, points out that West Bengal recorded 12,665 cases of suicides, which is the third highest in the country after Maharashtra (18,916) and Tamil Nadu (13,493). Kolkata, the capital, recorded 181 suicides, which brings the total number of suicides outside it to 12,484. Leader of the Left Legislature Party in the West Bengal Assembly, Sujan Chakraborty, said it was next to impossible that over 12,400 people died in Bengal, outside Kolkata, and none of them was a farmer or agricultural labour. ‘Denial mode’ “We have been raising the issue of agrarian distress and farmer suicides in the Assembly but the State government is on a denial mode . All they are doing is hushing up figures of farmer suicides,” he said. The CPI(M) MLA said that a list of farmers who had committed suicide in the Trinamool Congress regime had been released a number of times by the party. While the number of farmers who died by suicide in 2019 is indicated as nil, the State accounted for highest of suicides where the causes were not known. West Bengal accounted for 1,930 cases in males and 941 cases in females where the reason for suicides was not known. The ADSI 2019 also states that certain States/Union Territories namely “West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Chandigarh, Daman & Diu, Delhi UT, Lakshadweep and Puducherry reported zero suicides of farmers/cultivators as well as agricultural labourers.” Secretary of the West Bengal unit of the All India Krishak Sabha, Amal Halder, said during September 2019, the AIKS had come up with a list of 217 farmers who had committed suicide during the regime of the Trinamool Congress beginning 2011. “In the past one year there have been 15 to 20 more such deaths of farmers due to suicide. The State government’s claim is nothing but a lie,” Mr. Halder said. He claimed that when a farmer committed suicide, there was a lot of pressure on the family from the ruling party not to go public or to the media. Meanwhile, the State recently launched a Krishak Bandhu scheme, where Rs. 2 lakh is given to any farmer (18 to 60 age-group) who dies. As per the information made public by the State Agriculture department, about 9,000 farmers have been benefited from it. Anuradha Talwar from the Paschim Banga Khet Majoor Samity said by denying the farmer suicides, the State government was not acknowledging the agrarian distress and thus could not make policy interventions required. “Data should be used for making policy interventions and not looked at from the prism of politics,” Ms. Talwar said.  Those in distress may call suicide prevention helpline: 033-24637401/24637432
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 norms violated on lockdown-free Sunday||Basic COVID-19 safety protocols like maintaining adequate physical distance and wearing masks properly were compromised in many places across Tamil Nadu, particularly in Chennai, during the first lockdown-free Sunday following the unveiling of ‘Unlock 4.0’. Crowds thronged public places, including open markets, playgrounds and the Marina Beach (though officially, the beach is closed for visitors), with people moving about shoulder-to-shoulder in some areas. In Srirangam, devotees were seen standing in close proximity to each other in a queue. In Chennai, families, including young children, thronged the Marina Beach, and youngsters were spotted playing cricket and football in the Corporation playgrounds. The Marina Service Road was busy, with walkers, joggers and skaters making use of it. “Most of them had their masks on the jaw. A few helpless police personnel were watching people walk past them. It appeared as if the city [believed it] had become COVID-19-free,” said M. Jaishankar, an autorickshaw driver. In the evening, many families spent time on the beach without wearing masks. “The police are unable to control [the situation] as the number of visitors is more,” said S. Ethiraj, a resident of Nochikuppam. Youngsters had a field day, playing cricket and football in the playgrounds. The Somasundaram Ground in T. Nagar, Chennai, was full of youngsters, many of whom were not wearing masks. Crowd control “Grounds have been opened for morning walks. Now, it is up to the public to follow safety measures and be cautious till the virus goes away. Though the government cannot be blamed, it could put in place a mechanism to monitor the crowd, especially after seeing such incidents,” said V.S. Jayaraman, a T. Nagar resident. “We were happy to hear that the grounds had been opened. Many of those who had come to play wore masks. Most of them used a kerchief to cover their nose and mouth. We were not standing close to each other,” said Raju, who was playing in a ground in Pallavaram. People were playing football in the ground behind the Foreshore Estate Police Station. Many were not wearing masks, residents said. The Kasimedu fish market was packed, and many were not wearing masks. Around 60 police personnel were deployed to the market to regulate the crowd. “But the public turned a deaf ear to our advice. Now, it is up to the people to follow discipline,” a police officer said.
07 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID-19 tally inches closer to five lakh mark||State’s COVID-19 tally inched closer to the five lakh mark with another 10,000 infections reported in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The tally reached 4,98,125 with 10,794 new infections. The number of deaths too increased to 4,417 with 70 new fatalities reported during the period. However, the number of deaths being reported daily is gradually decreasing. Meanwhile, the number of recoveries is going up, which, in turn, has brought down the active cases to less than one lakh. Recovery rate At present, there are 99,689 active cases with the recovery of 3,94,019 patients, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. In the last 24 hours, 11,915 persons recovered, the bulletin said. More than 10,000 patients recovered per day in the last three days. While the recovery rate has jumped to 79.10%, the death rate is at 0.89%. The State tested 72,573 samples in the past one day, which was the highest in a single day so far. The total number of samples tested so far was 41.07 lakh. While the positivity rate was put at 12.13%, the tests per million ratio stood at 76,927. Nellore district reported the highest single-day tally and four other districts reported more than 1,000 new infections. Chittoor reported the highest number of new deaths, and also had the highest toll of 473. The new cases and deaths in the districts are as follows: Nellore (1,299 & 4), East Godavari (1,244 & 5), West Godavari (1,101 & 5), Prakasam (1,042 & 8), Chittoor (927 & 9), Kadapa (904 & 7), Srikakulam (818 & 2), Anantapur (753 & 8), Guntur (703 & 8), Vizianagaram (593 & 1), Visakhpatnam (573 & 5), Krishna (457 & 4), and Kurnool (380 & 4). East Godavari is heading towards the 70,000 mark in cases while Guntur crossed the 40,000-mark.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Iran discuss Afghan peace process||The Defence Ministers of India and Iran discussed ways to take forward bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on regional security issues, including peace and stability in Afghanistan, during their meeting in Tehran, the Defence Ministry said on Sunday. In a departure from protocol for defence meetings, the Iranian side raised the issue of recent reports citing the safety of minorities in India, it is learnt. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a bilateral meeting with Iran’s Minister of Defence and Armed Forces Logistics Brigadier General Amir Hatami at the latter’s request on September 5. Mr. Singh was on a transit halt in Tehran en route from Moscow to New Delhi where he attended the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Defence Ministers meeting. Iran is an observer at the SCO. “Both leaders emphasised upon the age-old cultural, linguistic and civilisational ties between India and Iran,” the Ministry said.
07 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records another single-day peak: 23,350 cases||Maharashtra touched another high in its single-day case surge, recording 23,350 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday to breach the nine lakh mark as the State’s total case tally soared to 9,07,212. As many as 328 more deaths pushed the fatality toll to 26,604. Since Wednesday, the State has been hitting a new peak in case spike each day — posting more than 17,000 cases for the first time on September 2, crossing 18,000 the next day, recording more than 19,000 cases on September 4, and adding more than 20,000 cases on Saturday. With Sunday’s figure, the number of active cases has risen to 2,35,857. In contrast, just 7,826 patients were discharged on Sunday to take the total recoveries till date to 6,44,400. Of the 328 deaths, 243 fatalities are from the last 48 hours while 43 deaths have occurred last week. The remaining 42 deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, State Health Department officials said. “Of a total 46,47,742 laboratory samples tested thus far, 9,07,212 (19.52%) have returned positive with nearly 91,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stands at 72.51%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had marginally reduced to 2.93%. Pune — the worst-hit district in the country — reported a record high surge of nearly 5,000 cases to take its total case tally to 1,99,303. The district reported 51 deaths to take its mortality count to 4,429. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases in the district stood just below 34,000 with the district’s recovery rate above 80%. Mumbai, too, reported a big spike of 1,910 cases to take its total case tally to 1,55,622. Of them, 23,939 are active ones. As many as 37 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 7,869. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a new high in its case surge, with 1,901 fresh cases taking the district’s total case tally to 38,144 of whom 17,086 are active. With 22 deaths, its fatality toll has climbed to 900. Western Maharashtra continued to report big case surges: Kolhapur reported a record-high jump of 1,680 new cases, taking its total tally to 26,938 of whom 8.129 are active while eight deaths saw the district’s death toll rise to 778. Sangli reported 965 cases pushing the district’s total case tally to 18,601 of whom 8,320 are active. The district witnessed its highest fatality spike till date, recording 42 deaths to take its fatality toll to 561. Satara district reported another big spike of 890 cases to take its total case tally to 18,621 of whom 7,419 are active. As many as 12 more deaths took its death toll to 425. Nashik district, a major virus hotbed in north Maharashtra, reported more than 1,500 fresh cases as its total tally reached 45,790 of whom 10,182 are active. With nine deaths, the district’s death toll has touched 962.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||NCB questions Rhea for six hours||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday questioned Rhea Chakraborty as part of the probe into the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. She has been summoned again on Monday. Rhea was questioned for about six hours. It is not yet clear if she was confronted with other suspects. In the same case, the Mumbai zonal unit of the NCB on Sunday conducted another raid, resulting in the seizure of 590 gm of hashish, 0.64 gram of LSD sheets (commercial quantity), 304 g of marijuana and capsules, besides over Rs. 1.85 lakh in cash and 5,000 Indonesian rupiah. “One person, Anuj Keshwani, from whose possession the drugs were seized, is being examined. His name was revealed during Kaizan Ibrahim’s interrogation,” said an NCB official. On Saturday, the agency had arrested Dipesh Sawant, who worked as a housekeeper for Sushant. He was produced in a court that sent him to the NCB custody till September 9. Rhea’s brother Showik and Sushant’s housekeeping manager Samuel Miranda are already in the agency’s custody for alleged procurement of drugs. NDPS Act The agency has invoked various provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against the accused. Dipesh was earlier confronted with Showik and Samuel, besides alleged drug peddlers Kaizan Ibrahim and Zaid Vilatra. The agency made the arrests in the Sushant case after it got leads during the searches in a separate case in the last week of August. Two persons, Abbas Ramzan Ali Lakhani and Karn Arora, were initially arrested for allegedly possessing curated marijuana.
07 September 2020||Belagavi,||Belagavi industry, chartered accountants and trade bodies seek status quo||Unrest is growing among the city’s residents against the move to shift Income Tax offices to Goa from Belagavi and Hubballi, as part of the restructuring of the department. Industry and trade bodies, chartered accountants and other related agencies are seeking status quo . Representatives of the association of chartered accountants and trade bodies have given memoranda to the government with requests that the offices be retained in Belagavi. Offices of the principal commissioner, the commissioner for appeals, two range joint commissioners, two assistant commissioners and six income tax officers are in Belagavi. This will be reduced to only one IT officer who will report to the range office in Hubballi, that will have two commissioners and 10 range officers. Belagavi is the second biggest district in the State after Bengaluru. It also has the second highest concentration of industries and business and tax remittances. Hubballi and Dharwad in the neighbourhood are also tax generating centres. With these in mind, the IT offices should be kept functioning in Hubballi and Belagavi, the memoranda said. The Centre’s move has also sparked a war on social media where young people, traders, businessmen and tax practitioners have opposed the decision. In August, the Union government announced the shifting of offices to Goa, as part of the faceless assessment scheme and creation of national e-assessment centre and regional e -assessment centre in the department. Union Ministers Suresh Angadi and Pralhad Joshi have met the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asking her to retain the offices. Both the leaders have issued releases saying the Minister has assured them of looking into their requests.  Belagavi is the second biggest district and has the second highest number of industries, business and tax remittances
07 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CET likely for admission to UG, PG courses||The government is contemplating conducting a common entrance test (CET) for admission to all undergraduate and post-graduate programmes offered by the universities in the State from the next academic year. “The new system will save time and energy for the students and spare them from the pressure of preparing for multiple exams. They will qualify for admission in any college or university in the State by writing a single test,” said K. Hemachandra Reddy, Chairman of the A.P. State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE). Reforms The council has initiated a slew of measures as a part of reforms in the higher education sector. The disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and its far-reaching impact on the education sector has prevented the council from going ahead with its proposed CET from the current academic year. The council has also issued a common academic calendar to all the higher education institutions. The calendar for the academic year 2020-21 will make special provisions in view of the loss of teaching days due to the lockdown. Innovative programmes The pandemic has put the council on tenterhooks, spurring it to design innovative programmes to take classroom lessons to the doorstep of the students, and it came up with a Learning Management System (LMS). To help the students cope with the lost academic time, the council has designed this ‘anytime and anywhere learning mode’ under which the course content, videos of the lectures and other learning resources will be made available on the council’s portal. “The LMS can be utilised by students perusing UG and PG in professional as well as non-professional courses,” explains Mr. Hemachandra Reddy. The council has identified subject coordinators and content generators, who recently underwent a training in the nuances of online teaching in a faculty development programme conducted in collaboration with IIT-Kurnool. Mr. Hemachandra Reddy also talks about ‘Remote Learning Centres’ that will facilitate learning by students in villages. “Every village will have a device that will host the content. It can be lessons on how to gain proficiency in English language, tips on how to prepare for competitive exams, or just exam-orientation content. We will make available the content to students in villages,” he said. Engineering courses Recognising the need to design a curriculum for engineering courses that caters to the needs of the quick learners and also the slow learners, the council has put together a ‘basic’ curriculum, comprising 160 credit programmes. “This been designed keeping in mind the average and below-average students. The quick learners have the option of grabbing 20 additional credits and securing an Honours degree,” says Mr. Hemachandra Reddy.  Students will qualify for admission in any college or university in the State by writing a single test K. Hemachandra Reddy Chairman, APSCHE
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Problem to continue till January, Eatala tells ASHAs, ANMs||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANMs), who continue to play a crucial role in ground level management of COVID-19 across Telangana, were urged to continue to work with the same vim and vigour till January. Laying emphasis on the importance of coronavirus tests, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that the number of people suffering from respiratory distress like asthma might increase in winter, and that it is important to differentiate between seasonal diseases and COVID. “As the problem will persist till January, please continue to work the way you did in the past six months,” Mr. Rajender said at a video conference held on Sunday with 22,000 ASHAs and 500 ANMs from across the State. Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Vakati Karuna was also present at the meeting. “While cases are decreasing in Hyderabad, it is spreading widely in the districts,” he said. Their work was acknowledged by the Health Minister during the video conference, where the healthcare workers requested a pay hike. ASHAs receive honorarium (performance based incentive) of only Rs. 7,500 per month. Mr. Rajender said that he would discuss their request with Chief Minister.
07 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CM to launch schemes aimed at checking malnutrition today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana’ and ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus’ schemes on September 7 (Monday). These schemes are aimed at providing nutritious food to pregnant women, lactating mothers and their children. The ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus’ is intended to supply nutritious food exclusively in 77 tribal areas under eight ITDAs, 52 ICDS projects and 8,320 anganwadi centres, while the remaining urban and rural areas lying in the plains will be covered under the YSR Sampoorna Poshana. In an attempt to address malnutrition and anaemia among pregnant women, lactating mothers and children aged between six and 72 months, the government has brought these schemes as part of which supplementary nutrition will be provided through anganwadi centers. As many as 30,16,000 pregnant women, lactating mothers and children belonging to the BPL families will benefit from the schemes which will entail an annual expenditure of approximately Rs. 1,900 crore. On the ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus, the government will be spending Rs. 1,100 every month on each pregnant and lactating woman, Rs. 620 on each child aged between six to 36 months and Rs. 553 on each child aged between 36 to 72 months, totalling Rs. 307.55 crore per annum on 3,80,000 beneficiaries. Under YSR Sampoorna Poshana, the government will spend Rs. 850 every month on each pregnant and lactating women, Rs. 412 on each child aged between six to 36 months and Rs. 350 on each child aged between 36 to 72 months, totalling Rs. 1556 crore per annum on 26,36,000 beneficiaries. Mobile app The Department of Women Development and Child Welfare has developed a mobile application to assess the service delivery and satisfaction levels of the beneficiaries.
07 September 2020||Kolkata,||Two killed in crude bomb blast||Two people were killed and one injured in a crude bomb explosion on Sunday evening at Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas’ Barrackpore subdivision. The explosion occurred at ward number 2 of Kamarhati Municipality in the Golaghat area. The victims, two young men, were rushed to the Sagar Dutt Hospital, where the doctors declared them dead. The deceased were identified as Sheikh Raju (35) and Mohammad Sahid. Senior officers of the Barrackpore Police and Commissioner Manoj Barma reached the spot and collected evidence from the site of the explosion. The explosion occurred inside a house which collapsed. Clothes, parts of furniture and blood stains were found all over the room inside the house. While the police are yet to ascertain the cause of the explosion the Barrackpore subdivision in North 24 Parganas districts has become a hub of political violence since 2019 when former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Arjun Singh won the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat on a Bharatiya Janata Party Ticket (BJP) ticket after switching over from the TMC. The region has routinely witnessed violent clashes between supporters of the ruling party and the BJP ever since. The BJP leadership has also accused the local police of targeting party workers in the region.
07 September 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal BJP chief kicks up war of words||The political war of words between the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) and the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) touched a new low in West Bengal on Sunday, with the BJP State president threatening to beat up TMC workers when the party comes to power in the State. In reply, the TMC dared the BJP State president to put his words into action and said he has lost his mind. “The TMC will be vanquished in the 2021 Assembly elections. We will beat them up with shoes and strip them on the road intersections. Didn’t I tell you that in 2019 the TMC will be reduced to half,” Mr. Ghosh said at a public rally in North 24 Parganas district. Heading into next year’s State Assembly polls, the BJP’s slogan is “ Unishe half, Ekuse saaf (Half in 2019, Gone in 2021)”, referring to the party’s success in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Mr. Ghosh, who is known for making outrageous comments in public, accused the TMC leaders of “looting people’s money”. He said, “Some police personnel are working at the behest of the ruling party. I am noting everything in my diary. Those unleashing violence on BJP workers will be brought to book after the 2021 polls.” Mr. Ghosh said nearly 100 supporters of the BJP have been killed at the hands of TMC supporters. “It is the BJP that is fighting to bring about a change in the State. More than 100 BJP workers have given their lives, the fight will continue until the change is brought about in West Bengal,” he said. The TMC leadership took strong exception to the remarks. Minister Arup Roy said Mr. Ghosh is not in the right frame of mind, while TMC MP Kalyan Bandopadhyay dared the BJP State chief to thrash him with shoes. He also called him “uneducated and uncultured”. “If he has the guts, let him beat me up first with shoes, I challenge him,” Mr. Bandopadhyay, an advocate and Lok Sabha MP from Serampore, said.
07 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||Five head of cattle die of Lumpy Skin Disease in Kalaburagi district||As many as five head of cattle died of an endemic infectious Lumpy Skin Disease in Halkod village of Chincholi taluk in Kalaburagi district on Sunday. As per data provided by the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences Department, as many as 10,375 head of cattle and buffaloes in the district have been affected by the disease. The highest, 5,250 livestock, is from Chincholi taluk. In India, the disease was initially reported in northern States and then, it spread to the other parts of the country. The State reported such cases most recently. In the Kalyana Karnataka region, the disease appeared in cattle in parts of Yadgir district towards the end of July and it spread across Kalaburagi and Bidar districts in the second week of August. Meanwhile, officials of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences Department have been conducting training for all field veterinarians in 214 taluk and hobli veterinary hospitals and dispensaries in Kalaburagi district.  The disease appeared in cattle in parts of Yadgir district towards the end of July and it spread across Kalaburagi and Bidar districts in the second week of August
07 September 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra introduces agro-tourism policy||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Sunday cleared an agro-tourism policy aimed at reviving the tourism sector and providing support to the rural economy. In a meeting held on the eve of the monsoon session of the State Legislature, the Cabinet cleared the policy which the government said would be an added income to farmers and also an enjoyable experience to tourists. “The Cabinet passed the agro-tourism policy of Maharashtra. This will invigorate the rural sector and agricultural practitioners with a steady source of an alternative income and an alternative employment through tourism like farm stays. Local cuisine and cultural aspects can be enjoyed by visitors,” State’s Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray said. Taking the lead He said although many countries around the world have such enabling policies to assist tourists with homestays in the farms and orchards, Maharashtra has taken the lead to in this regard in India. “Our department is thankful to the Cabinet for having approved this formally. This policy will be an enabler for those looking to travel, enjoy the rustic outdoors, spend time on farms, and indulge in eco-friendly tourism, organic local flavours, and seasonal fruit picking,” he said. Rural development through agro-tourism, ensuring market to agricultural produce, encouraging agriculture-related businesses, providing employment to young women from rural areas, organising exhibitions of folk art and traditions, and providing an experience of pollution-free and nature-friendly atmosphere are few of the objectives of the said policy. Loans and tax benefits Individual farmers, agriculture cooperative societies, agriculture research centres, agriculture universities, or farmer companies can set up agro-tourism centres. The Tourism Department will certify these centres after which they can be eligible for loans and other tax benefits. The requirements to register under the policy include owning an area of two to five acres with residential arrangements and facilities for meal supply. Forms are available at www.maharashtratourism.gov.in or at the office of the regional deputy director of the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation. The initial cost of registration for an agro-tourism centre is Rs. 2,500, while it can be renewed every five years for Rs. 1,000. A Maharashtra agro-tourism and rural tourism development committee will also be formed to promote agro-tourism.
07 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State’s daily cases cross 3,000 mark||The daily COVID-19 case graph in the State, which is expected to scale the peak later in the month, crossed the 3,000 mark for the first time to record 3,082 fresh cases on Sunday. The number of samples which were tested in the last 24 hours was 41,392. The number of recoveries reported was 2,196. The cumulative case burden now stands at 87,841 cases. Having reported 64,751 recoveries so far, the number of patients undergoing treatment across the State is 22,676. Ten more deaths which occurred in the State between August 21 and September 2 entered the provisional COVID toll list. The official toll has now reached 347. Four of the deaths listed on Sunday were from Thiruvananthapuram, two from Kozhikode and one each from Kollam, Kasaragod, Kannur and Alappuzha. Nearly 94% of the new cases reported on Sunday – 2,894 out of the 3,082 new cases – are locally acquired infections, wherein the source of infection remains untraceable in 189 cases. This includes 50 health-care workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported 528 new cases on Sunday, of which all except four cases are a result of local transmission.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru/Mumbai,||Councillor’s son summoned to Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau, which is also probing into the sale and use of drugs, has summoned Yashas, son of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) councillor Keshavamurthy, to Mumbai for questioning. “He has connections to a dealer who had also supplied drugs to an accused in the Sushant Singh Rajput case,” said an NCB official. K.P.S. Malhotra, Deputy Director, NCB, told the Hindu , “BBMP corporator Keshavamurthy’s son Yashsas was summoned. He is in Mumbai but has not joined the investigation.”  (With inputs from Sonam Saigal)
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||State records 10,380 COVID cases in 4 days||Telangana recorded 2,574 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 1,40,969. In the past four days (September 2-5), 10,380 cases were reported in the State. Around 2,47,122 samples were tested in the four days. From nearly two weeks, around 60,000 swab samples are being checked for presence of coronavirus everyday. On Saturday, 62,736 samples were put to test, including 28,231 primary contacts and 8,783 secondary contacts. Results of 3,129 are awaited. The new 2,574 cases includes 325 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 197 from Rangareddy, 185 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 158 from Nalgonda, 144 from Karimnagar, 128 from Khammam, 117 from Warangal Urban, 102 from Suryapet. Of the total 1,40,969 cases, the active cases are 32,553, and the number of recovered cases is 1,07,530 while 886 have died. In the 42 State government hospitals, 3,558 oxygen beds, and 576 ICU beds were vacant on Saturday. In the case of 196 private hospitals, 2,440 oxygen beds and 1,171 ICU beds were vacant.
07 September 2020||Belagavi,||Jarkiholi dismisses reports on talks on Joshi as rumours||Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has dismissed as baseless rumours reports that said that the BJP was trying to install Pralhad Joshi as the Chief Minister, in place of B.S. Yediyurappa. These rumours had spread after he met Union Minister Pralhad Joshi in Hubballi on Saturday. The new entrant to the BJP is seen to be a leader who commands the support of some BJP MLAs from North Karnataka, especially those who joined the BJP after quitting the Congress. Mr. Jarkiholi told journalists in Gokak on Sunday that there were no political motives behind his meeting Mr. Joshi. He said that he met Mr. Joshi to sort out some issues in his department and seek Mr. Joshi’s help for the development of the State. This is the third meeting between the two leaders. Mr. Jarkiholi has met Mr. Joshi twice in Hubballi and once in Bengaluru. In the first meeting, he was accompanied by some MLAs.
07 September 2020||KAKINADA,||Minister orders probe||Andhra Pradesh Endowments Minister V. Srinivas on Sunday ordered an inquiry by K. Ramachandra Mohan, Additional Commissioner, Endowments Department, into the fire accident in which the wooden chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple was gutted in a shed outside the temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district. Preliminary report “The inquiry has commenced. Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi and officials of the Fire Services Department will be part of the inquiry team. It will submit its preliminary report on Monday,” Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu over phone. “A new chariot will be made available on a war-footing for use during the annual kalyanotsavam,” the Minister added. It is a tradition to take the deity mounted on the chariot in standing posture in a procession during the annual festival celebrated during summer. Devotees protest Meanwhile, hundreds of devotees and members of religious groups gathered at the temple and raised slogans against the incident. “Locals and devotees have staged a protest at Antarvedi peacefully,” the SP said.
07 September 2020||Valigonda,||Body shifted in earth mover||Ever since test results for its patriarch came as positive, the family of four here at Sangem village has been living much like in exile. On Sunday, the coronavirus-induced discrimination was out into the open, with all doors in the village shut, and the woman with her son and daughter, shifting the husband’s body with the help of an earth mover. The 49-year-old head of the family breathed his last around noontime, after being in home isolation for less than three days since his COVID-19 result on September 3, at Varkatpally health centre. A small farmer, he did not have a medical history, and the only symptom was cold. And post-result, the village-level Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker and Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), who checked on him, provided necessary medicines. According to locals, and reports from Valigonda, the residents gripped in fear did not step out after the death news spread through the village WhatsApp group. The final disposal of the body also became difficult as village tractor drivers refused to come forward and the family looked for options. “Finally, a JCB (earth mover) was engaged because it has glass-fitting on all sides and the driver also can be at a distance. His wife, daughter and son placed the body in the loader bucket and took to the outskirts,” a local said. It was learnt that the family members got their Personal Protection Equipment (PPE Kits), for the purpose, from the village-level health workers. The bereaved family kept to themselves, as residents hesitated to share a word. Local reports confirmed that officials are yet to visit Sangem.
07 September 2020||Pune,||NCP leader offers palace for COVID-19 fight||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ramraje Naik-Nimbalkar has offered two properties, including a grand royal heritage palace located in Phaltan in western Maharashtra’s Satara district, to the administration to set up COVID-19 centres. Mr. Nimbalkar wrote to the Satara district administration about the decision. “We have offered Vikram Vilas, a bungalow in Songaon owned by my cousin Raghunath Raje Naik Nimbalkar, as well as Mudhoji Manmohan Rajwada, a heritage palace in Phaltan, to the district administration,” he told PTI . “There are several rooms in the palace and it can be turned into a temporary COVID-19 centre. Cases are increasing in rural centres and infrastructure is lacking so it was decided by the trust to offer these two properties,” Mr. Nimabalkar said.  Shivaji Jagtap, SDO, Phaltan, confirmed that the administration had received such a letter from Mr. Raghunath Raje Naik Nimbalkar. “There are dedicated COVID-19 facilities in Phaltan. With the help of local organisations and individuals, we are trying to set up a separate facility with oxygenated beds. As far as existing resources are concerned, we feel that it will suffice. However, if need be, we will certainly consider the offer made by the Nimbalkars,” he said.
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,||No Question Hour on day one||The first day of the monsoon session of the State Legislature will not have the Question Hour. Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy has dispensed the Question Hour for the day under Rule 38 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Assembly, according to the bulletin issued by the Legislature Secretariat on Sunday. The Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly is expected to take a call on the agenda items during its meeting scheduled after the house is adjourned for the day on Monday.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Peak power demand rose post-lockdown’||Peak power demand in Delhi has risen by nearly 50% since the easing of lockdown restrictions, said power discom officials. Because of the lockdown and weather conditions, the peak power demand this year has been lower compared to last year when it was recorded at 7,409 MW on July 2. This year, the highest power demand so far has been 6,314 MW recorded on June 29. Power demand picked up in the Capital after May 17, with peak power surpassing last year’s demand on 13 occasions in July and August by up to 19%, said BSES officials. During the lockdown, the officials said, two grids were energised in Sangam Vihar and Mitharaon areas to improve power supply to nearly 2.5 lakh residents. Power demand in the congested Sangam Vihar area is growing at a rate of 8% annually. In Mitharaon, the new grid will also cater to electric vehicle bus depots at Mundella, Dichaon and Ghummanahera villages, the officials added.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon games||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Mr. X in the Assembly||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon active again||
07 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Dawood’s man’ calls Uddhav’s house; security scaled up||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s residence Matoshree in Bandra has received calls in which the caller allegedly threatened to blow it up, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said in a statement on Sunday. According to the police, Matoshree received two calls on Saturday night from a man, who said that he was calling from Dubai on behalf of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim. Following this, the police have beefed up security at the bungalow located in Kalanagar Colony, a police official said. The CMO said the State Cabinet, which met on Sunday on the eve of the two-day monsoon session of the legislature, expressed concern over the threat call and sought the Centre’s intervention in the matter. “The ministers said the guilty should be brought to book and strict action should be taken,” the CMO statement said. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh told the Cabinet that the Crime Branch was investigating the matter. “Someone called and said Dawood Ibrahim wanted to talk to Mr. Thackeray. However, the telephone operator did not transfer the call to the CM,” the official said. “The caller did not reveal his identity, but only said he was calling from Dubai on behalf of Dawood Ibrahim. Both the calls were received around 10.30 p.m.,” he added. The local police were later informed about the calls, following which extra security force was deployed outside the bungalow. No case has been registered in this connection, the official said.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Frontline warriors||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon makes an active return||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Crowd-puller||
07 September 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in State cross 1.8 lakh, recovery rate crosses 85%||West Bengal on Sunday recorded 3,087 cases of COVID-19, taking the total case tally to 1,80,788. The State also registered a total of 52 fatalities in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths due to the viral infection to 3,562. With 3,207 patients recovering from the infection on Sunday, the recovery rate of the State further improved to 85.19%. Of the 52 deaths, eight were recorded in Kolkata, 10 in North 24 Parganas and 10 in Howrah district. The three districts together have accounted to more than 70% of all fatalities in the State. In terms of new cases in the past 24 hours, Kolkata recorded 541 new patients, taking the total cases in the city to 43,084. Meanwhile, North 24 Parganas recorded a total of 590 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the district’s total case tally to 37,711. Kolkata, Howrah and North 24 Parganas have recorded over 50% of all COVID-19 cases in the State. A total of 46,505 samples were tested for the viral infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total samples tested in the State to 21.58 lakhs.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru/Mumbai,||NCB calls BBMP councillor’s son to Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned Yashas, son of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) councillor Keshavamurthy, to Mumbai for questioning. “He has connections to a dealer who had also supplied drugs to an accused in the Sushant Singh Rajput case,” an NCB official said. K.P.S. Malhotra, deputy director, NCB, told the Hindu , “BBMP corporator Keshavamurthy’s son Yashsas was summoned. He is in Mumbai but has not joined the investigation.”  (With inputs from Sonam Saigal)
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Tourism picking up after a lull||Be it because of the frustration over being locked up at home, or because of wanderlust being too great to ignore, tourism is said to be picking up again in Karnataka.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Metro services to resume today||After several months, BMRCL will resume Namma Metro services from Monday in a phased manner. Trains will operate on the Purple Line from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Metro to resume operations from today||The Delhi Metro, which halted its operations five months ago following the imposition of a nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19, is set to run again from Monday in a graded manner.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records fresh 3,000 COVID-19 cases||Delhi recorded 3,256 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday with 29 deaths and 2,188 recoveries in the past 24 hours, said a heath bulletin. The total positive cases now stand at 1,91,449.
07 September 2020||Guwahati,||Assam doctor, teacher wife held for torturing minor help||A court in Assam’s Dibrugarh district on Sunday sent a doctor and his teacher wife to judicial custody for allegedly pouring hot water on their 12-year-old domestic help. Dr. Siddhi Prasad Deuri of the Assam Medical College and Hospital and his wife Mitali Konwar were arrested on Saturday.
07 September 2020||Imphal,||4 held for rape, murder of minor in Imphal: CM||Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh, who also holds the Home portfolio, said on Sunday that all the four suspects in the rape and murder of a 14-year-old girl on September 2, have been arrested. The girl was reportedly on friendly terms with one of the suspects, Maza Khan. She was apparently given to understand that they were eloping when she came to meet him.
07 September 2020||Belagavi,||1,447 patients discharged||North Karnataka districts saw 1,447 COVID-19 positive persons being discharged on Sunday. There were 1,971 new cases. There were 19 deaths, including eight in Belagavi, six in Dharwad, two in Vijayapura and one in Uttara Kannada. There are a total of 18,962 active cases in the region, as per a health bulletin.
07 September 2020||Chennai,||New instructions on online classes issued||To make schools, students and parents aware of the guidelines for online learning, the Commissioner of School Education has issued detailed instructions.
07 September 2020||Chennai,||State records 5,783 fresh cases, 88 deaths||With 5,783 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the State's tally of active cases rose to 51,458. Eighty-eight persons died. Chennai accounted for 955 of the fresh cases.
07 September 2020||Kakinada,||MLA airlifted to Bengaluru||Pithapuram YSRCP MLA P. Dorababu (60), who tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, was airlifted in a private helicopter to Bengaluru for critical care treatment on Sunday. His family members accompanied him in the helicopter that took off from the District Police Grounds here. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that Mr. Dorababu had taken his permission to take the private helicopter.
07 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||COVID-19 patient in Kerala raped inside ambulance||A COVID-19 patient from Pathanamthitta in Kerala was sexually assaulted by the driver of the ambulance while being shifted to a COVID Care Centre on Saturday night. The ambulance driver, identified as Noufal, 29, of Kayamkulam, has been arrested. According to the police, the 19-year-old woman was being shifted to a COVID care centre at Pandalam from Adoor when the assault took place. The victim, along with an 42-year-old woman patient, boarded the ambulance at Adoor. After dropping the first patient at the District General Hospital in Kozhencherry, the ambulance proceeded to a COVID care facility at Pandalam with the second patient. As they reached Aranmula, the accused took a diversion to an isolated location and molested the patient. He then allegedly apologised to the woman and dropped her at the Pandalam centre. ‘Planned attack’ The victim revealed her ordeal to the health officials on duty who, in turn, informed the police. After collecting the victim’s statement, the police traced the location of the accused and took him to into custody. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused had planned the rape and diverted the ambulance through Kozhencherry instead of going straight to Pandalam from Adoor.  The official also confirmed that Noufal had been arraigned as an accused in an attempted culpable homicide case in Kayamkulam. A probe is on to trace his criminal antecedents. The accused was booked under IPC Sections 375 for rape, 363 for kidnapping, 342 for wrongful confinement, 323 for voluntarily causing hurt and also under provisions of the SC/ST Atrocities Act. He was later remanded to custody and put in an isolation unit. Official sources said the case would be handed over to the Aranmula police station, where the incident actually took place. The incident triggered widespread protests in the district with Youth Congress and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha activists staging demonstrations, alleging violation of protocols by the District Medical Office in transporting a woman patient without escort.
07 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s daily cases breach the 3,000-mark||Kerala’s daily incidence, expected to peak later in September, crossed the 3,000 mark for the first time, recording 3,082 fresh cases on Sunday. The number of samples tested was 41,392. Ten deaths which occurred between August 21 and September 2 entered the provisional COVID-19 toll list. The official toll touched 347. Four deaths listed on Sunday were from Thiruvananthapuram, two from Kozhikode and one each from Kollam, Kasaragod, Kannur and Alappuzha. Nearly 94% of Sunday’s new cases were locally acquired infections. This included 50 health-care workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported 528 new cases on Sunday. Malappuram had 324 cases, Kollam 328, Ernakulam 281, Kozhikode 264, Alappuzha 221, Kasaragod 218, Kannur 200, Kottayam 195, Thrissur 169, Palakkad 162, Pathanamthita 113, Wayanad 40 and Idukki 39. New cases in Telangana again hovered in the 2,500 range, at 2,574 cases on Saturday. During September 2 to 5, a total of 10,380 cases were reported, from testing of 2,47,122 samples. By contrast, Andhra Pradesh reported over 10,000 cases every day over several days now. For about two weeks, around 60,000 samples were checked in Telangana every day. On Saturday, 62,736 samples were tested. Of 1,40,969 cases, active cases stood at 32,553 and deaths at 886. Andhra Pradesh moved closer to the five lakh-mark for cases, with 10,000-plus infections reported in 24 hours. There were 10,794 new infections on Sunday. The total number of deaths too rose to 4,417 with 70 new fatalities. There were 99,689 active cases, the Health Department said. The State tested 72,573 samples in the past day, the highest so far with an overall positivity rate of 12.13%. Nellore district reported the highest single-day tally and four other districts reported more than 1,000 new infections. Chittoor reported the highest number of new deaths, and also had the highest toll of 473. Karnataka reported 9,319 new cases on Sunday, raising its total to 3.98 lakh. Of 99,266 active cases, 775 patients were in ICUs, and 95 patients died of COVID-19 on Sunday. Total deaths rose to 6,393. Out of 74,384 COVID-19 tests conducted on Sunday in Karnataka, 35,073 tests were rapid antigen tests. Out of 9,319 cases reported on Sunday, 2,824 cases and 38 deaths were from Bengaluru Urban district. With 5,783 persons testing positive on Sunday for COVID-19 infection, Tamil Nadu’s tally rose to 51,458 active cases. As on date, 4,63,480 persons have tested positive while the total number of persons discharged from various facilities has risen to 4,04,186.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Key names left out of new U.P. Cong. panels||In a clear sign of where things are headed for the group of 23 senior leaders who penned the letter seeking reforms in the functioning of the Congress, former Minister Jitin Prasada and former president of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee Raj Babbar were left out of seven new committees that were formed for the State. The Congress on Sunday evening announced the formation of a Manifesto Committee, Outreach Committee, Membership Committee, Program Implementation Committee, Training and Cadre Development Committee, Panchayat Raj Election Committee and Media and Communication Advisory Committee. These committees have been formed in view of the March 2022 Assembly election in the State. Insiders pointed out that it is unprecedented for the party to start preparations two years in advance. The other notable omission is of senior leader RPN Singh, who had a face-off with former party president Rahul Gandhi at a recent meeting of the Congress Working Committee in June. Mr. Singh had suggested that the party must ensure criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Chinese incursion should not get personal. Mr. Gandhi lost his temper at this suggestion accusing the other senior leaders of going easy on the BJP and Mr. Modi. Mr. Singh is not a signatory to the G23 letter. Leaving out Mr. Prasada and Mr. Singh is more surprising, insiders said, because both are considered close to the Gandhi family. Mr. Singh has also had a successful stint as in-charge of Jharkhand, where the party is part of the JMM-led government. More recently, the party re-jigged its team in Parliament, appointing Assam MP Gaurav Gogoi as the deputy leader in the Lok Sabha, superseding former UPA Ministers Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor. Both Mr. Tharoor and Mr. Tewari were signatories to the G23 letter. “If this trend holds on, then both Shashi Tharoor and Anand Sharma [who too is part of G23] will not be renominated as chairpersons of the standing committees,” another senior leader said.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Record spike in five States||At least five States in the country registered record single-day spike in COVID-19 cases on Sunday, as India neared the 42 lakh mark with 84,701 fresh cases and 959 fatalities. Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Kerala, Odisha, and the Union Territory of J&K saw a record rise in infections. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a meeting with the Health Secretaries of West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Delhi and Puducherry on the containment and management of COVID-19 in 35 districts under their jurisdiction. These 35 districts are Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and 24 South Parganas in West Bengal; Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban, Kolhapur, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Raigad, Jalgaon, Solapur, Satara, Palghar, Aurangabad, Dhule and Nanded in Maharashtra; Surat in Gujarat; Puducherry; East Singhbhum in Jharkhand; and all 11 districts in Delhi. “Mr. Bhushan underscored the need to suppress, curb and eventually break the chain of transmission of the infectious disease by strengthening the active case search focusing on those with co-morbidities and elderly population; revisiting and strengthening the containment measures in the affected areas; and scaling up the testing to decrease the positivity rates below 5%,” a release by the Ministry noted.  They were also advised early identification by ramping up testing across the districts, optional utilisation of RT-PCR testing capacity; effective monitoring of home isolation cases and early hospitalisation in case of disease progression; seamless hospitalisation and early admission for patients requiring medical support, especially in cases of co-morbid and elderly population; following effective infection control measures in hospitals to safeguard healthcare workers from contracting the infection; the District Collectors and other functionaries to prepare and update district specific plans to continue their efforts to manage the pandemic with the same rigour.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kesavananda Bharati, a saviour of the Constitution||Kesavananda Bharati Swamiji, who passed away on Sunday, was the sole unwitting petitioner in the historic Fundamental Rights case which prevented the nation from slipping into a totalitarian regime. Though the judgment is a landmark case, he did not win any relief in the case. The amendments in the Kerala land reforms law, which he had challenged, were upheld by the Supreme Court in 1973. It was senior advocate Nani Palkhivala, representing Swamiji, who extended the ambit of the case. Mr. Palkhivala saw an opportunity through Swamiji's case to challenge a series of constitutional amendments introduced by the Indira Gandhi government, granting unlimited power to Parliament to alter the Constitution. “Courtroom Genius”, a biography of Mr. Palkhivala co-authored by senior advocates Soli Sorabjee and Arvind Datar, said the seer never met or spoke with the great lawyer. In fact, the book said, Swamiji was quite surprised at the time to see his name in the newspapers every day and wondered why his case, challenging only certain land reforms in Kerala, was taking so long. Unique case By sheer statistics, leave alone the law it laid down, the “Kesavananda Bharati versus State of Kerala” case is unique. The case was heard by a Bench of 13 judges — the largest formed in the Supreme Court. It was heard over 68 working days from October 1972 to March 1973. The judgment was a mammoth 703 pages. The Kesavananda Bharati judgment innovated the Basic Structure doctrine which limited Parliament’s power to make drastic amendments that may affect the core values enshrined in the Constitution, like secularism and federalism. The verdict upheld the power of the Supreme Court to judicially review laws of Parliament. It evolved the concept of separation of powers among the three branches of governance — legislative, executive and the judiciary.  But democracy won that day on a wafer-thin 7:6 majority. The judges were split down the middle until the 13th judge, Justice H.R. Khanna, supported the view that constitutional amendments should not alter the “basic structure” of the Constitution. The aftermath of the judgment also saw the supersession of three judges of the Supreme Court — J.M. Shelat, A.N. Grover and K.S. Hegde — for Chief Justiceship. All three were part of the majority verdict on the Bench. They resigned in protest amidst public furore. The Emergency was proclaimed shortly after the judgment was delivered on April 24, 1973. The Kesavananda Bharati judgment proved timely and thwarted many an attempt on democracy and dignity of individual during those dark years.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Trying to use the contempt law to stifle criticism is counterproductive’||Civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan was punished for criminal contempt for scandalising the Supreme Court. The court punished him with a Rs. 1 fine. He was also criticised by the court for not apologising. The court blamed his “adamance and ego” for that. But Mr. Bhushan says that “self-righteous ego is a must for any self-respecting, truth-loving person”. Edited excerpts of a phone interview:  You said criticism, and harsh criticism at that, protects the court. The court said criticism should be “fair” and not cross the Lakshman Rekha. Is this the court asking critics to self-censor or is it the court appealing to their better judgment when they speak in public? They are doing both. When I said that the court should be willing to suffer even intemperate criticism, I did not mean that people should level intemperate criticism. What I said is even if criticism is intemperate or unfair and bordering on scurrilous and abusive, it will be understood for what it is by the people. People can make out that this criticism is scurrilous and unfair. The court’s reputation depends on its judgments and actions. It is not dependent on what people say. The court’s reputation is affected by what people say only if it seems to have a ring of fairness and authenticity. Trying to use the law of scandalising and lowering the authority by way of contempt to stifle criticism just because some of it may be scurrilous or totally unfair is counterproductive and especially dangerous because it ends up stifling honest opinion. It was my, and remains my, bona fide opinion about the role of court in the last few years. Somebody may agree with it or not, but that does not make it contempt. I am not saying the whole of contempt law should go, but [the ground of] scandalising of court should go. The court blames your “adamance and ego” for not apologising. Even the Attorney-General, as a constitutional authority, asked you to express regret to the court. Did you think that you would be giving ground by not apologising to an institution you hold in high esteem? One should at least have some self-righteous ego. Not in the sense that you refuse to apologise even when judges reason with you to apologise ... [but] in the sense that nobody can force you to apologise if there is no reason to do so. If you have not said anything wrong and if you fully believe in what you have said, then your ego should be such, your self-righteousness should be such that you don’t cave in just because they are offering you an easy way out ... That self-righteous ego is a must for any self-respecting, truth-loving person. The court’s judgment says judges are handicapped when attacked. It is contempt to attribute personal motives to judges. But is it not healthier for the institution and dignity of office if individual judges are allowed to defend themselves and respond to attacks? In my view, they [judges] should be able to respond to criticism levelled against them. Others can also respond to these remarks, and they do. On the question of motives, sometimes motives are there for all to see. For example, there have been cases where judges have a serious conflict of interest and they still deal with those cases. Is wider consultation necessary before initiating contempt on the ground of scandalising the court?  Suo motu initiation of contempt should only be after a meeting of the Full Court. Secondly, there must be an appeal against this judgment. One appeal ... one criminal appeal is held to be a fundamental right under Article 21 by the Supreme Court. There is no appeal against this. Review goes to the same Bench in chambers. A tweet is shared rapidly. It attracts hundreds or even thousands of comments which vary from funny to abusive. Is contempt practical? Theoretically, it [contempt] can be done, but it is not in public interest to do so because people will stop making even bona fide and fair comments. Are opinions expressed in social media a reflection of public opinion and faith in an institution? By and large, they are. There may be some people who level criticism or attack the court due to vested interest. But on the whole, they are a reflection of public opinion. As a senior lawyer and officer of the court, should you have been more guarded in your tweets? No, my motorcycle tweet... It was primarily meant to underline why the courts are being kept under lockdown. It is leading to real problems for litigants ... See the number of cases normally heard by the court and the cases being heard during lockdown through videoconferencing ... It is hardly 10% ... Do virtual court hearings give ample opportunity to substantiate defence in a criminal contempt case, especially when personal liberty is at risk? It is not just a question of personal liberty, but proper and fair hearing. We cannot have a proper hearing through e-conferencing. The contempt action was confined to two tweets. Yet your reply delved into various past instances in connection with the court. The court termed these allegations “wild” and “reckless”. The reply was described as an aggravation of contempt. Why did you file this reply? What did you want to convey to the court? I was showing my bona fide. That look, I absolutely believed what I said. There were three things I said ... First, democracy has been substantially destroyed in the last six years. Second, the court has facilitated or allowed the destruction of democracy in the last six years. Last, four CJIs have played a significant role in that destruction. I dealt with each of these in the reply to show why I felt that democracy has been substantially destroyed. Look at the assault on free speech, look at the destruction of regulatory institutions, look at the assault on the media ... And then I said the role of the Supreme Court is to protect democracy and fundamental rights. You were willing to be punished, saying truth is your defence. Mr. Rajeev Dhavan [Mr. Bhushan’s lawyer] urged the court not to punish you and make you a martyr. Was there a disparity in thought here between you and your counsel? No, he felt it would be further damaging to the court if they send me to jail. That was his view. Have you paid the Rs. 1 fine? Not yet.  I am not saying the whole of contempt law should go, but [the ground of] scandalising of court should go
07 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Fire on tanker off Sri Lanka doused||The fire that erupted on oil tanker MT New Diamond off Sri Lanka’s south east coast was completely doused on Sunday, Navy authorities said. Over the past four days, Indian and Sri Lankan Navy vessels, along with tug boats, were jointly engaged in putting out the flames on the vessel, a 330-metre-long very large crude carrier, carrying 2,70,000 tonnes of crude oil from Kuwait to Odisha. “The fire has been put out completely, but the heat remains close to combustible material. So our vessels are still in the area closely monitoring the vessel,” Sri Lankan Navy spokesman Indika de Silva told The Hindu . The risk persists, as Sri Lanka witnessed strong winds and rainfall on Sunday, he added. Earlier, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa thanked defence forces of India and Sri Lanka for their firefighting efforts in order to prevent a potential oil spill.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Close old power plants, save Rs. 53,000 crore’||Shutting down thermal power plants older than 20 years in 11 key States can save the exchequer Rs. 53,000 crore over five years, says an analysis by Climate Research Horizon. The savings will accrue from not having to spend on retrofitting these plants to reduce the toxicity of their emissions, as well as switching to renewable energy, the authors estimate. These projections also come at a time when India has announced plans to auction 41 coal mining blocks in an ostensible bid to be less reliant on imported coal. Surplus capacity Several of the power distribution companies (discoms) are financially stressed though India has surplus power generation capacity. While free power for agriculture and power theft are one reason, the authors opine, another is that several States have installed capacity based on projections that are far in excess of actual requirements. “This has resulted in huge over capacity in the electricity system, and disproportionate fixed cost obligations for many discoms. In conjunction with delayed payments from cash-strapped government entities and the requirement to provide free and subsidised power to significant segments of their customer base, this has been a recipe for disaster,” note authors Ashish Fernandes, CEO and lead analyst, CRH, and Harshit Sharma, lead researcher. In her Budget speech in February, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that utilities would be urged to shut down old and polluting power plants to meet air emission norms. The States analysed were Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. They together account for nearly half of discom dues. The surplus generation capacity notwithstanding, an additional 60,000 MW thermal power is officially under construction across the country, with another 29,000 MW in the proposal/permitting stage. Of this, 17,235 MW is likely to be completed by 2022 in these States.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DGCA moots formula on refunds for cancelled flights||Air passengers have a legitimate right to get full refund for their tickets cancelled due to no fault of their own during the national lockdown, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has told the Supreme Court. The DGCA said non-refund of fares or creation of “involuntary credit shell” by airlines amounts to violation of aviation law and policy, including the Aircraft Rules of 1937 and the Civil Aviation Requirements (CARs). “The policy of the Central government is that every individual passenger has a right to seek refund of those tickets, the flight for which was cancelled without any fault of his/hers. It is stated that non-refund of fare amounts to violation of provisions of the CARs,” the DGCA addressed the court. 48-page affidavit But the Directorate also reasoned that an enforcement action against an already financially distressed sector now would prove counter-productive and harm the “Indian aviation as a whole”. Instead, the DGCA, in a 48-page affidavit, sounded out a proposal worked out by the Ministry of Civil Aviation to “harmonise both passengers’ interests and airline viability”. The affidavit and the proposal therein is the result of a direction from a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, on June 12 to the Ministry to meet with airlines and work out a credit pattern for tickets cancelled during the lockdown. According to this proposal, passengers who booked their tickets during the lockdown will get an immediate and full refund from the airlines. “For all the other cases, the airlines shall make all endeavours to refund the collected amount to the passenger within 15 days,” the proposal said. The phrase “all the other cases” would include passengers who had booked their tickets before the lockdown was suddenly imposed from March 25 and extended till May 3.  But the proposal has also devised an alternative credit shell scheme for airlines too poor to pay a refund. According to this scheme, a credit shell will be opened in the name of the passenger who booked the ticket. This shell is valid up to March 31, 2021. In case the passenger chooses not to use the credit shell, the airline will have to refund the ticket money by the end of March 2021. The credit shell is also transferable to any person of the passenger’s choice. As an incentive mechanism, the proposal offered .5% increase in the valuation of the credit shell if it was not “consumed” till June 30, 2020.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Narcotics Control Bureau questions Rhea for six hours||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday questioned Rhea Chakraborty as part of the probe into the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. She has been summoned again on Monday. Rhea was questioned for about six hours. It is not yet clear if she was confronted with other suspects. In the same case, the Mumbai zonal unit of the NCB on Sunday conducted another raid, resulting in the seizure of 590 gm of hashish, 0.64 gram of LSD sheets (commercial quantity), 304 g of marijuana and capsules, besides over Rs. 1.85 lakh in cash and 5,000 Indonesian rupiah. “One person, Anuj Keshwani, from whose possession the drugs were seized, is being examined. His name was revealed during Kaizan Ibrahim’s interrogation,” said an NCB official. On Saturday, the agency had arrested Dipesh Sawant, who worked as a housekeeper for Sushant. He was produced in a court that sent him to the NCB custody till September 9. Rhea’s brother Showik and Sushant’s housekeeping manager Samuel Miranda are already in the agency’s custody for alleged procurement of drugs. The agency has invoked various provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against the accused. Dipesh was earlier confronted with Showik and Samuel, besides alleged drug peddlers Kaizan Ibrahim and Zaid Vilatra. The agency made the arrests in the Sushant case after it got leads during the searches in a separate case in the last week of August. Two persons, Abbas Ramzan Ali Lakhani and Karn Arora, were initially arrested for allegedly possessing curated marijuana.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC asks Centre to decide on control over Assam Rifles||There should not be any delay in taking a decision when it concerns the interests of servicemen and ex-servicemen, the Delhi High Court has remarked while giving ‘last opportunity’ to the Centre to take a call on the issue of bringing Assam Rifles out of the dual control of the Home Ministry (MHA) and the Defence Ministry (MoD). “...It appears that in-principle decision has already been taken that Assam Rifles, like other CAPFs (Central Armed Police Forces), to fall under the exclusive control of MHA. However still the final decision appears to have been not taken,” a Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon said. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the Centre, stated that further six months’ time is required for taking the decision as it has been affected by the prevalent COVID-19 situation. The High Court, however, noted that the issue has been pending for nearly three years. “The matter involves servicemen/ ex-servicemen and whose interest is not only to be paramount, but is proclaimed from various platforms of the Government, to be paramount,” it said. No delay “When a decision of such paramountcy is required to be taken, there should be no such delay therein,” the High Court said directing the Centre to take the decision within 12 weeks. The HC requested the Ministers of Home and Defence, the Secretaries, Ministry of Defence and Ministry of Home Affairs, the Chief of Army Staff and the Director General of Assam Rifles and all other persons involved to cooperate in the decision making within the aforesaid time. The direction came on a petition filed by Assam Rifles Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association seeking direction to the government for placing to bring Assam Rifles under one control, preferably under Indian Army (MoD). Assam Rifles is a Central Para Military Force along with two other forces namely, Special Frontier Force and Coast Guard. However, only Assam Rifles functions under the administrative control of the Home Ministry. “Hence, the administrative control of the Assam Rifles is with the Ministry of Home Affairs, the operational control of Assam Rifles rests with the MoD,” the petition said. It argued that the objective and functions of Assam Rifles is that of a military and para-military force and its categorisation as a ‘Police’ force is “arbitrary, unreasonable and in violation of the rights of Assam Rifles personnel”. “The greatest inequity affecting the morale of the Assam Rifles personnel operating alongside the Army on similar duties are the disparity in the pay scale of the two. Somehow the Assam Rifles personnel’s call themselves a ‘Cheap Army’,” the plea said.
07 September 2020||THANJAVUR,||Director of South Zone Cultural Centre no more||M. Balasubramoniam, Director, South Zone Cultural Centre. Thanjavur, died here on Sunday. He was 64. He was admitted to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital four days ago with complaints of breathing difficulties and treated for lung infection. His condition deteriorated and he died in the early hours on Sunday due to respiratory failure and viral pneumonia. Mr. Balasubramoniam, a bachelor, was a Carnatic classical musician, a percussionist playing mridangam. Son of N.E. Muthuswamy and Saraswathi Ammal, Mr. Balasubramoniam was one of the senior-most mridangam maestros in Kerala. After completing hisgaanapraveenat Swathi Thirunal College of Music, Thiruvananthapuram, he had the tutelage of mridangam vidwan Mavelikkara Velukkutty Nair. A multi-faceted personality, he excelled not only as a performer, but also as an excellent teacher, organiser, administrator and academician. He travelled extensively performing with Indian and foreign musicians in severalkutcheris, jazz and other international music festivals.  Former Principal Mr. Balasubramoniam was the former Principal of Chembai Government Music College and RLV College of Music and Fine Arts, Tripunithura, Kerala. He had been a member of the Central Advisory Board on Culture, Government of India. He assumed office as Director of South Zone Cultural Centre two years ago.
07 September 2020||KOCHI,||‘Moplah rioters’ not freedom fighters: report||A report submitted to the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) in 2016 had recommended the de-listing of Wagon Tragedy victims and Malabar Rebellion leaders Ali Musliyar, Variamkunnath Ahmad Haji, and the latter’s two brothers from a book on martyrs of India’s freedom struggle. In all, the report had sought the removal of names of 387 ‘Moplah rioters’ from the list. The book, Dictionary of Martyrs: India’s Freedom Struggle 1857-1947, was released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019. The dictionary had left the Sangh Parivar leaders red-faced when the Moplah leaders, whom they believe killed hundreds of Hindus and converted many to Islam, found place on the list of freedom fighters. Martyrs from south India C.I. Issac, an ICHR member, had submitted the 2016 report to the council when the fifth volume covering martyrs of freedom struggle from south India came up for review. The report, accessed by The Hindu , describes Haji as the “notorious Moplah Riot leader” and a “hardcore criminal,” who “killed innumerable innocent Hindu men, women, and children during the 1921 Moplah Riot, and deposited their bodies in a well.” Haji was arrested by the army, tried in the army court and shot dead on January 20, 1922, it noted. The review report becomes relevant since the ICHR recently constituted a three-member committee, including Mr. Issac, to review the entries in the dictionary, including those of Haji and Ali Musliyar. The review report noted that “almost all the Moplah outrages were communal. They were against the Hindu society and done out of sheer intolerance. Thus the following names should be deleted from the yet-to-be published project,” noted Mr. Issac, also the vice president of the Bharatiya Vichara Kendram. “None of those who died in the Wagon Tragedy were freedom fighters of India as they hoisted the Khilafat flag and established Khilafat and Khilafat courts for a brief period. They were arrested by the army for participating in riots. Around 10 Hindus who participated in the riots too are on the list of persons to be removed from the dictionary,” said Mr. Issac. The British convicted the rioters after proper trial. These dead were never recognised as freedom fighters elsewhere, he said.  A dictionary, released by PM recently, includes names of many Moplah leaders, following which ICHR constituted a review panel.
07 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘PLA told to return five Arunachal boys’||Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju said that the Indian Army has sent a hotline message to the People’s Liberation Army of China for returning the five boys who had apparently strayed beyond the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The five boys, belonging to the Tagin community and hailing from the Nacho area of the Upper Subansiri district, had gone missing on Friday. The district falls in the Arunachal West Lok Sabha constituency, represented by Mr. Rijiju. “The Indian Army has already sent a hotline message to the counterpart PLA establishment at the border point in Arunachal Pradesh. Response is awaited,” the Union Minister tweeted on Sunday.  Complaint lodged The district police said they have launched a probe after the families of the missing boys lodged an informal complaint. Nacho is about 130 km from the district headquarters of Daporijo, with a high-altitude jungle stretching further uphill. The five were said to have gone hunting. But Prakash Ringling said his brother Prasad Ringling, one of the missing five, was working as a porter for the Army. The other missing boys were identified as Toch Singkam, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngari Diri. There have been several instances in the past of people “abducted” or captured by the Chinese soldiers from the LAC. In March, 21-year-old Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint from the Asapila sector of the district while two of his friends managed to escape. The Chinese Army released him after 19 days in captivity.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||GST is an attack on the poor, says Rahul||Continuing his attack on the Narendra Modi government’s economic policies, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said that the “GST is not a tax system, it is an attack on India’s poor”. Five State governments have written to the Centre rejecting its suggestion to borrow money, since the Centre has already expressed inability to pay the GST compensation at the existing rate. The Centre has not paid at least two instalments of GST dues. ‘Four different rates’ In the third edition of the video series on economy, Mr. Gandhi said, “Why are there four different rates? This is because the government wants those who have the means to be able to easily change GST, and those who don’t have means, cannot do anything about GST. Who has the means? India's biggest 15-20 industrialists. So, whatever tax law they want to change can easily be done in this GST regime.” “Not only is it [the GST system] unsuccessful, it is an attack on the poor and on the small and medium businesses. GST is not a tax system, it is an attack on India’s poor,” he said. Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, meanwhile, tweeted six steps to revive the economy. The foremost step, he said, was to transfer cash to the poorest 50% of the families. Free food grains should be offered to all families. Governmental expenditure on infrastructure projects needed an increase and good grain stock could be used to pay wages in kind. The banks needed to be re-capitalised to enable them to lend. And lastly,the government must immediately pay the arrears of GST compensation to the States, said Mr. Chidambaram.
07 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,||DRI officers injured in gold mafia attack||Two officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) were injured in a purported attack by a gang involved in gold smuggling at Karipur on Sunday. The gang rammed the officers with their car when they tried to stop it. DRI officers Najeeb and Albert were admitted to a private hospital in Kozhikode with serious injuries. The car rammed them when they were on their motorcycle. A group of DRI officers reached Karipur on the basis of a tip-off that a large quantity of gold was being smuggled in through the airport. The Customs authorities had no clue about the gold smuggling. The DRI reportedly found that a package containing gold was handed over to the two persons in an Innova Crysta car with the registration number KL-16 R-5005. The car dashed the officers when they tried to stop it. The vehicle then lost control and rammed against a tree. The duo in the car too sustained minor injuries. While the DRI team nabbed one of them, the other escaped. The arrested was identified as Nisar from Mukkam. DRI sources said smuggled gold worth Rs. 1.5 crore was recovered from the car. The car was found to have been registered in the name of a woman who is a plantation worker. The police and DRI officers have begun separate investigations.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Drug racket: accused named in FIR continue to be at large||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), probing the drug racket case, has formed a separate team to track down many of the accused who remain at large. So far, the police have Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi, a second division assistant with the Jayanagar RTO, a foreign national, and three party organisers in their custody. Some of the more high-profile names mentioned in the FIR are yet to be detained at the time of going to press. Among the accused is Aditya Alva, son of the former Minister Jeevaraj Alva and brother-in-law of actor Vivek Oberoi. “We have reasons to suspect that he is in Mumbai. His house here is locked,” said a senior CCB official. Another person named in the FIR is in quarantine as he had contracted COVID-19. The police who went to secure his custody returned after directing him to appear before the CCB after recovery. “We have also detained one Prashanth Ranka, an alleged drug dealer familiar with the party circuit, and have also summoned another dealer from Mangaluru,” the official added. In the midst of the investigation, a man, identifying himself as Anirudh, barged into the CCB headquarters on Sunday claiming to be one of the accused and offered to surrender. He is currently being questioned for his links with Ragini and the others. Ragini’s custody The CCB continued to question Ragini for the second day on Sunday. “We are verifying her property and assets to ascertain her source of income,” said the official. She reportedly invested in the Karnataka Premier League, which made headlines last year for a match-fixing scandal. The actor’s three-day police custody is scheduled to end on Monday, after which she plans to apply for bail, a source said. BJP distances itself Meanwhile, the BJP distanced itself from the actor after a video showing her campaigning along with B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for the 2019 Assembly bypolls, went viral. She is neither a member of the party nor was she assigned the responsibility of electioneering, said Capt. Ganesh Karnik, State BJP spokesperson. “She may have involved herself in the campaigning on her own. The BJP is neither accountable nor answerable to her personal and professional activities,” he added.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Red Line metro trains from L.B. Nagar to Miyapur to start today||Hyderabad Metro Rail service of Corridor 1 or the Red Line between L.B. Nagar and Miyapur will begin commercial operations from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and again from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. from today (Monday) onwards with the the new mandatory COVID-19 safety guidelines of compulsory face masks, social distancing and thermal screening before entry. The public transport facility will be functional after a gap of more than five months in a graded manner with metro trains on Corridor 3 - Blue line between Nagole and Raidurg to run from Tuesday and from Wednesday, along with Corridor 2 - Green Line between JBS and MGBS, all the three routes will be busy from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. HMR Managing Director N.V.S. Reddy and L&TMRH Managing Director K.V.B. Reddy informed the media during the mock trial run on Saturday that pedal hand sanitising stands have been put up in all entry points and appealed to the passengers to travel light and help in maintaining social distancing inside the stations and the trains. While there will be a train for every five minutes as of now, the officials have made it clear that depending on the demand more services will be pressed into service. Markings have been made inside the stations and trains for social distancing and limited number of passengers will be allowed to travel in each train or about 1/3rd of the original capacity. Coins usage as tokens has been dispensed with and passengers have been requested to go for smart cards or the QR code based tickets. ‘Arogya Sethu’ app is not mandatory yet passengers are advised to download for additional safety alerts. Those symptomatic have been asked not to travel and those found with such signs will be isolated in specially designated rooms at the stations. Health authorities concerned will be alerted about the same. Gandhi Hospital, Bharat Nagar, Moosapet, Musheerabad and Yusufguda stations will be shut and trains will not halt here as these are located in ‘containment zones’. Touch points, stations and trains are to be disinfected thoroughly every few hours and at the end of the day while the air-conditioning has been reconfigured to let in more fresh air from about 30% to 75% adhering to the latest safety norms issued by the health authorities. Mr. Reddy also informed that shops inside the stations will also be gradually opened and they too will be following all the newly introduced safety protocols.
07 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Edneer Math seer passes away at 80||Kesavananda Bharati Swamiji, seer of the Edneer Math in Kasaragod district of Kerala and petitioner in the landmark judgment of the Supreme Court on Fundamental Rights, passed away in the math in the early hours of Sunday. He was 80. Soon after completion of his 60th Chaturmasya programme in the math on September 1, the seer was admitted for a couple of days at a private hospital in Mangaluru after he had cardiac and breathing problems. On Saturday, he performed puja at the math and slept after having fruits. The last rites of the Swamiji were performed on the math’s premises in the presence of a large number of devotees on Sunday. The seer, known as Srimad Jagadguru Sri Sri Sankaracharya Thotakacharya Kesavananda Bharati Sripadaganlavaru, was the head of the math since 1961. A proponent of Advaita philosophy, the seer belonged to the lineage of Thotakacharya, one of the first four disciples of reformer Adi Sankaracharya. The Swamiji was a good singer and a popular ‘Bhagavata’ (singer and director) in Yakshagana, where he rendered compositions in the Carnatic music style. He promoted a Yakshagana Mela for nearly 15 years, and this troupe performed programmes in Karnataka and Kerala. “His patronage removed the inhibition with Yakshagana artists and brought them to prominence,” said T. Sham Bhatt, former Karnataka Public Service Commission Chairman and a devotee. It also made other religious heads extend patronage to it, Mr. Bhatt said. The Swamiji conducted annual Yakshagana Saptaha (week-long Yakshagana shows) and Yakshagana Talamaddale programmes at the math. On September 1, he was the Bhagavata in a ‘Talamaddale’ programme. The Swamiji was a strong proponent of Kannada in Kasaragod and lent his support to Kannada activists. Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembered him for his community service and empowering the downtrodden. In a tweet, Mr. Modi said the spiritual leader was deeply attached to India’s rich culture and great Constitution.  (With PTI inputs)
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Delays hit Srisailam LBHES revival work||“But, the soot removal will hold key in restoration works since it acts as good conductor of electricity and taking up any major work using power is not possible without cleaning the soot completely from the site. Otherwise, it would be inviting trouble as any breakage in the insulation of power cables would result in mishap,” a senior executive told The Hindu . The cleaning exercise is likely to take one more week, even if everything goes on schedule. The Genco officials said they have procured all material for the revival of the first two units and the delay was due to cleaning of the site. COVID hits work Meanwhile, the inquiry into the fire by a five-member internal committee of the power utility has been hampered by COVID-19 with the hospitalisation one member after he was tested positive for coronavirus and another member forced to be in home quarantine following his wife testing positive for the virus. “The team has only made two visits to the power plant and it needs at least three more visits to complete the inquiry at the site,” a senior official stated.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Insurer told to reimburse workman compensation||A consumer forum directed Oriental Insurance Company to reimburse Rs. 6,08,635 amd pay Rs. 50,000 as compensation to a company whose employee died of burns after working on an electric pole to install an 11KVA LT line for Madhya Pradesh Paschim Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Co Ltd. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Hyderabad-III was dealing with a complaint filed by Vishwanath Projects Limited in Hyderguda. As per complainant, Workmen’s Compensation Insurance Policy for eight employees from the insurance company was bought after paying Rs. 40,788 under Workmen Compensation Act, 1920, Indian Fatal Accidents Act, 1885, and Common Law. The employee met with the accident on December 7, 2012. The legal heirs of the victim filed a case in the Madhya Pradesh labour court in October 2015 seeking payment of Rs. 6,08,835, and medical expenses of Rs. 1.90 lakh. After this, the company deposited Rs. 8,95,496 with the court, after deducting Rs. 1 lakh which was already paid. The company stated that after it submitted the documents to the insurance company seeking reimbursement, the latter repudiated it, citing a police report which attributed negligence on the part of the former. The company denied the claim, and pointed to the labour court order. Taking all evidence placed on record, the forum cited a 2017 Supreme Court order on Workmen’s Compensation and the Compensation Act and other relevant judgments and directed the insurance company to pay Rs. 6,08,635 with 9% interest and Rs. 50,000 as compensation. Costs of Rs. 5,000 was imposed.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Delays hit Srisailam LBHES revival work||A long time being consumed in the removal of soot from the underground site of 6×150 megawatt Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station (LBHES) is delaying work on the revival of at least the first two units of the hydel station before the end of this flood season. Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) has planned to revive units one and two of the hydel station to resume power generation during the present flood season itself after the plant was damaged heavily in the fire on the night of August 20. The mishap has claimed nine lives, including those of five engineers, two plant assistants and two employees of a private firm. Spot decisions The power utility management has assessed initially that the cleaning exercise in the plant site, mostly the soot removal, would take less than week’s time and handed over the task to a private agency. However, the soot removal is yet to be completed even in the second week. The Genco has also appointed a three-member committee for the speedy execution of revival works with the power to take on the spot decisions. Senior executives of the power utility stated that the work on restoration of permanent cabling work for lighting and other infrastructure needs such as air-conditioning, automatic pumping (de-watering) of seepage water in the tunnel-based hydel station and work on the gas insulated sub-station were in progress. “But, the soot removal will hold key in restoration works since it acts as good conductor of electricity and taking up any major work using power is not possible without cleaning the soot completely from the site. Otherwise, it would be inviting trouble as any breakage in the insulation of power cables would result in mishap,” a senior executive told The Hindu . The cleaning exercise is likely to take one more week, even if everything goes on schedule. The Genco officials said they have procured all material for the revival of the first two units and the delay was due to cleaning of the site. COVID hits work Meanwhile, the inquiry into the fire by a five-member internal committee of the power utility has been hampered by COVID-19 with the hospitalisation one member after he was tested positive for coronavirus and another member forced to be in home quarantine following his wife testing positive for the virus. “The team has only made two visits to the power plant and it needs at least three more visits to complete the inquiry at the site,” a senior official stated.
07 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||BJP calls for resignation of Health Minister||The alleged rape of a COVID-19 patient in an ambulance by its driver, in Pathanamthitta late on Saturday, has caused public outrage. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala blamed the Health Department for the crime. There was no woman health worker on the ambulance with the patient. The driver had a criminal background. However, the health officials appeared oblivious to his past. Mr. Chennithala said the Health Department had to answer for its callousness. The incident triggered protests in front of the District Medical Office, Pathanamthitta. Congress and BJP workers staged separate demonstrations. BJP State president said Health Minister K.K. Shylaja should resign over the incident. The plight of the patient reflected the government attitude to the pandemic-affected public. Women’s commission Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson M.C. Josephine said she had sought a report from the District Police Chief, PathanamthittaThe commission has also initiated an inquiry on its own. Ms. Josephine said the Health Department had commandeered the ambulance through a private agency. The government should blacklist the firm.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Finance Minister tests positive in Kerala||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Sunday tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. Dr. Isaac was shifted to the VIP room of Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, on Sunday night. Antigen test Official sources said Dr. Isaac attended the office till 5.30 p.m. at the Secretariat and decided to undergo an antigen test after he developed a cough, mild cold, and fever. Twelve others, including his personal staff and those at the Minister’s residence, tested negative. But they had also been asked to undergo quarantine by the Health authorities. The Finance Minister was in the capital city this week, busy with the GST compensation issue, and was scheduled to leave for Alappuzha on Monday. First to be infected Dr. Isaac, who had attended the Independence Day celebrations in Alappuzha, had undergone the antigen test 10 days ago and tested negative, sources said. The other personal staff of the Minister will undergo the antigen test on Monday. Dr. Isaac is the first Minister in Kerala to test positive for the infection. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and CPI(M) leaders who attended the party’s State Secretariat at AKG Centre here the other day have gone into self-quarantine after Dr. Isaac, who participated in the meeting, tested positive. Last month, Mr. Vijayan and many Ministers went into self-quarantine after officers at an air crash site in Kozhikode tested positive.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||India, Iran discuss Afghan peace process||Iran is a 95% majority Shia country, and Iranian officials raised the issue of safety of minorities as Mr. Singh represents Lucknow, which has a sizeable Shia population as well, said sources privy to the meeting. According to the sources, Mr. Singh reassured the Iranian Defence Minister that all minorities in India were secure. He also pointed out that India was one of the rare countries in the world where all sects of Islam were present, and that all sects and religions lived together in the country’s pluralistic culture, the sources said.  (With inputs from Suhasini Haidar)
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||No FCRA clearance for four Christian groups||According to the NLFA’s website, the group began operations in India in the mid-sixties after the arrival of missionaries from the New Life Churches of New Zealand in 1964. The Evangelical Churches Association (ECA) was founded in 1952 in Manipur. The origins of the group can be traced to a Welsh Presbyterian missionary who visited in 1910. According to the website of Ecreosoculis North-Western Gossner Evangelical, its origin is rooted in the development of the Gossner mission of Germany in Chhotanagpur region. The Northern Evangelical Lutheran Church was established in 1987 and is part of a global communion of 148 churches in the Lutheran tradition, representing over 77 million Christians in 99 countries, its website says. None of the associations responded to requests by The Hindu for a comment on the government’s decision. Leprosy unit hit The two other organisations whose licence was suspended are the Rajnandgaon Leprosy Hospital and Clinics, and the Don Bosco Tribal Development Society. Earlier in 2017, another powerful U.S.- based Christian donor, Compassion International, was forced to stop operations in India after the Ministry found that it funded NGOs that encouraged religious conversions. ‘Not in compliance’ Former Union Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi had in an interview to The Hindu on August 30, 2017 said, “Compassion was not in compliance with FCRA [guidelines].” The same year, the Home ministry declined to renew the FCRA licences of two NGOs, which received funds from Bloomberg Philanthropies, founded by U.S. billionaire Michael Bloomberg. Earlier in 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the former New York mayor had announced a joint initiative to build Smart cities in India that would be aided by Bloomberg Philanthropies. As of now, there are 22,457 NGOs or associations registered under the FCRA, while the licences of 20,674 were cancelled and 6,702 are deemed to have expired.
07 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Ajmal is not Chief Minister candidate, says AIUDF||The All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) has said it will neither project nor bargain with prospective allies on party chief Maulana Badruddin Ajmal’s name as a candidate for the Assam Chief Minister’s post. It said Mr. Ajmal’s name was invariably used as a bogey ahead of the Assam Assembly elections in a bid to polarise voters in a State where a section equates Muslims with “Bangladeshis” or “illegal migrants.” The fear was being stoked this time because of a strong possibility of the AIUDF and the Congress fighting the 2021 polls together, party leaders said. “As minorities, we want a healthy and constructive relationship with the majority community in Assam. Our party knows its limitations and has taken a conscious decision that it will not project a chief ministerial candidate if it is in a position to form a government in alliance with secular parties,” said Mamun Imdadul Haque Choudhury, AIUDF general secretary and MLA. The Congress and the AIUDF had in August decided to join hands in a bid to dislodge the BJP-led alliance government in Assam after the 2021 polls. The BJP termed their friendship an “unholy alliance” and said it would pave the way for Mr. Ajmal, who is the Lok Sabha member from Dhubri, to rule over the indigenous people of Assam as the Chief Minister. “A section that thrives on polarisation of voters on religious lines deliberately uses the name of our party president. He will never become the CM because the post is for our ‘big brother’, the Congress,” Mr. Choudhury said. He referred to 1980 when Anowara Taimur of the Congress had become the Chief Minister during the peak of the Assam Agitation against “illegal foreigners.” Hafiz Rafiqul Islam, another AIUDF legislator, said the BJP had no right to refer to the Congress-AIUDF friendship as ‘unholy’.
07 September 2020||Patna,||BJP unveils ‘Justice for Sushant’||Ahead of polls, the BJP in Bihar has launched a campaign “#justice for Sushant Rajput” with 30,000 photos, pamphlets and posters across the State declaring “ Na bhoole hain! Na Bhoolne denge!! (We have not forgotten, nor will let him be forgotten). The Opposition parties have responded by accusing the BJP of giving the actor’s unfortunate death a “political colour” for electoral mileage. The State BJP’s art and culture cell has put up and distributed around 30,000 posters, masks, stickers and pamphlets across the districts. “Sushant Singh Rajput was an artist from the State and we feel there is an emotional attachment with him among the people of the State. It was the art and culture cell of the BJP which first raised the demand for a CBI inquiry into his death… The posters, masks, stickers and pamphlets are part of our campaign for justice for Sushant’s family,” said Varun Singh, convener of the cell. He, however, denied that the campaign was linked to the Assembly election. The BJP wing has also written to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to rename the Rajiv Nagar Chowk and the proposed film city at Rajgir in Nalanda district after the late actor. ‘Genuine concern’ “There should not be a political interpretation of the genuine concern expressed by the art and culture cell...,” said State BJP leader and party spokesperson Nikhil Anand. Opposition parties, however, have criticised the campaign and alleged that the BJP has launched this campaign to woo the 4% upper caste Rajput vote in the upcoming Assembly polls. Rajput voters are said to be crucial in as many as 40 constituencies of the 243 seat Assembly and 19 Rajputs are members of the current House. “RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav was the first to demand a CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and had also visited his home in Patna but BJP is now trying to derive a political and electoral mileage of this unfortunate incident,” said RJD leader and party spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari. “Our State president too is from Rajput caste but we cannot do such acts for political reasons during election time…this is most unfortunate.” Congress and other leaders of the Opposition mahagathbandhan also took on the BJP for its effort to take “electoral and political dividend on death of an actor from the State”. “What would be a more opportunistic way to reap electoral dividend on an emotional issue by the BJP,” asked a senior Congress leader.
07 September 2020||Guwahati,||New party to contest 80-100 seats||The political party to be launched by the All Assam Students’ Union and AJYCP will contest 80-100 seats in the Assembly elections in Assam due early next year, a top AASU leader said on Sunday. After the 18-member ‘Assam Advisory Committee’ suggested the two organisations to form a political party, a source close to the development said the new outfit will be launched within the next 10 days. Though the AASU and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chhatra Parishad will not forge any pre-poll alliance with the Congress or be part of its proposed ‘Grand Alliance’, it is open for an understanding with the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi said. “Targeting 2021 polls, we will start working as per the recommendation of the committee. We are targeting to contest 80-100 seats across Assam,” he said. The new political party will not join hands with the nationalist and “communal” forces as that will hurt the sentiments of the indigenous people who trust AASU and AJYCP, he added.
07 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Minor raped by mother’s colleagues||A 13-year-old was raped at her residence here by her mother’s colleagues and a policeman among others during the March-April lockdown and the police have launched a manhunt to trace them, police said. “At least seven persons were involved and the mother’s colleagues are absconding,” Bhubaneswar Deputy Commissioner of Police U. S. Dash said on Sunday. The complaint was filed by the girl’s mother, an employee of a leading private TV channel here, he said. Two of the girl’s tormentors were colleagues of her mother. They were emboldened by the woman’s engagement in the office due to the lockdown, the complaint said.
07 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Former MLA dies in scuffle over land row||A former three-time MLA in Uttar Pradesh, Nirvendra Kumar Mishra ‘Munna’, died on Sunday after being allegedly assaulted over a land dispute in Lakhimpur Kheri district. His son was also allegedly injured in the assault. Mr. Mishra had been an MLA from Nighasan seat in the district twice as an independent in 1989 and 1991 before winning on a Samajwadi Party ticket in 1993. The police said prima facie, Mr. Mishra died of cardiac arrest and had no signs of injuries. A ‘light tussle’ broke out between Mr. Mishra, his associates and a family in Trikoleya Padua village in Palia over a land dispute, the police said. During the episode, Mr. Mishra felt unwell and was first taken to a community health centre and then to a private hospital in Palia, where he was declared dead, said the police.
07 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Ajmal is not CM candidate, says AIUDF||The All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) has said it will neither project nor bargain with prospective allies on party chief Maulana Badruddin Ajmal’s name as a candidate for the Assam Chief Minister’s post. It said Mr. Ajmal’s name was invariably used as a bogey ahead of the Assam Assembly elections in a bid to polarise voters in a State where a section equates Muslims with “Bangladeshis” or “illegal migrants.” The fear was being stoked this time because of a strong possibility of the AIUDF and the Congress fighting the 2021 polls together, party leaders said. “As minorities, we want a healthy and constructive relationship with the majority community in Assam. Our party knows its limitations and has taken a conscious decision that it will not project a chief ministerial candidate if it is in a position to form a government in alliance with secular parties,” said Mamun Imdadul Haque Choudhury, AIUDF general secretary and MLA.
07 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Former MLA dies in scuffle over land row||A former three-time MLA in Uttar Pradesh, Nirvendra Kumar Mishra ‘Munna’, died on Sunday after being allegedly assaulted over a land dispute in Lakhimpur Kheri district. His son was also allegedly injured in the assault. The police said prima facie, Mishra died of cardiac arrest and had no signs of injuries. A ‘light tussle’ broke out between Mishra, present with his aides, and a family in Trikoleya Padua village over a land dispute, police said. However, Mishra’s son, Sanjeev, said they were assaulted with sticks.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘At least 10 lakh people could use Metro’||Metro networks across cities could see 10 lakh to 15 lakh passenger journeys by the end of the first week of restarting services after a five-and-a-half month break due to the pandemic, according to Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry officials on Sunday. Metro services are set to restart in a graded manner, except in Maharashtra, from Monday, after the Ministry of Home Affairs on August 28 gave the go-ahead. With social distancing requirements, Metro stations and trains would be functioning at reduced capacities. The MoHUA secretary, Durga Shanker Mishra, said services would be resumed in a graded manner, with reduced timings and number of lines to begin with, gradually leading to all lines by September 12. Social distancing norms and mandatory masks, would remain in place. The frequency of trains in Delhi would be increased from every two minutes to five to seven minutes, he said.
07 September 2020||Bhopal,||Panel begins probe against musician||The Dhrupad Sansthan, an international residential music school here, said it has instituted an internal complaints committee (ICC) to inquire into allegations of sexual harassment by former students against Akhilesh Gundecha, a music teacher. “We will follow whatever the committee says,” Umakant Gundecha, brother of Mr. Akhilesh and chairman of the organisation, said.
07 September 2020||MYSURU,||Ex-director of Kannada centre moves CAT||The appointment of a new head for Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK) has riled its former director who has approached the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) questioning his removal and the legality of the process. The CESCK is yet to receive autonomous status and continues to function under the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) in Mysuru. K.R. Durgadas, who was appointed as the Project Director of CESCK in 2017, was issued relieving order on August 18. He has not only challenged his removal but also questioned the new recruitment process, which was initiated and the notification for which was issued in February this year. Dr. Durgadas also alleged that the incumbent head of CIIL – D.G. Rao – worked at the Regional Institute of Education – NCERT, Mysuru and was vested with additional charge as the Director of CIIL and hence did not have the authority to make appointments. In his petition to the CAT, Dr. Durgadas claimed that the former’s tenure expired on May 23, 2020 and the government had not passed any order extending his office and hence his acts were not tenable under the law. So the CAT has been urged to quash the new appointment. Drawing attention to the terms and conditions to the recruitment of the project head of CESCK, the petitioner contended that it had to be done through a selection committee whereas the impugned recruitment was conducted without any committee being constituted by the MHRD, Government of India. When contacted, Dr. Rao said the appointment to the post of Project Director of CESCK was contractual and renewable every year. But the renewal is also based on satisfying certain norms and progress shown in the absence of which the contract was extended only by six months and finally terminated by following the due process of law. The appointment of the new project director of CESCK is also contractual in nature and he took charge recently, Mr. Rao added.  Incumbent head of CIIL, D.G. Rao, worked at the Regional Institute of Education–NCERT, Mysuru, and was vested with additional charge as the Director of CIIL and hence does not have the authority to make appointments.K.R. DurgadasFormer director, Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,||UoH Alumni Association’s fund-raising drive||University of Hyderabad’s Alumni Association launched a fund-raising drive to help students with digital device to access online course content. The university has announced a Digital Access Grant of Rs. 1,000 per month by re-purposing the basic boarding and lodging allowance. Donations can be made at: https://alumni.uohyd.ac.in/ or https://rzp.io/l/uohaa.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Monsoon session of Legislature from today||The monsoon session of the State Legislature is all set to commence in the aftermath of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on Monday even as the ruling and opposition parties are finalising their strategies that should be adopted during the session. The situation arising out of the incidence of COVID-19, floods in the northern part of the State damaging standing crop, fire accident in the Srisailam left bank power house, neighbouring Andhra Pradesh’s efforts to divert Krishna water through Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project and financial situation of the State are likely to figure prominently in the two houses – Assembly and Council. Several restrictions on the movement of Ministers, officials and media among others have been put in place for the session being held in the backdrop of the COVID-19 and entry of the visitors had been barred. As expected, the COVID-19 situation in the State where the number of positive cases is inching closer to 1.5 lakh mark is likely to witness a heated debate in the House. The Opposition led by the Congress has resolved to highlight the failures of the government in early detection of the pandemic and taking measures to check its spread while the ruling party is relying on the effectiveness with which the State had handled the situation as compared to other States along with facts and figures. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the Ministers and MLAs to come fully prepared to the Legislature so that they could effectively rebut any criticism from the Opposition benches and ensure that the session is utilised as a platform to propagate the good work done by the government. The Congress Legislature Party will meet ahead of the commencement of the session on Monday to fine tune the strategies it had finalised for cornering the government on aspects like the conditions in State-run hospitals where COVID patients were being treated. The TRS has constituted teams of Ministers headed by Eatala Rajender to counter the Opposition charges on the COVID-19 situation while another group of Ministers are said to be studying the impact of the inordinate delays in the payment of the GST compensation, indecision on enhancement of reservations along with other resolutions passed by the State so that the BJP could be cornered. The Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly will meet after the adjournment of the House on the first day to finalise the agenda for the session. The duration of the session as well as decision on whether to allow regular items like the Question Hour, Zero Hour and others would be taken at the BAC meet. The BAC would take a call on the introduction of the Bills including the new Revenue Act in the current session besides finalizing the number of days for which the House would be in session.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Central team to hold talks on flood damage with Yediyurappa today||A six-member team of the Union government will reach Bengaluru on Monday and will be touring flood-affected areas of the State on Tuesday and Wednesday. Before leaving to the flood-affected districts, the team headed by K.V. Pratap, Joint Secretary, Union Home Ministry, would hold consultation with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and some officials at his home-office “Krishna” at 5 p.m. on Monday. Later, the Chief Minister would also hold consultation with his Cabinet colleagues at 6 p.m., according to the Chief Minister’s programme list. Team members are expected to tour northern and southern districts to assess the damage done by floods to crops, houses, and public properties. Compensation The State has decided to seek Rs. 4,800 crore from the Centre for providing compensation to farmers who have lost their crops in the rains. The Modi government had already released relief of Rs. 395 crore to the State for undertaking relief works. Meanwhile, Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil has planned to hold a “stay with farmers” programme that aims at reassuring farmers that the government is with them. However, the Minister has not yet planned the schedule of the programme. He is planning to hold the programme after the pandemic subsides, according to a press release.  The State has decided to seek Rs. 4,800 crore from the Centre for providing compensation to farmers who have lost their crops in the rains.
07 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Mani plans to disqualify Joseph, Mons||Mounting a direct attack on its most formidable rivals, the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani will soon approach the Speaker seeking disqualification of P.J. Joseph and Mons Joseph, MLAs, for violating the party whip. A decision to this effect was made during a meeting of the party steering committee held here on Sunday. Announcing the decision, Mr. Mani said disqualification on the ground of defection would be sought against those legislators who violated the party whip issued by Roshy Augstine to abstain from the Rajya Sabha election and no-confidence motion on August 24. “As per the Rule 3 (6) of the Anti-Defection Law, political parties get 15 days time for condoning the whip violation. However, the steering committee decided not to condone the violation and move ahead with the disqualification proceedings,” he said. Accordingly, the Mr. Augustine will move a petition to the Speaker in this regard. Despite strong rumours about the KC(M) inching closer to the LDF camp, Mr. Mani remained tight-lipped on the party's political stance but stated that it would come out with a decision soon. “Having maintained an independent position following the UDF decision to keep the faction off all meetings, we had been waiting all this while for the order of the Election Commission of India (ECI) regarding the party symbol. Now that the authority has ordered in favour of us, the party steering committee has decided to take a decision on aligning with any coalition before the local body polls,” he said, adding that the committee had already entrusted him to take an appropriate decision at the earliest. Kuttanad bypoll Regarding the Kuttanad byelection, Mr. Mani said the KC(M) was awaiting a formal notification from the ECI before announcing its decision. He also sought to know the symbol and address of the candidate to be fielded by Mr. Joseph in the seat. “The Joseph group, which handed us a defeat in Pala by denying the party symbol, is contesting in Kuttanad without the ‘two leaves.’ Things have come full circle,” he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Joseph told mediapersons that the party symbol would not be an issue for contesting the election. “K.M. Mani had contested the elections under various symbols in the past. I also did the same. The support of the masses is what matters,” he said.
07 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Excise operation nets 500 kg of ganja||A covert drug enforcement operation spanning Kerala and Karnataka resulted in the seizure of 500 kg of marijuana from a container lorry at Attingal here early Sunday. The State Excise Enforcement Squad (SEES) that spearheaded the action said it was arguably the most massive haul of marijuana in Kerala since 2000. Crew arrested Investigators said they found the narcotics concealed in a hidden cavity in the driver’s cabin. They have arrested the lorry crew. One is a resident of Jharkhand and the other, of Punjab. They estimated the value of the drug at several crores of rupees. The SEES had intelligence that a Mysuru-based gang comprising youth from Kannur and Thrissur would try to move marijuana in large quantities into Kerala from Andhra Pradesh in freight lorries once lockdown restrictions on inter-State vehicular movement were relaxed. The squad also had intelligence that a person would receive the consignment in Attingal. Excise Commissioner S. Aananthakrishnan, who heads SEES, authorised a 15-member plainclothes squad led by Circle Inspector T. Ani Kumar to intercept the contraband. The SEES sent officers to Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Another plainclothes team staked out in the vicinity of a resort run by the ‘cartel’ in Mysuru. The squad learned that a ‘Punjab native’ would hand over the drug to a cartel member at a remote location in Bhadravathi, an industrial area, at Shivamogga district in Karnataka. The courier had sourced the drug from a village at Paderu in Andhra Pradesh. By one account, the Mysuru gang had paid Rs. 10 lakh as advance for the contraband and promised to reimburse the suppliers once the narcotic was peddled in the streets in Kerala. The SEES pegged the street price of marijuana in Kerala at Rs. 500 for 5 gm. Investigators tailed the truck across Karnataka and intercepted it at the point of delivery in Attingal to pull the cover off the inter-State network. Officials said the Mysuru cartel’s operation could have implications for national security. Maoist angle The gang had sourced the drug from a locality where Maoists supposedly had sway over ganja cultivators. An intelligence report suggested that the cartels paid a part of their profits to Maoist irregulars as protection money. The annual ganja harvest season in the outbacks on the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border began early September. Investigators have stepped up vigil at inter-State borders.  It was learned that a Mysuru-based gang comprising youth from Kannur and Thrissur would move marijuana to Kerala from A.P.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,783 fresh cases, 88 deaths||With as many as 5,783 people testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the State's tally of active cases rose to 51,458. As of date, 4,63,480 people have tested positive for the infection, while 4,04,186 persons have been discharged from various facilities after treatment. A total of 5,820 persons were discharged on Sunday, health officials said. At 955, Chennai recorded the highest number of fresh cases, followed by Coimbatore, Cuddalore and Chengalpattu. Recovery in Chennai As many as 1,100 persons were discharged in Chennai. The city recorded 17 deaths. Coimbatore reported 538 new cases and Cuddalore 388. In Chengalpattu, the number of persons undergoing treatment, including those in home isolation, rose to 2,723, with 361 more persons testing positive. Of the 88 deaths recorded across the State in the last 24 hours, 30 occurred in private health facilities and 58 in government hospitals. Till date, 7,836 persons have died of COVID-19 in the State. Among those who died, six persons had no co-morbid conditions. Three of the deaths occurred in private hospitals and the rest in government facilities. A 95-year-old woman from Salem, who tested positive for the infection on September 3, died of COVID-19-induced pneumonia on Sunday. She had type 2 diabetes, severe hypertension and coronary artery disease. She had been admitted to a hospital with complaints of fever and cough for two days. A 19-year-old teenager from Tirunelveli, who had been admitted to the Sankarankovil Government Hospital on August 30 with complaints of fever for five days, abdominal pain for three days and vomiting for two days, died within five minutes of admission. Died of co-morbidities The Health Department recorded her death as having occurred due to co-morbidities. Her sample had returned positive on September 1. A 23-year-old woman from Dindigul, who had anxiety disorder and had tested positive for the infection on August 25, was admitted to the government medical college on September 3 with complaints of breathing difficulty. She died on Saturday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A private laboratory in Arumbakkam has been approved for COVID-19 testing. The State currently has a total of 161 testing facilities, of which 64 are in the government sector and 97 in the private sector.  In Chengalpattu, the number of persons undergoing treatment, including those in home isolation, rose to 2,723, with 361 more persons testing positive
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lifting of Sunday lockdown gives a boost to businesses||Large crowds thronged the city’s commercial hubs on Sunday, providing a much-needed boost to businesses. With the partial lifting of lockdown curbs earlier, the retail industry had been witnessing only 20%-30% sales, and even the busiest months of July and August failed to attract footfalls due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have seen a 10% increase in business. With transportation opening up, more people are stepping out to make purchases, and we hope the trend continues,” said P.A. Ravindran, general manager of Chennai Silks. “The numbers look good but are still far from normal. Only intent-based shopping happened,” said Suhail Sattar, chairman of the Chennai chapter of the Retail Association of India. Roadside vendors and small traders in T. Nagar said they had a good weekend after a long time. Booming weekend “When compared to the last three weeks, the crowd was much bigger on Saturday and Sunday. There was brisk business,” said Baasha, a vendor. Many restaurants and eateries, which remained closed for over five months, have now reopened. A small-time restaurateur, who sells biryani, said this Sunday had been the most energetic day for him in a while as many customers walked in. “Once trains start running, there will be more business for me,” he added. Other restaurants in the city saw a marginal increase in footfalls this weekend as customers came with their families. “There was a 10%-15% increase in footfalls this weekend. For the hotel industry, the numbers (in terms of walk-ins) have been fluctuating in the last two months,” said M. Ravi, president, The Chennai Hotels Association and chairman of Vasanta Bhavan Hotels India Pvt. Ltd. Traders and retailers said the extension of the closing time by an hour had also benefited them. Shops now down shutters by 8 p.m. “People generally wrap up work by 6 p.m. or 6.30 p.m. and find it difficult to go shopping. With the time extension, they are able to do that,” said another big retailer, requesting anonymity.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity announces dates for final semester exams||The University of Madras has asked all affiliated colleges to be prepared to conduct undergraduate final semester exams between September 21 and 30. The University has issued a circular for the conduct of undergraduate and postgraduate exams. The departments concerned can decide when to hold the practical exams. Those who have passed out but have arrears only in the sixth semester have been allowed to take the arrear exams, a college principal said. According to the circular, the exam would be conducted offline as a pen-and-paper test for those residing in the State, and online for students from other States. The online facility would be extended to students whose families are under quarantine or in containment zones. To take the online exam, students must send a written request, either by email or by Speed Post, along with proof, to the head of the department before the specified deadline. The exams for students who have completed course work, but have arrears in the final semester, would be held after receiving guidelines from the State government, the Registrar said in the circular. Colleges have been permitted to conduct the practical exams through oral online assessments and evaluation of the soft copies of the project work. The department committees can draw up the exam schedules, and the duration of the test will be between 90 minutes and three hours. The question paper pattern should be the same for online and offline exams. As per the circular, the test results are expected to be released by October 14, and the same would be uploaded from October 16 to 23. The University will issue the exam notification on September 9, and the last date for submission of requests for the online mode of assessment is September 16.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stakeholders to be sensitised to online class guidelines||To make schools, students and parents aware of the guidelines for online learning and to make them comply, the Commissioner of School Education has issued a detailed set of instructions to the Chief Educational Officers (CEOs). On July 30, the State government issued guidelines for online learning, specifying the duration of classes for primary, middle and senior schools and insisting that children not be forced to attend the classes. Commissioner Sigy Thomas Vaidhyan has reiterated that attendance was not mandatory, and schools conducting online classes should make the guidelines available to parents and students in English and Tamil. Schools will have to submit information on the online class timetables and on compliance with time restrictions. There have been a few concerns raised over time restrictions not being followed by schools. For such grievances, parents have been asked to email the State parent-teacher association at grievancesredressaltnpta@gmail.com for redressal. They can also reach out through the State education helpline 14417. The Commissioner has also asked the CEOs to ensure that schools give students and parents the contact information of their counsellors and put it up on their websites. A circular containing these details as well as the relevant portions of the guidelines will soon be circulated among parents by all schools. Kalvi TV, which has been televising lessons over the last few months, also airs a programme from 1 p.m. to 1.30 p.m. on counselling, which schools have been directed to show students. To train teachers and counsellors in keeping online classes safe and sustainable, the Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Platform will host a programme in short-learning modules.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||LPG consumers worried about subsidy withdrawal||With LPG subsidy falling under Rs. 30 per cylinder from June, many consumers are wondering if they are getting any money at all in their bank accounts. Rumours of the government stopping the subsidy are also adding fuel to the fire. “At least five customers walk in seeking clarification on a daily basis, especially since they do not get text messages from banks as the amount is too small. They are used to the subsidy being over Rs. 200. During this time last year, it was over Rs. 100. This month it is Rs. 24 in the city. The amount varies according to the market. The government gives more subsidy to the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana customers. In fact, it has given three free cylinders to them,” an LPG distributor in the city said. Bharat Petroleum’s sale Oil industry sources said the government was planning to do away with the LPG subsidy. “The proposed sale of Bharat Petroleum Corporation is causing disturbance in the market. Consumers are apprehensive about how the new owner will treat them. They wonder if the subsidy will continue and if the same level of service will be maintained,” another distributor said. Distributors said there should be some kind of announcement regarding this to reassure the consumers. On the other hand, consumers are facing issues with the receipt of delivery authentication codes (DAC) that they have to provide to the delivery personnel. “Many times they don’t get the code because their message inbox will be full or the mobile number might have changed. Around 15%- 20% of consumers walk in daily with issues relating to the DAC,” the manager at an agency said. Oil industry officials said deliveries would be carried out even if the consumers did not get the DAC. It is a mode of contactless delivery, they said.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK seeks government jobs for Tamils only, 20% reservation for Vanniyars||The PMK on Sunday demanded that all government jobs in the State be reserved for Tamils and 20% reservation be given for Vanniyar community members in government jobs and education in the State. Addressing the party’s special general body meeting held virtually, in which 20 resolutions were adopted, PMK founder S. Ramadoss said that a Commission should be instituted to study how many communities availed of the 20% reservation for the Most Backward Classes. “Tamil Nadu has 69% reservation, and the State government gives 20% reservation to the MBCs. We protested massively and that resulted in the 20% reservation for MBCs. There are 108 communities that fall within MBCs. We want to understand how much each community has enjoyed reservation in terms of jobs and education,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said a report should be made available on the percentage of representation of individual communities in the 81% reservation available after deducting the 19% reservation for the SCs/STs. If representation of Vanniyars is less than 15%, the party will launch a massive protest against the “injustice”, more severe than its seven-day road roko in 1987. Explaining the party’s stand with respect to reservation of government jobs for Tamils, the resolution read that while State government jobs were shrinking and the number of unemployed youth was rising, the fact is that non-Tamils were being appointed to Central government jobs. “There is a systematic effort to appoint non-Tamils in public sector undertakings and Central government jobs in Tamil Nadu,” the resolution said. The PMK urged the Centre to implement sub-categorisation within 27% OBC reservation prescribed by Justice Rohini Commission as a very small number of castes continued to get most of the seats and jobs.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After over 50 years, Kanniyakumari will face Lok Sabha bypolls||Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency, earlier called Nagercoil, will witness a byelection, after a gap of over 50 years, following the recent death of Congress working-president H. Vasanthakumar, who had tested positive for COVID-19. The Election Commission of India is yet to announce the date for the bypoll. The last time the constituency faced a byelection was in January 1969. The byelection became notable for a variety of reasons such as the electoral comeback of former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj, who had tasted a stunning defeat in Virudhunagar during the 1967 Assembly polls, and violent clashes between volunteers of the Congress and the DMK. ‘A terrible election’ “That was a terrible election,” recalled B.S. Gnanadesikan, senior vice-president of the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) and who, as a college student, worked for Kamaraj. The situation in the constituency turned so tense that Superintendent of Police S. Dayasankar went on medical leave a few days before the day of polling (January 8, 1969) and the then Chief Election Commissioner, S.P. Sen Verma, and Inspector General of Police (which was the ultimate rank in the State police then) R.M. Mahadevan camped in Nagercoil to oversee the election. A record turnout of 78.6% was registered. Kamaraj won by a comfortable margin of 1.28 lakh votes over his nearest rival and Swatantara party’s functionary, M. Mathias, who contested as an independent candidate with the DMK’s support. As the then Chief Minister, C.N. Annadurai, was suffering from cancer, Public Works Minister M. Karunanidhi had taken charge of the campaign of his party’s ally. Ever since Kanniyakumari became a part of Tamil Nadu in 1956, the constituency has generally returned candidates belonging to the Congress family of parties or those backed by the Congress. Only on two occasions — 1999 and 2014 — did the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Pon Radhakrishnan emerge victorious amid intense multi-cornered contests. Alluding to the population mix of the district (where Hindus, according to the 2017 district statistical handbook, account for about 51% of the population and Christians, around 44%), H. Raja, senior BJP leader and former prabhari (in-charge) of the district in the 1990s, asserted that the factor of religion had been the principal feature of politics in the area. “We had faced defeat when votes of the Hindus got divided,” he observed. He contended that in 2019, voters “got carried away” by the campaign of the Opposition, which harped on the theme that Narendra Modi would not become Prime Minister again, apart from making several “tempting promises”. However, he is hopeful of his party’s success this time, as “no such trick” will work any longer. Communal polarisation A senior Congress leader, who hails from the southern belt, conceded that communal polarisation in the electoral sense was a “fact of life” in Kanniyakumari and this happened only after the entry of the BJP. The “consolidation of minorities”, especially Christians, has happened as “a result of intensified activity” of the RSS and the BJP in the district. The Congress’ “consistent victory” has to be viewed as a “reflection” of the anti-BJP trend, he added.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Real estate giant Appaswamy dead||S. Appaswamy, 87, founder and chairman of Appaswamy Real Estate Limited, died on Sunday due to age-related ailments. He is survived by his wife, son Ravi Appasamy and four daughters. Appaswamy founded the company in 1959 and is widely credited to have introduced the “apartment culture” in the city in the early 1960s, mainly targeting the upper middle class. Appaswamy Real Estate also pioneered the concept of creating townships in suburban locations. Apartment culture In the early 1990s, the group forayed into the hospitality sector with The Residency Group of Hotels located in Chennai, Coimbatore and Karur. In 2016, the hospitality division made its international debut in Maldives, with the opening of a luxury resort under the St. Regis brand. “Appaswamy played a key role in promoting the apartment culture in Chennai and also created a trustworthy brand. Appaswamy Real Estate was known for on time delivery of homes and its credibility,” Sanjay Chugh, city head of Anarock Property Consultants Private Limited, said.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special trains to Delhi, Chhapra and Howrah||After announcing 13 inter-State special trains, Southern Railway has now said that it will operate three pairs of fully-reserved inter-State special trains from September 12. While train number 02615 from Chennai will leave Chennai Central on September 12 at 7.15 p.m., train number 02616 from New Delhi will leave at 6.40 p.m. on September 14. Train number 02669 Chennai Central-Chhapra-Dr. MGR Chennai Central Superfast Express Special (Bi-weekly — on Mondays and Saturdays) will leave Chennai on September 12 at 5.40 p.m., and 02670 from Chhapra on Monday and Wednesdays will leave at 9 p.m. on September 14. Meanwhile, train number 02664 Tiruchchirappalli-Howrah Express Special will leave Tiruchirappalli on September 15 at 4.20 p.m. (on Tuesdays and Fridays) and train number 02663 Howrah-Tiruchirappalli Express Special will leave Howrah on September 17 at 4.10 p.m. (on Thursdays and Sundays). Reservations for all these trains will begin on September 10.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-passes cause trouble for returning workers||Months after leaving Chennai, migrants are now returning to the city in flights, as their presence is crucial for the resumption of construction works. Almost every other day, the Chennai airport has been receiving hundreds of migrant workers, returning from cities like Patna, Kolkata and Guwahati. But many of them continue to struggle to get e-passes. A few days ago, several workers who landed at the Chennai airport had a tough time getting e-passes and were stranded inside the terminal. Facing hardship “They were confused and many did not even know how to get e-passes. They were stuck at the terminal for a while. After an official came forward to help, the issue was sorted out,” a source said. Many workers have, again, borrowed money to purchase flight tickets to get back to the city and return to work, said airport sources. “In many cases, the employer bought them tickets because they want to resume construction work, be it large infrastructure projects or small constructions,” an airport source said. Greater Chennai Corporation officials used to man the counters at the airport before the new protocol was adopted in September. “The Chennai Corporation has withdrawn all its officials from the airport. But we monitor e-passes and home quarantining of the passengers. We get information only about those who have reached the city with an e-pass,” said an official of the Corporation. Facilitating issuance The State government’s Public Department has set up counters at the airport to facilitate issuance of e-passes to the passengers. “The passengers should get e-passes before boarding the flight. But many are not aware of the norms. So our staff have been asked to help them,” added an official.  We monitor e-passes and home quarantining of the passengers. We get information only about those who have reached the city with an e-pass An Official Chennai Corporation
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient flown to city from Kolkata||A 58-year-old critically ill COVID-19 patient, who was on ventilator support, was airlifted from Kolkata to Chennai on Sunday by ICATT Kyathi Air Ambulance with a German-made isolation pod. Rahul Singh Sardar, co-founder of ICATT Kyathi Air Ambulance, said this was most likely the first time a COVID-19 patient on ventilator support was airlifted in the country. A statement by the company said the lungs of the diabetic patient were severely affected. Dr. Sardar said the patient was in need of a transplant, and his chances of survival were poor if he remained in Kolkata. The pod almost completely eliminates the risk of contraction and ensures the safety of the medical team accompanying the patient.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. failed to maintain law and order’||Citing the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, DMK president M. K. Stalin on Sunday alleged that the AIADMK government had failed to maintain law and order in the State. “The report has proved that the claim of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that his government has handled the law and order situation well is a lie,” he said in a statement. Citing the NCRB statistics for 2017 and 2018, he said the number of cases filed under the IPC and local special laws were 4.20 lakh and 4.99 lakh respectively. “When it comes to murder cases, Chennai has witnessed an 11.69% increase and Coimbatore 47.62%. There is no safety for citizens in these two cities,” Mr. Stalin said.
07 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing father||The Sunguvachathiram police arrested a man on Sunday for allegedly murdering his father over suspected property dispute. Vignesh committed the crime on Friday and told his family that his father Jayaraman had fallen to his death. Vimal Raj, Jayaraman’s other son, noticed strangulation marks on the body. When questioned, Vignesh fled but was later arrested. Investigation is on.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New Consul General of U.S. assumes charge||Judith Ravin has assumed charge as Consul General of the United States of America in Chennai on Sunday. Before her posting in Chennai, she was the Public Affairs Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in Lima, Peru, a press release from the Consulate General said. “It is my great privilege to represent the U.S. in South India, especially at this historically difficult time of the COVID-19 pandemic,” Ms. Ravin said. “I look forward to advancing the shared goals of the U.S. and India in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and the three Union Territories of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, and Puducherry,” Ms. Ravin said. Prior to her posting at Lima, she worked in Washington, D.C., as the International Relations Officer General in the Office of the Haiti Special Coordinator. She also worked in Islamabad, Pakistan; Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic; Khartoum, Sudan; Yaoundé, Cameroon; and Ciudad Juárez, Mexico. She holds a Master’s degree in Romance Languages and Literatures from Harvard University and speaks fluent Spanish and French, the release added.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murugan demands probe into PM-Kisan bogus beneficiaries scam||BJP State president L. Murugan on Sunday urged the Tamil Nadu government to form a special investigation team to probe the alleged irregularities in the addition of ineligible beneficiaries under the PM-Kisan scheme. Mr. Murugan said the party would give a memorandum to all Collectors in the State on Monday, seeking action against those who included ineligible persons as beneficiaries under the scheme and ensure that only farmers get Rs. 6,000 per year from the Central government.
07 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK portrayed ‘anti-Hindu’ for standing by minorities’||DMK president M. K. Stalin on Sunday charged that religious fundamentalist groups are portraying his party as an enemy of Hindus because it stands for the rights of the minorities. “The truth is they are enemies of Hindus, Tamils and of humanity. The DMK is for all religions. The DMK is the voice of a majority of the Hindus – Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The DMK stands by those who are denied their rights,” he said. Addressing the 25th year celebrations of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) via video conferencing, he said, “The DMK will stand by your side in the fight for your rights. All religions are agreeable to us, and we are only against religious fundamentalism. Our enemies are those who use religion for politics.” Negative growth “Our friendship feels bitter to them. BJP national president J.P. Nadda says that the DMK and Stalin are an obstacle to Tamil Nadu’s growth. What is the truth? In the first quarter of this financial year, the nation’s GDP has recorded growth of -23.9%. Instead of worrying about all this, they only think of instigating religious conflict, imposing Hindi and Sanskrit wherever possible and create riots,” he said. He appreciated the TMMK cadre, saying they helped several families to safely pay their final respects to the victims of COVID-19. “I salute you for ensuring that the religious rites of the victims — even if they are Hindus or Christians — are performed according to their religious beliefs. I came across on social media that you even helped lay to rest a BJP party functionary, forgetting everything else and keeping in mind only humanity,” he said. Free ambulance service Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani and MDMK leader Vaiko hailed the TMMK for coming to the aid of those in distress and launching a free ambulance service. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi president Thol. Thirumavalavan said that the TMMK and the VCK were contemporaries and had similar trajectories in politics.
07 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nomination of BJP leader to university syndicate by Governor draws criticism||A section of the academic community is upset over Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit re-nominating BJP State vice president and SASTRA University professor P. Kanagasabapathi as syndicate member of Bharathiar University in Coimbatore. On Friday, the Governor nominated him and C.A. Vasuki, secretary and director, Kongunadu Arts and Science College, to the syndicate. Calling it unprecedented, Association of University Teachers (AUT) president N. Pasupathy said the nomination of a person holding a State-level post in a political party would send the wrong signal to the academic community and pave the way for the nominee to perpetuate his ideology. Given his political position and status as a Governor-nominee in the Syndicate, it would be easy for the BJP leader to dominate the Syndicate meeting and bring about changes that suited his party’s ideology and none would dare challenge him, Mr. Pasupathy said. Former AUT office-bearer Prof. Pichandy said while there was no question about Mr. Kanagasabapathi’s integrity, the Association’s objection was only on the ground that he held a prominent position in a party. “It would have been better had the Governor-Chancellor thought through his nomination,” he said and pointed out that the AUT had not objected to Mr. Kanagasabapathi’s nomination three years ago. Mr. Kanagasabapathi was appointed vice-president of the BJP only recently, and not during his first term as the Chancellor’s nominee on the syndicate. When contacted, Prof. Kanagasabapathi said those objecting to his nomination cited his political affiliation as a reason as they could not complain about his impartiality or academic achievements. He claimed they were opposing his nomination because in the last three Syndicate meetings, he had objected to various violations and placed dissent notes.
07 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Governor’s nomination of BJP leader to varsity Syndicate draws ire||A section of the academic community is upset over Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit renominating BJP State vice-president and SASTRA University professor P. Kanagasabapathi as Syndicate member of the Bharathiar University in Coimbatore. Mr. Kanagasabapathi was appointed vice-president of the BJP only recently and not during his first term as Chancellor’s nominee on the Syndicate. On Friday, the Governor had nominated him and C A.. Vasuki, secretary and director, Kongunadu Arts and Science College to the Syndicate. According to the Bharathiar University Act the Syndicate should have three members from among academic experts to be nominated by the Chancellor. Calling it unprecedented, Association of University Teachers (AUT) president N. Pasupathy said the nomination of a person holding a State-level post in a political party would send wrong signals to the academic community and pave way for the nominee to infuse his ideology. Given his political position and status as a Governor-nominee in the Syndicate, it would be easy for the BJP leader to dominate the Syndicate meeting and bring about changes that suited his party’s ideology and none would dare challenge him, Mr. Pasupathy charged. Former AUT office bearer Prof. Pichandy said while there was no question about Mr. Kanagasabapathi’s integrity, the Association’s objection was only on the ground that he held a prominent position in a party. When the Central government was against politicisation of higher education, what was the need for the Governor to appoint a politician, he questioned. “It would have been better had the Governor-Chancellor thought through his nomination,” he said and pointed out that the AUT had not objected to Mr. Kanagasabapathi’s nomination three years ago, as he held no party position then. A college management representative said every stand that Mr. Kanagasabapathi would take in the Syndicate, even if it was unbiased, would come in for greater scrutiny. When contacted, Prof. Kanagasabapathi said those objecting to his nomination cited only his political affiliation as a reason, as they could not complain about his impartiality or academic achievements. He claimed they were opposing his nomination because in the last three Syndicate meetings he had objected to various violations and placed dissent notes, all of which were open for public scrutiny. He alleged that a few vested interests in the university felt threatened because of his nomination.
07 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘No major outbreak of cases in industries in Tiruppur’||Industries in Tiruppur will maintain registers, check temperature of the workers every day, submit the details to the district administration every week and ensure that all precautionary measures against the spread of COVID-19 are taken. Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and health officials held a meeting with heads of industrial associations in the knitwear city on Saturday. The aim was to control the spread of COVID-19 among industry workers and staff. According to the Collector, nearly nine industries in the district have reported COVID-19 cases so far. However, there is ‘no major outbreak’ of COVID-19 in the industries as less than 10 employees have tested positive in each of these nine industries. The industries have been allowed to function by strictly adhering to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). “We have clearly issued the guidelines and SOPs during the meeting and have asked the volunteers from Tiruppur COVID-19 Fighters’ to work with the industries,” Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. President of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association Raja Shanmugham said the industries are following the SOPs and workers do wear masks and maintain distance within the premises of the industries. However, all activities have been opened up after the lockdown and the workers and staff take part in social gatherings. Further, migrant workers are returning to work here.
07 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Resident taunts Coimbatore Corporation for ‘wrong’ quarantine||A resident of Hope College Junction, whose family was put under home quarantine by the Coimbatore Corporation, has claimed that the civic body had quarantined them though they tested negative for COVID-19. The occupants of the house put up a flex banner in Tamil outside their home, which read: “Congrats to Coimbatore Corporation – for insulting my family and myself by branding us as COVID-19 positive when we are COVID-19 negative.” Beneath the message, were displayed copies, what the family members claimed, to be lab reports dated September 5 certifying them to be negative for COVID-19. Efforts to reach the family failed. However, Coimbatore Corporation officials said the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital had tested their swab samples and declared them to be positive. The civic agency, followed protocol, by quarantining the family. Officials said the family’s contention that they felt “insulted” was a wrong perception as COVID-19 is only an infection. They felt that the family should have contacted the Corporation if they had reasons to believe that their test results were negative instead of putting up a banner.
07 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth held on theft charge||The Ukkadam police arrested a 20-year-old youth on charges of stealing gold ring from a jewellery showroom on Oppanakara Street on August 31. The arrested has been identified as Suriya Prakash of Oomaidurai Street near Thirumalayampalayam. The police said the youth stole a one sovereign gold ring and managed to leave the showroom. He was caught when he returned to the same place for another attempt. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
07 September 2020||Gudalur,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Boating resumed at Thekkadi on Saturday. Boating was permitted from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. Tourists wearing face masks were alone permitted. The staff checked temperature of visitors and those suffering from cold, cough and fever have been asked to stay away. Similarly, those heading from containment zones would not be permitted, sources added.     Devotees willing to visit the Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple here should call 04545-242683 and register their names, address and Aadhaar numbers for darshan. Those who want to visit the shrine should come between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. and produce their Aadhaar cards for verification and tickets for darshan, a press release issued here on Sunday said.
07 September 2020||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Heavy downpour in Kanniyakumari||Heavy downpour that lasted for at least four hours since late Saturday night and early Sunday morning resulted in inundation in many low lying areas. Widespread rain has come to the district well before the onset of north east monsoon. However, overnight rains, which lashed the district, damaged many roads and also hit normal life in the coastal district forcing people to remain indoors till noon. Sitraru recorded 36 mm, Poothapandi 26, Perunchani 26, Surulodu 18 and Mullakinavilai recorded 35 mm rainfall, PWD officials said.
07 September 2020||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen rescued||About 750 fishermen, who had gone to Kerala for fishing, were saved after they were permitted to anchor their boats at Moothaakarai, a coastal village in Kollam district, since the sea turned rough on Sunday. According to INFIDET president Justin Antony, an NGO here, the fishermen from Thuthur region had ventured into the sea a couple of days ago. Suddenly, they faced windy conditions. Some of them contacted Mr. Antony over the satellite phones, given by the government. This helped the district administration to communicate the situation to the Chief Minister’s office in Kerala, who in turn readily provided assistance to anchor boats at Moothaakarai.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||First unlock Sunday sees crowds back on the roads||It was like any other Sunday in the city after several weeks following lifting of the complete lockdown. There was heavy movement of people on roads and crowds thronged the markets. M. Mohammed Najumudeen, a shopkeeper at Nelpettai, said a large number of customers visited the meat-and-fish market in Nelpettai on Sunday morning. “The crowd was almost like that of pre- COVID-19 time,” he said. Personal distancing norms were flouted and many customers and shopkeepers failed to wear face masks, he said. “Police personnel fined all those who failed to wear face masks,” he added. Similarly, residents thronged the four Masi streets, Netaji Road and Town Hall Road with total disregard to social distancing norms. “Relaxation of lockdown will help improve business of street vendors,” said G. Mohan, a vendor on Netaji Road. Concurring with this viewpoint, Ashraf Yusuf, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association, said that there was good footfall in textile shops on Sunday. “Circles and squares which were earlier drawn in front of shops to maintain adequate distances are missing now,” said V.P. Manikandan, a resident of S.S. Colony. Collector T. G. Vinay said that mask usage and personal distancing was essential to contain spread of pandemic. “Flying squads have been deployed to ensure that everyone wears face masks. We are sensitising the public to come forward to get tested in case they display any symptom. Early identification will help to reduce the severity of the infection and help in containing the spread of COVID-19,” he added. Tirunelveli Residents came out for shopping and visited churches for mass. Absence of police personnel led to people neglecting physical distancing norms. However, a policeman at the VVD intersection said there has been a tangible improvement as people voluntarily covered their faces with the mask.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai sees 111 new cases||A total of 111 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Sunday. The tally of cases rose to 14,775. None of the cases were imported according to the State Health bulletin. With 47 persons being discharged from the district's COVID-19 treatment facilities, the total number of discharged rose to 13,423. The total number of active cases on Sunday was 986. Two persons succumbed to the virus on Sunday and one person on Saturday, taking the death toll to 366. Virudhunagar district recorded 67 new COVID-19 cases and 64 patients were discharged on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases rose to 13,251 and the total discharge increased to 12,589. The number of active cases is 465. The death toll in the district rose to 197 after the death of a 60-year-old woman at the Government hospital at Aruppukottai on Saturday. Theni saw 85 new cases and the total tally moved to 13,158. There were 144 patients discharged from hospitals after recovery and with the number of people discharged as on date stood at 12,158. Dindigul reported 124 new cases and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,278. There were 68 discharges from hospitals and care centres. Ramanathapuram saw 43 new cases and the total tally moved to 4,974. The district saw 77 patients being discharged from hospitals. In Sivaganga there were 31 new cases and the total tally stood at 4,256. There were 31 patients discharged from hospitals and the total number of people discharged after successful treatment stood at 3,945, according to the state medical bulletin. Tirunelveli reported 121 new cases and the total tally moved to 10,315. There were 197 discharges from hospitals on a single day. While the city reported 35 cases, rural pockets such as Ambasamudhram, Cheranmahadevi had two and five cases. Thoothukudi had 58 new cases and with this, the tally stood at 11,738. The number of people discharged from hospitals stood at 105. Kanniyakumari saw 118 fresh cases and the tally stood at 10,217. There were 165 discharges from the hospital and the total number of people discharged so far moved to 9,104. Tenkasi had 57 new cases and the tally stood at 5,812. There were 22 people discharged from the hospitals.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Congress begins membership drive||The registration of new members to the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee and distribution of membership cards to them commenced in Madurai district on Sunday. The party’s Madurai district president V. Karthikeyan said that the State-wide membership drive was held once in three years. There was a target of enrolling one lakh members within Madurai Corporation limits. Usually, camps were held to encourage members to join the party, said Mr. Karthikeyan. “However, such camps will not be held this year, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. So, the party cadre will reach out to the public and enroll members by following all safety precautions,” he said.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pilots, guards undergo familiarisation exercise as train services resume today||With no train service for prolonged duration due to lockdown, Madurai division of Southern Railway had to run light engines to keep its running staff technically fit to operate trains before resumption of services on Monday. Locopilots, assistant locopilots (ALPs) and guards are getting the Road Learning exercise to help get familiarised with locations of signals and level crossing gates in the rail section on which they are going to operate the trains. “For pilots and ALPs, even the details of loop-lines should be known beforehand,” a senior locopilot said. “This exercise is usually given whenever a goods pilot or passenger train pilot gets promoted to the next level to understand the train dynamics and it is a must for those who join duty after a break,” he added. Usually, pilots would observe signals and LC gates on particular sections by accompanying pilots in the locomotives of regular train services. The divisional railways adopts a roaster system that ensures that all pilots, ALPs work in trains on all sections at periodical intervals so that their knowledge on particular section of road was updated. “As per safety protocols, if a loco-pilot or ALP has not worked on a particular section for more than three months, it would be considered that his knowledge about the section is lapsed. He has to undergo learning of road exercise for one round trip,” he added. Additional trips are prescribed for longer duration of absence from work. “However, under the extraordinary situation of lockdown, not only regular trains but also special trains could not be operated. Hence, light engines are being operated to facilitate road learning exercise,” a senior guard said. An official said light engines were operated almost in all sections of the division. “With limited special trains operated in the intervening period and limited number of special parcel trains operated, not all loco-pilots, ALPs of trains and guards got an opportunity to work,” he said. In order to get at least three sets of crew go through the exercise in each section, light engines were operated since Friday. The rest of the crew would get trained by travelling in the special trains once operations resume.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sacrifice of animals banned at Alagarkoil temple||Sacrifice of animals by devotees has been banned at Sundararaja Perumal Temple in Alagarkoil as per the standard operating procedures set by the State Government. Deputy Commissioner (in-charge) T. Anitha said on Sunday that devotees, who usually make pongal and participate in ‘keda vettu’ at the temple, will not be allowed to do so in view of COVID-19. Although many devotees can be seen in the morning, only a few came in the evening, she said. Since the lockdown norms were relaxed with effect from September 1, a minimum of 2,000 and a maximum of 4,000 people visited Alagarkoil on a single day, she said. “Rains in the area also act as a deterrent and not many devotees have come to the temple,” she said. Physical distancing She said that though there were initial concerns regarding parking vehicles and taking them up all the way to top of the hill, the restrictions have been relaxed based on incoming crowds and there was space available for parking. Since premises of the temple was spacious, there was enough area for physical distancing. “The darshan is going on smoothly and we hope to continue the same with the support from the district administration and the police,” she added.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club hosts webinar on leadership||Discussions regarding goal setting, understanding livelihood creation and perspectives on growth were discussed at a webinar hosted by Rotary Club of Madurai Blossom for students of Wakf Board College, here on Sunday. The programme saw professionals including educator Raja Govindasamy, Chennai-based entrepreneur Deepa Aathreya, and actor Arvind Kathare addressing the students. “Students were taught how to augment their leadership ,” said former principal of Wakf Board College M. Abdul Kadir. Principal-in-charge A. Mohamed Aslam also spoke. A total of 90 students took part. Rotary District Governor, A. L. Chokkalingam and president of Rotary Club of Madurai Blossom, Sri Lakshmi Bansridhar addressed the students.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Ascertain sanitary condition at Tasmac shop’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Madurai Collector to inspect a Tasmac shop located near the Periyar Bus Stand in Madurai and ascertain its sanitary condition. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam perused a report submitted by the Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority that disclosed the lack of hygiene at the Tasmac shop. The judges observed that the court had its own doubt as to the quality of the food sold in the bar, as well as the quality of the liquor sold through the Tasmac shop. “This court can take a judicial notice of the fact that the same thing would be prevailing in almost all Tasmac shops ...for the reason that the area/space in and around the Tasmac shop is not maintained in a neat, tidy and sanitary condition and there is also continuous law and order problem,” the judges said. The court directed the Collector to file a status report along with photographs and suggest remedial measures if sanitation has not been maintained at the Tasmac shop. The case was adjourned to September 22. The court was hearing a PIL petition filed by J.K. Ibnu in 2019, seeking a direction to the State to remove the Tasmac shop.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Burglar held||The police have arrested A. Benjamin (30) of Tirunelveli district and recovered 47 sovereigns of gold on Saturday. A team led by Samayanallur Inspector Kannan intercepted a two-wheeler at Paravai on Saturday. They interrogated the man. He had stolen gold ornaments and a laptop in a resort at Paravai in February this year.
07 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||22 kg of ganja seized; 3 held||Koodal Pudur police have seized 22 kg of ganja and arrested a gang of three members. The police are on the lookout for ten others. A team, led by Inspector of Police, Kathirvel, went to Imayam Nagar in Anaiyur on Saturday, after getting an alert. On noticing the police, some members escaped and the team nabbed Pradeep of Anaiyur, Kannan of Sellur and Sudhakar of Bibikulam. The accused claimed that they had bought the contraband from Andhra Pradesh and were making small packets for selling them in retail.
07 September 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Youth’s body found in well||The body of a 19-year-old youth was found inside a public well at Poolambadi in Perambalur district on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as C. Karthikeyan, a diploma student. Police sources said the boy, who had come on a visit to his grandfather's house at Poolambadi, left on September 3 and did not return. Meanwhile, locals found a body inside the well and the identity of the victim was established. Arumbavur police registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
07 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry moves to cut mortality||Following a spate of COVID-19 deaths in recent days, the pandemic response in Puducherry is being reoriented to cut down the door-to-clinic delay among fever patients , alongside the thrust on expanding testing. In the last three days, the Union Territory recorded 54 deaths, including the highest of 20 in a 24-hour period on Friday. There have been 86 deaths since September 1. As of Sunday, the cumulative toll was 314, with the Union Territory for the first time clocking a case fatality rate of 1.84%, which exceeded the national average of 1.71%. Mortality audit A mortality audit by the authorities has found that a majority of the deaths are occurring within 72 hours of admission at the designated hospitals. The audit, which is held on Mondays every week by top officials of the Department of Disaster Management, also found that a majority of the patients who died of the infection were elderly and had underlying morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension or chronic renal ailments. There have been a few deaths not linked to any pre-existing morbid condition. “We have launched a set of measures to get patients with the onset of symptoms to report to a neighbouring facility. This would help provide testing and treatment at a referral hospital as early as possible,” said T. Arun, Health Secretary and District Collector. Private medical colleges have been directed to scale up oxygen facilities. The institutions will need to increase oxygen equipment to 100 machines from the 42 machines and ensure that 100 out of the 300 additional beds they have to earmark for COVID-19 care are equipped with oxygen apparatus by September 10. “The best outcomes will, however, also depend on a judicious use of available oxygen beds by institutions,” Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said. Focus centres The administration has also launched a network of 15 COVID-19 focus centres to function as fever clinics to screen, test and collect samples, besides monitoring home isolation and treatment of patients. These clinics are besides the primary health centres across Puducherry diagnosing fever patients with ILI (Influenza Like Illness) or SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness). Private hospitals and general practitioners have also been asked to refer patients with these signs to the nearest COVID-19 care centre or hospital. “The objective is the early detection and treatment of COVID cases, as well as testing primary contacts of patients,” Dr. Arun said. The Health Department has, meanwhile, rolled out an intensive door-to-door surveillance as part of the efforts to scale up the number of test to about 3,000 a day. The campaign, which was launched by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday from Kurunji Nagar and Krishna Nagar, was centred on Muthialpet on Sunday. Three teams are carrying out house-to-house visits in the locality.
07 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Desist from spreading falsehoods, Kiran Bedi tells Narayanasamy||Lieutenant-Governor Kiran Bedi on Sunday wrote an open letter to Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, urging him to desist from “spreading falsehoods against the Raj Nivas”. Salaries to teachers The letter, which she said was issued in response to the several allegations appearing in the media as well as a letter received from the Chief Minister, sought an explanation on where the decision on salary payment to teachers was being held up and why. “It is not pending with the Lt. Governor’s office. They are agitating. Please explain to the people that fisheries matter is not pending with the Lt. Governor’s office but somewhere you may know. They are agitating,” it said. It also sought to know why the budget officer was assigned a personal security officer. “Who was he threatened by and with what? This is all a matter of record.” ‘Take help of expertise’ Stating that “though I can counter all that you are saying and alleging but perhaps it can be for another time”, Ms. Bedi wrote that she would rather see the Chief Minister set his priorities right and “take full help of the expertise and support given to us through the ICMR team the GOI has given to us to meet the challenges”. “The Raj Nivas is playing its role, as it is expected to, in these very trying circumstances. I quite understand your non-appreciation of this for your own compelling reasons,” the letter said.
07 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Toll goes up to 314 in U.T.||A nursing officer attached to the Murungapakkam Primary Health Centre died of COVID-19 on Sunday, amid growing concerns over the increase in infections among frontline warriors. Thamizhselvi, who tested positive a week ago, was undergoing treatment at a private hospital. She is the first nurse to fall victim to the virus. Meanwhile, the Union Territory recorded 16 deaths taking the toll to 314. Puducherry accounted for 13 deaths, Karaikal two and Yanam one. The total number of infections has crossed 17,000 with 478 new cases recorded in the last 24 hours. The figures are 314 deaths, 5,086 active cases, a cumulative total of 17,032 cases and 11,632 patients discharged, including 525 patients discharged on Sunday.
07 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No relaxation on wearing face masks, personal distancing’||Seeking complete cooperation of the public in curbing the spread of COVID-19, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said people should remain vigilant and steadfastly adhere to safety guidelines at a time when the government had announced more relaxations. It was essential for the public to maintain personal hygiene, wear face mask and ensure personal distancing, Mr. Vijayabaskar told reporters here. The recent relaxations were announced by the State government keeping in mind the livelihood of the people and the economy. There should not be any relaxation in respect of wearing mask, washing hands frequently and ensuring personal distancing, Mr. Vijayabaskar said while appealing to the people to extend their full cooperation to the government. At a time when doctors, para-medical staff and officials of various government departments were intensively involved in battling COVID-19 and in executing measures to control the spread of the viral infection, he urged the public in rural or urban areas not to take symptoms lightly. In case of fever, cough, body pain and vomiting, it was essential for people to be under the observation of a doctor. The recent government order imposing fines for not wearing face mask, spitting in public places and violation of personal distancing norms and standard operating procedures was aimed at creating awareness among the general public and not to punish them. To a query, the Minister said wireless communication system had been acquired in Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital in Chennai for instant communication and would be provided wherever it was required. Earlier, he convened a meeting with officials on COVID-19 prevention measures being undertaken in Pudukottai district. Collector P. Uma Maheswari, Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan, and Director of Public Health Selvavinayagam participated. Later, the Health Minister inspected the new ‘108' ambulances given to Pudukottai district.
07 September 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Illegal road in sanctuary threatens wildlife: activists||An illegal road coming up within the eco-sensitive zone of Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary, without any permission from the Forest Department could pose a threat to the movement of wildlife, say activists. If not stopped in the initial stages, the road being laid, backed by local politicians, would eventually lead to mushrooming of farm houses and resorts, block elephant movement and harm ecology and wildlife, activists warned. Based on a complaint from an activist, A.S. Murugan, the Wildlife Warden of Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary, Srivilliputtur, P. Mohammed Shabab, has ordered an enquiry by an official in the rank of Assistant Conservator of Forest. Mr. Murugan said that while the eco-sensitive zone in the sanctuary was up to 5 km from the border of the reserve forest, the new road for nearly five km had been planned along the “zero point” of the zone, abutting the Reserved Forest areas in Kottaimalai and Pullupathi beats along the foothills of the Western Ghats. “A group of environmental activists, including advocates from Madras High Court visited the site few days back. We observed that the wildlife, including elephants, leopards, sloth bears, deer and dholes, was moving in the area,” he said. M .Suresh, an advocate, said they took up the issue with the Block Development Office in Rajapalayam and Department of Forest. “We found that four heavy earth moving machineries were deployed to level the ground for laying the road. An official in the BDO office claimed ignorance about the need to get permission from the Central Empowered Committee of National Board of Wildlife for taking up any construction work in the eco-sensitive zone," he said. A forest official admitted that the bridges were constructed in the eco-sensitive zone. However, no roads have been formed so far. Though no permission has been sought from the Department of Forest, the official said that they need to get some documents from the local authorities. “During windy season, any crop that is cultivated along the valley would be ripped off. We suspect that someone is trying to promote real-estate for constructing farm houses. They are also attempting to divert the natural flow of streams to suit their requirements,” Mr. Murugan charged. Close to the planned road, the Forest department is cutting trenches to prevent elephant movement “Even the boundary marking stone of the Forest Department has been damaged,” Mr. Suresh said. According to the complaint, the proposed road was in violation of the Revenue Standing Order that stipulated that any activity should be carried out beyond 40 metres of the Reserved Forest boundary. “The road will obstruct wildlife movement, promote poaching and also lead to man-animal conflict,” another activist said.
07 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Marine police arrest Sri Lankan policeman||A policeman from Sri Lanka, Pradeep Kumara Bandara (30), was arrested by the Marine Police after he reached Dhanushkodi through illegal means. Marine Police officers here said that the man, who was attached with the Colombo Port police station, had allegedly escaped after he was wanted in a drug missing case. A police officer, who interrogated the Sri Lankan, said on Sunday that Pradeep Kumara's name figured in brown sugar missing case. The narcotics substance, which was seized and stored in the police station there, was reportedly missing. Investigations there revealed that he had stolen and handed it over to his brother Anura Kumara (34). After inquiry, the SL police had arrested Anura and when they were on the look out for Pradeep Kumara, he had escaped. Further investigation is on.
07 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||DMK flays Raja’s remarks||Various political parties led by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) condemned BJP national secretary H. Raja for his ‘baseless allegations’ and unfounded remarks against Lok Sabha MP K. Nawaz Kani. The DMK district coordinator Kadar Batcha Muthuramalingam presided over a meeting held here on Sunday, where leaders from alliance parties spoke. They condemned the murder of Arun Prakash and said that when police had arrested some suspects, the BJP leader’s remarks had disturbed the peace prevailing in the district. There was no reason to blame any community or person when investigation was under way. The BJP leader had rushed to the media with statements attributing it to opposition party members, they alleged. They expressed concern over the sudden transfer of Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar. Due to the government’s action, the morale of public servants was low, they said.  Later, Mr. Navas Kani lodged a complaint with Kenikarai police seeking action against Mr. Raja. Mr. Navas Kani also visited the house of Arun Prakash and offered his condolences to his family members. He also handed over Rs. 1 lakh from his personal fund to the family.
07 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Marine police arrest Lankan policeman||A policeman from Sri Lanka, Pradeep Kumara Bandara (30), was arrested by the Marine police after he reached Dhanushkodi through illegal means. Marine police said the man, attached to the Colombo Port police station, had allegedly escaped after he was wanted in a drug missing case. A police officer said the narcotic substance, which was seized and stored in the police station in Sri Lanka, reportedly went missing. Investigation revealed that Pradeep Kumara had stolen it and handed it over to his brother Anura Kumara, 34. After inquiry, the Sri Lankan police had arrested Anura. When they were on the look out for Pradeep Kumara, he had escaped.
07 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles queue up on Yercaud Ghat Road||On first sans complete lockdown, motorists queued on Yercaud Ghat Road to take a trip to the hill station. The State government relaxed COVID-19 restrictions since September 1 and removed e-pass requirement to travel within the State. However, the government made e-pass mandatory to persons travelling to hill stations like Yercaud. The district administration informed that e-pass is offered only to persons with local address proof in Yercaud or travelling for some business purposes to the hill station. On Sunday, vehicles queued up on Yercaud Ghat Road to travel to the hill station since early morning. However, many were turned away by police personnel. According to police, motorists were checked for e-pass and other details. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger said, “motorists are stopped on Ghat Road and details are checked. They are checked for e-pass and local address proof and only those with required documents are allowed.” She added that however, tourism activities has been restricted in the hill station. Markets, meat shops resumed Sunday business and huge crowds were noticed at these places.
07 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmer dies of burns||An elderly farmer, who immolated self in protest against officials for surveying land for road works on September 4, died on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Chinnasami (65). After Revenue and police officials came to survey a poromboke land adjacent to his farm in Karimangalam here, he immolated self. Chinnasami was taken to Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital where he died during the late hours of Saturday. Karimangalam police registered a case.
07 September 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers cooperative society for transgenders||In a first of its kind, the district administration here has established an “integrated residential-cum-livelihood centre for empowerment of transgenders.” Seven departments including Revenue, Skill Development, Animal Husbandry, Cooperatives and Rural Development, among others, have been instrumental in giving shape to the unique project, said Collector Sandeep Nanduri. “Trials are under way and the stage is set for the launch within a week,” he added. The project would become functional soon, revenue officials said and added the district administration has given a new meaning to 30 transgenders and established an exclusive milk producers cooperative society in the name of “Manthithope Transgenders’ Milk Producers’ Cooperative Society.” “The objective was to make transgenders self-reliant and ensure they have a sustainable income,” said Project Director (District Rural Development Agency) Thanapathi. With contributions from each beneficiary, from business houses in the district and under Corporate Social Responsibility, the project has been completed. When the project gets going, the members would be able to supply 300 litres of milk to the Aavin. “This is just a beginning...we will be a role model to other communities as well,” Grace Banu, a transgender and head of the team told The Hindu on Sunday and added that sustainable income would give recognition to us in the society. The much needed empowerment has been achieved through this initiative. Thanking the Collector and his team, the beneficiaries said that they had undergone training with the support of Skill Development Department. Despite the pandemic and other limitations, the encouragement we had from the field level staff in each department was good. ‘We are truly inspired. We are hopeful of achieving greater heights,’ they remarked. Block Development Officer G Manickavasagan said that the two acre complex at Manthithope near Kovilpatti has basic infrastructure in place. Each member has been given a house site patta. They have purchased 30 milch animals by getting loans from financial institutions. The Aavin made arrangements to pick up the produce from their doorsteps in the morning and evening. The Mines department has laid the road. The cow shed has come up under the guidance of the Animal Husbandry Department officials, who have trained them. They would have a solar power facility under the Chief Minister's Green House initiative. Each dwelling, measuring about 300 square feet, has been completed at a cost of about Rs. 2.75 lakh with contributions from different stake holders. It is a team work, said officials. By forming a society, they would be first in the country under the format of a registered body as per the Act, officials said. “Each one of us are proud to be associated with the project. Being the first in the state, it gives us pride. It is a result of our hard work for almost a year. It is a milestone in our lives. In the next 100 days, you can see a sea change...” Ms. Grace Banu summed up. The Collector said the next project in pipeline for the community was manufacture of paper plates. The district has plans for differently abled community, who have evinced interest in coming together. Building institutions would bring in organised growth and ensure a level playing field for such people in the society, he added.  The objective is to make transgenders self-reliant and ensure they have a sustainable income Thanapathi Project Director (District Rural Development Agency)
07 September 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of VOC celebrated||V.O.Chidambaranar Port Trust celebrated the 149th birth anniversary of V. O. Chidambaranar on Saturday. Port Trust chairman T. K. Ramachandran garlanded VOC’s statue on the port premises. Mr. Ramachandran recalled that VOC had the honour of launching the first ever indigenous Indian shipping service between Thoothukudi and Colombo competing against the British. He stated that the 150th anniversary of VOC would be celebrated in a grand manner next year. Deputy Chairman Bimal Kumar Jha and others participated, a press release said.
07 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Public parks to re-open shortly||The government decision to allow reopening of public parks and open-air gyms has brought cheers to morning walkers, children and regular visitors. Since the imposition of a nationwide lockdown in view of COVID-19 pandemic on March 24, parks situated in different parts of the city were closed along with other public utilities. The open-air gyms, which enjoy good patronage among fitness freaks, have been closed for more than five months. Hence, the regimen has been just morning and evening walks on pavements and roads. With the State government easing lockdown restrictions, Tiruchi Corporation has started opening the parks and open air gyms gradually. It has decided to open all of them by Friday. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the city had about 125 public parks. He had given instructions to open all parks immediately. They would be opened within a few days. He added that officials had been instructed to enforce social distancing norms in parks. No one should be allowed to enter them without wearing masks. Meanwhile, regular visitors to parks have impressed upon the need for providing all necessary facilities in all parks to prevent infection. “There is a need for setting up of public taps along with soap or hand sanitisers at entry and exit points to enable visitors to wash their hands before and after visiting the parks. Similarly, a temperature scanner should also be provided to screen them. The measures will check the spread of infection to an extent,” said S. Viswanathan, former Physical Director, Bharathidasan University, and resident of Srirangam.
07 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Garbage dumped on Edamalaipattipudur Main Road an eye sore||Residents in Edamalaipattipudur complain of public dumping of waste along the arterial road and allege that civic authorities are turning a blind eye to the problem. A section of Edamalaipattipudur Main road can be seen littered with plastic and food waste, apparently dumped by residents in the area, and by those travelling on the road, said K.C. Neelamegam, secretary, Thanneer, a voluntary organisation. There are no residences nearby except for a large multi-storeyed apartment complex on the opposite side of the road, Mr. Neelamegam said. With the impending monsoon season, the waste will clog existing stormwater drains and inconvenience the public, he pointed out. According to K. Sathish Kumar, who lives nearby the road, only two km from the city centre and the central bus stand, paints an untidy image of the city. “Tiruchi was ranked among the cleanest cities in the country earlier. Now, the corner of every road is a dump yard and the civic body is not bothered,” he rued. Meanwhile, an official at Tiruchi Corporation said the issue had not been brought to the civic body’s notice and promised immediate action.
07 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown in Tiruchi||There will be a power shutdown in the following areas under Manikandam Sub-Station from 9.45 a.m. to 2 p.m. on September 8 in view of maintenance works: Thendral Nagar, Nehruji Nagar, Malar Nagar, Nagamangalam, Manikandam, Senkurichi, Sembatti, Mekkudi, Alampatti, Paganur, Dheeran Nagar and Mathur.
07 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Colleges informed of final semester exam schedule||Bharathidasan University has instructed affiliated colleges to conduct final semester examinations from September 15 to 30. In a letter to Principals of affiliated colleges and heads of university departments, Registrar S. Gopinath requested them to make necessary arrangements for conducting the examinations by following the standard operating procedure to maintain social distancing and other safety norms specified by the State government and the UGC (link - https://www.ugc.ac.in/pdfnews/493932_letter-SOP-8th-July.pdf.) According to university sources, the timetable will be communicated once the guidelines are received from the government on the method of examination. The university, sources said, is expecting guidance from the government on whether the examination must be conducted online, onsite or blended mode. The Higher Education Department is expected to issue instructions to Vice-Chancellors of State Universities on the examination methodology shortly, the sources added.
07 September 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Kabasurakudineer’ effective: study||A prospective observational study jointly conducted by the Government Siddha Medical College here and the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital in asymptomatic and mild symptomatic COVID-19 patients has shown that ‘kabsurakudineer’and ‘athimathuram’ tablet combination is effective in neutralising the viral infection. Though all the 45 patients, who had consented to be samples of the study, had been admitted in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for the viral infection, no allopathic medication was administered to them even as they were taking ‘kabasurakudineer’ and ‘athimathuram’ tablet. The native medicines proved to be very effective against COVID-19 as most of these patients tested negative for the disease on the sixth day itself. With the consent of the patients and the cooperation of TVMCH authorities, the study was conducted on 45 patients – 26 male with average age of 34.12 years and 19 female with the average age of 37.41 years - who were admitted in the COVID-19 treatment ward. Of this, 35 patients – 20 male and 15 female – were asymptomatic. All the patients were administered with 60 ml of ‘kabasurakudineer’ and ‘athimathuram’ tablets for five days. Evaluation of RT – PCR on the sixth day showed 32 patients (71.10%) tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 viral infection and on the tenth day the remaining 13 patients too tested positive for the respiratory disease, the study shows. Patients having history of diabetes, heart diseases, cancer, multi-organ failure syndrome and pregnant women were excluded from this study.  “The ‘kabasurakudineer’ increases the immunity and acts as an immune-modulator as this virus adversely affects the immune response. The formulations chosen are aimed at increasing immunity and also to expel out the ‘kabam’ (sputum) and reinstate respiratory health. These drugs on post-digestive transformation get converted to hot potency, which increases and normalizes ‘piththam’ and expels excessive ‘kabam’ out of lungs, which is the rationale behind selecting these formulations,” says Dr. Subash Chandran. The investigating team comprised Dr. Subhash Chandran, Dr. Justus Antony and Dr. Victoria, all from Government Siddha Medical College, Palayamkottai, and Dr. Ravichandran, Dean, TVMCH, and Dr. Rathi Devi, Dr. Ezhil Ramya and Dr. Shantaraman, all from TVMCH.
07 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||10 arrested for demolishing house in Palladam||Palladam police on Sunday arrested 10 persons in connection with the demolition of a house here on Kosavampalayam Road. According to police sources, a gang allegedly barged into the residence of Kavitha (42) on Kosavampalayam Road, Palladam in the early hours of September 3 and threatened her husband Rajendran and their two sons with knives to leave the house and demolished a portion of the house using earthmovers. According to Ms. Kavitha’s complaint, two men named Chinnasamy and Eswaramoorthy were allegedly threatening the family regarding a legal dispute over the ownership of her residence. Based on her complaint, Palladam police registered a case under six sections of the Indian Penal Code including sections 147 (Rioting) and 447 (Criminal trespass) along with provisions of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and arrested the accused. The sources refused to divulge details of the accused. Ganja seized Tiruppur City Police seized nearly 25 kg of ganja from a car near Thirumuruganpoondi on Saturday. According to a release, the Thirumuruganpoondi police checked a car and found the illegal drug stashed inside. The police arrested the driver S. Ashok Kumar (35).
07 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Violating COVID-19 norms will attract fine in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris district administration has announced stricter fines for people and businesses not confirming to protocols established to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the district. The Nilgiris district administration said that the fines were being levied based on provisions in the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act of 1939. The district administration said that people who violate quarantine rules would be fined Rs. 500, while those who do not wear masks will be fined Rs. 200. Spitting in public would attract a fine of Rs. 500 and so would people who do not follow proper social distancing. The Nilgiris district has witnessed a spike in COVID-19 infections over the last few weeks. The Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, chaired a review meeting recently. The Collector reiterated to government departments to ensure established protocols are followed to limit the spread of the virus among staff.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Illegal road in sanctuary poses threat to wildlife’||A road being laid within the eco-sensitive zone of the Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary, without permission from the Forest Department, could pose a threat to the movement of wildlife, activists say. If not stopped in the initial stages, the road being laid, which is backed by local politicians from an opposition party, would eventually lead to the mushrooming of farmhouses and resorts, block the movement of elephants and harm ecology and wildlife, activists warn. Based on a complaint from activist A.S. Murugan, the Wildlife Warden of the Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary, Srivilliputtur, P. Mohammed Shabab, has ordered an enquiry by an official in the rank of Assistant Conservator of Forest. Mr. Murugan said while the eco-sensitive zone in the sanctuary was up to 5 km from the border of the reserve forest, the road, nearly 5 km-long, had been planned along the “zero point” of the zone, abutting the reserved forest areas in Kottaimalai and Pullupathi beats, along the foothills of the Western Ghats. “When we heard about the issue, a group of environmental activists, including advocates from the Madras High Court visited the site a few days ago. We observed that wildlife, including elephants, leopards, sloth bear, deer and dholes, were moving in the area,” he said. Stating that the site was surrounded by hills on three sides, he said rainwater from the hills would drain into the valley, and there were several small and big ponds used by the wild animals. Culverts constructed M. Suresh, an advocate, said that after they took up the issue with the Block Development Office in Rajapalayam and the Department of Forests, the work on the road had been expedited. So far, a few culverts had been constructed over the wild streams. “We found that four heavy earthmoving machineries had been deployed to level the ground for laying the road. An official in the BDO office claimed ignorance about the need to get permission from the Central Empowered Committee of the National Board of Wildlife for taking up any construction work in the eco-sensitive zone," he said. A forest official admitted that the bridges had been constructed in the eco-sensitive zone. However, no roads had been laid. Though no permission had been sought from the Department of Forest, the official said that they needed to get some documents from the local authorities. The activists wondered as to why so much of money was being spent to lay a road where no one lived. “We suspect that someone is trying to promote real-estate and construction of farm houses. They are also attempting to divert the natural flow of streams to suit their requirements,” Mr. Murugan alleged. According to the complaint, the proposed road was in violation of the Revenue Standing Order, which stipulated that any activity should be carried out beyond 40 m of the Reserved Forest boundary.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||First unlock Sunday: not much crowd in markets in Coimbatore||Shops, hotels, markets and transport services operated in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, and the Nilgiris districts on Sunday, after two months of total lockdown on Sundays in the State. In Coimbatore district, the Sunday market in Gandhipuram was open, buses plied with thin commuter strength, and the vegetable and flower markets did not see much crowd. “We have not seen much crowd for almost a week now as there are no festivals,” said a vendor at the flower market. The Anna market and Flower market traders have appealed to the Coimbatore Corporation and the district administration to permit them to re-open shops at the permanent markets. Traders on Cross Cut Road and jewellery retailers, who had announced voluntary shutdown for a week till September 7, had already opened shops on Friday. “With the buses operating again, we are getting customers from nearby towns and we do not want to keep the shops closed,” said B. Sabarinath, president of Coimbatore Jewellers’ Association. C. Balasubramanian, vice-president of Federation of Trade Associations, Coimbatore, said traders on Oppanakara Street and Raja Street had kept the shops open. “Only five sectors - vegetable, grocery, oil, textiles and jewellery - see good sales though the crowd on the roads is high. The other sectors have not recovered after the lockdown,” he said. On the first Sunday in two months without the complete lockdown, Tiruppur did not witness any large crowds. A senior Corporation official said that there were no complaints regarding overcrowding in prominent locations such as the old and new bus terminuses, Thennampalayam vegetable market and commercial establishments in the Corporation limits. “Overcrowding used to occur only before the complete lockdown,” he said, adding that the public have now become accustomed to the precautionary measures such as personal distancing and wearing masks. In the Nilgiris district, with the e-pass system still in place, many hotels and resorts have stayed closed despite the ease in travel restrictions. Police officials said that a few hundred cars are entering the district each day on an average, and only people who have business to attend to in the district, and who have valid e-passes are allowed.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. struggles to monitor injured elephant||The Forest Department is struggling to monitor the injured makna (tuskless male elephant), nicknamed Bulldozer, that has been roaming within the limits of Coimbatore forest range in the last several days. The makna raided the kitchen of the Special Task Force (STF) at Mangarai, near Anaikatti, on Saturday evening. While nature enthusiasts criticised the manner in which the elephant was chased away from the STF camp by bursting fire crackers and honking vehicles, forest officials said that the extreme step was taken as the elephant was about to step on an LPG cylinder in the kitchen. “Kerala forest officials had tranquillised the elephant at Sholayur, near Palakkad, in August. Veterinarians there found that it had severe injuries in oral cavity, which was difficult to treat and cure. They left the elephant free after tranquillisation and it moved to Tamil Nadu side," said a senior official of the Forest Department here. After raiding the kitchen of STF, the elephant damaged a house near Jambukandi tribal settlement late on Saturday. The elephant continued to camp within the limits of Coimbatore forest range on Sunday. “The elephant may not be able to withstand another tranquillisation. Already Kerala forest officials said that the injuries in its oral cavity are beyond repair. Now, we try to give medicines to the elephant in soft food items like multigrain flour that is easy for the animal to consume,” said an official, who is part of the treatment of the elephant in Coimbatore Forest Division. A special team was formed to monitor the elephant and prevent it from straying into villages.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rail services to resume from today||The stage is set for resumption of rail services yet again from Monday with the Tiruchi railway division making the necessary arrangements for operation of services originating from the division. Ahead of the recommencement of the services, spraying of disinfectants was carried out on Sunday in the coaches of Tiruchi-Nagercoil Intercity Superfast special train at the Broad Gauge Coaching Complex here where the formation was been stationed. Railway sources said the exterior and interior portions of the coaches of Tiruchi - Nagercoil Intercity Superfast special were cleaned and sprayed with disinfectants by the cleaning staff as a precautionary measure in view of COVID-19 pandemic prior to its operation on Monday morning. The trains that would pass through Tiruchi junction included Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai - Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi specials, Chennai - Karaikkudi - Chennai superfast specials and the Chennai Egmore - Madurai - Chennai Egmore superfast specials. Train to Chennai A Chennai Egmore-Tiruchi special train would be operated on Monday on the mainline section via Cuddalore Port, Chidambaram, Sirkazhi, Mayiladuthurai, Kumbakonam and Thanjavur. A senior railway official said no open tickets would be issued for boarding the trains as only passengers with confirmed tickets would be allowed to enter the station. All safety protocols as prescribed by the Ministry of Home Affairs would be followed. All passengers would be subjected to thermal screening at Tiruchi Junction. Another official said disinfectants had been sprayed at Tiruchi junction ahead of the recommencement of the services. The reservation for these trains began on Saturday. Meanwhile, Southern Railway in a press release issued on Sunday said Tiruchi - Howrah Superfast Express special (bi-weekly) would be operated from September 15. The train would leave from Howrah on September 17. The Tiruchi- Howrah express special would leave Tiruchi at 4.20 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays and reach Howrah at 3.10 a.m. on Thursdays and Sundays. In the return direction, the Howrah - Tiruchi express special would leave Howrah at 4.10 p.m. on Thursdays and Sundays and reach Tiruchi at 3.05 a.m. on Saturdays and Tuesdays. The trains would be operated with one AC first class coach, one AC 2-Tier coach, five 3 Tier AC coaches, 12 sleeper coaches, one pantry car, two general second class coaches and two luggage cum brake vans. Reservation for the train would open at 8 a.m. on September 10.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region reports 1,185 cases, 18 deaths||Western region on Sunday reported 1,185 fresh COVID-19 cases and 18 deaths.  As per the media bulletin issued by the Health Department, 538 cases were reported in Coimbatore district. As many as 473 persons were discharged from different hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres in the district. As on Sunday, the number of persons tested positive in the district stood at 18,955. Officials with the Health Department said more number of swab samples would be collected in the coming days from the district as part of intensifying testing. Coimbatore district reported the death of five patients aged 60, 53, 71, 45 and 71. In Tiruppur, four patients aged 51, 50, 63 and 67 died. Salem reported the death of two persons aged 40 and 96. In Namakkal, two persons aged 65 and 76 died. In Dharmapuri, a 61-year-old man died of the disease and in Erode, four persons died, taking the total number of deaths to 50 in the district so far. The number of cases reported in Tiruppur district was 153, taking the overall tally to 3,459 cases. As many as 139 patients from the district were discharged from various hospitals. Salem After several days, the number of cases reported in Salem reduced below 200. The district registered 122 cases, of which 121 were indigenous, including 81 from Salem Corporation limits, and a returnee from Villupuram. Namakkal In Namakkal, of the 96 cases reported, 24 patients returned from Salem, Coimbatore, Karur, Tiruchi, Erode and Chennai and one from Karnataka. In Dharmapuri, 24 indigenous cases were reported, while Krishnagiri registered 86 cases. Erode district reported 118 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 3,842. While 191 persons were discharged on Sunday, 1,147 persons continued to be under treatment. The Nilgiris In the Nilgiris, 48 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 1,897, with 1,502 people having recovered so far.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||MLA seeks district administration’s intervention to help MSMEs||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Coimbatore east district unit in-charge and Singanallur MLA N. Karthik has sought the district administration’s intervention to help the micro, small and medium enterprises. Meeting held In a statement issued here on Saturday, he said though the administration had held a meeting with bankers and representatives of industries, the former were reluctant to lend money to the MSMEs citing absence of communication from the Government of India. The failure to help MSMEs in time of distress forced them to seek financial help from private lenders, whose high interest rate stifled many among them. Additional credit Mr. Karthik also said that though the Government had asked banks to lend 20% of the borrowed sum as additional credit to the MSMEs to help them recover from the impact of the COVID-19 inducted lockdown, there was no such benefit available to those MSMEs that had only savings bank account and not over draft account. Therefore, based on their transaction in the recent past, the bankers should come forward to extend a similar treatment to such MSMEs as well. He also sought a moratorium on payment of dues on loans till December.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Surge in footfall of devotees at Srirangam temple||Srirangam witnessed a steady stream of devotees from different parts of the State on Sunday, even a day before resumption of inter-district bus transport and train services. A large number of vehicles, including cars and vans that carried devotees from far-off places, could be seen at the South, North, East and West Utthara Streets of Srirangam, signalling the return of traditional scenes of pre-COVID period. The vehicles were parked along the streets, and a heavy rush of devotees was noticed in front of “Ranga Ranga” Gopuram, where tokens are issued for entry into Ranganathaswami Temple. Restaurants and hotels too turned busy with the customers streaming in. There were devotees from Chennai, Madurai, Kancheepuram, Coimbatore and other locations. Devotees from Andhra Pradesh too were seen visiting the temple. According to a conservative estimate, nearly 30% of the devotees reached Srirangam by cabs. The first day of reopening of the temple on Tuesday saw the visit of mainly local devotees. Only a handful of people visited the temple on the first day. But the arrival of devotees from other parts of Tiruchi began from Wednesday and Thursday. It is going up gradually. On an average, Ranganathaswami Temple receives 10,000 to 20,000 devotees a day from different parts of the country including Telengana, Andhra Pradesh. It hovered around 3,000 to 4,000 a day after the reopening of the temple for darshan. Terming the arrival of devotees as “moderate”, P. Jayaraman, Joint Commissioner of the Temple, told The Hindu that the footfall was 30% to 40% of the usual . It was a sign of slow but steadily return to the level of arrivals prior to COVID lockdown. The arrival might increase further after the resumption of inter-district bus transport and train services from Monday, he said. “We permit 3,000 to 4,000 devotees a day. We issue token to 300 devotees for every hour. We will have to work out a new strategy if the arrival of devotees goes up further,” Mr. Jayaraman said. Hotels begin bookings Hotels, home stays and lodges in Srirangam, which were closed for more than five months, began admitting guests. “We started getting enquiries for rooms two days back. The occupancy rate is expected to go up beyond 25% to 30% in the next two weeks,” says K.R. Balaji, a home stay promoter in Srirangam.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||717 new cases, seven deaths reported in central region||The central districts on Sunday recorded 717 new cases of coronavirus infection, reflecting a slight drop from Saturday’s 758. Meanwhile, seven deaths — two each in Nagapattinam and Pudukottai and one each in Ariylaur, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur — were recorded. Two men from Nagapattinam- aged 73 and 64 years succumbed to the viral infection with comorbidities including acute respiratory distress syndrome, diabetes and hypertension. In Pudukottai, a 53-year-old woman suffered an acute respiratory failure, while a 46-year-old man with a history of chronic kidney disease, pulmonary edema died of the viral infection. A 56-year-old woman from Ariyalur, a 69-year-old from Thanjavur with no medical history and a 62-year-old man with comorbidities including hypertension and diabetes succumbed to COVID-19. Meanwhile, Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases among the central districts on Sunday. Among the 150 who tested positive was a security guard and four office staff at a private hospital, primary contacts, and a few shop owners. In Nagapattinam, it was 136 patients including primary contacts, frontline workers, local cases, interdistrict travellers and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Tiruvarur recorded 123 new COVID cases, while Pudukottai recorded 100. Officials in both districts said that a large section of positive cases were local index cases with no travel or contact history. A total of 111 patients tested positive in Tiruchi among which were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. “Most of these patients were from existing containment zones,” a senior official said. In Ariyalur, 22 of the 37 patients hailed from Jayankondam, while seven belonged to Ariyalur town. Meanwhile, 354 throat swab samples were lifted on Friday and sent for testing. In Karur, 43 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Of them, nine persons were residents of TNPL colony in Kagidhapuram, while residents from Thavittupalayam, Kulithalai and Velusamypuram constituted the rest. Perambalur recorded 14 new cases including interdistrict travellers and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses. While most patients were admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital, some were also admitted to hospitals in Tiruchi.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Wrong containment||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nature’s fury||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distancing norms violated on Sunday||The Kasimedu fish market was packed. Around 60 police personnel were deployed in the market to regulate the crowd. “But the public turned a deaf ear to our advice,” a police officer said. A similar situation prevailed at the Vanagaram fish market. “Many, including shopkeepers, were not wearing masks. Hence, I returned without purchasing anything,” said S. Sukumar, a resident of Maduravoyal. K. Bharati of the South Indian Fishermen’s Welfare Association said people forgot about personal distancing probably because it was the first restriction-free Sunday after a long time. “We should not forget that the government can impose restrictions again if there is a surge in cases. Hence, people should maintain personal distance and follow all safety measures,” he said. Ironically, the ruling AIADMK conducted a membership drive at Madhavaram, near the Municipality office, where safety protocols were ignored. Rural Industries Minister P. Benjamin was present at the event.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free for all||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||134 recruits attested into Madras Regiment||A total of 134 recruits were attested into the Madras Regiment at the Shrinagesh Barracks in Wellington, Coonoor, after successful completion of year-long basic and advanced military training on Saturday. The attestation parade was reviewed by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of The Madras Regimental Centre, Wellington. “It was carried out with appropriate social distancing,” a release said.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||Till September 6   Coimbatore district  No. of cases on Sunday: 538 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 18,955 Indigenous cases: 18,911 Imported cases: 44 No. of active cases: 4,796 Persons recovered: 13,831 No. of persons died: 328  Tiruppur district  Cases on Sunday: 153 Persons tested +ve so far: 3,459 Persons recovered: 2,300 Deaths: 80 Active cases: 1,079
07 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Woman buries husband saying ‘it’ was a dead buffalo||The police have exhumed the body of a 28-year-old man as his wife had buried him after convincing the villagers that it was her dead buffalo in Hanchinal village near Nippani. Acting on a complaint from the relatives of Sadashiv Bhopale that he had gone missing, Nippani Police, during investigation, dug up a burial site behind his house to find the body. Bhopale’s wife, Anita, the police said, killed him after a fight between the couple a few days ago. But she hid the fact. She told villagers that her husband had left the village for his native place, Kagal in Maharashtra. She later buried the body lying to those who asked, that her buffalo had died and that she was digging a pit to bury it. Her relatives Krishna Ghatge, Ganesh Redekar and Vanita Chauhan helped her in the crime, the police said. The four accused are absconding. They must have left the village along with the buffalo, said a police officer. The Bhopale couple were frequently fighting among themselves, as the man suspected his woman of cheating on him. This was why they shifted from Kagal to Hanchinal. A week ago, the couple fought and the wife hit him on his head with a stick or rod and he died, a police officer said and added that, later, her relatives helped her conceal the murder. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi has formed a special team to track those who are at large. A case has been registered.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Similarity of common cold, COVID-19 symptoms leading to confusion||The fluctuating weather and intermittent rains have resulted in the rise of seasonal viral illnesses including fevers, upper respiratory tract infections, vector-borne diseases such as dengue and water-borne diseases such as typhoid and gastrointestinal problems. But, with the similarity of the symptoms of these diseases to COVID-19, people are becoming increasingly confused as to whether they have contracted a common cold and cough or COVID-19. Since some prefer self-medication, assuming it to be a common viral illness, it is some cases leading to complications and resulting in late reporting of COVID-19. Sometimes, by then, doctors have very little time to manage patients. Other severe symptoms Doctors have said that while fever, sore throat, dry cough, blocked nose, shortness of breath and loss of smell and taste are common COVID-19 symptoms, some patients tend to develop severe gastrointestinal, cardiac and neurological issues such as dizziness, seizures and confusion. “Pain in the abdomen and diarrhoea may seem to be gastrointestinal issues. But these are also emerging as COVID-19 symptoms,” said C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force. “While COVID-19 is predominantly a respiratory disease and it is common to see lung involvement, what we must keep in mind is that it is a thrombogenic disease and precipitates clot formation. In 10%-15% of patients, clot formation can occur in the arteries of the heart and brain,” he said, adding that heart attack in COVID-19 patients can also be natural or due to fear, anxiety and stress. Difficult to distinguish Sudarshan Ballal, chairman of Manipal Hospitals, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said as the symptoms of many respiratory viruses are somewhat similar, many a times it is difficult to distinguish whether it is a common cold, flu, Influenza ‘A’ H1N1 or COVID-19 based on the symptoms alone. “However, what we do know is COVID-19 symptoms are more predominantly fever, sore throat, body ache, gastrointestinal symptoms and sometimes loss of smell and shortness of breath. The symptoms of common cold are more of stuffy nose, runny nose, sneezing and sometimes fever and chest congestion. It is always better to consult a doctor and get tested when in doubt,” Dr. Ballal said. High risk in monsoon Subrata Das, Senior Consultant, Internal Medicine and Diabetology at Sakra World Hospital, said as the monsoon generally is the most fertile breeding season for harmful viruses, bacteria and other micro-organisms, the risk of getting exposed to multiple viruses, bacteria and other infections is high. “During the monsoon season, the most common diseases have four mediums of transmission - mosquitoes, water, air and contaminated food. People should watch out for mosquito-borne ailments such as dengue, chikungunya and malaria; water-borne diseases such as typhoid, cholera, jaundice apart from gastrointestinal infections and air-borne infections apart from common cold and flu,” he added.  While COVID-19 is predominantly a respiratory disease and it is common to see lung involvement, what we must keep in mind is that it is a thrombogenic disease and precipitates clot formation. In 10%-15% of patients, clot formation can occur in the arteries of the heart and brain. C.N. Manjunath nodal officer for labs and testing, State COVID-19 task force
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Road to new railway terminal from Old Madras Road to be upgraded||After being criticised for ignoring integration and not providing easy access points, the authorities are now planning to upgrade an existing road to four-lane to connect the newly built Baiyappanahalli railway terminal with Old Madras Road. During a recent visit to the terminal, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to upgrade the road. Better access Chief PRO of South Western Railway E. Vijaya said, “The SWR had written to the State government to provide better road access to the terminal for movement of passengers once it gets operational. During the inspection, the Chief Secretary directed the Urban Development Department to plan for upgrading the existing road to four-lane.” The terminal is getting ready for commercial operations and only a few works related to providing amenities to passengers are pending. However, the proposed four-lane road may take time to materialise as the BBMP will have to study the feasibility and acquisition of land, some of which is Defence land. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told The Hindu that the project was under consideration. “The approach roads to the new station from Maruthi Seva Nagar side would also be developed or widened,” he said. Sources in the BBMP, however, said the project may face multiple hurdles. “The Railways had asked for an 80-ft. road from Old Madras Road side to the new station. The decision has to be taken at the government level. There is Defence land in and around the area and it also involves huge land acquisition,” said a civic official. Once the connecting road from Old Madras Road side is developed, residents from K.R. Puram, Whitefield, Marathahalli, Koramangala, and Indiranagar would immensely benefit. SWR, which is spending Rs. 240 crore on the project, is hoping to start passenger train services by the year-end. SWR had missed several deadlines to open the terminal for commercial operations. Officials had claimed that the terminal would be opened by May but owing to COVID-19 and other reasons, the deadline got extended.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Several govt. employees hit hard by salary delays||In the second week of August, as the State government continued with its effort to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, a first division assistant (FDA) in Bengaluru wrote to his department head seeking permission to work as a “night shift security guard” to earn some money. For, since December 2019, he and many others in the department had not received their salaries. The newly-appointed FDA in the Department of Stamps and Registration, in his letter to Inspector General of Registration, said that he had the responsibility to look after his pregnant wife and aged parents, which forced him to seek permission. He even said that his night shift duty would be performed without affecting his work in the department during the day. This letter nudged the department to streamline salary payments, a senior officer confirmed. Over the last six months, several sections of the State government employees have complained about delay in release of salaries for varying periods, and in the case of the FDA, the delay began even before the pandemic broke. Wage bill of the government employees in the State, including the grants-in-aid, is estimated to be over Rs. 10,000 crore a month. Karnataka is among the few States where drastic measures such as salary cuts for government employees was not resorted to while the annual leave encashment that had a significant outgo has been cancelled for this year. Sources in Public Works Department said that the daily wage workers in Public Works and Irrigation Departments have not received salaries. Besides, the arrears of over 300 engineers will not be paid any time soon. “Because of the confusion over promotion-demotion, owing to the fight for consequential seniority, many engineers were in compulsory waiting period. Their arrears have now been withheld,” an official said. A few members of Karnataka Appellate Authority too had not received salaries till recently, while payment of salaries for teachers has remained erratic. Similarly, workers hired by contractors to the government have not been paid salary in several cases. This, a senior Stamps and Registration Department official pointed out, is in two ways. “In some cases, contractors would have not raised a bill. In the case of DTP workers, contractors have not submitted bills. How can government pay without bill? In some cases, bills have been submitted, but payment has been delayed,” he said. According to a senior official in the government familiar with budgeting, it is difficult to assess exactly how many have not received salary as employees come under different heads of account within the individual department’s budget. “The salary delay has been widespread and across departments, and departmental heads have raised the issue with the Finance Department,” he said. The Finance Department, which was releasing money to departments on a monthly basis, has now reverted to quarterly releases, and these are also seeing some delay, the official said. However, government sources said that delays in payment of salaries is not entirely new as even in previous years such things have happened. “However, these delays have certainly increased during the pandemic. Priority of the government was to tackle the pandemic,” said an official.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||9,319 new COVID-19 cases reported across State||As many as 9,319 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Karnataka on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases stands at 3.98 lakh in the State. Meanwhile, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, 9,575 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of discharges to 2.92 lakh. Of the total 99,266 active cases in the State, 775 patients are admitted in intensive care units of different hospitals. As many as 95 were reported to have died of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths in the State to 6,393. Besides this, 19 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 passed away from non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 74,384 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday in Karnataka. While as many as 35,073 tests were rapid antigen tests, the remaining were RT PCR and others. Of the total 9,319 cases reported on Sunday, as many as 2,824 cases and 38 deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban district.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DULT for traffic ban in Cubbon Park||Citizens who have been fighting for vehicles to be banned from one of the largest green spaces in Bengaluru have a reason to cheer. The Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), which falls under the Department of UrbanDevelopment, has strongly recommended that the State government close Cubbon Park to motorised vehicles. It has also recommended that motorists not be allowed to park their vehicles there. In a letter to the Secretary of the Horticulture Department, Commissioner of DULT V. Manjula said she received representations from citizens’ groups to intercede to ensure traffic-free Cubbon Park and DULT had examined the matter in detail. “Cubbon Park is a vast green space in the heart of the city and its pristine nature needs to be preserved. In various cities across the world, spaces in the city core are being reclaimed for the use of pedestrians and cyclists. Cubbon Park would be an ideal place to be reserved for pedestrians and cyclists in Bengauru. Closing of Cubbon Park to the use of motorised traffic will not cause any inconvenience as motorised traffic has alternative routes to reach their destinations,” she said. In the backdrop of this, DULT is of the view that re-opening Cubbon Park to motorised traffic is not advisable and parking of motorised vehicles should not be allowed in the park, the letter said.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case booked against Kavitha Reddy||The HSR Layout police have booked a case against Congress member Kavitha Reddy for allegedly abusing and attacking Kannada actor Samyuktha Hegde while she was exercising in a park near Agara Lake on September 4. Ms. Hegde posted a video of the incident on social media claiming they were attacked by Ms. Reddy over her attire while she and her friends were practising with hula hoops. Ms. Reddy, however, claimed the altercation began over the women playing loud music in a public space. The police have taken cognisance of the complaint and booked Ms. Reddy for outraging modesty of women and assault. “We will summon her for an inquiry for further investigation,” a police officer said. Ms. Reddy apologised on Twitter for the incident while denying allegations of physically assaulting Ms. Hegde’s friends.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||60% of 125 COVID-19 patients recovered with plasma therapy||Plasma therapy when administered at the right time can help patients in their fight against the novel coronavirus. Of the 125 COVID-19 patients who underwent convalescent plasma transfusion (CPT) in the State, 60% have recovered. U.S. Vishal Rao, associate dean at HCG Hospitals and programme director of Mission COPE and who is part of the working group for plasma donation, said that an analysis of the 125 patients done so far has indicated that the therapy is yielding good results. “We wanted to analyse how patients are doing, and the recovery rate. We want to present these results to the government and ensure that there is more awareness of CPT,” he said. Plasma banks Demand outstrips supply especially in other parts of Karnataka. So far, 375 COVID-19 patients have undergone plasma therapy in Karnataka. A majority are from Bengaluru. “There is a need to ensure that we have a plasma bank in each district so that critical patients benefit from this treatment and we can save lives. This will ensure that the patients who have COVID 19- recover faster and help reduce the burden on the healthcare system,” Dr. Rao said. CPT involves administering the plasma of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 to a patient suffering from the disease. The antibodies developed in the former aid in the recovery of the latter. Jayaraj, Joint Director, Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society, said that in an attempt to ensure that more people who have recovered from COVID-19 donate their plasma, the State government is counselling patients at the time of discharge and appealing to them to donate plasma. It has also decided to provide Rs. 5,000 for recovered patients who come forward to donate plasma. According to the guidelines formulated by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, those who donate their plasma should be between 18 and 60 years; must weigh over 50 kg; and should not have given birth. Of the 3.98 lakh people who tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, as many as 2.92 lakh have been discharged.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA urged to make public DPR on PRR||The Karnataka Kisan Congress has urged the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) to make public the contents of the detailed project report (DPR) on the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) before holding consultations with farmers who would be losing land for the project on the outskirts of Bengaluru city. Karnataka Kisan Congress president Sachin Miga in a letter to BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahdev has urged him to disclose details of the DPR to the public before holding consultations on land acquisition and compensation. The BDA Commissioner has reportedly told that the DPR was largely related to contractors who undertake the roadworks and not related to land acquisition or payment of compensation for land-losers and this has been strongly objected by the Kisan Congress.The Kisan Congress demanded payment of compensation to farmers on the lines of payment made by Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. It said it would launch an agitation if the BDA declined to make public land surveys and list of farmers who are going to lose land for the project, and demanded that the DPR be prepared based on the guidelines of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act. The BDA has scheduled a meeting with stakeholders on September 23. The controversial project has been facing stiff oppositionfrom the public as it would uproot over 33,000 trees and affect multiple waterbodies on the outskirts of the city.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man dies as bus rams into shelter||A man died and five people were injured when a private bus driver lost control of the vehicle and rammed into a bus shelter where at least 10 people were waiting late on Sunday night at Peenya. The deceased has been identified as Gyanappa, 40. The police have detained the bus driver.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held||The Hanumanthnagar police arrested two people, one of whom is a foreign national, for allegedly selling drugs near BMS hostel on Sunday. The accused have been identified as John Ogologo, 35 , and his associate Samuel, 24, from Ulsoor. The police seized 2.5 kg of ganja, 20 g of MDMA, five grams of ecstasy tablets, and 50 g of hashish oil worth Rs. 13 lakh from them.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BKC questions committee’s findings||Former Minister and senior Congress leader B.K. Chandrashekar said that the fact-finding committee of the Citizens for Democracy should have submitted its findings on the K.G. Halli and D.J. Halli violence to the Inquiry Officer who is conducting a probe into the issue that occurred last month. The government had ordered a magisterial inquiry in the matter. In a press release, he said, “It is a bit strange that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa himself thought it fit to personally receive the findings of the committee”. A BJP fact-finding committee visited the riot areas soon after the incident and addressed the media on its findings. The Congress has also announced a similar committee. The findings of the Committee of the Citizens for Democracy released on Saturday “convey a sense of finality in their investigation”, he added.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro services to restart today||After several months, BMRCL will resume Namma Metro services from Monday in phases. Trains will operate on the Purple Line from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. In the second stage, Green Line services will restart from September 9 for limited hours. By September 11, trains will run on both the lines between 7 a.m. and 9 p.m. Only smart card holders will be allowed to travel, and no more than 400 passengers will be allowed onto a train.
07 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Report on NEP in 4 days||The task force that was set up to look into the implementation of National Education Policy (NEP) will submit its final report within four days, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. He was interacting with Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. “Once the report is submitted to us, we will go through it in detail and look into the implementation part of NEP,” he said.
07 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||325 more test positive||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Hassan crossed 10,000 on Sunday, with 325 new cases being reported. As on Sunday, the total number of cases stands at 10,040. Among them, 6,579 have recovered so far and 3,242 are undergoing treatment. Including two people, who died on Sunday, the total number of deaths due to the infection increased to 219.
07 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four more arrested in couple murder case||Hassan Police have arrested four more people in last week’s murder of an aged couple and recovered valuables worth Rs. 25.30 lakh from them. With this, six people have been arrested in the case that came to light on August 30. Two accused were arrested on September 1. The four, who were arrested on Saturday, are Nanda Kumar (33) of Mudigere, Yoganand (29) of Kadirenahalli in Bengaluru, Bharat (24) and Madhu (25) of Channarayapatna taluk. Those who were arrested earlier are Manja Shetty (23) and Prasad (25). The police had to open fire at Prasad to arrest him. The accused is said to have murdered Muralidhar (81) and Umadevi (67) at a farmhouse in Alagondanahalli on August 29 and taken away the valuables.
07 September 2020||K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj,KARNATAKA||Pandemic plays muse for writer||There seems to be no end in sight for the COVID-19 pandemic as yet, but it has already made its way to Kannada fiction. Danduga (trouble), a novel by noted Kannada writer Amaresh Nugadoni, set in a small town in North Karnataka during the five-week nationwide lockdown, is all set to be released this month. “Usually literature handles a subject once we acquire a distance from it in time, which helps us gain a better perspective. But here I was surprising myself, writing a novel on a subject as we were living through it. It was probably a creative response to what we are experiencing. As humankind is experimenting, learning to respond to this pandemic, my novel is also one such experiment,” Dr. Nugadoni told The Hindu. Incidentally, this is Dr. Nugadoni’s first novel to be published. He has mostly written short stories. The novel explores the various fault lines the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown exposed through three students stuck in a university town away from home during the lockdown. “I have tried to explore the dynamics of the community, government and the private sector during the pandemic,” he said. The failure of the government to humanely handle the crisis resulting in an unprecedented migration on foot across the country troubled him the most, he said. “The government even privatized COVID-19 care which only fleeced the people. On the other hand, the private sector even got trains to other States cancelled to ensure labour for their projects,” he observed. “What also intrigued me were these new words, phrases and processes – quarantine, lockdown and seal down,” he said. “The pandemic offers a great prism to observe human response to stress, threat and crises, and I have tried to do exactly that.” Dr. Nugadoni pointed out that such crises are not unprecedented and earlier it has been the community and the intrinsic tenacity of the human being that has helped overcome such crises. The novel will be available at stores by the end of September.
07 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Student’s body to reach Bidar from Ukraine tomorrow||Efforts by senior Congress leader Eshwar Khandre from Bhalki in association with the Embassy of India in Kiev in Ukraine and the Ambassador of India in Ukraine bore fruit as the body of a 20-year-old MBBS student, Amar Shaliwan Biradar, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his hostel in Kharkiv National Medical University, Ukraine, is expected to reach his native place on September 8. Ukraine authorities would transport the body by air through Turkish Airlines to Bengaluru on September 7. It would be transported to Hyderabad in the early hours of September 8 and reach his native, Kadlabad in Bhalki taluk of Bidar district, by evening the same day.   Amar Biradar joined the MBBS course at Kharkiv National Medical University in Ukraine last year. He was found dead in the hostel. However, the exact cause of the death is not known.
07 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Seer was a rare blend of philosopher, classical singer and cultural icon’||Kesavananda Bharati Swamiji, who passed away on Sunday was deeply attached to India’s rich culture and “our great Constitution”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said. In his tweet, the Prime Minister said, “We will always remember Pujya Kesavananda Bharati Ji for his contribution towards community service and empowering the downtrodden.” He said that the seer will continue to inspire generations. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu said that the seer was a rare blend of philosopher, classical singer and cultural icon. In his tweet, he said that the seer’s patronage for Yakshagana was crucial in reviving the traditional theatre form in the State. Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said that the seer was an inspiring spiritual leader. Sri Sri Ravi Shankar described the seer as simple, unassuming and a role model for mathadhipatis. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Railway Minister Piyush Goel, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and BJP national president J.P. Nadda also offered their condolences. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karadlaje and Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader were among the many dignitaries from the State who condoled the demise of the seer. Condoling the death of the swamiji, State BJP president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the seer had a liking for Yakshagana and he had laid a strong foundation for recognition of Yakshagana artistes. He was a Bhagavata (singer and director) in Yakshaganas and donned that role till his last breath. He was involved in many programmes related to Kannada. “As I am undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection, I will not be in a position to take part in the last rites ceremony of the seer,” Mr. Kateel tweeted. Pattadhikari of Dharamasthala D. Veerendra Heggade said that the seer was a good orator who had mastered Kannada literature. With his sweet voice, the seer had a lot of admirers for his Bhagavatige in Yakshaganas, he said. His fight in the landmark case was akin to the fight for Dharma seen in the epic, the Mahabharata, he said. With his scholarly discourses, the seer showed the righteous path to his disciples, Mr. Heggade said. The seer took part in several programmes in Dharmasthala and supported him in the development initiatives of the temple. The former MLC and BJP State spokesperson Ganesh Karnik also condoled the death of the seer  In his tweet, the Vice-President said that the seer’s patronage for Yakshagana was crucial in reviving the traditional theatre form in the State
07 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Civil contractors threaten agitation||Members of the Mangaluru Civil Contractors Association have threatened that they will go on an agitation if the district administration did not take steps in the next 10 days to make available sand for construction activities in the taluk. Talking to reporters here on Saturday, association’s president Purushottam Kottari said that the district administration was dragging its feet over renewing licence for traditional extraction of sand from riverbeds in the coastal regulatory zone. The COVID-19 situation has added to the delay. This has caused artificial scarcity of sand in the last few weeks, he said. The State government has also lost royalty, which is collected from licensees. The artificial scarcity has brought construction activity to a halt, which has hit workers, contractors and others involved in the industry hard. Delay in the renewal of licence has led to illegal sand extraction and the district administration was not acting swiftly to curb it. Elected representatives were also silent on the hardship faced by those in the industry, he said. The district administration should take steps in the next few days to make available sand at an affordable price, he added.
07 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Crackdown on narcotic drug dealers in Mysuru||The Mysuru police on Sunday carried out raids at places where ganja and other narcotic drugs are suspected to be available, besides conducting searches on the premises of persons accused in the past of possessing and selling narcotic substances.  No ganja or any other psychotropic substance was found during the search. A statement issued by the city Police Commissioner’s office stated that in the light of cases being booked against suspected drug dealers in Bengaluru, several persons who had been accused in the past of dealing in drugs were absconding and their houses were found locked. Police Commissioner Chandragupta, however, warned that such special operations against drugs would continue and asked the public to pass on information on sale, storage or transportation of ganja and other narcotic drugs to the police control room on 100 or 0821-2418339.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of Power||Non-functioning of the RTI portal for filing online applications in the State has irked many RTI activists during the COVID-19 pandemic. Though the portal was launched to enable citizens to file online RTI applications, it has not become fully functional. A link that has been provided in the website of Karnataka Information Commission (KIC) for filing of online RTI applications is not working ever since its inception, said B.H. Veeresha of Mahiti Hakku Adhyayana Kendra of Bengaluru in a petition submitted to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the e-governance department officials. RTI applications filed are not being transferred to the Public Information Officers concerned as could be seen from the status available in the portal. Telephone number and e-mail ID of nodal officers are not made available in the portal. Even the First Appeals filed in the portal are not being forwarded to the First Appellate Authorities, the petition said. No facility exists for filing a second appeal before the KIC under the portal. No provision is made to make online payment of fee under Khajane 2, he claimed. No user manual is made available in the portal for the benefit of citizens as well as for Public Information officers. After submitting the petition, officials of e-governance have promised to look into the matter. Hope the department would initiate action soon to make it user friendly, practical, and effective.   A political slugfest between the BJP and the Opposition Congress began after a recent Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa dropped cases against Ministers, BJP MLAs, and MPs. While the government has defended the withdrawal of cases citing they were “false and politically motivated”, the Congress questioned the hidden agenda of the ruling party. Of course, the previous dispensations led by the Congress had withdrawn cases registered against its party workers and farmers in the past. But the BJP government’s decision to drop cases against its incumbent Ministers, and legislators has raised many eyebrows. While Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy (in picture) defended the decision saying that successive governments have withdrawn cases despite objections from the Law and Home Departments, Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi said the Siddaramaiah government withdrew cases against SDPI and PFI activists allegedly involved in various anti-social activists. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Saleem Ahmed claimed that the present dispensation shielded those allegedly involved in inciting violence. There seems to be no end to these allegations and counter-allegations.   The Joint Select Committee comprising members of both Houses of the State legislature is unlikely to achieve unanimity on drafting of a report on the Bruhat Bangalore Mahahangara Palike Bill. Members of the panel have been airing different views on the content of the Bill, including increase in the number of wards, granting special powers to zonal commissioners and term of the Mayor. BJP members opposed the Bill when it was tabled on the last day of the legislative Assembly during the budget session. The Bill would enable the BBMP to come out of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, which was enacted four decades ago (1976), and to mobilise more revenue to the civic body. With many changes proposed in the governance of the BBMP, the Opposition Congress said the Bill needs to be discussed in detail and should not be cleared in a hurry. While panel chairman S. Raghu of the BJP said the committee has to hold more meetings to arrive at a consensus on the content of the Bill, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy exuded confidence about tabling the Bill in the coming legislature session and holding of elections to the BBMP in December. The term of the current elected civic body ends on September 10. Nagesh Prabhu
07 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No respite for Alappuzha with 221 new cases||After a gap of two weeks, COVID-19 cases crossed the 200-mark again in the district with 221 people testing positive for the disease on Sunday. Among the fresh cases, 200 patients acquired the virus through local transmission. Twelve people who came from other States and nine from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 200 locally transmitted cases include 34 from Alappuzha and 22 each from Arattupuzha and Kayamkulam. Rest of the contact cases were reported from Ezhupunna (10), Pallippuram (9), Krishnapuram (9), Thamarakulam (7), Thanneermukkom (7), Chengannur (6), Purakkad (6), Thuravoor (6), Bharanikavu (5), Aroor (5), Mannancherry (5), Cheppad (5), Thaikkal (4), Mavelikara (3), Ambalappuzha (3), Thaikkattussery (3), two cases each from Mulakuzha, Kumarapuram, Vandanam, Pallippad, Budhanoor, Mannar, Panavally, Mararikulam and one case each from Pathiyoor, Ramankary, Nooranad, Cherthala, Veliayanad, Haripad, Thalavady, Venmony, Thazhakkara, Kanichukulangara, Kanjikuzhy, Thakazhi and Chennithala Meanwhile, 36 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district now stands at 1,573. The district reported one more COVID-19 related death, taking the official death toll to 16. The deceased was identified as a 61-year-old man from Karumady. He died on September 2. Containment zones Wards 4, 5 and 14 in Mannar, parts of ward 2 in Krishnapuram, parts of ward 6, 7 and 9 in Pallippuram grama panchayat and parts of ward 48 in Alappuzha municipality were declared as containment zones.
07 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Probe on into bank theft case||The police team investigating the Karuvatta bank theft is yet to make a breakthrough in the case. Additional Superintendent of Police N. Rajan who is heading the probe team said that the investigation was progressing. “The area of the investigation has been extended. We hope to make a breakthrough in the next couple of days,” Mr. Rajan said. Sources said that the probe into the case was largely centred around a pickup vehicle, which was found parked in the area on September 1, and gas cylinders left inside the bank by the burglars. “We are scanning CCTV cameras from nearby area and National Highway in the hope of getting a lead ,” said an official. At least 5.43 kg of gold ornaments and Rs. 4.5 lakh cash were stolen from the Karuvatta Service Cooperative Bank.
07 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Call for efforts to secure vulture population||A webinar organised by the Hume Centre for Ecology and Wildlife Biology (HCEWB) to mark the International Vulture Awareness Day here on Saturday, stressed the need for joint action by the Forest Department, veterinarians, and conservation organisations for vulture conservation in south India. The programme was organised in association with Retufa Nature Club and the NSS unit of the College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Pookode. The webinar raised concern over the dwindling nesting of white-rumped vultures in its habitats in Wayanad and Tamil Nadu in the past two years. Counting birds on different dates may end up in inaccurate numbers. So, it was decided that a synchronised survey would be conducted on a specific date across all south Indian States, Dr. R.L. Ratheesh, assistant professor, department of preventive medicine, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Science University, said.
07 September 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||CB to probe cases against MLA, jeweller||District Police Chief D. Shilpa has transferred cases of cheating registered against Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin and Pookoya Thangal, chairman and managing director respectively of Fashion Gold jewellery, to the district Crime Branch. Earlier last week the Chandera police registered three cases against the MLA and Pookoya Thangal, based on a complaint lodged by three people who alleged that they were cheated of Rs. 34 lakh deposited in the Fashion Gold jewellery shop at Cheruvathur. Three branches of Fashion Gold jewellery were closed in January last year. Since August last year, investors have not been paid dividends. 12 cases so far Since then, 12 cases had been registered in various police stations in the district, said Ms. Shilpa. She said the decision to transfer the cases to the district Crime Branch was taken as more cases emerged against the duo. On Sunday, it came to light that the Kanhangad magistrate court has issued notices to the MLA and Pookoya Thangal to appear before it on December 2, based on a case filed by two who deposited Rs. 78 lakh in the jewellery group. They alleged that the cheque given by the MLA and Thangal bounced for want of money in their accounts. The petitioners, Zubair and Ashraf of Kallar, said though the issue was brought to the notice of the leaders of the Indian Union Muslim League, no steps were taken to help them. As the cheques bounced, they approached the Kanhangad Magistrate Court in March this year. MLA’s explanation The MLA in his response to the earlier cases had said that he was being targeted by political rivals. In the cheque bounce case, Mr. Kamaruddin said that he did not directly give cheques to anyone. He said that the cheques he had signed might have been taken by someone from the jewellery shop.
07 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mayor, Oppn. spar over ‘lost’ waste management project||A war of words broke out between the Opposition councillors and the Mayor over a “lost” waste management project. While the Opposition councillors alleged that Kochi had lost an urban waste management project worth Rs. 41 crore, as the civic authorities had failed to come up with a scheme for funding it, the Mayor said the council did not pursue it as instructed by the State government. According to the Opposition, the Swachh Bharath Mission had proposed the project for the city, which was to begin in 2014. A detailed project report (DPR) was also prepared. However, the civic administration failed to place the DPR before the council for approval, alleged Opposition councillors K.J. Antony and V.P. Chandran. If implemented, a permanent solution to the perennial issue of solid waste management could have been found, they said. The project would also have saved the civic body from strictures and legal action from the National Green Tribunal for its failure to effectively implement the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, said the joint statement issued by the LDF councillors. The Opposition demanded a detailed inquiry into what they termed the sabotaging of the project. Responding to the allegations, Mayor Soumini Jain said the council did not press for the project as directed by the State authorities, including the Scientific Advisor to the Chief Minister. The government was pushing for the waste-to-energy plant in Kochi, and it did not want the civic body to divert its attention to other projects. The Swachh Bharath Mission project was aimed at decentralised waste processing. Once the waste-to-energy plant becomes functional, the corporation will have to ensure processing of around 300 tonnes of waste a day. The government did not want the civic body to go for decentralised projects, she said. The government had convened a meeting in this regard and conveyed its decision in writing. The government’s view on the proposed project and directions for the civic body were presented in the corporation council. The decision was also reported in the council, Ms. Jain added.
07 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||First metro train from Pettah to chug off today||Close on the heels of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurating Kochi metro’s Thykoodam-Pettah extension through videoconferencing from Thiruvananthapuram at 12.30 p.m. on Monday, Mr. Vijayan, Chief Secretary Viswas Mehta and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma from the State capital and Union Minister Hardip Singh Puri from New Delhi, will jointly flag off the first train from the station. The plaques announcing the formal commencement of work on the metro viaduct from S.N. Junction to Thripunithura too will be unveiled on the occasion. In keeping with Kochi’s identity, the Pettah station will have fishing as the theme, while also considering its proximity to Champakkara Market. Paintings which take people back to Kochi’s fame as a prominent fish-landing hub adorn the walls of the station. The noticeable role played by Kerala’s traditional fishermen in rescuing thousands of people who were stranded during the 2018 deluge too has been rightly acknowledged through such paintings at vantage points in the station. Speaking about fishing being chosen as the station’s theme, Charles George, president of Kerala Matsyathozhilali Aikya Vedi, said fishermen from Puthu Vype were the first to step in with help on August 16 morning, within a day of water level rising in different parts of the district. He also said the livelihood of fisherfolk community was at stake, mainly due to steep fall in catch.
07 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Arterial roads in city inundated||Numerous arterial roads in the city were inundated following Sunday rain, bringing back memories of two heavy rains that disrupted normal life during the past month. Traffic was disrupted, albeit in a lesser scale since it was Sunday. MG Road, parts of Banerjee Road and many NH corridors, including parts of Edappally-Aroor NH bypass were inundated. PWD officials blamed the Smart City Mission for the bad condition of Banerjee Road, park avenue road and other roads and flooding. “We handed over these stretches to the mission for upgrading them, including footpaths and drains. Flooding could have been controlled if drain works were over by now,” they said. Sources in the mission said that renovation works would have got over but for COVID curbs and shortage of labour.
07 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Extra fee collection by schools irks parents||A section of private unaided schools in Ernakulam has come under fire for collecting additional fee despite remaining closed amid the pandemic crisis. Several parents have come together to launch protests against the managements, maintaining that it was impossible to pay the additional fee, as they were reeling under severe financial crisis induced by the COVID-19 outbreak. The collection of extra fee under the head, ‘co-scholastic fee’, has irked many, as they pointed out that it was unfair to demand it at a time when the learning process has shifted to online mode. “The school management is asking us to pay Rs. 2,900 as co-scholastic fee for the year. They are demanding this hike without reducing the tuition fee for one term,” said a worried parent. Online education seems to have prompted some managements to collect ‘smart class fee’ and ‘mobile app charges’. “It is an irony that they are charging around Rs. 1,000 at a time when our monthly financial burden has gone up owing to the increase in data use charges and other related expenses,” said another parent. Many parents have demanded a cut of up to 50% in the term fee, saying that their earnings have been hit hard by the ongoing crisis. They said the expenses incurred by schools for electricity and water charges would have come down considerably, as schools had remained shut since March-end. The managements have also cut the wages of employees citing the crisis, they added. Meanwhile, T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president of Kerala CBSE School Managements Association, said schools had reduced the salary of teachers only in months when fee collection remained hit after parents could not remit it owing to the crisis. “We cannot reduce the salary of employees beyond a point, as they are working hard to ensure that online classes are not disrupted,” he said. Mr. Khan, who is the manager of Al-Ameen International Public School at Edathala, said the issue had been resolved. However, a collective of parents at Al-Ameen School, Edappally, has decided to take out a march to the school on Monday demanding reduction in fee and improvement in the quality of online classes.
07 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||281 more persons test positive in district||A total of 281 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Sunday. A native of Kanjoor, who arrived from Kuwait and and a native of Tamil Nadu were among those who tested positive, said a press release from the district administration. The communication said that 185 people were discharged after being cured of the viral disease and 175 of them were from the district. A total of 1,698 people were home-quarantined on Sunday while 1,212 completed their period of observation. There are now 18,646 people under observation. Of these, 16,345 are in their homes and 115 are in COVID care centres, and 2,186 are in paid facilities. A total of 208 people were admitted to hospitals and first-line treatment centres on Sunday. There are now 2,490 patients under treatment for COVID-19 in different hospitals in the district. A total of 1,383 samples were collected for testing on Sunday, the communication said.
07 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Passenger’s death: action likely against bus crew||The police will recommend to the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) to suspend the licence of the conductor and the driver of a private bus it seized on the charge that a passenger died due to cardiac arrest, after its crew allegedly left him unattended at a stop after he complained of chest pain. Sources in the Udayamperoor police said that the conductor and the driver, who were absconding, would most likely be arrested on Monday and charged under Section 304-A of IPC. Steps to suspend their licence would follow suit, they said. In the meantime, MVD officials pointed out that the conductor was duty-bound to rush such passengers to the nearest hospital. “He is also duty-bound to provide first aid, if necessary. These are mandatory provisions that a conductor agrees to before being given the ‘conductor badge’. Passengers must also be given CPR in case of need. The trip sheet of that bus on the day would have name of the conductor and the driver. The conductor is primarily responsible for such incidents, followed by the driver,” they said. Charges under Section 304-A might not stand against the bus crew, although they showed gross negligence and acted without compassion. Passengers too could have helped the person. “In addition, it has to be probed whether the passenger preferred to continue travelling, rather than get immediate medical aid,” they added. President of a bus operators’ organisation in the district Prakashan Mannali too deplored the attitude of the bus crew. “They must at least have halted the bus and entrusted the passenger with an auto driver, after paying him Rs. 100 or so,” he said.
07 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Big spike in Kollam with 328 cases||The district’s single day spike crossed 300 for the first time with a total of 328 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. The new patients include 302 contact cases, six health workers, nine persons from abroad and 11 others who had travelled from different Indian States. The Health Department has also confirmed that the death of a 70-year-old Kaikulangara resident is due to COVID-19. He had died on September 1. The health workers who contracted the infection include two employees of Kollam District Hospital who are residents of Thrissur and Pathanamthitta. Among the others are a 49-year-old Anchal resident working at Thycaud Government Hospital and 28-year-old Pattazhy resident working at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. A 33-year-old Karunagappally resident attached to Alappuzha Medical College Hospital and a Thrikovilvattam resident who has been working at a private dental clinic in Paravur are also among the health workers who tested positive. 1,727 active cases Kollam at present has 1,727 active cases and 12 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres are functioning in the district. While the number of recoveries on Sunday is 204, the highest number of cases were reported from Kollam Corporation. Before Sunday, the highest single-day tally was reported on Friday when 248 persons tested positive. The caseload in the district started going up after August 29 with 234 new patients and the number was 170 on Saturday. Kollam district currently has 15,550 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 47,265. While 888 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 20,298 primary and 5,287 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Meanwhile, District Collector B.Abdul Nasar has instructed all private and cooperative hospitals with more than 100 beds to set up a temporary ICU to admit emergency patients. The hospitals have been also asked to set up COVID-19 wards for patients with serious health issues who test positive. The hospitals will also form a 24-hour infection control team and the permission of District Medical Officer should be sought before shifting patients in serious conditions to government facilities. Directive All super specialty hospitals in the district have been directed to start suspect wards, suspect ICUs, confirmed wards and confirmed ICUs for treating patients. All private and cooperative hospitals should charge only the rate fixed by government for COVID-19 treatment.
07 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||LED lights put on Kollam bypass||Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation (Keltron) has lit up the 13-km Kollam bypass from Kavanad to Mevaram by installing LED lights and streetlights on both sides. Keltron, a public sector undertaking, has installed 415 140-watt streetlights and 15,700 lumens LED lights along the stretch. The lights with a height of about 9 meters have been installed at a distance of 30 meters. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had given an order of Rs. 4.7 crore to Keltron for the project. Sodium lamps, incandescent lamps, mercury lamps, and tube lights were used to illuminate the bypass and ensure road safety. Kollam bypass had recorded a high accident rate since the day it was thrown open for traffic. There had been many head-on collisions and Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has registered a large number of cases. Since the bypass is connected to three National Highways including NH 66, NH 183 and NH 744, it sees a heavy traffic flow on a regular basis. The stretch also has some black spots that witnessed high number of accidents in areas like Kallumthazham, Mangad and Ayathil. The main reason cited by the motorists was the lack of proper illumination and the installation of new streetlights is expected to bring down the risk factor along the stretch.
07 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam touches 195||As many as 195 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of these, 190 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. Kottayam municipality led the tally with 57 fresh cases while Arpookkara panchayat came a distant second with 15 cases. Thiruvarppu reported 10 cases while Pampady witnessed eight cases. Aymanom, Pampady and Changanassery reported seven cases each. With 133 recoveries, the district currently has 1,650 active cases. Meanwhile, District Collector M. Anjana here on Sunday extended the timing of commercial establishments including restaurants to operate till 9 p.m
07 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cycle dealers unable to ride the wave||The pandemic-related restrictions on gymnasiums and group sports has led to an increase in the demand for bicycles. However, dealers claim they are unable to meet the demand due to shortage of supply. “Gyms have been closed for about six months. Group sports and games have been banned for the time-being. Cycling, being a good exercise, could compensate for the lack of other physical activities. Hence, a lot of people have turned to cycling these days,” said Sahir Abdul Jabbar, the ‘Cycle Mayor’ of Kozhikode. Bicycle shops in Kerala usually witness maximum sales during April and May when schools are closed for summer vacation. This year, however, the demand has surpassed the expectations of dealers. “We never experienced such a good opportunity. But the boom is not reflected in the sales due to non-availability of products,” said a cycle dealer in the city. “Our sale after the lockdown was double compared to the same period in previous years. It is a totally beneficial scenario. But we are unable to fully utilise it,” said another dealer. “We had enquiries even before the lockdown. Hence, we stocked up a bit. It helped us meet the demand to a small extent. But after the lockdown, manufacturing and supply have stopped. The companies have exhausted their stocks in warehouses,” he added. Manufacturing Most high-end and middle-level brands of cycles available in India are imported from other countries. Even indigenous brands have imported spare parts. The companies have resumed manufacturing, but are unable to meet the demand. Factories in Ludhiana, the cycle manufacturing hub of India, are facing severe shortage of labour due to the COVID-19 crisis. Running with just around 30% of their normal staff strength, they are unable to meet the demand for the low-end and middle-level bicycles that they are known for. Cycles are usually chosen based on the height and weight of the user. But due to non-availability of required brands, customers are forced to settle for what is on offer. “On the flip side, some of our very high-end models, that were in stock for over two years, were sold during this season,” said a dealer. The new buyers are not professional riders, but beginners who are taking up cycling to stay fit. But once the unlocking process is complete, they may not need the cycles any more and the demand may decline.
07 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||264 fresh cases in Kozhikode||As many as 230 of the 264 fresh COVID-19 cases reported from Kozhikode on Sunday were due to local transmission of the infection, the Health Department has said. In a release, the District Medical Officer said that the source of infection of 16 others was not known. Others had either returned from abroad or from other States. There are 33 cases of local transmission from Vadakara, 26 from Koyilandy, 24 from Olavanna, 16 from Chorod and 14 from the Kozhikode Corporation. Two of the newly infected are health workers. As many as 265 people recovered from the infection and the number of active cases from the district is 1,778.
07 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pay cut unlikely for temporary doctors||The State government may go easy on the reported move to cut the wages of temporary doctors posted on COVID duty as part of the salary challenge initiative to collect funds for the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Around 1,000-odd doctors from the 2014 MBBS batch in government medical colleges across the State who completed their course earlier this year were posted at various health centres for a three-month period. Close to 800 people had joined duty at a monthly salary of Rs. 42,000 following an order issued in April last week. Their salaries were delayed owing to technical issues. When the temporary doctors got it, some of them found that the pay for six days had been cut in line with the government order on deducting contribution towards the CMDRF from employees earning over Rs. 20,000 a month. This was followed by an association representing these doctors declaring that they were not keen on continuing in service from September 10. According to sources in the Health Minister’s office, interpretation of the above-mentioned order had led to some confusion. They claimed that all the temporary doctors had not faced a salary cut and those in districts such as Kozhikode had been spared. The Finance Department is also reported to be lenient towards these people. GO soon A government order clearing the confusion was expected soon, they said. Also, the three-month service period of these doctors was supposed to end by mid-September, the sources added.  Six days’ salary was cut from some doctors posted on COVID duty
07 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Former Thamarassery bishop passes away||Mar Paul Chittilappilly, 86, former bishop of the Thamarassery diocese of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, passed away following cardiac arrest at a private hospital here on Sunday. He was in charge of the diocese between 1997 and 2010, and was leading a retired life for the past 10 years. Chittilappilly had made immense contributions to the social and educational development of the diocese. His remarks related to the last rites of former CPI(M) MLA Mathai Chacko had led to a controversy after the then party State secretary Pinarayi Vijayan criticised him in strong words. Born on February 7, 1934, at Mattom in Thrissur, he was ordained in 1961. He held a doctorate in canon laws from Pontifical Lateran University, Rome.
07 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Govt. intervention sought to address woes of SCL staff||M.K. Raghavan, Kozhikode MP, has sought the intervention of the Ministers in charge of Industries and Power departments to address grievances related to interim relief of employees of the Kozhikode-based public sector unit SAIL-SCL, popularly known as Steel Complex. Mr. Raghavan also requested the government to be lenient on the company’s electricity bill dues worth crores of rupees. In a letter to the Ministers, he said the employees had not been getting interim relief for the past five months, with the State government claiming that there was no production in the industrial unit. The COVID-19 crisis has put the employees in dire straits. There is no production at the plant at Cheruvannur, and 48 permanent staff and around 150 contract employees are staring at an uncertain future. The Congress MP also pointed out that the company owed Rs. 3.63 crore to the KSEB as fixed charges.
07 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sreekrishna Jayanthi to be celebrated at homes||Little Krishnas and Radhas as well as colourful ‘Shobhayatras’ that mark Sreekrishna Jayanthi celebrations will be held at homes this year in line with the COVID-19 protocol. Sreekrishna Jayanthi falls on Thursday. Though the tableaux procession has been cancelled, Balagokulam, an organisation launched by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which holds the events, has suggested alternative means of celebrations. ‘Veedorukkam, Veendedukkam, Vishwasanthiyekam’ (Let us prepare our homes, regain, and spread world peace) is the motto of the celebrations this year. Accordingly, homes will be decorated in the manner of ‘Vrindavan’, while children will dress up as Krishnas and Radhas.
07 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Surge in Malappuram again as 324 people test positive||After a brief lull, COVID-19 cases shot up again in Malappuram district when 324 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said 280 of them were infected through local contact. While the source of infection could not be traced in 17 cases, 18 of the new patients came from other States and eight from abroad. There was a health worker among the new cases. Dr. Sakeena said 202 infected persons recovered in the district on Sunday. She said 1,848 people were being treated at different hospitals across the district, and 48,142 were quarantined. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 162 people tested positive for the virus on Sunday. District Medical Officer K.P. Reetha said 74 of them had contracted the infection through local transmission. While 10 persons came from abroad, 25 came from other States. The source of infection could not be traced in 52 cases. There were 95 recoveries in the district on Sunday. In Thrissur As many as 169 people tested positive in Thrissur on Sunday, while 145 patients recovered from the disease. There are 1,531 active cases in the district. Of the total number of cases reported on Sunday, 160 people were infected through contact. The source of infection in 33 cases is not known. A total of 8,607 people are under observation. In Kasaragod Kasaragod district recorded 218 positive cases on Sunday. This is the third day in a row that more than 200 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district. Of the total cases on Sunday, four persons came from abroad and five from other States, while 209 people were infected through contact. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said 112 people recovered from the disease on Sunday. From September 4 to 6, 730 new cases have been confirmed in the district. There are 6,104 people under observation in the district. In Kannur In Kannur, 200 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Of the infected, 162 contracted the disease through contact. Five persons came from abroad, eight from other States and 25 are health workers. The district recorded 67 recoveries on Sunday. In Wayanad Forty cases of COVID-19 were reported in Wayanad district on Sunday. Of them, 35 were cases of local transmission. While three patients came from abroad, two returned from other States. As many as 30 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Thrissur, Kasaragod, Kannur and Wayanad bureaus)
07 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Kunhalikutty all set to return to State politics||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, will come back to State politics with the upcoming elections to the local bodies and the Assembly. A high-power committee meeting of the party held here on Sunday entrusted Mr. Kunhalikutty with the total responsibility for leading the party through the upcoming elections. Briefing the media, IUML national chairman Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal said that Mr. Kunhalikutty would lead the elections for the party as his leadership in the previous elections was found to have been effective. “The party had reaped dividends under Mr. Kunhalikutty’s leadership,” said Mr. Thangal. At the national level IUML working general secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, will be the party’s leader at the national level. Mr. Basheer said the full-time presence of Mr. Kunhalikutty was a must for Kerala politics, especially at a time when the State was going through a crucial phase of ‘misgovernance’ by the Left Democratic Front (LDF). “His presence (in Kerala politics) is a must now. We will chalk out an strategy for the elections as time demands,” said Mr. Basheer. Mr. Kunhalikutty said nothing was decided on his candidature in the Assembly elections. “We will decide such things later,” he said. Rumours were rife that he would quit Parliament and contest again to the Assembly. Mr. Basheer said the coming months would be eventful for Kerala politics. “The League is a key constituent of the United Democratic Front (UDF). Election management has become so important for the party, and Kerala politics badly wants Mr. Kunhalikutty” he said. On Mani faction Mr. Kunhalikutty said the absence of Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress would not affect the UDF. “People have more faith in the UDF than in the parties that constitute the front,” he said. However, he admitted that communications were open with the leaders of the Jose K. Mani faction. He said the IUML would not go for any alliance with anyone outside the UDF. But the strategy for the local body elections would be chalked out at that time, he said. “Local body elections are unique. There will be so many Independents, and we will have a different strategy for the local body elections,” Mr. Kunhalikutty said. ‘A big challenge’ He said the elections would be a big challenge for the party. “But we will face it united. Our party has a legacy of being honest and straightforward,” he said. Mr. Basheer said issues like economic slump and spread of communal hatred by the BJP would be raised during the elections. “The current LDF government has done a lot of damage for the State. The UDF is the only alternative,” he said.
07 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Barricading of road: SHRC registers case||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has registered a case in connection with a complaint filed by rights activist Raymond Antony against blocking the road with barricades by the police to ward off political marchers. The police would block any protest march to the District Police Chief’s office around 300 metres ahead, while any march to the collectorate or other government offices is blocked in front of the gate, he said. “ It is a gross violation of people’s right on movement,” he said. The commission has sought explanation from the Revenue and police authorities.
07 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||113 cases in Pathanamthitta||The number of COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta continued to surge with 113 more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 94 people contracted the virus through local contact. Two among these cases were confirmed during the truenat tests post-death. The deceased persons were identified as a 66-year-old Payyanamon native, who died at his residence on Saturday and a 72-year-old woman from Thulkalassery, who had died two days ago, sources said. As many as 18 cases were linked to the Kadakkad cluster while the cluster at Kadambanad too remained active during the day. Among those who contracted the virus also included a police officer and a female health worker. Yet to be traced Meanwhile, the contact source of several cases was yet to be traced. With 121 recoveries, the district currently has 897 active cases.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district adds 528 patients to case list||COVID-19 cases continued to mount in the district as 528 people were diagnosed with the disease on Sunday. The death toll also grew to 110 with four more deaths—those of natives of Kanjiramkulam (68-year-old), Kannettumukku (58), and Amaravila (56) who died on September 1 and a 66-year old Nettayam native who died on September 2—being attributed to the infection. Over 99% of the cases, i.e., 524 cases have been attributed to local transmission. These included nine health care workers. The sources of infection are unknown in 13 cases reported from Vakkom, Mukkolakkal, Sreekaryam, Kunnukuzhy, Jagathy, Vellarada, Balaramapuram, Fort, Parassala, Panavoor and Manacaud. Four imported cases have also been reported. Bringing much relief, the recovery rate continued its rapid increase with 618 COVID-19 patients recovering from the illness and getting discharged in the district. There were currently 4,949 active COVID-19 cases in Thiruvananthapuram. A woman, who had been admitted in the Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital for pregnancy, reportedly contacted the infection during treatment. While she had tested negative following her admission, the patient was diagnosed with the disease while she was subjected to a test after giving birth through C-section. Seven health workers have been quarantined following the diagnosis. A 58-year-old Kilimanoor native succumbed to COVID-19 in the Parippally Government Medical College Hospital on the day. Suffering from kidney ailments, he had been referred to the hospital from a private hospital in Kollam where he tested positive when examined prior to dialysis. With the swab sample yet to be tested at the Alappuzha unit of the National Institute of Virology (NIV), the death has not been included in the official death tally so far. Quarantined As many as 1,633 were quarantined in the district during the day, taking the number of people being monitored as part of the containment measures to 22,300. These included 18,213 people who were self-isolated in their homes. A total of 3,510 people were also quarantined in hospitals. There were also 577 people who were under observation in 72 COVID-19 care centres in various parts of the district.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain lashes city, hits normal life||Five families were evacuated in the district on Sunday following flooding in low-lying areas due to heavy rain. Two families from Pettah and three families from Chirayinkeezhu have been rehabilitated, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Meanwhile, severe coastal erosion has been reported in the coastal areas. Fishermen rescued Two fishermen who fell into the sea from a fishing boat near the Vizhinjam harbour on Sunday evening were rescued. They had held on to a buoy thrown by workers at the Vizhinjam seaport. The fishermen were rescued by the crew of another fishing boat.  Mayor at flood-hit areas City Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar on Sunday visited the Punnakkamugal and Thrikkannapuram wards, which faced flooding in the heavy rains. Compound walls, roads and drains were found to be damaged in these areas. Mr. Sreekumar said that these would be repaired soon after the rains.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Home expo extended till Sept. 12||The ongoing SBI- The Hindu Home Expo in Kerala has been extended till September 12 towards accommodating the increasing number of enquiries from home buyers. More than 100 properties from 20 leading builders in Kerala are featured in the The Hindu Print cum Virtual home expo. The event is presented by State Bank of India and powered by Radianz. The expo provides buyers with an exciting array of options — from budget homes and functional apartments, to lavish villas and luxury bungalows — on a single platform. Prices range from Rs. 35 lakh to Rs. 3.5 crore. Studio apartments and commercial spaces are also on sale. Interested buyers can visit the website www.thehinduhomeexpo in or call Anjana (Thiruvananthapuram) at 75103 93649 or Mary Joji (Kochi) at 79073 55184 for details and registration. Enquiries can be also mailed togirish.kr@thehindu.co.in.  The Hindu call centre team will arrange a meeting with builders and site visits. Prospective buyers will have the option of live virtual tour of ready to move in properties. Attractive discounts and assured gifts like furniture, home appliances and textiles await buyers. Loans from SBI SBI is offering home loans starting from 6.95% p.a. Attractive concessions in interest rates are offered based on the CIBIL score of the prospective buyers. Also, zero processing fee is offered on home loans under builder tie-up projects. Registered participants can also avail themselves of free consultancy for architectural and interior design. Builders Participating builders include Asset Homes, Arcon Homes, Beacon Projects, Confident Group, Cordon, Favourite Homes, icloudhomes, Mansions, Nikunjam Constructions, Prime Property Developers, Prestige Group, PRS Builders, SFS Homes, Shanoor, Silver Castle, Sun Homes, Trinity, Urbanscape Properties, and VFive Homes. Gift sponsors include Tiptop furniture, Reshmi Happy Home and Swayamvara Silks.  The expo provides buyers with an exciting array of options — from budget homes and functional apartments, to lavish villas and luxury bungalows
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Greater safeguards for ambulance services on the anvil||Faced with criticisms over the lack of accountability in ambulance operations, the Health Department is set to introduce greater safeguards for the emergency services in Thiruvananthapuram. The Motor Vehicles Department will play an active role in the proposed centralised system that will involve real-time tracking of ambulances. Abuse of patient The efforts assume significance in the wake of the alleged abuse of a COVID-19 patient in Aranmula late Saturday while being transferred to a hospital in a ‘Kaniv 108’ ambulance. According to District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu, the capital district currently boasts of a more coordinated system as compared to other parts of the State. Regulation Besides involving the Regional Transport Office (RTO) for streamlining the operations, each taluks were considered separate sectors for effective regulation of the services. “The RTO along with the District Medical Office have been coordinating the operations through a control room that keeps tab on all ambulances. Besides maintaining driver information, a centralised database also keeps track of patient handling and other services to ensure greater accountability,” he said. He added that the existing mechanism would soon be upgraded with additional features including constant tracking of the movement of all ambulances. Around 160 ambulances, including 27 ‘108’ ambulances, were operating in the district, Dr. Shinu said. Demonstration Protesting over the Aranmula incident, Yuva Morcha burnt an effigy of Health Minister K.K. Shylaja in front of the Secretariat and demanded her resignation.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. to improve crematorium facilities||With an increase in the daily number of cremations in the COVID-19 period, the city Corporation is taking steps to ramp up facilities at the Shanthikavadom electric crematorium located near Thycaud. One of the improvements is the introduction of an LPG-based cremation furnace. At present, there are two electric cremation furnaces and two wood-based ones. Some of the crematoriums that have come up in other regions in recent years have opted for LPG furnaces, prompting the Corporation too to choose it. Nearing completion “The civil work and fittings of the LPG furnace have been completed. Almost 99% of the work is over by now. We plan to open it probably within this month. After the COVID-19 outbreak, the number of cremations have also increased. So, there was a need for increasing the number of furnaces,” said City Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar. The civic body has also decided to appoint two charge officers permanently at Shanthikavadom to streamline its functioning. Two junior health inspectors will work as charge officers. Currently, the contractors handle much of the work here. According to Corporation officials, there have been complaints from the public regarding bookings and in the process for getting cremation certificates. “With the new system, these processes will be made easier,” said an official. The officers will also oversee the sales of materials required for carrying out last rites, which will be made available for a nominal fee at Shanthikavadom. A composting system to handle waste generated will also be set up here.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||220 ha to be acquired for GIFT city in Aluva||The government has given the nod to acquire 220 hectares of land at Ayyampuzha village in Aluva taluk of Ernakulam for Global Industrial Finance and Trade (GIFT) city, an early-bird project under the upcoming Kochi-Bengaluru industrial corridor. The Revenue Department’s nod on September 3 for acquiring the land comes close to the government’s administrative sanction for establishing and developing the GIFT city. 70 survey numbers The District Collector, Ernakulam, has been asked to invoke the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013 (LARR Act, 2013) for acquiring the 220 hectares of land falling under 70 survey numbers in the Ayyampuzha village. Coming up in the vicinity of the Kochi international airport, the aim is to bring investments for the trunk infrastructure to the tune of Rs. 1,600 crore and giving a boost to building PPP infrastructure worth Rs. 18,000 crore over the next 10 years. This will create over 1.20 lakh direct and 3.6 lakh indirect employment opportunities and have a multiplier effect on the State economy. A road map has been prepared to complete the project in a time-bound manner. The land acquisition is to be completed by February 2021 when the master plan will also be ready. Steps to obtain Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change clearance and other formalities will start in March 2021 and will be completed by May-June 2021.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vandalism: conspiracy angle to be probed||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have constituted a special investigation team to probe the conspiracy behind the vandalism of Congress leader G. Leena’s house for which her son was arrested a day ago. Inspector General and City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay on Saturday entrusted the case to a team led by the Assistant Commissioner, Shanghumughom. Son held The Poonthura police had on Friday arrested Ms. Leena’s son Likhin Krishnan, 21, for allegedly vandalising their house at Muttathara. The police claimed that the youth had confessed to the crime apparently to frame their political opponents. Among various aspects, the police are likely to investigate any possible role that Ms. Leena could have had in the incident. However, Mr. Krishnan, who obtained bail in the case, claimed innocence. Mr Krishnan also alleged that he was made to accept the charges after being threatened by the police officers.  Police likely to probe any role that Ms. Leena could have had in the incident
07 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State seeks criteria for ease of business ranking||The State government has sought the details regarding the guidelines that went behind deciding the ease of doing business rankings for investment-friendly States from the Department for Promotion of Industries and Internal Trade (DPIIT). The rankings for States and Union Territories based on the business reform action plan of 2019 was published on Saturday. Kerala has been ranked 28. Kerala State Industries Development Corporation MD S. Harikishore said in a press release that the State decided to seek an explanation as there was a lack of clarity in the process wherein the scoring or ranking guidelines were neither communicated to the States or published in the DPIIT website. As part of the business reform action plan of 2019, each State had to complete 187 tasks. Kerala had completed 157 of these (85%). The details regarding completion percentage of each State are not available on the website. It has been claimed that the rankings were decided after seeking feedback based on the reform action points. However, details of these feedback score are also missing from the website.
07 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala says Mani not invited to UDF meet||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the United Democratic Front (UDF) has not invited the Jose K. Mani faction to the meeting of the coalition on Tuesday. The UDF had not expelled him from the front either. Mr. Chennithala said if Mr. Mani chose to quit the front, then propriety demanded that he relinquish the Rajya Sabha seat he earned at the behest of the UDF. The coalition would also name its candidates. The UDF meeting would finalise the strategy for the by-elections in Chavara and Kuttanad. Mr. Chennithala said he had written to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking a detailed inquiry into the Kerala end of the drug racket that got busted by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Bengaluru.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Widespread rain likely till Thursday||The southwest monsoon appears to have gained in strength after a lull under the influence of a low pressure area which has formed over the Arabian Sea. An India Meteorological Department (IMD) weather update indicated that the State is likely to receive widespread rainfall till Thursday. On Sunday, several districts reported steady rainfall. The IMD has put northern districts Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on yellow alert on Monday, indicating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall (up to 11.5 cm in a 24-hour period). The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has warned fishermen against going to sea. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has issued a ‘swell surge’ warning for the Kerala coast. The sea will be rough near the shore and low-lying areas in Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Ponnani, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod are likely to experience surges (gushing of sea water into these areas) intermittently from Monday night to Wednesday night.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crack down continues in city||The City police continued its crack down on anti-social activities by raiding the houses of goons and habitual offenders for the third day on Sunday. The houses of 240 people were inspected across the State capital in wake of the recent violence in the district. The Valiyathura police arrested Sumesh (33), a native of Balanagar and wanted for his alleged role in an attempt to murder, was nabbed. The police arrested the fourth accused, Deepu (35) of Njandoorkonam, in connection with the explosion of a country bomb at Kesavadasapuram. Three others, Ratheesh, Stephen and Vishnu Vijayan were arrested earlier.
07 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Helping families of Galwan Valley martyrs||Asianet Satellite Communications Ltd has contributed Rs. 1 lakh each to the families of the 20 soldiers who died in the Galwan Valley clash. G. Sankara Narayana, president and CEO, Asianet Satellite Communications Ltd, handed over the cheque to Brigadier C. Karthik Seshadri, Commander, Pangode Military Station. Asianet Satellite Communications Ltd head (HR) D. Ravindranath, CFO P.S. Suresh and company Secretary Joby Mathew were present.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caught by surprise||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Finding shelter||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Testing times||
07 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Groundnut farmers at their wits’ end||Groundnut farmers in many pockets of Anantapur district are at their wits’ end due to heavy rains in August and early September which proved a bane for the crop and harvested produce stored on the farmland. Though heavy rain led to a good green vegetative growth, the pod’s formation was not proper which resulted in reduced yield. Gonuguntla Adinarayana and his brother together raised groundnut crop in 15 acres (five acres under borewell irrigation and 10 acres as rainfed ID crop), and on Sunday tried to retrieve harvested crop all that was possible from their land. Adinarayana spent nearly Rs. 2 lakh for his portion of 10 acres of the crop and was expecting good returns as the Minimum Support Price was fixed at Rs. 5,250 per quintal. He bought seed for Rs. 6,100 per quintal from the open market and a small quantity he received under subsidy from the government at Rs. 4,750 per quintal. He deployed a thresher for Rs. 15,000 for five acres and spent another Rs. 15,000 for getting groundnut harvested manually employing labourers paying Rs. 350 a day for a single person. Market price The current market price at which traders were procuring groundnut was Rs. 2,100 and it would push Adinarayana into debt. The yield in 2.5 acres of his portion under borewell cultivation at Katiganikalva was good at 60 bags of 45 kg each per acre, but in the rainfed land, which he yet to harvest, he does not expect even 60% of this yield - finally ending up in loss at the end of the season. “If the government helps us get MSP from now itself, we will definitely make profit and get back our investment fully,” says Mr. Adinarayana. Rythu Sangham district secretary Chandrasekhar Reddy has expressed concern at the Agriculture Department itself throwing up its hands in getting a good price for the produce as it had itself purchased groundnut from November to February at Rs. 6,100 a quintal for distribution of seeds under subsidy.
07 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang tampering with Aadhaar card data busted in Anantapur||A gang of five persons that had been tampering with the data of Aadhaar cards for the past eight months for a handsome fee was busted by the Tadipatri police on Sunday. The gang had been manipulating the date of birth of people on the Aadhaar cards in order to make them eligible for government welfare schemes like old-age pension and Cheyutha. Gadgets confiscated The police confiscated 47 electronic gadgets including colour printers, computer hard drives, scanners etc., and identified about 800 persons who had had their date of birth on the cards changed, at Putluru, Tadipatri and Guntakal. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu at a press conference here said that Tadipatri DSP A. Srinivasulu, its rural CI Devendra Kumar and Putluru SI Mohan Goud and their teams laid a trap to bust the gang. A team of police personnel had posed as persons seeking to change their date of birth so that they could get avail government schemes. They got the work done by paying a fee of Rs. 4,000 and two weeks later, an Aadhaar card with the tampered data reached their addresses. The police immediately arrested two persons running Mee-Seva Centres in Putluru and three others for creating fake PAN cards. The five accused have been identified as B. Ramana(30), K. Ramanjaneyulu(35), Kunti Noor Basha(30), B. Obulraju(27) and Apathi Jaganmohan(27). Only two of them had the password to change information on the cards after they were certified by the UIDAI Authority, but the remaining three helped them create fake PAN cards with the desired date of birth so that the persons got Rs. 18,000 under Cheyutha and Rs. 2,250 as a pension. The total quantum of money involved in defrauding the State government is yet to be ascertained. The police are preparing a report on the modus operandi of the gang so that the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to be sent to their Bengaluru office so that loopholes could be plugged.
07 September 2020||Anantapur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen pipeline damage scares COVID patients||A valve in the pipeline supplying oxygen to critical COVID-19 patients housed in male and female wards of the Government General Hospital broke on Sunday night, leading to leakage of the gas. However, no casualties were reported. The sound it caused created panic among patients. At 8.40 p.m. the junction point of the valve and newly laid oxygen pipeline gave away , GGH Superintendent M. Ramaswamy said. “We have shifted the 20 patients on oxygen support to other wards, and are in the process of shifting the rest ,” he said. Fire service personnel found that there was no fire and they immediately arranged individual cylinders for the patients on oxygen support, said District Fire Officer Uppala Sarath Babu.
07 September 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need for more awareness on plasma donation, say doctors||Have you recovered from COVID-19 recently? You can turn into a ‘Corona Warrior’ by donating your plasma for treatment of other patients. Plasma therapy is found to be effective for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Unfortunately, there is not much awareness on this among the public, say doctors. Those who have recovered from moderate to severe coronavirus can donate their plasma. Andhra Pradesh has seen a rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases from July onwards and this is the right time to motivate donors. The donation has to be done within one month after recovery, while the antibody level in the recovered patient’s blood is significant. “Plasma is the liquid (> 50%) portion of blood, which contains several nutrients to nourish the blood cells and the body, including many proteins. A sub-category of proteins, produced by the body to fight infections like SARS-CoV-2, are called ‘antibodies’ and they are highly specific against the organism. In response to the coronavirus attack, the body produces several antibodies but only a few help to neutralise the virus,” A. Sugandhi, Medical Officer, A.S. Raja Voluntary Blood Bank, told The Hindu . Covalescent plasma can play a significant role in reducing the disease burden and convalescent plasma and Remdesivir have shown better performance, when administered early in the course of the disease. In early cases, convalescent plasma mitigates the severity and shortens the length of the disease. Allergic reactions Like any blood product, convalescent plasma can also trigger allergic reactions but suitable remedial measures can be taken. The Drugs Controller General of India(DCGI) has released convalescent plasma as an ‘off label therapy’ along with Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. Convalescent plasma preparation criteria is more stringent and therefore takes longer time. Setting up of ‘plasma banks’ at the district-level will go a long way in popularising plasma donation, says Dr. Sugandhi. “Dr. Suman, Urologist at Care Hospitals, donated his plasma, for treatment of my mother last month. She recovered very well and is fine now. Plasma will only be collected from recovered moderate to severe patients, in the age group of 18 to 60 years, who are fit. It will be used to treat moderate cases,” says Dr. Sarvabowma. “Individual donors will be tested for adequate level of antibodies, haemoglobin-level, before collection of their plasma. The blood group compatibility will also be checked,” says Dr. Kartik Chandra Vallam, consultant surgical oncologist, Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute (MGCHRI).
07 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Situation turns the corner in rural areas in Chittoor||After a brief respite from COVID from mid of August till month-end, cases are on the rise once again in urban areas of Chittoor district, while the rural side is heaving a sigh of relief with many mandals registering single-digit cases. The tally crossed the 45,000-mark in Chittoor by Sunday night, with Tirupati Municipal Corporation being a major contributor with about 20,000 cases, followed by Srikalahasti and Chittoor civic bodies with over 3,000 cases each. While Nagari municipality witnessed a slight drop in the rise of positive cases since last week, Puttur showed a steady rise in the cases from September 1. The eastern mandals, including BN Kandriga, Varadaiahpalem, Pichatur, Nagalapuram and Satyavedu, continue to register two-digit cases daily. The situation has turned the corner in western mandals, a few of which in the in the Madanapalle division recorded cases less than five. However, cases have been mounting in Madanapalle municipality since a month. Action against private hospitals Meanwhile, Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told mediapersons that in view of the complaints emerging against private hospitals providing COVID-19 care, notices had been served to a couple of hospitals in Tirupati, while a special team of medical officers was formed to inspect facilities available at the private hospitals and the fee structure. The Collector observed that the high recovery rate is very much satisfactory. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said that cases would be booked against those who try to prevent the cremation of virus victims.
07 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man involved in 73 theft cases nabbed||In a big catch, the Ganapavaram police arrested an alleged dossier criminal Vempa Chanti, who was involved in 73 theft cases. They recovered 43 sovereigns of gold jewellery, silver ornaments, some cash and a two-wheeler, all worth about Rs. 17.50 lakh from his possession. Disclosing this to newsmen here on Saturday, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said the accused, a native of Lankapeta near Bhimavaram, was involved in several crimes in the last 12 years. Involved in 73 thefts, he underwent imprisonment in 30 cases in AP and Telangana States. Eluru Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) O. Dileep Kiran, Ganapavaram CI D. Bhagwan Prasad and his team arrested the accused, the SP said. Ganja seized In another case, the Narsapuram division police arrested three alleged ganja peddlers -- K. Venkateswara Rao alias Bobby, P. Sai and Wilfred Varghese alias Raju -- natives of Bhimavaram and Kalla mandal on Saturday. They seized about 4 kg ganja and mobile phones from them, said Narsapuram DSP K. Nageswara Rao.
07 September 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||After nearly six months, tourist places partially opened in Vizag||Tourist spots were partially opened in the district for the public after a gap of almost six months, in keeping with orders issued by the State government recently. Local beaches, including Rushikonda, which were opened on Saturday, witnessed a large number of visitors. Residents flocked to the beaches in large numbers on Sunday. Local beaches and tourism hotspots functioning under the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), including Borra Caves in Vizag Agency, were opened on Saturday itself, while a few tourist places like Kailasagiri, ropeway facility, Tenneti Park and museums under the control of the VMRDA are yet to open. Barricades were removed at Rushikonda Beach Road and locals started to arrive at the beach in the afternoon. With the APTDC announcing a resumption of boating services, people could be seen lining up at the jetty. However, they returned disappointed as the boats could not be operated due to low tide. Safety precautions According to APTDC Divisional Manager T.G. Prasada Reddy, safety precautions are being followed at all the tourist spots. “Hotels and restaurants of the APTDC were already opened long back, and hotspots under our provision were sanitised and made safe for the public. Strict precautions are being taken at the Borra Caves by regulating the entry of tourists. Masks have been made mandatory for entry. The boating operations already have a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) given by the State government for the safety of tourists,” he said. All tourism operations in the State were put on hold since March 20 after the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country. Though the State government had decided to open tourist destinations from August 1, things did not go as planned. Officials said that the tourism department in Visakhapatnam district had incurred a loss of Rs. 20 crore. On Friday, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao instructed officials to reopen tourism spots, museums, and other amenities after taking suitable precautions. According to a senior official from the District Tourism Department, people from other areas, including neighbouring States like Odisha, have started reaching Visakhapatnam. “Moreover, we can see how R.K Beach is witnessing large crowds every weekend,” he said. “Families are having ‘darshan’ at Simhachalam temple and are spending a day along the coastal stretch. Confined to houses for the last six months, people need a break. However, we see them taking a lot of precautions. Maybe there will be a steady increase in tourists if the COVID-19 curve declines,” he said, seeking anonymity.
07 September 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Matka don’ externed for six months||The Kadapa district police have ordered externment of ‘Matka’ don Madhar Saheb (60) for six months, taking a serious view of his alleged involvement in a series of crimes revolving around Matka gambling. The move follows Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan’s decision to banish anti-social elements from the district. The department has decided to initiate bind-over proceedings against those having two or more cases and externment by invoking P.D. Act on those having five or more cases. Madhar Saheb, a resident of Radhakrishna Nagar in Kadapa town, is an accused in sixteen such cases. Collector Ch. Hari Kiran has issued orders to this effect.
07 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CCTV at temple not working: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venugopala Krishna on Sunday said the CCTV camera installed at the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi was not functioning. Addressing the media after visiting the temple where a charriot was gutted , Mr. Venugopala Krishna said, “Had the CCTV cameras functioned, it would have helped in gathering evidence on the gutting of the chariot. The inquiry team will also investigate the reasons for the failure of the surveillance system.” Meanwhile, East Godavari district Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi inspected the temple.
07 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks probe by sitting HC judge||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Sunday appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to order an inquiry by a sitting High Court judge into the fire accident at the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Veerraju said that the way the wooden chariot of the temple was gutted hurt the religious sentiments of the Hindus. “An inquiry by a sitting High Court judge is needed to know whether it is an act of the miscreants or an accident,” he said. Referring to a similar incident at the Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple at Bitragunta and the demolition of idols of Hindu deities at Pithapuram in East Godavari district recently, Mr. Veerraju said, “The government says they are the acts of mentally unsound people. But there is a need to order a inquiry to bring out the facts.”
07 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Following norms must to beat the virus’||As India continues to grapple with a rapid rise in COVID-19 infections, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday underscored the need for people fully abiding by COVID-19 protective behaviour norms. “The nation cannot be under lockdown for long. People should adapt themselves to the new situation,” he said while addressing the media here via a Google Meet session from New Delhi. The Vice-President emphasised the need for people remaining physically fit and mentally strong to combat the virus. “No matter how busy you are, you should make yoga, exercises and meditation part of your daily lifestyle,” he said in his maiden interaction with reporters after the outbreak of the pandemic. Stating that even journalists are COVID-19 warriors, he announced that he would offer Rs. 50,000 to the families of six journalists from Nellore who succumbed to the virus recently. He wanted the media to step up awareness on the much-needed behavioural change among people. “Information with confirmation is ammunition,” he quipped while praising The Hindu for providing credible news. Rrecalling his association with eminent yesteryear scribes, he said that people would say a reporter working for The Hindu would report news only after double-checking its veracity, which was why the newspaper enjoyed such credibility.  Mr. Venkaiah Naidu noted that except for agriculture, all sectors had witnessed a downturn during the pandemic. The Vice-President promised to talk to officials about the problems faced by farmers from the district in marketing horticulture and other farm produce during lockdown. The Centre had evolved an action plan for construction of godowns, cold storages and food processing units, he said. Reiterating that he was not against learning English, he said it should not be at the cost of Telugu. Children learn better in their mother tongue, he said.
07 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Top slot in EoDB rank is TDP’s achievement’||The TDP on Sunday claimed credit for the State retaining the top slot in the Ease of Doing Busines (EoDB) rankings for 2019. TDP spokesman N. Balaji said the State had consistently performed well under the stewardship of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. “The YSRCP government cannot claim credit for the ranking done based on the implementation of the Business Reform Action Plan evolved by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) of the Centre to make it easier, simpler and quicker for businesses to operate,” he said.
07 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases surge by over 1,000 in Prakasam, Nellore||Twelve more persons, including eight in Prakasam district, succumbed to coronavirus in the last 24 hours while as many as 2,341 persons, including 1,299 in Nellore district and 1,041 in Prakasam, contracted the viral disease during the period. The combined toll went up further to 662 in the two south coastal Andhra districts, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Sunday night. The toll in both Nellore and Prakasam stands at 342. The death rate was 1.09% in Prakasam district. As many as 45 patients had succumbed to the disease in less than a week. Government General Hospital, Ongole, accounted for 222 deaths. Both the districts have been registering more than 1,000 cases for a week now. With a view to break the chain, a total lockdown was observed in Nellore district on Sunday. The count rose to 39,444 in Nellore and 29,074 in Prakasam district. As many as 1,270 persons recovered from the disease in Nellore while 538 got discharged in Prakasam district during the period. Treatment at home With the number of active cases increasing to 14,109, the health authorities relied on providing treatment to over 12,200 asymptomatic patients from their homes. The condition of 81 of the 1,042 patients being treated in COVID-19 hospitals remained critical, a daily status report compiled by Prakasam district administration said. More than 500 of them suffering from respiratory problems were provided oxygen support.
07 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top political fraternity in North Andhra hit by series of deaths||The political fraternity in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts has been hit by a series of deaths in recent days. While some succumbed to COVID-19, others have died of natural causes. In Vizianagaram district, former Minister and senior YSRCP leader P. Sambasiva Raju, Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president Yadla Adiraju and YSRCP leader Kanakala Prasada Rao passed away in the last one month. TDP leader A. Sriramula Naidu of Ramabhadrapuram also died of illness recently. Mr. Adiraju, who was said to be in good health, succumbed to COVID-19. He developed severe respiratory issues and died within a few hours of being shifted to hospital from his home. Mr. Sambasiva Raju and Mr. Kanakala Prasada Rao died despite being treated at well-known corporate hospitals in Visakhapatnam. In Srikakulam district, former municipal chairperson Andhavarapu Varaha Narasimham, popularly known as Mr. Varam, died of a prolonged illness. Mr. Varam played a key role in Srikakulam politics, and his support was seen as crucial for those contesting the Assembly or Lok Sabha elections. The untimely deaths of YSRCP leader Duda Sudhakar and TDP leader D.V.S. Prakasha Rao took locals by surprise. Revolutionary writer Vangapandu Prasada Rao and Vizianagaram District Cooperative Officer B. Srihari Rao were among other well-known individuals who died in the last one month. Mr. Vangapandu was well-liked in the North Andhra region, while Mr. Srihari Rao enjoyed a good standing in official and political circles of Srikakulam district. Indian Medical Association -Vizianagaram district former president M. Venkateswara Rao said that those suffering from co-morbidities were at high risk of succumbing to COVID-19. “Many persons having high blood pressure and diabetes are at high risk after being infected by coronavirus. Those with obesity are experiencing a rapid deterioration in health as they cannot control the infection,” he said. A.P. Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association member and noted physician N.L. Rao suggested to people to avoid alcohol and smoking as this would complicate their health if they get infected by COVID-19. “Frequent COVID-19 testing helps public representatives and others to protect themselves from coronavirus. As they meet many people regularly and attend many meetings, frequent tests are required for them. They can get medical aid quickly if COVID-19 identified at the early stage,” Dr. Rao said.
07 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala gears up for festival on September 15||Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam will be celebrated at the Lord Venkateswara temple on September 15. The festival, organized as a prelude to annual Brahmotsavams scheduled to commence from 19 of this month, will be observed in ekantham. The religious proceedings will be carried out between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. Well sanitised In connection with the festival, the sanctum sanctorum and inner precincts of the temple would be thoroughly cleaned and the walls, pillars and ceiling would be coated with a herbal mixture that acts as a disinfectant.
07 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala hundi nets over Rs. 1 crore||The hundi at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Sunday netted a record income of Rs. 1.20 crore. It is after an interval of 164 days that the temple hundi has crossed the Rs. 1 crore mark. The closure of the temple to the public for 80 days, and only a restricted number of pilgrims being allowed for darshan thereafter owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, resulted in a steep decline in hundi income, subjecting the TTD to financial challenges. As many as 13,486 devotees had darshan of the deity — the highest-ever in a single day since the reopening of the temple to the public.
07 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIIT-Sri City introduces industry-oriented Ph.D||In a unique approach to add value to its Ph.D. programme, Indian Institute of Information Technology-Sri City(IIITS) has come forward to involve industry experts in multiple ways. The national institute hopes to develop solutions to real-world problems through its full-time and part-time Ph.D. programmes, the process of admission for which has been completed. According to IIITS Director G. Kannabiran, it is proposed to make the Ph.D. industry-relevant by systematically roping in industry experts in Ph.D. selection committee, doctoral committee, apart from making them co-guides and supervisors to scholars. Internships “The experts will be able to check the relevance of the research topic to the industry, judge the students’ potential and also improve the ‘industry quotient’ in the research. Their presence also brings in a sense of ownership, wherein the students can be made to take up the current problems faced by the industry,” Dr. Kannabiran explained. Similarly, the excelling students can also take up internship under the mentorship of the co-guides from the industry. Rajendra Prasath, Faculty in-charge of academic programmes explained the significant changes made to the regulations of the part-time Ph.D. to infuse flexibility. Accordingly, residential requirements for part-time students are specified number of days intermittently based on the level of progress of the students, thus allowing more industry personnel to take up research.
07 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharing nutrition tips in a nutshell online||With the mechanism of utilising ‘Burra Katha’ and puppet shows to educate people about nutrition hitting a roadblock in view of the curbs imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, organising such programmes in virtual mode appears to be the practical way out. ‘Nutrition Week’ The Department of Home Science of the Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) has launched similar initiatives as part of the ‘National Nutrition Week’ observed in the first week of September. With various restrictions in force on movement of people, the students of B.Voc (Nutrition and Healthcare Sciences) led by the nodal officer, N. Rajani, have opted for ‘virtual’ awareness programme for women in the identified villages. “Our students have made videos on the importance of nutritious food, macro and micro nutrient consumption, importance of foods that help boost immunity during the pandemic, need for higher nutrition during menstrual cycle, foods rich in vitamins and micro-nutrients, and special diet for those suffering from anaemia, osteoporosis and obesity among other topics,” says assistant professor Santhisree Sunkara. The videos have been sent to K. Padmaja, Child Development Project Officer, Puttur, who coordinates with the women’s groups and circulates the videos among the homemakers in the villages. Balanced diet “A balanced diet with a combination of all essential nutrients plays a pivotal role in the growth and development of human mind and body. Homemakers are our target group,” Dr. N. Rajani explains. Even as we are not being able to reach out to the target audience through favourite channels such as puppet shows and ‘Burra Katha’, the students are planning to make more videos on talk shows with experts, she adds.
07 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govindaraja choultry made COVID care centre||After the TTD-run pilgrim complexes like ‘Srinivasam’, ‘Madhavam’, ‘Vishnu Nivasam’ and ‘Padmavathi Nilayam’, now it is the turn of the Govindaraja second and third choultry buildings to become COVID care centres. With this, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) becomes one of the largest contributors to COVID care support, in terms of beds and buildings. Chittoor district has around 5,200 beds for COVID care, out of which TTD’s contribution is a lion’s share, announced MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, while formally dedicating the facility to the nation. Accompanied by Collector Bharat N. Gupta, Joint Collector (Development) S. Veerabrahmam and Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy, he went around the complex and examined the facilities. “With TTD’s support, we are now self-sufficient and are able to accommodate patients from neighbouring districts too,” Mr. Karunakar Reddy said. Expressing concern over the number of cases touching 18,000 after the unlock 4 was initiated, the legislator also felt that the ensuing ‘Purattasi’ Tamil month, considered auspicious for Venkateswara, could pose a danger as a huge inflow was expected from the neighbouring State. It was hence the token-based darshan system was stopped so as to avoid rush, he explained.
07 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agitation by outsourced staff of TTD continues||An agitation by outsourced employees of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) reached the 21st day on Sunday after they decided to intensify their stir against the management’s decision to get them under the ambit of Andhra Pradesh Corporation for Outsourcing Services (APCOS).  TTD Employees Bank director G. Venkatesam, who is also the honorary president of TTD Staff and Workers Union, visited the dharna camp and expressed solidarity with the agitating employees. “It has been three months since the outsourcing employees have flagged the issue, but neither the officials, nor the trust board has responded. Outsourcing Staff Welfare Association president Hari Prasad, general secretary Hari Krishna, treasurer Naveen Kumar and vice-president G. Hari Krishna said they would continue to fight till the management agrees to a mutually-acceptable solution.
07 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||APIIC officials visit Sri City||Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) Executive Director P. Pratap Reddy visited Sri City on Sunday, where he was formally received by the city’s Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy. Accompanied by OSD to Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) Ratnakar and APIIC Deputy Zonal Manager Jawahar Babu, Mr. Pratap Reddy held a detailed discussion with the officials on land allocation for the upcoming projects and visited the plants of CETC and Panasonic companies in the Electronic Manufacturing Cluster.
07 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister calls for action plan to roll out free power DBT scheme||Minister for Energy Balineni Srinivas Reddy has asked the officials to formulate an action plan for implementation of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme in payment of power subsidy for the farm sector connections. The DBT, he insisted, would directly benefit lakhs of farmers in the State. The government has instructed the Energy Department to ensure effective rollout of the DBT in tune with the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s commitment to transform the nine-hour free power scheme into one of the best in the country, an official release said. It has been decided that the DBT will be implemented on a pilot basis in Srikakulam district before it is extended across the State with effect from April 1, 2021. The Minister asserted that despite the fact that the government decided to implement the DBT as part of the reforms introduced by the Central Government, necessary steps were taken to protect the interests of the farmers. “The farmers need not pay a single pie out of their pockets as the government will deposit the entire bill amount into their respective bank accounts,” said Mr. Srinivas Reddy. The Minister further stated that the smart meters would enable the farmers to know to what extent they used the free power and how much is being spent on it. “This will prevent the power utilities from transferring their losses accumulated due to various reasons to the farmers’ subsidy accounts, thereby ensuring transparency with regard to power purchase, wastage and supply losses,” explained the Minister. The government has no intention to impose curbs on the total number of free power connections. The existing connections will be continued while the unauthorised and additional load connections are being regularised. Directive to DISCOMS Energy Secretary N. Srikant said that the government gave clear directions to the DISCOMs to continue supplying power to the farm connections, irrespective of possible delays in payments by the government.
07 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan, KCR praised for good EoDB rankings||Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Southern region chairman Satish Reddy congratulated the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and K. Chandrasekhar Rao, for making it to the top three positions in the Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) Rankings-2019 announced by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade of the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Mr. Reddy said that proactive policy measures along with a specific focus on EoDB earned A.P. and Telangana the top ranks in various parameters. He complimented both Chief Ministers on their path-breaking initiatives and observed that their dynamic leadership positioned South India as an economic powerhouse in India.
07 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Extensive probe on into chariot-burning case’||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said that police are investigating the chariot-burning incident at the Sri Antarvedi Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple in East Godavari district from all angles. Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, Mr. Sawang said Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) officials, Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao, a CLUES team and other officers visited the temple and collected samples. “It was an unfortunate incident, and police are trying to ascertain the cause for the fire. We are trying to find out whether the chariot was burnt accidentally or whether it is the handiwork of any mischievous persons or anti-social elements,” the DGP said. Investigating officers reportedly did not find the presence of any inflammable material at the spot. Police are looking into how many CCTV cameras were installed on the temple premises, particularly at the chariot, and why they were defunct, Mr. Sawang said. Presence of beehives A senior police officer who is monitoring the investigation said that some beehives were reportedly found on the temple premises. Police are inquiring whether any person, in an attempt to collect honey, lit fire to the beehives, which subsequently spread and set the chariot ablaze. “We have also taken a serious view of the fire mishap at the historic temple, and no stone is being left unturned to solve the case soon,” the officer said.
07 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gandikota project: Naidu alleges disparity in R&R settlement||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday slammed the State government accusing it of harassing a section of the evacuees under the Gandikota project in Kadapa district by not giving them Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package. Mr. Naidu asked the government to explain how the displaced families would vacate their villages without getting the R&R and One-Time Settlement (OTS) packages. As many as 2,369 families were yet to be given the R&R package at Tallapodduru village but they were being asked to evacuate, he said. In a series of tweets, the TDP chief said that it would be difficult for the evacuees to find a new shelter if they were not given suitable compensation and resettlement package. The government acted in a partisan manner and gave the package to only to 500 families while discriminating against the rest of the families in the village, he alleged. Mr. Naidu deplored that lots of problems were cropping up in the implementation of projects because of lack of foresight and strategic planning on the part of the government. Better results can be achieved only when timely action was taken in all parameters. Owing to lack of responsible action, the Gandikota project evacuees were now facing hardship and misery, he said. Submersion threat The TDP chief said: “The evacuees cannot go anywhere at this juncture in view of the COVID-19 threat while there is submersion threat from the project backwaters.” Though there were floods in the rivers, no efforts were made to store 26 TMC water in the Gandikota reservoir. On the other hand, even packages were not given to settle the issue with the evacuees. Eventually, the people of AP were paying a heavy price for omissions committed by the ruling YSRCP, he alleged.
07 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Shops can operate for longer hours’||Bandar Revenue Divisional Officer(RDO) Sk. Kazavali said that the existing restrictions on business hours have been relaxed and shops and establishments can remain open between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m. hereafter. In a video message, Mr. Kazavali called upon the public to get tested in case they develop any symptoms of COVID to avoid further spread of the virus. On Sunday, 42 new infections were reported in Bandar and 17 of them were reported in Machilipatnam town. So far, 1,773 cases have been registered in the division and over 900 of the patients have recovered.
07 September 2020||vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila panel chief talks tough against deception||Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has said the people who deceived women in relationships will not be spared regardless of their social standing. Ms. Padma said on Sunday that there should be no doubt in anybody's mind that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government would not support the victim in such cases. Ms. Padma met Matcha Dhana Lakshmi, a woman who was duped in a relationship and survived an attempt on life, at Ainampudi village under Mudinepalli mandal in Gudivada division, along with local MLA D. Nageswara Rao. The Mahila Commission Chairperson spoke at length with Ms. Dhana Lakshmi about the circumstances that led to her present condition and said it was unfortunate that a Dalit woman was deceived in a relationship citing her caste and economic status. Ms. Padma said the 'accused' promised the victim that he would marry her but later went back on his word citing her caste and economic status. When she confronted him and filed a case against him, he locked the door of her house at midnight when she was in sound sleep and set the house on fire. However, the victim managed to survive. Ms. Padma said the Mahila Commission would take the case to its logical end and ensure stringent punishment to the accused. She said the government machinery, the police and the revenue officials acted immediately and provided all kinds of support to the victim's family. She said the courage with which Ms. Dhana Lakshmi had fought against the injustice meted out to her facing several odds was praiseworthy. Financial aid Mr. Nageswara Rao said he visited the victim three days ago and tried his bit to instil confidence in her. He said in consultation with the Collector, it was decided to provide her employment, besides extending financial help and a house. Referring to the charges levelled by the Opposition party, she said "some people are trying to politicise the issue for their selfish gains." Deputy Superintendent of Police Satyanand, Circle Inspector Nabi, Tahsildar Srinivasa Rao and local leaders were also present.
07 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committee formed to handle civil works||The government constituted a high-power panel for finalising all civil works including Nadu-Nedu programme costing above Rs. 5 crore to be taken up by the A.P. Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC), said G.O. 389 issued by Special Chief Secretary (health, medical and family welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy. The committee will be chaired by Mr. Jawahar Reddy and will have the APMSIDC chief engineer as its convener.
07 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID to hold webinars||The A.P. CID is going to organise weekly webinars on ‘police and law’ for the public. Additional DG (CID) P.V. Sunil Kumar and chief legal advisor of CID R. Sravana Kumar will attend the webinar at 11 a.m. on Monday. Watch live on APCID4S4U YouTube channel.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||523 new cases take tally to 41,517||As many as 523 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the last 24 hours in Visakhapatnam district by Sunday, taking the cumulative tally to 41,517 since the outbreak of the pandemic. The death toll rose to 289 with five more persons succumbing to the virus. Meanwhile as many as 694 persons recovered from the virus. The recoveries include a number of persons who underwent treatment through home isolation. According to the COVID-19 bulletin, the total number of active cases in the district are 5,987 and discharges or recoveries are 35,241. According to Special officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, among the 721 clusters in the district, 60 are very active clusters, 45 active and 616 are dormant clusters. He also said that 192 clusters have already been denotified by the District Collector after the clusters did not report new cases in 28 days.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Some more special trains to be operated from Sept. 12||The railways will operate some more special trains with effect from September 12. The booking for these trains will start from September 10. These include one special train from Visakhapatnam to Korba, special trains between Howrah and Tiruchirapalli and Guwahati and Bengaluru under E Co R jurisdiction. Train no. 08518/17 Visakhapatnam-Korba-Visakhaptnam daily special will leave Visakhapatnam at 8.05 p.m. with effect from September 12 and from Korba at 4.10 p.m. with effect from Sept 13. These trains will have stoppages at Vizianagaram, Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Rayagada, Kesinga, Titilagarh, Kantabanji, Khariar Road, Mahasamund, Raipur, Tilda Neora, Bhatapara, Bilaspur, Akaltara, Janjgiri Naila and Champa in both the directions, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. Train no. 02664/02663 Tiruchirapalli-Howrah-Tiruchirapalli bi-weekly Special will leave Tiruchirapalli at 4.20 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays with effect from Septtember 15 and from Howrah at 4.10 p.m. on Thursdays and Sundays with effect from September 17. These trains will have stoppages in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Khurda Road, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak in both the directions. Train no. 02509/10 Guwahati-Bengaluru Cant tri-weekly special will leave Guwahati at 6.20 p.m. on Sundays, Mondays and Tuesdays with effect from September 13 and from Bengaluru Cant at 11.40 p.m. on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, with effect from September 16. These trains have stoppages at - Rangiya, New Jalpaiguri, Malda Town, Howrah, Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur Keonjhar Road, Cuttack, Bhubaneswar, Khurda Road, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada apart from some other stations between Guwahati and Bangalore Cant. The tickets will be available at reservation counters and also at IRCTC website. Only confirmed ticket holders will be allowed to board the train.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP official donates plasma for second time||L.V. Raman, a Senior Manager in the Blast Furnace Department of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), who had recovered from COVID-19, donated his plasma for the second time to save another critical patient. Mr. Raman, who is extensively involved in service activities on behalf of Ukkunagaram Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi, was requested for plasma by the relative of a patient who is undergoing treatment for COVID in a critical condition at a corporate hospital in the city. He had earlier donated his plasma for the first time on August 18. The plasma of the patients, who have fully recovered from corona disease, can be of great help in the treatment of corona patients because the antibodies in their blood help in the treatment. Mr. Raman had tested positive in July. State president of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation S.G. Chalam lauded the noble gesture of Mr. Raman. Teacher’s gesture Ayanampudi Sujatha Raju, a teacher, went all the way from Gajuwaka to the city and donated plasma.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||The call that traced elusive Nutan Naidu||A call from a doctor, who wanted to verify the veracity of the call he received, and some smart policing thereafter have given away the elusive Nutan Naidu who is allegedly involved in the cases of impersonation, tonsuring of a Dalit youth and reported extortion. On August 29, the Pendurthi police arrested the wife of Nutan Naidu, Priya Madhuri, and six others for allegedly abusing and tonsuring a Dalit youth, their former employee, a day before in their house at Sujatha Nagar. At that time Nutan Naidu, who was participating in a TV reality show, was reportedly not present at home. When Priya Madhuri was being sent to Central Jail on remand, she complained of chest pain. She was sent to KGH for examination. The same day, P.V. Sudhakar, Principal of Andhra Medical College and Superintendent of KGH, received a call at 12.49 p.m. and the caller identified himself as P.V. Ramesh, special advisor to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “After the caller introduced himself as Mr. Ramesh, I took the call attentively, as he is known to me and a senior officer,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “My true caller ID displayed the call as from PS to Chief Secretary, AP CMO. He told me that one advocate by name Mr. Raja would come and seek my help in a certain case,” he recollected. Dr. Sudhakar called back Mr. Ramesh to his personal number around 5.40 p.m. to enquire why the advocate did not turn up. Mr. Ramesh told the doctor that he had made no calls. As confusion prevailed, at 5.41 p.m. Dr. Sudhakar received a call from the earlier number. Holding Mr. Ramesh’s call, he took the call and the caller again identified as Mr. Ramesh and asked the doctor to recommend 15 days medical treatment for Priya Madhuri who was by that time in the out-patient ward for medical examination. “It became clear to both me and Mr. Ramesh that someone was impersonating him. Mr. Ramesh informed the DGP and Visakhapatnam Police Commissioner,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “We started to track the calls. It was clear that calls were being made by one person, and based on tower locations we zeroed in on Nutan Naidu at Udipi railway station,” said Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha. CCTV footage Earlier, the police were tracking Nutan Naidu, as CCTV footage at his home showed his involvement in the tonsure case. On August 28, when the youth was being beaten up and tonsured at his house, his wife received three Net calls at 1.51 pm, 2.54 and 3.09 p.m. It was evident that he was giving instructions and in one of the calls the CCTV footage revealed that he was scolding the victim . The CDR of Nutan Naidu’s phone has revealed the details and it was accepted by him during re-verification, said Mr. Sinha. When the police arrested him at Udipi station, they recovered five cellphones, including the one used to call his wife and the one used to call Dr. Sudhakar. As per the call records he made hundreds of calls to various officers and the police have already identified 27 of them. Alleged extortion Recently, Nutan Naidu had called a senior revenue officer in Visakhapatnam and posed himself as Mr. Ramesh and asked him to clear a file pertaining to a land, which apparently benefited a party. He reportedly collected Rs. 25 lakh from the party for the favour done, according to the revenue officer. The police may book extortion cases against Nutan Naidu.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials focus on mass testing in containment zones||Ever since the first COVID-19 positive case was recorded in the last week of March, the district administration has put its focus on testing, especially in the containment zones. The testing in the GVMC limits began on April 6 and from 11 tests on that day it has gone up to about 2.75 lakhs, as on date. The Health Department, GVMC and the district administration have been focussing on testing and it will continue in the coming days. “We are now testing close to 6,000 persons on a daily basis and that is why there is a spike in the cases,” said P.V. Sudhakar, District COVID Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College. Going by the statistics, after 2.75 lakh tests, mostly in the containment zones, the number of positive cases is close to 41,000, which indicates that about 15% have tested positive. According to District Collector V. Vinay Chand, the target set by the administration is to complete tests for 90% of the population in the containment zones or clusters in the next few days. As on date there are about 717 clusters in the district, with 52 very active and 42 active clusters. At present, all the 72 PHCs in the 72 GVMC wards are operational, which include the 29 max centres, and all have been provided rapid antigen kits for testing. The testing centres have been decentralised and the medical officers at the PHCs and ward secretaries have been provided apps to give live updates. Apart from the PHCs, which act as sample collection centres, the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (as been provided nine Truenat machines for tests and the VRDL at KGH has five RTPCR machines. “People can approach their local PHCs or can come to VRDL or GHCCD for tests in the urban areas,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “In the rural and tribal areas, every CHC (community health centre) has been provided rapid antigen kits. The kits are replenished on a daily basis or as and when required on demand,” he said. “After completing the round of testing at the containment zones, our next focus will be conducting random tests in non-containment zones. It is because of the transparency in the testing that we see a spike in the district and across the State,” he said.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested in land-grabbing case||The city police on Sunday arrested five persons for allegedly grabbing land worth Rs. 10 crore at Madhurwada area under PM Palem police station limits in Visakhapatnam. The arrested have been identified as Jami Satya Ravi Kishore alias Ganta Ravi Kishore, Pilla Ramu (38), P. Yallayamma, Pothina alias P. Narasayamma (45), Y. Paidikonda (43), . According to police, on September 4, one Datti Lakshmana Rao of Venkatarajapuram of Vizianagaram district approached the police saying that in 2003, he along with two others had purchased an extent of 1,146.13 square yards and 125.86 square yards land in Survey no.249/10 at Durga Nagar, Madhurawada. He also constructed a compound wall. He complained that the accused created a forged document for the land, as if they executed deed of partition into five unequal shares to an extent of 2,323 sq.yards. Based on that fraudulent document, the accused trespassed into the land, damaged part of the compound wall and constructed a thatched shed. He complained that the accused Ravi Kishore also erected a board stating that “This site belongs to J.A. Ravi Kishore”, apart from employing some labour and installed CCTV cameras. Based on the complaint, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP-North) R. Ravi Sankar Reddy, registered a case and arrested the accused.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Turning waste into wealth by salvaging crop residue||Burning of paddy straw, or crop residue, has become a serious problem in the State. “An average of 1.5 crore tonnes of paddy straw is being generated in Andhra Pradesh every year, of which a large part is set on fire by farmers. Burning of paddy straw releases greenhouse gases, air pollutants, particulate matter like elemental carbon and smoke that strongly impacts human health,” said Aneel Kumar Ambavaram of Grameena Vikas Kendram Society for Rural Development (a hybrid organisation, representing Indo-Dutch sustainability forum - INDUS Forum in Andhra Pradesh). The Government of Andhra Pradesh, Government of the Netherlands, and Grameena Vikas Kendram Society for Rural Development have signed an MoU with the aim to initiate and strengthen collaboration among the parties to enable the establishment of agricultural biomass-based industries to generate income for farmers and agriculture labour in rural Andhra Pradesh, support industrial development, and reduce environmental pollution caused by agricultural biomass burning. The name of the programme is ‘Waste to Worth’. According to Mr. Aneel, burning of crop residue leads to loss of nutrients and affects soil fertility. At the same time, India is facing fiber deficiency and has to import fibers while there is a growing global demand for bio-based products such as packaging, flooring, furniture, energy, and much more. Biomass from agricultural systems is the future for many product applications in the paper, furniture, and energy industry. The demand for it is expected to catch up in Europe. ‘Waste to Worth’ strives to create a circular business model for paddy straw and other biomass-based upcycled products in India and prevent release of greenhouse gases emission caused by biomass burning. Both governments opt for futuristic circular solutions, wherein agriculture waste is transformed into new products that create a positive social and ecological impact in Andhra Pradesh, he said. Through the Waste to Worth programme, initiated by the INDUS Forum, pulping and manufacturing units will be established that use paddy straw and other agricultural biomass, such as coconut, banana and pulses as the raw material and upcycle these into innovative, circular, and sustainable panels, furniture, building materials, packaging and more. The INDUS Forum is actively supported by the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The ambition is to establish 10 processing hubs in different locations of Andhra Pradesh by 2030. The first processing hub to be established will benefit and increase income of 4,000 farming families, and benefit over two lakh families by 2030, Mr. Aneel said. Waste to Worth, along with the support of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, is also going to set up an Experience Centre to scale up collaborative research with respected research institutes such as Central Pulp & Paper Research Institute (CPPRI) in India and Wageningen University in the Netherlands. “The A.P. Government is providing initial grant funding. This fund will be used for farmers’ mobilisation, training, establishment of an Experience Centre to support research on other biomass sources, innovation, testing and in addition, create livelihood for poorest of the poor families in rural Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Aneel said.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two drown, one missing at Parawada||Two persons drowned and one went missing in separate incidents at a beach in Parawada mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. In one case, five friends came for a photoshoot to a beach in Parawada, and one of them reportedly went missing. In another incident, high tides pulled two persons of a family. Though fishermen managed to rescue them, , they were declared dead on being shifted to a hospital. Details of the victims are yet to be known. Cases are being booked.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seer condemns chariot fire||Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham Head Sri Swaroopanandendra Saraswathi Swamy has condemned the incident in which the chariot of Sri Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district was gutted in fire. The seer, who is camping at Rishikesh, demanded severe action against those responsible. He also wanted a new chariot to be built before the Narasimha Swamy Radhotsavam. Meanwhile, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, EO Anil Kumar Singhal and Joint EO Dharma Reddy made a courtesy call on Sri Swaroopanandendra Swamy, at Rishikesh.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown in West Bengal: two trains cancelled||A couple of trains have been cancelled, and two trains have been partially cancelled due to complete lockdown in West Bengal on September 7, 11 and 12. The trains cancelled are: 02245 Howrah-Yesvantpur Duronto Special, leaving Howrah on September 11 and 12, and 02246 Yesvantpur-Howrah Duronto Special, leaving Yesvantpur on September 6, 10 and 11. Short-terminated The trains partially cancelled are: 02704 Secunderabad-Howrah Falaknuma Special Express, leaving Secunderabad on September 10 and 11, will be terminated at Bhubaneswar. Hence, there will be no service of this train from Bhubaneswar and Howrah on September 11 and 12. Train no. 02703 Howrah-Secunerabad Falaknuma Special Express will start from Bhubaneswar, instead of Howrah on September 11 and 12, and there will be no service of this train between Howrah and Bhubaneswar on the above days. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi called upon passengers, intending to travel by the above trains, to make a note of the changes.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, daughter die in road accident||A 34-year-old man and his four-year-old daughter died in a road accident allegedly after hit by a lorry from behind on the Chodavaram Road in Anakapalle mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday morning. The deceased were identified as A. Raju and A. Hayathi, both residents of Malkapuram area, and native of V Madugula mandal in the district. According to reports, the incident occurred when Raju, his daughter and his wife were going on a motorcycle to native village. While Raju and Hayathi died on the spot, his wife escaped with minor injuries. Raju’s wife wept inconsolably on seeing her husband and daughter dying before her eyes. The bodies were shifted to the NTR hospital at Anakapalle. Anakapalle (Traffic) police registered a case.
07 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remanded in judicial custody||The police brought Nutan Naidu, an accused in the cases of Dalit youth tonsuring and impersonation of a senior IAS officer from AP, from Udipi in Karnataka to Visakhapatnam on Saturday night. According to the officials, the accused was initially sent to King George Hospital (KGH) where medical tests were conducted. He was remanded to judicial custody after being presented before the Magistrate. It is learnt that soon he will be taken into police custody.
07 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointments hailed||Several organisations hailed the appointment of chairpersons for corporations created for sub-castes of many backward castes in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Vizinaagaram BC Hakkula Sadhana Samiti president Gorle Suribabu said that the decision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would help many sub-castes to get justice and financial support from corporations. He said that people belonging to sub-castes would not fight for their quota in sanctioning of loans and financial assistance when they had exclusive corporations. Srikakulam Backward Classes Association president P. Chandrapati Rao and general secretary Badana Deva Bhushana Rao congratulated the new chairperson of Turpu Kapu association Mamidi Srikanth. They also hailed the appointment of Andhavarapu Suribabu as chairperson of Kalinga Komati Corporation.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Homebound||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing time||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The new normal||
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treading cautiously||
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Science and technology are the key to a nation’s progress’||No country has become a developed nation without developing a scientific and technological open service skills and in this context, institutes like the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) are very important for research progress, said Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy. He was addressing participants of the online ‘Summer Research Training Programme 2020’organised by the CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology (NEIST), Jorhat, Assam. “CSIR laboratories provide an environment of deep thinking, discussing, collaboration, debating, inter-relationary approach to problem solving, data and fact orientation among many other aspects of research. Science is about unravelling the secrets of nature and understanding the reality around us,” he pointed out. NEIST director G. Narahary Sastry, who hails from Hyderabad and has previously worked with IICT here, interviewed Mr. Murthy online where he stated that students should not get “frustrated” upon not getting admission into IITs as “good education is not limited to IITs only” and that it is possible to obtain “good education from any institute as long there is reasonable competence, hard work and desire”. He was also against preventing highly educated bright minds from migrating with any law as “we live in a world of globalisation and India is a part of that” yet it is our “responsibility to provide an atmosphere of nurturing excellence”. The IT Czar also emphasised abilities to fluently communicate in English. Competence, character and commitment are the three pillars of success, he said, adding that “success is bringing smile on the faces of people, we need to care for the other people to become successful and have to share joy and sorrows of other people”. Corruption in bureaucracy and lack of professionalism in planning are the country’s major bottlenecks, he said and expressed the hope that the younger generation will change the direction. “India can solve its problem of poverty by creating new jobs, convert ideas into jobs and wealth, and create an environment for encouraging entrepreneurship,” he maintained. About 6,000 participants through different online platforms from all over the country participated and at least 16,000 students of different disciplines registered and trained for the summer programe under the leadership of Dr. Sastry, said Ranjana Aggarwal, director of National Institute of Science Communication and Informed Resources.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Infra boost for Hi-Tec City railway station||South Central Railway (SCR) appears to be once again looking at the Hi-Tec City railway station as a possible key passing through or perhaps, even a key terminal station, in the west side of the capital. While Lingampally station, six kilometres ahead with six platforms has become the fourth terminal with some trains terminating and de-congesting the Secunderabad railway station, Hi-Tec City station too is getting a new look. Infrastructure work is currently underway to extend the two platforms at a cost of close Rs. 2 crore. Circulating and parking areas in both sides are getting a facelift and two lifts are being installed at a cost of Rs. 70 lakh. As of now, express trains have no halt here but it is a key station for MMTS local trains that got suspended due to the pandemic. There is no surety about their movement even though Metro rail got the green signal. Several express trains towards Mumbai, Wadi and Bengaluru, including the Rajdhani, Hussainsagar, Konark and others, can be provided halts here to cater to the needs of people living in this part of the fast-growing region, once the work including extension of platforms to handle 24 coach trains is completed, observed senior officials.  There is no scope for any expansion for Begumpet station but there is a possibility of having a couple of platforms at Hi-Tec City station where we have upto 10 acres of land, they revealed. Incidentally, SCR had sought 300 acres when it put up a proposal for setting up a new modern passenger terminal a decade ago when the government was willing to give 30 acres. The project got shifted to Vattinagulapally beyond Lingampally with similar land area demand, but there has been no progress. Anyway, without waiting for the Telangana government to provide additional 200 acres sought at Charlapalli, the SCR is going ahead with building a big passenger terminal at Charlapalli. Two platforms are being built in the first phase in the 50 acres land under its possession and another four platforms are to be built in the next phase at a total estimated cost of Rs. 230 crore. We will expand facilities and originally planned 10 platforms when we receive more land from the government, added senior officials, wishing to remain anonymous.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. shifts focus to next crop season||The State government has shifted its focus to making arrangements for the next crop season, yasangi (rabi), by asking Agriculture officials to procure the required quantity of inputs for the next season, with sowing or transplantation or plantation for the first season, vanakalam (kharif), almost coming to an end. According to officials, vanakalam crops have been cultivated in 129.32 lakh acres so far and combined with horticulture and plantation crops in another 9.5 lakh acres, the total extent covered this season extends to 138.82 lakh acres. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy held a meeting with Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, Chairman of Telangana State Seed Development Corporation K. Koteshwar Rao and Managing Director K. Keshavulu on procurement of seed for the next season. He asked officials to keep available the seed required for next season, particularly of paddy, bengal gram, groundnut and other crops, by month-end since good monsoon season and availability of water in projects and minor irrigation tanks was expected to push the yasangi cultivation to a great extent. Seed corporation officials informed him that about 73,000 quintals of bengal gram seed and 50,000 quintals of groundnut seed was already available with the agency. Meanwhile, the Minister reiterated his request to the Centre to supply urea in time as it was in short supply by 2.54 lakh metric tonnes till the end of August and for the first crop season ending this month it was 4.64 lakh tonnes. He stated that the Centre had allotted 22.3 lakh tonnes of fertilizers for the 2020-21 vanakalam season including 10.5 lakh tonnes of urea and 11.8 lakh tonnes of other fertilizers. He explained the month-wise allocation of urea till the end of August was 8.69 lakh tonnes but only 6.15 lakh tonnes supplied and the shortfall in supply was there every month. The short supply was 0.37 lakh tonnes in April, 0.54 lakh tonnes in May, 0.09 lakh tonnes in June, 0.79 lakh tonnes in July and 0.75 lakh tonnes in August. The allotment of the soil nutrient for September was 2.1 lakh tonnes and the State was yet to receive anything out of it. He urged the Centre to consider the increase in extent of cultivation by over 36% this season compared to last year and make higher allotment.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Online classes inaccessible to Adivasi students, says report||Lack of digital connectivity, television, android phones, and internet provision is making online classes inaccessible to Adivasi students, due to which they are unable to keep abreast of education in the current academic year. A recent report from the ground by PDSU (Vijrumbhana) group has brought to light this fact, and demanded that the government ensure continuous education of Adivasi students by establishment of schools in each tribal hamlet, and instruction by local Adivasi teachers. A fact-finding team of the PDSU (Vijrumbhana) toured the agency and Adivasi areas of Asifabad, Mancherial and Adilabad districts, besides remote villages of ITDA Utnoor and Eturunagaram tribal regions between August 20 and 25, and prepared a comprehensive report on the difficulties faced by students and their parents. There was no mobile network or DTH connectivity in village panchayats such as Pangidi Madara, Manikyapur, Asnoor, Rompally, Mangi, Gopera, and Thatiguda in Tiryani mandal of Asifabad district. Even where there were television sets, they were not functional owing to lack of cable connectivity, the report said. Citing a field survey conducted in June by teachers to rope in Adivasi students for online classes through an app designed by the Tribal Welfare department, the report noted that a predominant number of students did not have android phones. A teacher, A.Bhujanga Rao, from Tribal Welfare residential school in Bodda Singaram hamlet of Indravelli mandal in Adilabad district, said that only six students of Class X had access to android phones which belonged to their older siblings, and to use them even, they were forced to to climb hillocks for signals. Phone balance is another problem, owing to parents’ poverty, besides difficulty with the English language in operating mobile apps. The school has only one television set, and teaching the 320 students will be a huge problem. Similar situation prevailed at tribal villages of Penchikalpet, Bejjur, Dahegam, Vemanapalli mandals in Asifabad district, with regard to mobile signals and DTH connectivity. At some places, frequent power-cut added to the problem. The issues with regard to online classes are not limited to school studentsl; they extended to college students, the report said, with examples. When the team sought version of district-level education officials, they admitted that some areas lacked internet connectivity, and said efforts were being made for getting cable connection. They also said majority schools had a single television set, which would prove insufficient for online classes, keeping in view the student strength. Alleging that the Telangana government was showing apathetic attitude towards tribal and Adivasi students, the report demanded revocation of online classes, and instruction by local teachers in the mother tongues concerned.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bumper paddy crop expected this season||A bumper paddy crop is on cards in the current agricultural season as the cropped area has surpassed all expectations with a coverage of 49.10 lakh acres as on date which is 180% more than normal for the season. With just over 26 lakh acres in the same season last year, the paddy production was 47.14 lakh tonnes. Unlike rain-fed crops, the paddy production was normally high in rabi season because it is a water intensive crop and the irrigation was facilitated by canals, tanks and bore wells in the absence of rains. In these circumstances, the yield in vanakalam last year was 64.16 lakh tonnes. But, such tonnage looked a close possibility in the first crop itself under rain-fed conditions. Agriculture Commissioner B. Janardhan Reddy said 70% of paddy cultivation was of fine varieties which will fetch farmers a good price. Paddy, cotton and red gram account for 1.18 crore acres of total cropped area of 1.29 crore acres in the State this season. While the coverage of paddy was 49.10 lakh acres, cotton was 59.28 lakh acres and red gram 10.56 lakh acres. Red gram replaced maize in the top three crops because the government discouraged the latter crop as it was produced in excess world over and the off take was also poor. Instead, the government suggested that the farmers sow red gram. Mr. Reddy said the farmers responded well by sowing red gram in over 10.50 lakh acres against 6.98 lakh acres last year. This was 138% excess over season’s normal. Only such farmers who were traditional suppliers of maize for poultry and dairy farms and those who cultivated the crop for their livelihood to feed animals went for the crop. This was reflected in the figures as the crop was sown in over just 2.15 lakh acres against 9.35 lakh acres last year. Cotton was grown so far over 59.28 lakh acres against 44.79 lakh acres last year (133% excess). Mr. Reddy expected all irrigated dry crops, including cotton, red gram and maize, to do well because they got good wetting in the season. There were 64 rainy days from June to August which had never happened since 2004. The average rainy days in a season were 25 to 30. He summarised a rainy day as one where the rain was uniformly 2.55 mm everyday on an average. That made a huge difference because it amounted to 60% to 70% more irrigated conditions over normal flooding.
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A smart mask to beat COVID||Technology Business Incubator of BITS-Pilani Hyderabad-incubated startup has developed an IoT-based smart face mask for a medical condition such as COVID-19 and pulmonary disorder. This Internet of Things (IoT) face mask helps in protecting an individual from being exposed to infection and also monitors their health parameters remotely, a release from Technology Business Incubator of BITS-Pilani Hyderabad said. “The smart face mask helps COVID-19 warriors efficiently monitor patients through their smartphones, thereby reducing the time they spend in isolation wards to collect basic parameters, which reduces the risks of them being infected,” it said. The IoT device attached to the mask processes and screens the body’s essential factors such as temperature and blood oxygen levels etc, and monitors the humidity levels that develop inside the mask layers over a period. Reduces discomfort The feature called OBV (oxy-breathe ventilators) attached to the mask helps the user expel heat, and removes moisture from the mask so it can be worn continuously without causing any discomfort and also reduces the probability of infection caused due to constantly wearing a mask, stated the release. The system can be activated remotely using IoT mobile applications and controlled through easy touch and play, it said, adding another feature for specially designed cotton fabric is the green and eco-friendly filters — three-layer filters which can be replaced, and cotton fabric can be washed. The BScout Facemask app developed for Android and IOS is cloud-based remote patient monitoring and health assessment tool that tracks vital parameters like fever, blood oxygen levels, and migraine due to the pressure differences in altitudes and provides instant data for doctors to remotely monitor the patient in home isolation, it said. Baiid Auto Technologies is exploring ‘Make in India’ and investment opportunities for scaling up the manufacturing of this smart mask with BITS’ support, it added.  The mask helps COVID warriors efficiently monitor patients through their smartphones, thereby reducing the time they spend in isolation wards. Technology Business Incubator, BITS-Pilani Hyderabad
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. demands probe into ‘poor’ PPE kits for medicos||Expressing concern over Telangana’s healthcare workers having the highest COVID-19 positivity rate in the country, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) leaders have said this was due to the poor quality of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and demanded a probe into it. TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy, in a statement here, said over 2,000 healthcare workers, including doctors, were infected with COVID-19 and at least 14 of them died due to the disease. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is directly responsible for these infections and deaths as he did not take measures to protect these frontline warriors against coronavirus,” he said. Revealing the statistics released by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare two days ago, he said Telangana was at the top in COVID-19 positivity rate among healthcare personnel with about 18% of them infected. The positive rate is 16% in Maharashtra, the worst-hit State in this pandemic, and 14% in Delhi, which also has a far higher burden of cases compared to Telangana. He said doctors had disclosed the PPE kits were lower than 70 gsm, while the prescribed one is 90 gsm, and masks supplied to the healthcare workers in Telangana were also of sub-standard quality. “A high-level inquiry must be ordered into the procurement and supply of PPE kits,” Mr. Reddy said.
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress expects suspension||The Telangana Congress doesn’t plan to give even a slight opportunity to the government or fall into the TRS trap leading to their suspension from the Assembly, which it fears is quite possible given the serious issues it plans to raise in the sessions. Though the strategy to be adopted in the Assembly will be discussed at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting on Monday morning, the MLAs said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is not willing to accept even slight criticism from the opposition, which according to them is Congress party alone. “We don’t expect the MIM MLAs to corner the government as it a friendly party, and the entire burden of asking questions falls on us,” a MLA said. Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy said the State is facing serious issues and people want them to be discussed. He said the government should come forward to discuss corona issue and the facilities at government hospitals in Telangana with an open mind as it concerns the health of the poor. “Our CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka toured State hospitals for 10 days and he has valuable inputs to be shared in the Assembly,” he said. Apart from the State issues, MLAs also want to seek specific answers to the problems in the respective constituencies. Mr. Jagga Reddy says opposition MLAs should get more space and time as the ruling party MLAs have some access to the Chief Minister and Ministers for redressal of their constituency issues. Uttam faults KCR Meanwhile, TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said Pragathi Bhavan has turned into an epicentre of official activities with no access to Ministers, MLAs and other officials, except the family of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao - leading to collapse of the administration. In short, even people have no access to it, he said, adding people are tired of this kind of administration and are looking for a change. Mr. Reddy made these observations while addressing the District Congress Committee presidents at Gandhi Bhavan on Sunday. Meanwhile, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka has asked the party spokespersons to expose the ‘failures’ of the government on all platforms, while the MLAs would seek answers from the government in the Assembly. Speaking to the party spokespersons, he said the party is well prepared to raise issues of public importance and corner the government on its failures. However, it is equally important that party’s voice is heard on all platforms outside the Assembly as well, he said. Apart from corona, issues related to farmers and unemployed youth, double bedroom houses, rising attacks on dalits, corruption in irrigation projects were some of the key aspects that will be raised in the Assembly, he said. He advised the spokespersons to expose how the Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS) is going to be a huge burden on the poor and middle classes.
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Retired Army doctor stabs husband to death||A retired Army doctor, said to be an alcoholic, allegedly killed her husband at Bandlaguda of Rajendra Nagar on Saturday night. The victim, Vishal Dewan (42), was a former Army captain. He retired 10 years ago. As per police report, Lieutenant Colonel (retd.) Dr. Sabina Roshan (50), who retired from service four years ago, was having frequent altercations with her husband over financial assistance and other family issues. Dr. Sabina has a daughter out of her first marriage. When she married the Armyman, they had a son. “The couple were frequently arguing and on many occasions, they thrashed each other very badly. Last month, when they physically assaulted each other, Dr. Sabina’s spinal disc got injured and the victim was not taking her to the hospital,” Rajendra Nagar Inspector G. Suresh said, adding that Dr. Sabina was addicted to liquor and was a chain smoker as well. “Around 9:30 p.m. on Saturday, she consumed a lot of liquor and picked up a heated argument with Vishal. The quarrel continued for more than an hour,” Mr. Suresh said. Around 10.30 p.m., when he was going to the children’s bedroom, Dr. Sabina followed him and stabbed him in the chest with a meat chopper, Mr. Suresh said. “Two children, who were witness to the offence, called the neighbours. Vishal was rushed to a private hospital, where doctors declared him dead,” the officer said. A case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Dr. Sabina, who was later arrested and remanded to judicial custody.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MBT, IUML question KCR’s sincerity on mosque reconstruction||The Majlis Bachao Tahreek (MBT) and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) remained suspicious of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s statement on reconstructing the two mosques in the Secretariat complex and sought to know why the Muslim community would believe him, given his alleged history of not keeping promises. The statements come in the wake of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president leading a delegation of faith leaders, including those from the All India Muslim Personal Law Board and the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind Telangana and Odisha, to meet the CM at Pragathi Bhavan to discuss the issue. The Chief Minister had stated that the two mosques would be built at the same location where they once stood. In a statement issued to the media, MBT youth leader and former corporator Amjed Ullah Khan alleged that the CM has deceived Muslims several times. Mr Khan demanded that the Chief Minister immediately release the new plan of the Secretariat, duly notifying the land parcel earmarked for the mosques. ‘State supervision’ Mr Khan sought to know from those who went to meet Mr Rao as to why they did not demand action against those responsible for demolishing the two mosques, even as he said that the demolition of the Secretariat complex was done under the supervision of State government officials. Mr Khan demanded that the State government identify those responsible for demolition and file a case against them. On the other hand, the Indian Union Muslim League welcomed the decision to reconstruct the mosques. IUML general secretary Abdul Gani reiterated that the 12% reservations for Muslims as promised by Mr Rao continues to remain a distant dream. Encounter He also raised the encounter of under-trial prisoners Viqar Ahmed and others at Alair and the demolition of Masjid-e-Ek Khana in Amberpet. Mr Gani stated that those who sought reconstruction of the mosques such as Mushtaq Mallik from Tehreek Muslim Shabban and the MBT were kept away from the discussions.  The Chief Minister should immediately release the new plan of the Secretariat, duly notifying the land parcel earmarked for the mosques.   Amjed Ullah Khan, former MBT corporator
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fire NoCs to colleges to be issued soon||Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Education Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy jointly convened a meeting to discuss the issue of no objection certificates (NoCs) to be issued to the colleges from Fire Services Department and decided to take an expeditious decision. The Ministers and officials discussed the difficulties being faced by the Board of Intermediate Education in sanctioning affiliation and to resolve the problem that affects lakhs of Intermediate students. Issue of top importance The Home Minister said that protecting life and property of citizens from fire is of utmost importance but at the same time the careers of the students cannot be neglected and all steps would be taken to facilitate education with all protective measures for their safety. Senior officials Chitra Ramchandran, Omer Jaleel, Ravi Gupta, Sanjay Kumar Jain and Vishwajit Kampati were among present.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Parties told to field BC candidates for Dubbak by-poll||Over a dozen Backward Class associations in Telangana have decided to field a candidate from the BC communities for the forthcoming by-election to Dubbak Assembly constituency in Siddipet district, in case the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party fail to give ticket to BC candidates. The decision was taken at a meeting of the 14 BC associations and was attended by R. Krishnaiah, president of National BC Welfare Association, and leaders of other bodies – N. Venkatesh, A. Ramkoti Mudiraj, A. Pandu Mudiraj, A. Venu Kumar Netha, G. Mallesh Yadav, R. Chandrasekhar Goud, C. Rajender Mudiraj, T.R. Chander, G. Anji, B. Krishna Yadav, P. Venugopal Yadav, B.R. Krishna Mudiraj, Madhusudan Goud and others. They have decided to make the Dubbak by-poll a laboratory to take the slogan of self-respect of BC communities to people. Speaking at the meeting, the BC leaders alleged that all political parties had been them for the last 74 years by denying their due share in electoral politics but people are not ready to tolerate it any more. According to the Samagra Kutumba Survey conducted by the State Government in 2014, the composition of BC communities in the State population is 52% but the percentage of BC legislators in the Assembly had never crossed 15%. Further, they pointed out that there were no BC legislators from 24 out of the 33 districts in the State and the allocation of budget for the welfare and development of BC communities is not in proportion of their population. Reservation for BC communities in rural local bodies was reduced to 22% from the previous 34% by the State government.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to amend Telangana Education Act||The State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar has offered to take up with the State government amendment to Telangana Education Act, 1982, to ensure that private teachers, lecturers, assistant professors and professors got salaries from their respective managements on a monthly basis. A specific recommendation will be made to alter Section 84 of the Act to charge the salaries. Mr. Vinod Kumar made the offer when a delegation of the association representing these sections of teachers in private technical institutions called on him on Sunday to submit a memorandum on their problems arising out of non-payment of salaries regularly.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Be happy with Modi feeding peacocks: Owaisi||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi questioned the Narendra Modi government’s stand on dropping question hour in the next Parliament session due to the COVID-19 pandemic on the one hand, and on the other not rescheduling the NEET-JEE exams. Mr Owaisi was addressing the media at party headquarters in Darussalaam. “Due to COVID-19, there will be no question hour in the Parliament. But, despite COVID, students will have to answer questions in the NEET exam. There will be no Question Hour, but students will have to write JEE exam. And Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not answer questions in Question Hour, but he will tell students to answer questions. This is their governance. Be happy with him feeding peacocks,” he said.
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Session on job opportunities for LGBT+ community||British Deputy High Commission, Hyderabad, and Moberra Foundation on Sunday organised an open house session on enhancing employability and job opportunities for the LGBT+ community. The online discussion was hosted to commemorate the second anniversary of the scrapping of Section 377 of the IPC and was attended by around 50 participants, mostly members and allies of LGBT+ community. Human resource leaders from companies like IBM and NATWEST Group, and IT Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan participated in the discussion that allowed open conversations for the community with leaders directing them towards better employment opportunities and conducive workplace policies.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Celebrate Sept.17 as liberation day’||The BJP will begin its agitational programmes to put pressure on the government to declare Sept.17 as the ‘Liberation Day’ from the Nizam rule by presenting a memorandum to the mandal revenue officers, Collectors and finally, the Governor, on Monday. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar held a meeting with senior leaders to discuss the proposed protest programmes throughout the month which include visiting the historic places which witnessed the fight against the Razakars.
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||FMGs seek easing of exam level||Injustice has been done to Foreign Medical Graduates (FMGs) by keeping the pass percentage low in previous exams, said Telangana State Foreign Medical Graduates Association on Sunday. “That has now clearly come out that with the pattern of the August 31 exam which was as difficult as PG entrance exam. While the Supreme Court clearly stated that the exam should be at the level of qualifying exam and not competitive exam, this injustice to the FMGs is continuing,” Ravi Teja of the association said. With the demand for more doctors getting shriller during the pandemic, FMGs are ready to serve the nation, but the suppression has put many students in distress, he said. “Qualification percentile for NEET-PG has been brought down to 30 percentile to cope with the shortage of doctors. If this could be done for PG students, why not for FMGs. The move could bring in over 35,000 doctors to strengthen the fragile healthcare system,” he said, requesting the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare look into the issue.
07 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for selling banned gutka||Sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (west zone) on Saturday raided three places and apprehended three persons for selling gutkha. They raided L.K. Traders at Borabanda, a house at Langer Houz, Sidra Confectionery at Asif Nagar and held Mohd Fazal Ahmed, B. Anjaneyulu and Md Aslam. Police seized various brands of gutkha products worth Rs. 10.70 lakh.
07 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Focus on mental health of COVID patients||The suicide of 65-year-old Mariyamma, a COVID-19 patient, reportedly due to depression in the District Headquarters Hospital on Thursday has prompted the hospital authorities to step up surveillance on the hospital premises. Mariyamma, a native of Buddharam village in Nelakondapalli mandal, hanged herself to death in the toilet of the COVID-19 ward on Thursday night. The imperative need for the specialised services of mental health professionals in the hospital particularly during the current pandemic has come under sharp focus following the incident. Sources said that the post of psychiatrist sanctioned to the district headquarters hospital under the National Health Mission (NHM) has remained vacant. There has been a long pending demand for the services of qualified counsellors, trained social workers, clinical psychologists and other mental health professionals to help the patients cope with mental disorders such as stress, anxiety and depression. When contacted, the Resident Medical Officer of the hospital Dr B Srinivas Rao told The Hindu that instructions were issued to the security guards to step up vigil on the premises of the hospital and double the security rounds on the precincts of the hospital building. Efforts are on to further strengthen the CCTV surveillance.
07 September 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||Mounting garbage a problem||For reasons best know to officials, the district headquarters town of Sangareddy has failed to have a permanent dump yard on its own. A farm land was taken on lease for some time at Chidruppa to dump the garbage, but due to changed political equations the land owner reportedly withdrew from the agreement. “Identify a place within the district limits to dump and treat the garbage being generated in the town. We do not want your garbage in our neighbourhood,” is what residents of different villagers are telling the municipal and police officials who are visiting villages to dump the garbage from town there. Later, officials dumped the garbage at some road side on the outskirts, which was discarded after some time. It was also dumped in the huge pits dug as part of illegal mining at Hanuman Nagar panchayat. Though there was stiff opposition at the beginning, the locals calmed down later. However, municipal officials are not disposing of the garbage properly and not treating it, creating problems to the locals who are opposed to it totally. When garbage that was thrown for years in the huge illegal mining pits at Nallacheruvu floated on the water due to the recent heavy rains, the officials looked at Hanuman Nagar again. Though a huge police force was taken to convince the locals, they were reluctant and officials were forced to return back. They have made an effort to dump the garbage at the huge illegally mined pits at Cheriyal. These pits are more than 60-foot deep and can be used to dump the garbage for few years. All these are government sites, but opposition is being expressed due to improper treatment of garbage. “We are telling the locals at Cheriyal that dumping of garbage will be temporary and we will make permanent arrangement for treatment. For the time being we may use those huge pits to dump the garbage of the town,” said an official. Meanwhile, Rajarhsi Shah, Additional Collector (Local Bodies), has held a meeting with the elected representatives of the municipality and reportedly suggested them to identify government places locally so that the garbage can be treated there itself.
07 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Pic BRF||IIT-H launched its Public and Corporate Relations office and websitehttps://pcr.iith.ac.inon Sunday, keeping in mind the requirements of stakeholders.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Undone by predictability||Mohana Krishna Indraganti’s Telugu action thriller V , now streaming on Amazon Prime, begins with a nod to William Shakespeare’s line from The Tempest : ‘ At this hour lie at my mercy all mine enemies .’ In some of his previous films too, the writer-director has acknowledged writers/dramatists whom he admires and if in some way, their work has triggered a line of thought for his film. In V , he also mentions some popular cinema — from the Korean action thriller I Saw The Devil to mainstream Telugu films of Raghavendra Rao and Boyapati Srinu.  V was touted as a mainstream action thriller that pays attention to rhyme and reason. It promised interesting face-offs between a cop and a killer on the loose, with whistle-worthy moments that also make sense. The near brushes between the serial killer (let’s just call him Nani for now) and cop Aditya (Sudheer Babu) set the ball rolling. Aditya is lauded for his work as deputy commissioner of police, West Zone, Hyderabad. He also tops the ‘most desirable man’ list, walks the ramp and flaunts his six-pack abs on a men’s magazine cover. In short, he’s a media darling. The celebratory mood is soon tempered by the gruesome murder of a fellow cop. The killer leaves behind a note and challenges Aditya. Sudheer plays the cop with a charming ease, sporting a mild smirk from time to time. Nani looks like he has enjoyed unveiling a dark character. He gets the best lines and his clash with Sudheer would have elicited whistles had this film released in theatres. Nani’s eyes have a tale of grief to share; he looks like he hasn’t laughed heartily in a long time. When he does, the morbid humour comes at the expense of co-passengers who have no idea what hit them. All this should have ideally built up to an engaging drama as the gruesome murders continue and Sudheer unravels the answers. Instead, the film’s Achilles’ heel is exposed. V is a product of technical finesse with a story that becomes extremely predictable. Cinematographer P G Vinda, S S Thaman’s background score and the sound design build the mood for a brooding thriller peppered with morbid humour. The film holds attention during the near brushes between the two men, despite a few aberrations like the knife-toting parents (Rohini and ‘Thalaivasal’ Vijay) of crime writer Apoorva (Nivetha Thomas) whose presence doesn’t add to the narrative. Even Nivetha’s role is a disappointment. Hired as a criminal psychology consultant, she barely gets to do any problem solving. The film loses steam when it pieces together the story of the killer. A brief love story works as an emotional core of the drama. But the sub-plot that emerges, based on incidents that happened in Hyderabad, brings in a feeling of deja vu. The crime is heinous but you’ve seen similar storylines in several films. The slight twist in the tale towards the end isn’t enough to salvage an old-fashioned plot. Aditi Rao Hydari has that mix of innocence and vulnerability that suits her short role. V could have benefited with a far more engaging story.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Prime Minister lavishes praise on SVP NPA director||Prime Minister Narendra Modi placed himself on an equal footing with young IPS probationers, who passed out from the SVP NPA here on Friday, as he said he was also ‘trained’ by the academy director Atul Karwal earlier in his political career. Mr. Modi said that some 20 years ago when he first became the Chief Minister, Mr. Karwal had taught him the importance of following rules strictly. He reminisced a spat he had with Mr. Karwal when he was in his security. “I used to stop my convoy whenever a sizeable number of people gather and used to shake hands with them. One day, Atul came to my chamber and expressed his anguish at my behaviour,” said Mr. Modi. “He looked into my eye and did not budge even when I told him that you don’t own me. Atul asserted that I have to follow rules, as I’m not an individual now,” PM Modi said. Head of the country’s police premier school was all smiles when the ‘Prime Minister was recounting his tale.   Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy was in interior Asifabad for five days till Sunday supervising the preparedness of police to deal with Naxalite activities. Having arrived in the town by helicopter on September 2, he undertook a surprise visit to Tiryani police station that night. He apparently chose that police station because the Maoists had stepped up their activities in the nearby forest. This was a rare camp by any chief of police force over such a long time. He supervised the work of all officers from sub-inspector to Superintendent of Police during the period.   It is a tough time for Ministers as well as MLAs wanting to enter the assembly premises. With the Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and Council chairman G. Sukhender Reddy making COVID-19 tests mandatory for all the members, legislators along with Ministers are making a beeline to the testing centre set up on the Assembly lobbies. Coupled with this is the rush of Legislature officials and the personal staff of MLAs and Ministers. The lobbies are abuzz with activity during the last three days with security and Health Department personnel trying their best to follow social distancing and other protocols. Hopefully, the members and their attendants will maintain the same discipline during the session days too lest the efforts initiated by the Legislature Secretariat go in vain. Abhinay Deshpande & M. Rajeev
07 September 2020||Jalna,||Four held for looting Rs. 7.73 lakh from bank||Four people have been arrested in Jalna for allegedly carting away the cash safe of a bank containing Rs. 7.73 lakh, a Crime Branch official said on Sunday. The incident occurred on Friday morning at the district cooperative bank in Ghanswangi. The money was part of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sanman Nidhi Yojana disbursements, the official said. “The robbers took away the safe in a tempo after they failed to break it. We first held Hardeep Singh Bablu Singh Tak (29), who named four accomplices, three of them were arrested on Saturday,” he said. Of the loot, Rs. 1.44 lakh has been recovered.
07 September 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case: man arrested for online videos spreading fake news||A man has been arrested for uploading videos on YouTube which were allegedly spreading fake news in connection with the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and damaging the image of the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai Police, a police official said on Sunday. The action was taken by the Mumbai Police’s cyber wing against the accused, Omar Sarvagnya, after the videos were found to be defamatory and damaging the image of the State government and the city police, the official said. A case was registered against him last month under Sections 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes), 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code, the police official said. “We found the videos to be defamatory and damaging the image of the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai Police. Following an investigation, we issued summons to him under Section 41(A) of the Criminal Procedure Code to appear before the investigating officer,” he said. The accused was arrested and later released on bail.
07 September 2020||Mumbai,||Two-day Maharashtra Assembly monsoon session begins today||The two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra Assembly will begin on Monday, amid the pandemic and stringent medical norms. Only selected individuals, other than MLAs and MLCs, who produce a medical certificate declaring they are COVID-19 negative, will be allowed entry. There will be no Question Hour and bills related to COVID-19 measures will be passed. On Monday, the State government will present the supplementary demands, which details the extra expenditure other than that allotted in the budget speech. Tea party cancelled Breaking the tradition in view of the COVID-19 outbreak, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Sunday cancelled the tea party hosted by the ruling party for the Opposition. The Business Advisory Council (BAC) meeting held two weeks ago, joined by the Opposition, cleared the two-day session to be held on September 7 and 8. The bills that will be introduced in the session include postponing the elections of Mayor and Deputy Mayor due to COVID-19, extending the time-limit of activities which cannot be completed due to the ‘Act of God’ as suggested by the GST council, appointing an administrator at grampanchayats, where conducting polls will not be possible, and postponing the polls in cooperative societies. Bills on the cards ‘Along with bills concerned with the COVID-19 situation in the State, the government will also be bringing bills to ease land acquisition for industrial purposes and for redevelopment of cessed buildings in Mumbai city, among others. As COVID-19 cases continue to rise in the State, the government has made it mandatory for every individual entering the campus to undergo a test. No visitor gallery passes will be issued and restrictions have been put on the number of people entering with ministers and MLAs. The seating arrangement for MLAs will be done in a manner that ensures physical distancing protocol is maintained.
07 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Blaming God for dip in economy insult to Hindutva’||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman blaming Gods for failure of the country’s economy was an insult to Hindutva. In his weekly column Rokhthok , in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana , Mr. Raut said Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaks on all issues, but refuses to discuss the “failing economy”. Ms. Sitharaman recently said the economy has been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, which is an “Act of God”, and it will see a contraction in the current fiscal. “If Gods are pronounced culprits, in which court should the trial be conducted?” he wrote. “From demonetisation to lockdown, the economy is completely paralysed. But the Union Finance Minister directly blamed Gods for it. This is an insult to Hindutva. What kind of Hindutva is this?” he wrote. Mr. Raut said the minister’s comments did not suit India, which calls itself an emerging economic superpower. He said the country’s economy was crumbling even before the pandemic. “In the first quarter of the financial year, the GDP has dipped by 23.9%, and this is due to human error and careless attitude,” he said. “If the novel coronavirus and a crumbling economy are God’s will, then what is the need for the government and the military? God will see to everything” ‘Let Kangana apologise’ Mr. Raut also said he would consider tendering an apology to actor Kangana Ranaut if she agrees to say sorry for her remarks against Mumbai and Maharashtra. In a veiled jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party, he asked whether the actor had the courage to compare Ahmedabad to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.
07 September 2020||Panaji,||COVID-19: 374 new cases, 7 deaths in Goa||Goa recorded 374 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the coastal State to 20,829. The State also reported seven fatalities, pushing its total death toll to 236, a Health Department official said. So far, a total of 15,839 people have recovered from the virus and discharged from hospitals in the State. Of the cumulative case tally, 4,754 are active, the official added.
07 September 2020||Pune,||Cong., BJP lock horns over COVID-19 situation in Pune||With Pune turning into one of the country’s major COVID-19 hotspots, a slanging match has commenced between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the state of the city’s medical infrastructure, particularly the recently opened jumbo COVID-19 facilities. Congress leader and national spokesperson Anant Gadgil blamed the BJP-led government at the Centre and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), which is controlled by the BJP, for failing to check the spread of the contagion. BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole hit back saying that it was the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s responsibility to ensure that the mega facilities and other COVID-19 hospitals are properly managed. Mr. Gadgil, a former MLC, said that despite Pune having a BJP MP (Girish Bapat), five BJP MLAs, and 100 BJP corporators dominating the PMC, the situation seemed to be spiralling out of control. ‘Centre kept airports open’ Attacking the Narendra Modi government, the Congressman questioned why the Centre did not shut down international airports across the country, especially in Mumbai, in January. “When most southeast Asian nations like Vietnam and Singapore and countries in the Asia-Pacific region like New Zealand, had already shut down their airports in January realising the danger, then why didn’t New Delhi do the same? Why did the Modi government go ahead with its ‘Namaste Trump’ pageant in Ahmedabad which further aided in spreading the virus in Gujarat and neighbouring areas, with the influx of thousands of foreigners?” he asked. Mr. Gadgil alleged that between March 1 and 15, nearly 10 lakh international passengers had landed at Mumbai international airport of whom barely 19% were screened. “Had the Centre closed down airports and cancelled hosting U.S. President Donald Trump in Gujarat, the virus would not have spread in Mumbai, and Pune, too, would have been safe today,” the Congressman claimed. Mr. Gadgil was one of the first elected representatives in the State to channelise his MLA fund for boosting the public healthcare infrastructure at hospitals in Mumbai and Pune. “Early on, I had raised the matter in the State Legislature that the MLA fund be increased to Rs. 50 lakh for COVID-19 related purchases. I would like to know how many elected representatives from the BJP have spent for bolstering medical infrastructure in Pune when the virus was just beginning to spread in the city?” he said. As per State Health Department figures, Pune district, which has exceeded even Delhi’s figures, has nearly two lakh reported cases at present. Of them, around 34,000 are active ones with 4,400 fatalities. Responding to Mr. Gadgil, Mr. Shirole, the BJP legislator from Shivajinagar, said that the PMC had already spent Rs. 300 crore to set up the jumbo COVID-19 facilities and that it was the ruling MVA government’s [of which the Congress is part] responsibility to ensure that they were run satisfactorily. “It is the State leadership and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray who ought to personally intervene and hold accountable those responsible for the mismanagement of the COVID-19 hospitals in Pune. Mr. Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar must closely monitor the situation, review the infrastructure and state of equipment, and urgently increase the number of experienced medical staff and doctors to man these hospitals,” Mr. Shirole said. The stream of complaints regarding the poor management of the jumbo facilities has divided the Pune civic body administration and the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), with the former blaming the latter for failing to maintain the facilities. The mega COVID-19 facility at the city’s College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) grounds, which became operational recently, has received flak from citizens and politicos, with complaints being directed at the insensitivity shown by the management of the facility. Meanwhile, Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, and executive head of the jumbo centre, said the PMC had decided to provide manpower to ensure that the facility was smoothly operated. ‘Doctors did not quit’ “A staff of 50 doctors and 120 paramedics will be serving at the CoEP facility. There have been rumours that doctors and nurses at this facility have resigned. But there is no truth in this,” Ms. Agarwal clarified. She said that two cardiac ambulances had been made available there, while stressing that all treatment — including provision of remdisivir injections — would be free of charge.  Had the Centre cancelled hosting U.S. President Donald Trump in Gujarat, the virus would not have spread in Mumbai. Pune, too, would have been safe Anant Gadgil Congress spokesperson
07 September 2020||Thane,||Bhiwandi man booked for giving triple talaq||A 27-year-old man from Bhiwandi in Thane has been booked for divorcing his wife through triple talaq despite the practice being outlawed in the country, the police said on Sunday. Khalid Shaikh has been charged under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, after his wife filed a complaint at Shanti Nagar police station on Saturday night, Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajkumar Shinde said. A case was then registered. “On August 29, the accused called his wife on her sister’s mobile phone, picked up a fight and then uttered talaq three times to divorce her,” he said. The Supreme Court in 2017 had struck down triple talaq, calling the practice unconstitutional and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution.
07 September 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong police swoop on protesters||Nearly 300 people were arrested by Hong Kong police on Sunday as riot officers swooped on democracy protesters opposed to the postponement of local elections. Sunday was meant to be voting day for the city’s partially elected legislature, one of the few instances where residents of Hong Kong get to cast ballots. But the city’s pro-Beijing leader Carrie Lam suspended the polls for a year — citing the coronavirus — angering the pro-democracy opposition who had been hoping to capitalise on seething anti-government sentiment. Hundreds of riot police flooded the district of Kowloon in a bid to thwart online calls for flash mob protests to mark the suspended vote. Throughout the afternoon officers were heckled by people shouting slogans such as “Give me back my vote!” and “Corrupt cops!” as officers conducted multiple stop and searches and ordered crowds to disperse. In a Facebook statement, police said at least 289 people were arrested, mostly for unlawful assembly. One woman was detained under a new security law Beijing imposed on the city for chanting independence slogans, the force added. Live images showed three prominent pro-democracy politicians — Leung Kwok-hung, Figo Chan and Raphael Wong — were among those held. Sedition charge The protests came hours after the police’s newly formed national security unit arrested Tam Tak-chi, another democracy activist and radio DJ, for “uttering seditious words” — a colonial-era offence. Mr. Tam is the latest in a long line of government critics to find themselves facing prosecution in recent months for their involvement in protests. When they announced the arrest on Sunday morning, police did not explain what Tam may have said that was considered seditious. Hong Kong government condemned the protesters’ “unlawful and selfish acts” in a statement issued on Sunday evening. “The first priority for Hong Kong currently is to unite as one and fight the virus together with concentrated resources,” a government spokesperson said. Beijing has initiated a widespread crackdown against its critics in Hong Kong after the financial hub was rocked by seven straight months of huge and often violent pro-democracy protests last year. Rallies have been all but outlawed this year with authorities citing both security concerns and wielding emergency anti-coronavirus laws to ban public gatherings in the city. In late June, Beijing also imposed its new security law, which bans anything authorities perceive to be secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces. At least 22 people have been arrested under the new law since it came into effect, sending a chill through the city.
07 September 2020||LONDON/BRUSSELS,||‘U.K. not scared of a no-deal Brexit’||Britain will not blink first in Brexit trade negotiations with the European Union and is not scared of a no-deal exit at the end of the year, the country’s top Brexit negotiator warned the bloc on Sunday. Britain left the EU on January 31 but talks have so far made little headway on agreeing a new trade deal for when a status-quo transition arrangement ends in December. “We came in after a government and negotiating team that had blinked and had its bluff called at critical moments and the EU had learned not to take our word seriously,” negotiator David Frost said on Sunday. “So a lot of what we are trying to do this year is to get them to realise that we mean what we say and they should take our position seriously,” he said. Talks are due to resume in London on Tuesday but they have stalled over Britain’s insistence that it have full autonomy over state aid and its demands over fishing. Britain says the EU has failed to fully accept that it is an independent country. “We are not going to be a client state. We are not going to compromise on the fundamentals of having control over our own laws,” Mr. Frost told the Daily Mail . “We are not going to accept level playing field provisions that lock us in to the way the EU do things.” ‘Wake-up call for the EU’ “That’s what being an independent country is about, that’s what the British people voted for and that’s what will happen at the end of the year, come what may,” Mr. Frost said. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said the week ahead would be a wake-up call for the EU. “We’ve got to a position where there’s only two points really that are holding us back,” he told the BBC’s Andrew Marr programme. U.K. fisheries had been “pretty much decimated” as a result of EU membership, he said, and the bloc wanted to keep British access to its waters “permanently low”. “That can’t be right,” he said. On state aid, Mr. Raab said Britain had led the charge against government intervention since the 1980s, but the issue was “an absolutely critical element of policy making”.
07 September 2020||Berlin,||Germany threatens Russia with sanctions||Tensions deepened between Germany and Russia over the alleged poisoning of opposition figure Alexei Navalny on Sunday, with Germany threatening sanctions and Russia accusing Berlin of delaying the investigation it demanded. The Russian opposition leader and anti-corruption campaigner fell ill on a flight last month and was treated in a Siberian hospital before being evacuated to Berlin. Germany said last week there was “unequivocal evidence” that President Vladimir Putin’s top foe had been poisoned using the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok. Germany will discuss possible sanctions against Russia if the Kremlin does not provide an explanation soon, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Sunday. “We have high expectations of the Russian government to solve this serious crime,” Mr. Maas told German daily Bild . “If the government has nothing to do with the attack, then it is in its own interest to back this up with facts.” ‘Russis needs to clarify’ If Russia does not help clarify what happened “in the coming days”, Germany will be compelled to “discuss a response with our allies,” Mr. Maas said. Any sanctions decided should be “targeted”, he added. Britain said on Sunday that Russia had “a very serious set of questions to answer” and it was “clear” the Kremlin critic was poisoned with Novichok. The Kremlin has denied responsibility for the attack and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has said that Germany is yet to share any findings with Moscow’s prosecutors. Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova on Sunday accused Germany of stalling efforts to probe the case. German authorities had failed to respond to a request by Russian prosecutors sent on August 27, she said in a Facebook post. “Dear Mr. Maas, if the German government is sincere in its statements then it should be interested in preparing a response to a request of the Russian Prosecutor General’s Office as soon as possible,” Ms. Zakharova said. ‘Double game’ “So far we are not certain that Germany is not playing a double game,” she added. “Where is the ‘urgency’ you are insisting upon? “By not sending its answer, Berlin is stalling the process of investigation for which it’s calling. On purpose?” Mr. Maas said on Sunday there were “several indications” that Russia was behind the poisoning, in the strongest accusations yet from Germany. “The deadly substance with which Navalny was poisoned has in the past been found in the hands of Russian authorities.” On the subject of which sanctions could be discussed by the EU, Maas did not rule out action relating to Nord Stream 2, a multi-billion-euro Russian-German gas pipeline nearing completion that has drawn the ire of US and European partners alike. “I hope... that the Russians do not force us to change our position on Nord Stream,” Mr. Maas said.
07 September 2020||Beirut,||Hezbollah, Hamas chiefs meet to discuss Israel-Arab ties||Leaders of Lebanon’s Hezbollah and the Palestinian Hamas movement, both enemies of Israel, have met to discuss diplomatic normalisation between the Jewish state and Arab countries, a report said on Sunday. They stressed the “stability” of the “axis of resistance” against Israel, the Hezbollah-run Al-Manar TV channel reported, without saying where or when the meeting took place. Hassan Nasrallah, head of the Iran-backed Shiite Hezbollah movement, was pictured meeting Ismail Haniyeh, who heads the political bureau of Hamas, the Islamist movement that control the Gaza Strip. They discussed “political and military developments in Palestine, Lebanon and the region” and “the dangers to the Palestinian cause”, including “Arab plans for normalisation” with Israel, Al-Manar said. The meeting comes after an August 13 announcement that the Jewish state and the United Arab Emirates have agreed to normalise ties. While the U.S.-backed diplomatic drive aims to boost a regional alliance against Iran, Palestinians have condemned it as a “stab in the back” as they remain under occupation and don’t have their own state. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said his country is in talks with other Arab and Muslim leaders now about normalising relations, following the deals with UAE and, decades ago, Egypt and Jordan.
07 September 2020||NEW YORK,||Cohen memoir casts him as ‘star witness’ against Trump||Donald Trump’s former personal attorney and fixer Michael Cohen, in a tell-all memoir, makes the case that the President is “guilty of the same crimes” that landed him in federal prison, offering a blow-by-blow account of Mr. Trump’s alleged role in a hush money scandal that once overshadowed his presidency. Of all the crises Mr. Cohen confronted working for Mr. Trump, none proved as vexing as the porn actress Stormy Daniels and her claims of an extramarital affair with Mr. Trump, Cohen writes in Disloyal- The True Story of the Former Personal Attorney to President Donald J. Trump . Mr. Trump, despite his later protestations, green-lighted the $1,30,000 payment to silence Ms. Daniels ahead of the 2016 election, reasoning he would “have to pay” his wife a far greater sum if the affair ever became known, Mr. Cohen writes, adding the President later reimbursed him with “fake legal fees.” “It never pays to settle these things, but many, many friends have advised me to pay,” Mr. Trump said, according to Mr. Cohen. “If it comes out, I’m not sure how it would play with my supporters. But I bet they’d think it’s cool that I slept with a porn star.” The White House called Mr. Cohen’s memoir “fan fiction.” “He readily admits to lying routinely but expects people to believe him now so that he can make money from book sales,” White House spokesman Brian Morgenstern said in a statement. “It’s unfortunate that the media is exploiting this sad and desperate man to attack President Trump.” The Associated Press obtained an early copy of the book, which is scheduled to be released on Tuesday. Mr. Cohen, who pleaded guilty to campaign finance violations and other crimes, including lying to Congress, calls himself the “star witness” of a hush-money conspiracy that still could culminate in charges for Mr. Trump after he leaves office. He described his new book as a “fundamental piece of evidence” of the President’s guilt. He assails Mr. Trump as an “organized crime don” and “master manipulator,” but says he once considered him a father figure.  Mr. Cohen also sheds light on Trump’s admiration of Russian President Vladimir Putin, saying he admired him most because he “had the balls to take over an entire nation and run it like it was his personal company.”
07 September 2020||San Francisco,||Amazon bans sale of imported seeds in U.S.||Amazon has banned the sale of imported seeds in the United States after thousands of Americans said they had received packets of seeds they had not ordered, mostly from China. “Moving forward, we are only permitting the sale of seeds by sellers who are based in the U.S.,” the e-commerce giant said in a statement on Saturday. In late July, the Department of Agriculture warned people not to plant them, in case they posed a danger to U.S. agriculture. Examination of the mystery packages revealed at least 14 different kinds of seeds, including mint, mustard, rosemary, lavender, hibiscus and roses. “At this time, we don’t have any evidence indicating this is something other than a ‘brushing scam’,” the Department of Agriculture said in a statement on August 12.
07 September 2020||Islamabad,||Man shoots and kills journalist wife in Pak.||A Pakistani man shot and killed his journalist wife at the couple’s home in a remote southwestern town before fleeing, but the motive behind the killing was unclear, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday in Turbat, a town in Balochistan province, local police official Mohammad Mohsin said. He identified the slain journalist as Shaheena Shaheen, saying she worked for state-run Pakistan Television. Mr. Mohsin said Shaheen was dropped off at a hospital in critical condition by two men who then left as doctors tried to save her life. Police later learned that one of those men was the woman’s husband, Nawabzada Mahrab. Police said raids were being carried out to arrest the husband after being alerted by the woman’s uncle. In November, another man was accused of killing his journalist wife, Arooj Iqbal, in Lahore. Pakistani women often face harassment at the workplace, but many offenders escape punishment as victims don’t report such incidents due to societal pressures. Pakistan is considered to be one of the most dangerous countries for journalists.
07 September 2020||LONDON,||Assange to fight against U.S. extradition bid||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange is set to fight for his freedom in a British court after a decade of legal drama, as he challenges American authorities’ attempt to extradite him on spying charges over the site’s publication of secret U.S. military documents. Lawyers for Mr. Assange and the U.S. government are scheduled to face off in London on Monday at an extradition hearing that was delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic. American prosecutors have indicted the 49-year-old Australian on 18 espionage and computer misuse charges adding up to a maximum sentence of 175 years. His lawyers say the prosecution is a politically motivated abuse of power that will stifle press freedom and put journalists at risk. Mr. Assange attorney Jennifer Robinson said the case “is fundamentally about basic human rights and freedom of speech.” American prosecutors say Mr. Assange is a criminal, not a free-speech hero. Mr. Assange argues he is a journalist entitled to First Amendment protection, and says the leaked documents exposed U.S. military wrongdoing. Among the files released by WikiLeaks was video of a 2007 Apache helicopter attack by American forces in Baghdad that killed 11 people, including two Reuters journalists.
07 September 2020||DHAKA,||Death toll from Bangladesh mosque explosion rises to 24||The death toll from a gas pipeline explosion in a mosque outside Bangladesh’s capital rose to 24 on Sunday while authorities were examining how a leakage caused the accident during evening prayers.
07 September 2020||TOKYO,||Typhoon unleashes rain, strong winds in southern Japan||The second powerful typhoon to slam Japan in a week unleashed fierce winds and rain on southern islands on Sunday, blowing off rooftops and leaving homes without power as it edged northward into an area vulnerable to flooding.AP
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Court’s drift and chinks in the judiciary’s armour||This past fortnight has seen two significant developments in connection with the Indian judiciary: the first was the decision of the Supreme Court of India in the matter of Prashant Bhushan’s contempt case, and the second was the retirement of Justice Arun Mishra. These events, in their own way, magnify the chinks in the armour of the Supreme Court. The Bhushan case In the first instance, the Supreme Court, in a display of self-proclaimed “magnanimity”, let off Mr. Bhushan with a fine of one rupee in the contempt case against him over two tweets. In the alternative, the top court ordered for a three-month imprisonment term and three years’ debarment from practice. The Court chastised him for his “conduct”, which, according to the Court, “reflects adamance and ego, which has no place to exist in the system of administration of justice and in noble profession, and no remorse is shown for the harm done to the institution to which he belongs”. It would be trite to say that these words ring hollow coming from a Court that chose to relentlessly pursue Mr. Bhushan in a petty exhibition of arrogance itself. Over the course of the hearing, the Court repeatedly tried to coerce the contemnor, i.e., Mr. Bhushan, to proffer an apology, and kept granting him additional time (a few days, a few hours, etc.) for this purpose. It was arguably strange behaviour on the part of the Court, and it also appeared embarrassing, for it came across as petulant bargaining more than anything else. Mr. Bhushan, with appropriate decorum and honesty, admitted that any apology from him in the circumstances would be insincere. The jurisprudential contribution of this decision to the law of contempt will be studied for years to come, surely, but maybe not for the reasons that the Court intended. Hopefully, a wiser judicial and legislative community will realise one day how utterly self-defeating this law is for a healthy democracy, and eventually change the law around. A judge in the limelight This was among Justice Mishra’s last few decisions as a member of the Supreme Court, before he retired on September 2. As a result, considerable attention has been paid to his decisions during his tenure which lasted from 2014 to 2020. One consistent feature has revealed itself throughout, which is the kinds of cases that were assigned to the Benches he was on, and the kinds of decisions he issued. In the judges’ press conference two years ago, the primary grouse was with the “master of the roster” system, and the specific concern that politically sensitive cases (i.e., dealing with the executive) were being allocated to Benches involving Justice Arun Mishra (even if not mentioned by name, his role was clearly insinuated, notably with reference to the judge Loya case). Commentators (e.g., Aparna Chandra, Anup Surendranath, V. Venkatesan) have also conducted detailed analyses of Justice Arun Mishra’s decisions, and studies have found that these were predictably in favour of the executive. In recent times, many columnists, leading scholars, and legal luminaries have speculated on the marked drift of the Supreme Court away from rights-based court to an executive court. Of course, to keep such a court going, a judge who is ever ready to step up to handle politically sensitive matters, and who can be relied upon to issue decisions that are in favour of the executive, is always useful. However, even as the limelight is on a judge such as Justice Mishra in circumstances like this, the role of the office of the Chief Justice of India (CJI) in facilitating the creation of an executive court cannot be ignored. Allegations and suspicions have been voiced from within as well, with Justice Kurian Joseph suggesting that the assignment of work in the Court during Justice Dipak Misra’s tenure was “remote controlled”. During his time, two judgments were delivered by the CJI’s Bench in matters to which he himself was a party. Through these judgments, the CJI defended the “master of the roster” system, indicating that the CJI was entitled to have unrestricted and untrammelled power in matters of case allocation. After the press conference, one hoped there would be rethinking on this, but nothing has really happened, and things have continued in the same way since. The “master of the roster” system was designed for a different era, and indeed, may have worked well in the past even, when we had very tall judges, and judicial independence was rarely doubted. But things have changed now. Recall that the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) Act was struck down by the Court on grounds of excessive executive interference in the selection of judges. But surely, this judgment is of no use if executive interference is anyway possible in more subtle ways. Executive’s chipping away Theoretically, it is very easy for an all-powerful executive that is looking to seize control over the other arms of the state, and especially an independent judiciary. There is no need to expend energy in packing the Supreme Court with pro-government judges. Finding over 30 judges who think alike would anyway be difficult, if not impossible. All that is needed is to ensure that certain “favourable” conditions exist in the Court: these include a CJI who is on your side, and a handful of other judges on the Bench who are “reliable”. Unfortunate precedents in the recent past where CJIs have, without compunction, accepted politically-coloured post-retirement opportunities, have not really helped. The competence of judges becomes irrelevant in this scheme of things. The combination of opaque systems like the “master of the roster”, and a certain kind of CJI are sufficient to destroy all that is considered precious by an independent judiciary. Of course, this is far from being a hypothetical scenario, and is, in fact, playing out in India right now. The truly independent and competent judges in the Court have been relegated to adjudicating private disputes, and are considered inconsequential. Many commentators have already pointed out how the last three CJIs all used the powers anointed upon themselves via the “master of the roster” to entrust sensitive and important matters to Benches involving Justice Arun Mishra. The other thing to note is that these “reliable” judges not only ensure that the pro-executive nature of the Court is sustained, but also serve to protect the CJI in times of crises. Again, this is not mere theory or speculation. As an example, the medical admissions scam case during Justice Dipak Misra’s tenure as CJI was handed over to Justice Arun Mishra’s Bench. Similarly, the infamous hearing of Justice Gogoi’s sexual harassment case included Justice Arun Mishra. The European example There is enough evidence that the “master of the roster” system does not work any more. What we need today is legal certainty, and a rules-based mechanism for allocation of cases (e.g., as followed by the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights, among many other jurisdictions where cases are decided not by full courts but by benches). This rule can be that cases are allocated randomly. But any kind of rule can be implemented only if judges themselves take a stand and decide. There should be agreement that no discretion can be allowed, for that is the root cause of so many of our troubles. A case allocation system that is neutral and rules-based will prevent bench packing, and demonstrate neutrality, impartiality, and transparency. All this, in turn, ensures that courts are protected from outside interference; improves public confidence in the impartiality and independence of the judiciary; assures litigants of equality and fairness; and protects basic rights and freedoms by not compromising on them. Malaise within There is a tendency to view the threat to judicial independence in India as emerging from the executive branch, and occasionally the legislature. But when persons within the judiciary become pliable to the other branches, it is a different story altogether. Today, we have a situation which was foreseen many decades ago, by CJI Y.V. Chandrachud, when, in 1985, he observed, “There is greater threat to the independence of the judiciary from within than without ....” All the sermonising in the world (of the sort offered in the Bhushan judgment) will be of no consequence without any real changes in the way things work. And indeed, it is important to note that Justice Arun Mishra’s retirement is not likely to impact the situation; he was anyway merely a manifestation of the deeper malaise in the system. Surely, this is as good a time as any for the judges of the Supreme Court to unite and seriously consider whether self-preservation trumps institutional independence, or whether they truly want to protect the judiciary from outside influence, and hold their own against an overbearing executive. Justice A.P. Shah is retired Chief Justice, Delhi and Madras High Courts, and former Chairperson, Law Commission of India
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The many challenges in estimating deaths||There is a debate on the number of deaths in India caused by COVID-19. The official number as on August 26 was 59,449. Nobody believes this number to be true, yet nobody has an alternative number. So, when two young scientists conjured up a specific estimate of 1,88,939 deaths on July 31 based on an ingenuously simple approach (multiply the reported deaths by five) in an article in these pages, they were criticised. There is also a campaign by activists asking the government to put COVID-19 deaths-related data in the public domain. Before we discuss the merit of these two arguments, we need to be clear about the urgency of the need of this estimate. While knowing the number of COVID-19 deaths is a good indicator of burden, this alone is not of much use in planning our current public health strategies, for which case fatality rates or infection fatality rates are far more useful. Also, as the pandemic is far from over, this estimate becomes outdated almost the instant it is generated. Despite this, there is no question that such an estimate needs to be generated, if only for academic purposes. It also gives us an opportunity to be better prepared for such estimations in future. There are two kinds of challenges in estimating the number of deaths due to COVID-19 – the first is related to weaknesses in our mortality surveillance system; the second to COVID-19-specific issues. It might also be relevant to point out that even for other diseases, estimating the number of deaths is a problem. Counting deaths In an ideal world, we would be able to count all deaths and have a certified cause of death in all the cases. In the real world, we have neither. According to the Civil Registration Scheme report for 2018, 86% of all deaths were registered, with 34% being through hospitals. However, this would not be a good source for cause of death as it is as reported by the next of kin at the time of registration. The second source of cause of death is the medical certification of cause of death (MCCD). As per the report released by the Office of the Registrar General of India (ORGI) in 2018, 1.45 million deaths (21% of all registered deaths and hence, multiplication by five suggested by the scientists) were medically certified. MCCD has an urban bias and there are also issues related to quality of death certification by doctors. The scientists mentioned above ignored the fact that COVID-19 has largely been an urban phenomenon till now, where medical certification coverage is much better, and also did not address COVID-19-specific issues. The third and final source for cause of death is the Sample Registration System. Here good quality mortality surveillance is carried out in a small representative population. All identified deaths are noted by a trained worker using standard procedures to generate information which is reviewed by a doctor to arrive at a cause of death. This occurs in a small number of deaths (40,000-45,000) nationally per year. However, due to delays in the process, this information is available in the public domain only till 2013. Impact of the pandemic In addition, COVID-19 has adversely impacted death registrations due to lockdowns, travel restrictions as well as social stigma resulting in people hiding these deaths. As COVID-19 moves to rural areas, these challenges are going to worsen. Also, as many of these systems are not yet fully electronic, there will be a delay in the availability of these data even after registration. Thus, it is quite likely that the data available with the ORGI for 2020 will need evaluation for its usefulness for estimation procedures, even if made public. I have always supported efforts to put publicly funded data in the public domain. Yet, I would caution against uncontrolled access in this case. Identifying COVID-19-specific mortality is a challenge across the globe. An approach of using reported death data would be applicable if all those who developed COVID-19 were tested and their deaths certified. However, there are serious limitations of test availability due to restrictive criteria for access and use, even for people with symptoms. Without testing of all suspected cases, healthcare providers have to rely on clinical features to label a death as being due to COVID-19. Our inability to differentiate these from other causes of death may result in misclassification. Without testing, it is going to be difficult for a doctor to differentiate between COVID-19 and, say, influenza. The second issue is related to defining indirect deaths caused by COVID-19. Due to societal and health system disruptions, the pandemic is likely to contribute to deaths from other causes — suicides, non-communicable diseases, tuberculosis. Also, think of a person who had a compromised heart which was worsened when she suffered a COVID-19 infection, precipitating a heart attack, which otherwise would not have occurred now. In a sense, this is also a death caused by COVID-19 as it initiated the final sequence of events leading to death. However, a doctor would certify this as a cardiac death as one cannot ever be sure that COVID-19 initiated the process. How do we include this in our estimate? All these factors will have to be considered when we estimate COVID-19-related deaths. So, what is the way out? Almost all the issues mentioned for COVID-19 are also applicable to influenza. For the swine flu pandemic of 2009, an estimate published in The Lancet in 2012 indicated that the real mortality was 15 times higher than the globally reported laboratory-confirmed cases. For many years, influenza-associated mortality has been estimated using an indirect modelling approach based on the concept of ‘excess mortality’. An estimate for influenza mortality in India using the same approach based on above data sources has been generated by my team. Such exercises always give you a range and not a single estimate. Excess mortality Even countries with near-complete registration of deaths in normal times have acknowledged that their officially recorded COVID-19 death tolls might be underestimates and they are now focusing on excess mortality – the number of deaths above that expected during ‘normal’ times. This approach first statistically defines the ‘expected’ number of deaths in a given period in a given population using past mortality records and then uses the 2020 mortality data to estimate increase in rates of death beyond what would be expected if SARS-CoV-2 had not circulated. The ‘excess death’ approach would include deaths directly (pneumonia or other respiratory conditions) as well as indirectly caused by the pandemic or its interventions (cardiac conditions). It will have to be acknowledged here that lockdowns may have had a preventive effect on some other deaths, notably road accidents and pollution-linked deaths. Depending on the availability of data and analytic capacity, this can lead to a real-time measurement of excess mortality or it could be an exercise done at the end of the epidemic. Thus, the estimation of ‘true’ mortality due to COVID-19 is likely to pose significant methodological and systemic challenges. However, sufficient technical capacity exists in the country to do so. It should be noted that deficiencies in mortality surveillance have existed for a long time. There is no denying that these need to be addressed urgently. Anand Krishnan is a Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine at the AIIMS, New Delhi
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Policy lessons in Tamil Nadu’s language formula||The New Education Policy misses the vital empirical evidence of Tamil Nadu following a language formula that is distinctly at variance with that of Delhi for the past 50 years and yet achieving significant positive social and economic changes. That many are oblivious of it is surprising. Annadurai’s vision It was the decision of C.N. Annadurai, who realised the Dravidian movement’s dream of achieving governmental power, that beyond Tamil and English (in order of preference) no other language would be taught in the schools of Tamil Nadu either as a language or medium of instruction. The far-sightedness of this decision can be better appreciated if one goes through the language policy adopted by various developed countries.  Most countries follow a one-language formula (invariably mother tongue) for teaching children in the primary classes. On reaching middle school they are given a chance to learn one more language, mostly English. As there is no imposition through schools, voluntary learning of other languages is widely prevalent in these countries. Be it students of literature, sociology, or people involved in international trade, their knowledge of five or six languages is quite normal. In Singapore All countries faced with the enormous challenge posed by the new century, invariably give preference to the English language after their mother tongue. Japan and Singapore can be cited as two countries which handle language policy as a strategic tool to achieve socio-economic development. Singapore’s success in this area is phenomenal and closely comparable to the situation in India. It was the mission of Lee Kuan Yew, the architect of modern Singapore, giving equal status to English and mother tongue as a prerequisite not only to work closely with the international community but also to bring in big ticket changes. In many ways this can be compared to Annadurai’s mission. Lee Kuan Yew attributed the international acclaim Singapore received for its success mainly to its two-language formula. Though Chinese by birth, his elitist family spoke English at home. Having studied in English schools and receiving his higher education in Cambridge, he understood the importance of English for the then undeveloped society in coping with international competition. Importantly, Lee Kuan Yew realised that a multicultural society such as Singapore could enhance its status only if each of its cultural groups felt that it was on a par with others. He viewed that the lingua franca of the country should be equidistant to all cultural groups, thereby creating fair competition and opportunities. Only in this background were Malay, Chinese, Tamil and English declared as common languages with the lingua franca being English. The mainstay of Annadurai’s argument, while insisting that all the national languages should be made official languages and English should be the common link language, was that the official language should be equidistant to all the members of a multilingual society. English would fit the bill for both students of Hindi and Tamil. Making Hindi alone as the official language would create disparity among various linguistic groups other than the Hindi-speaking population which will result in partial treatment, giving unfair advantage to the Hindi-speaking population. Annadurai was against this injustice. Annadurai was also particular that English is the language we communicate with a larger world. The American example he cited during a parliamentary debate is worth mentioning: “When USA emerged as a nation only 20% of the people went from the British Isles…Yet America has chosen English as the official language.” What Annadurai dreamed of as a language policy for ‘the Dravidian land’ was actually implemented in Singapore by Lee Kuan Yew . Singapore had much more justification to adopt Chinese as its sole official language than India insisting on Hindi being the sole official language. Even today the population of Hindi-speaking people has not crossed 50% in India; in Singapore, 74.2% of the population is Chinese, 13.2% Malays and 9.2% Indians. If Lee Kuan Yew had wished he could have well declared Chinese to be the sole official language and satisfied the Chinese who were in a majority. He could have used this as a nationalistic tool and cemented his place politically forever. But he resisted this temptation. He not only selected English but also recognised languages of every social group. He mandated that each Singaporean should learn their respective mother tongue along with English. He was of the firm view that only the roots one has in his/her mother tongue would be shaping his/her future personality. The world celebrates the decision made by Lee Kuan Yew after taking into consideration the possibilities, limitations and challenges faced by a third world country. They praise him for his two-language policy which prepared Singaporeans in advance for globalisation. Have the ‘experts’ ever discussed the contribution of Annadurai’s two-language formula in the background of Tamil Nadu being one of the developed States in India despite not possessing a trade and big capital like Gujarat or Maharashtra or having water resources and land fertility like Kerala and Punjab or the political bargaining power by sheer size and population by States such as Uttar Pradesh? And when will they be discussing the Indian government’s failure in the language policy in the backdrop of inequalities prevailing among societies since Independence? Reality check in Tamil Nadu Though comparable to Singapore in far-sightedness and in the forefront as far as India is concerned, in the present scenario, Tamil Nadu’s education standards are not comparable to Singapore’s in terms of outcomes. Our students suffer a serious handicap while dealing with English and Tamil languages. And they do not have command over either. Yet this is not the failure of the two-language formula per se but of its implementation and the present Indian educational ecosystem. Even teaching in the mother tongue or the teaching of two languages is filled with challenges, does India take into account the challenges in teaching three languages? If India is really interested in the new education policy capable of creating new generations, Delhi can acquire that vision only by studying the educational ecosystem throughout the world and comparing it with the strengths and weaknesses of Tamil Nadu’s. Working towards the possibility of implementing the two-language formula successfully throughout India would throw light not only on India’s education policy but also on its official language policy. Translated by Venu Mani. E-mail: samas@hindutamil.co.in
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Fact-checking should become more effective||There were questions from readers about my last column, ‘Popular ideas must replace populist ideas’ (August 31), that asked for some form of accountability from India’s news channels. One reader asked whether other media platforms are free from errors and asked why television had been singled out for harsh evaluation. The criticism flows from a wrong reading of the column which tried to explain the role of the media in creating our public sphere. Public sphere is a nebulous construct. If arguments in the public sphere are woven with facts, we get a fine tapestry. However, if they are woven with disinformation, we get a toxic environment. Disinformation is different from inadvertent errors caused by oversight. It is true that many respected media outlets, including The Hindu , have carried errors. But these reports have often been corrected at the first instance. I argued in my column, ‘Invisible mending undermines trust’ (August 15, 2016), that the act of visible mending makes journalism more dependable. Refusal to acknowledge mistakes My concern is about the trust factor in the news media which has suffered a decline in the last decade. The decline in standards in television is galling because many TV channels refuse to acknowledge their mistakes, and seldom rectify their misleading or inaccurate stories. For instance, earlier this month, Alt News , a fact-checking organisation, pointed out how two TV channels of the India Today Group and one channel of The Times Group aired old images of a Chinese military cemetery as graves of Chinese soldiers killed in Galwan. With the border situation remaining tense along the Line of Actual Control, one expects media organisations to provide credible information. What we learn from the Alt News report is that the reports in these channels were not inadvertent errors but disinformation. The channels speculated that the death toll is anywhere between 40 to 100 soldiers. The fact remains that none of them is sure of Chinese casualties in the June face-off between India and China in Galwan Valley. On August 31 , Aaj Tak claimed that it was airing “exclusive” images proving that “40 PLA soldiers” were killed in the cross-border clashes. The report said: “We are showing you pictures of the graves of Chinese soldiers. Several people in the country wanted proof of the Chinese soldiers who were killed in Galwan clashes. The proof is on your television screens…more than 40 Chinese soldiers died in clashes with India and you can watch how Chinese soldiers paid respect to their tombs.” India Today also broadcast similar visuals. It showed satellite imagery of the same set of graves with two red arrows pointing at a specific area claiming that those were “new graves”. And Times Now reported : “Photos of 106 PLA tombstones reveal [the] extent of Chinese casualties in June 15 Galwan clash.” Alt News found that the image aired by India Today dated back to 2011. The ‘backfire effect’ Television journalists seem to have bought the ‘backfire effect’ lock, stock, and barrel. The ‘backfire effect’ is an idea propounded by American academics Brendan Nyhan and Jason Reifler in their paper, ‘When Corrections Fail: The persistence of political misperceptions’. Their argument is that when a claim aligns with someone’s ideological beliefs, telling them that it is wrong will actually make them believe it more strongly. The emergence of populist leaders seems to have cemented the idea of the ‘backfire effect’ in most television newsrooms. Amy Sippitt, as Research Manager at the British fact-checking organisation, Full Fact, worked on this contentious issue in a systematic manner. Her study titled ‘Does the “backfire effect” exist — and does it matter for factcheckers?’ suggests that fact-checking does help inform citizens. ‘Backfire effects’ are rare; they are not the norm. One of the important conclusions of the Full Fact study is that we still need more evidence to understand how fact-checking content can be most effective. The American Press Institute said that in journalism, “getting it right” is the foundation upon which everything else is built — context, interpretation, comment, criticism, analysis and debate. The ‘backfire effect’ cannot be used as an excuse not to verify information before putting it out in the public domain. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Financing economic recovery||As the socioeconomic impacts of the pandemic spread across Asia and the Pacific, finance ministries are continuing their efforts to inject trillions of dollars for emergency health responses and fiscal packages. With continued lockdown measures and restricted borders, economic rebound seems uncertain. Compared to 2019’s economic situation, over the past six months, countries in Asia and the Pacific have been experiencing sharp drops in foreign exchange inflows due to declines in export earnings, remittances, tourism and FDI. This is worrying as policymakers are tackling difficult choices over how to prioritise development spending, while continuing to expand their squeezed fiscal space. Financing in three key areas The United Nations is contributing through a global initiative, Financing for Development in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond, co-convened by Canada and Jamaica, to articulate a comprehensive financing strategy to safeguard the Sustainable Development Goals. Governments are united to ensure that adequate financial resources are available to steer an inclusive, sustainable and resilient post-COVID-19 recovery. In the Asia-Pacific region, several countries have already adopted financing plans in three key areas. They aim to address the challenge of diminished fiscal space and debt vulnerability; to ensure sustainable recovery, consistent with the ambitions of the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda; and to harness the potential of regional cooperation in support of financing for development. The United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) has recently launched its first-ever Regional Conversation Series on Building Back Better. We are joining forces with ministers, decision-makers, private sectors and heads of international agencies to share collective insights on sharing pathways to resilient recovery from health pandemic and economic collapse. To improve the fiscal space and manage high levels of debt distress, a growing call for extending the debt moratorium under global initiatives like the Debt Service Suspension initiative is timely. Central banks can continue to keep the balance of supporting the economy and maintaining financial stability. This further involves enhancing tax reforms and improving debt management capacities, while using limited fiscal space to invest in priority sectors. Exploring sustainability-oriented bonds and innovative financing instruments options such as debt swaps for SDG investment should be explored further. In addition to economic considerations, the policy paradigm must mainstream affordable, accessible and green infrastructure standards, while promoting social equality and environmental sustainability principles as enshrined in the Paris Agreement. As we scale up the use of digital technology and innovative applications, the financing support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises must go hand in hand with these national job-rich recovery strategies. Regional cooperation No country can take this agenda forward alone. Regionally coordinated financing policies can restart trade, reorganise supply chains and revitalise sustainable tourism in a safe manner. Across Asia and the Pacific, governments must pool financial resources to create regional investment funds. Strengthening regional cooperation platforms to ensure that all countries receive an equitable number of doses of the vaccine on short notice to everyone everywhere is particularly essential. Through ESCAP, we can scale these efforts across the region, working closely with our member states, the private sector and innovators to build a collective financing response to mobilise the necessary additional resources. Together, we can chart financing strategies of Asia and the Pacific which can enhance societal well being and economic resilience of future pandemics and crises. Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana is the UN Under-Secretary-General and Executive Secretary of the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Mixed messaging||Prime Minister Modi last week elaborately pitched India as an investment destination that could serve as a manufacturing hub at the heart of global supply chains. The pitch made at the U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum comes in the backdrop of the government’s keenness to use the disruptions the COVID-19 pandemic has caused to the cross-border movement of goods as an opportunity to lure potential investors, especially those looking to relocate from China, to India. This tack is consistent with recent initiatives to explore supply-chain synergies with other economies, including Japan, as an escalating border feud casts a shadow over India’s economic and trade ties with its northern neighbour. The reasoning appears to be that if even a few multinational enterprises can be drawn to set up manufacturing bases, either by shifting facilities or as new additional plants, then not only does the Indian economy stand to gain FDI, new jobs and tax revenue but it also makes a statement. Clearly, officials must have advised Mr. Modi that U.S. businesses were the ideal target given the worsening relationship between Washington and Beijing and the ongoing trade stand-off between the world’s two largest economies. On the face of it, the approach seems inarguably sound. The rub, however, lies in the government’s recent ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative, of making India more self-reliant. Over the decades, it has been established that global FDI investors prioritise and are even willing to pay a premium for policy stability and largely barrier-free access to local and international markets. The drive for self-reliance has spurred several Ministries to urge companies and industry sectors to replace imports with ‘Made in India’ substitutes. From the Shipping Ministry’s call for the design and manufacture of indigenous tugboats to auto component makers being told to abjure foreign parts, the thrust of the initiative is evidently ‘import substitution’. It is hard to imagine any potential foreign investor in manufacturing being ready to source capital goods locally — assuming they are available — even at the cost of possibly compromising on quality or price or both. Betraying the government’s anxiety, Mr. Modi took pains to stress that the push for self-reliance should not be interpreted as India turning its back on the world. Separately, from the market access perspective, India’s decision to not join the RCEP multilateral trade pact would put investor companies seeking to tap consumers in RCEP member countries at a tariff disadvantage. Interestingly, most of the recent FDI announcements have been by way of stake acquisitions in existing businesses, and predominantly in the services sector. Attracting FDI into manufacturing will require the government to convince investors that it is committed not merely in words but in deeds as well to an open, barrier-free global trade and investment order.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Too close for comfort||Following Friday’s talks in Moscow between the Defence Ministers of India and China, the prospects of an imminent diplomatic solution to the continuing stand-off along the LAC do not appear bright. The statements issued by the two sides have underlined the sharp differences in how New Delhi and Beijing have continued to view the unprecedented developments along the border since May, when China deployed troops in large numbers and sought to unilaterally redraw the LAC in several areas. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh “categorically conveyed” India’s stand, emphasising that China’s actions “were in violation of the bilateral agreements”. He also expressed hope that both sides would be able to resolve the ongoing situation “peacefully through dialogue”. His Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fenghe, appeared to only reiterate the stand conveyed by China in recent statements that it had no blame to bear for this summer’s developments. He said “the responsibility lies entirely with the Indian side”, while China “kept maximum restraint to prevent potential escalation”. He called on India to “immediately withdraw its troops”. He did, also, add that both sides should “stay committed to resolving the issue through dialogue and consultation” and “make joint efforts to meet each other halfway”. As External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said last week, diplomacy is the only way out of the crisis, and that can only happen “if both sides understand that it is in each of their best interests if the events of this summer are not repeated”. The problem, so far, has been a stark mismatch between China’s statements and the actions of its troops. Its consistent labelling of India as the aggressor this summer contradicts the reality that India has, since May, ceded about 1,000 square kilometres in Ladakh to Chinese control. If China’s diplomats have spoken repeatedly of the need to keep in mind “the big picture” of bilateral ties, the actions of its military on the ground have suggested an intent that is precisely the opposite, emphasising achieving tactical gains at the border over the broader strategic relationship. Until that calculus changes, India will have to be prepared to be tested along the border and to stand its ground over the long haul. India has signalled its intent to do so with the latest developments on August 29 in Chushul. If the statements following the Moscow meet did not exactly inspire confidence, both sides will have the chance to reassess the situation when Mr. Jaishankar will likely meet his counterpart, Wang Yi, at a meeting of SCO Foreign Ministers on September 10. Military talks can occasionally help to avert a flare-up, but the two neighbours need to work toward a diplomatic solution to ensure undisturbed peace and quiet along the border.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Non-Cooperation (From an editorial)||To whatever fateful decision the Special Congress is going to commit the country, at least the charge cannot be laid against it that it had failed to give the subject of Non-Cooperation the anxious sifting that its importance and gravity demanded. Some of the most powerful minds in the country, depleted though their ranks may be by the unfortunate defection of the Moderates, have been brought to bear upon the problem and in the result the discussion in the Subjects Commission has taken a very high level. It would be interesting to speculate upon the evolution of the Subjects Committee as a kind of miniature Congress. With the inevitable emergence of parties in the Congress itself the Subjects Committee has become the real arena for different parties to fight their battles in. To the Congress is left the final choice but the nature of its composition precludes any possibility of adequate or even restrained debate.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Respect for the State (From an Editorial)||Most of the anti-national acts of individual citizens in a democracy are the outcome of their mental confusion. The confusion consists in identifying the government in power with the State and heaping injuries on State symbols like the national flag, the national anthem and the Constitution in a bid intended to wound only the party in office. The psychological effects of such confused action are easy to assess: Repeated insults to the nation in its symbols will make a mockery of the symbols and, as the habit spreads, the sense of national oneness which these symbols had been designed to infuse will get progressively weakened. The Bill introduced by the Union Government in the Lok Sabha to prevent such insults through specific penalties like imprisonment for three years or a fine or both has come none too soon. But such legislation has its limits. For instance, the Bill seeks to punish wanton disrespect to the national anthem, flag and Constitution. Apart from the theoretical possibilities for proving the existence of extenuating circumstances even in the case of wanton disrespect and thus escaping punishment, constraints on such misbehaviour can never be effectively enforced by laws alone.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||A difficult choice||The moratorium offered by banks and other institutional lenders ended last month. However, the economic disruption caused by the pandemic and the resultant income and job loss continue to a large degree. In this scenario, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has announced a loan restructuring plan to offer relief to impacted borrowers, who may struggle to repay their debt over the short term, at least. This plan is unique in many ways. Unlike the earlier restructuring windows with a largely open-ended structure, the latest resolution framework has a strict entry barrier and a clearly defined timeline for the implementation of the scheme. Also, unlike the moratorium on term loans that was open for all, only those borrowers whose income has been adversely impacted due to the pandemic and repayment capacity seriously restricted would be eligible for the loan restructuring scheme offered by the lender. This is also the first time that the RBI has announced a resolution plan specifically for retail loans. Holistic solution The primary objective of the loan recast plan is to provide a holistic solution to the liquidity and viability-related issues faced by existing borrowers in the personal loan segment, along with the corporate and MSME loan categories. The RBI has acknowledged the need to address the deeper cash flows issues faced by borrowers, a large section of whom have an otherwise good repayment history. According to RBI’s Financial Stability Report released in July , about 50% of individual loan borrowers had availed themselves of the moratorium as on April 30. As a result, most banks and institutional lenders would have feared a significant rise in NPAs in the next few months. But, if implemented well by lenders, the restructuring plan will allow the lending system to spread the probable systemic shock over a longer period of time. Hopefully, the plan will not only provide huge relief to the genuinely- stressed borrowers but also help maintain the overall health of the lending sector. Currently, most lenders, including the large banks, are being cautious in issuing new loans. Only borrowers with a steady income, who have been unscathed by the pandemic financially and have a solid repayment history are predominantly being catered to. This is likely to continue till the time lenders have a clear picture of the repayment capacity of existing borrowers, which should happen over the next couple of months. In the RBI’s lexicon, the term ‘personal loan’ includes gold, education, home, personal, consumer durable and car loans, credit card dues and loan against securities (other than those sanctioned for business and commercial purposes). Loan recast goal The objective of the loan restructuring plan is to clearly provide relief to the maximum number of retail borrowers, who may struggle to service existing debt, by allowing them to repay as per their changed repayment capacity. The RBI has outlined a broad framework for the lenders to resolve the stress in personal loan assets. Lenders may provide relief to impacted borrowers by rescheduling loan repayments, conversion of any interest already accrued or to be accrued in future into another loan and through granting loan moratorium subject to a maximum of two years. This is only a broad framework and personal loan borrowers would need to wait for their lender to announce details on the various options that may be available and the associated eligibility criterion. However, any restructuring one goes for will come at a price such as higher interest cost and may have a long-term implication on the financial future. Hence, only those genuinely affected by the COVID-19 crisis and struggling to repay debt should opt for loan resolution. Borrowers should also consider the fact that the loans taken up for restructuring will be reflected in credit reports as ‘restructured.’ This is likely to have an adverse impact on credit score and thereby, borrowers’ chances of availing another loan or credit card may plummet significantly in the future. My advice for those whose income has been considerably impaired is to opt for rescheduling of loan repayments. Be disciplined and start repaying according to your reduced repayment capacity. Only those who have no, or little, means to make repayments over a longer time horizon should opt for the moratorium. But do go through the various options available with your lender, before taking a decision.  (The author is CEO & Co-founder, Paisabazaar.com)   Borrowers would need to wait for their lender to announce details on the various options that may be available and the associated eligibility criterion
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
07 September 2020||New York,||Serena passes the Stephens test||Second seed Dominic Thiem battled past Marin Cilic 6-2, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 to move into the last 16 of the US Open on Saturday. The World No. 3 will play 20-year-old Canadian hotshot Felix Auger-Aliassime for a place in the quarterfinals. The 15th seed blew away France’s Corentin Moutet 6-1, 6-0, 6-4 in just one hour and 57 minutes, becoming the first player born in the 2000s to reach a Grand Slam fourth round. Auger-Aliassime was joined in round four by 94th-ranked compatriot Vasek Pospisil, who shocked eighth-seeded Spaniard Roberto Bautista Agut, 7-5, 2-6, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. Pospisil, 30, struck 70 winners to reach the last 16 at Flushing Meadows for the first time. In the women’s section, Serena Williams progressed to the last 16, coming from a set down to oust 2017 champion Sloane Stephens 2-6, 6-2, 6-2. Rohan Bopanna and Shapovalov stunned sixth-seeded Germans Kevin Krawietz and Andreas Mies 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 to advance to the quarterfinals. Off the court, No. 1 seeds Kristina Mladenovic and Timea Babos were removed from the women's doubles competition after the former was instructed to quarantine for coming in contact with Benoit Paire, who had tested positive for COVID-19 last weekend.
07 September 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||Buttler on song as host England claims series||England beat Australia by six wickets in the second T20I on Sunday as opener Jos Buttler anchored the run chase to help the hosts win the three-match series. Set a target of 158, Buttler remained unbeaten on 77 off 54 balls, which included eight boundaries and two sixes, as England crossed the finish line with seven balls to spare to take a 2-0 lead in the series. England lost opener Jonny Bairstow early when he hit his own stumps while trying to pull Mitchell Starc, but Buttler and Dawid Malan (42) kept the scoreboard ticking with an 87-run stand before Ashton Agar had Malan caught in the deep. Tom Banton and Eoin Morgan fell cheaply, but all-rounder Moeen Ali came in and relieved the pressure with a six and a four off Adam Zampa in the penultimate over to change the equation. Buttler then smashed a six down the ground to seal the contest. Earlier, Australia, after opting to bat, was restricted to 157 for seven. Jofra Archer and Mark Wood struck in their first overs to remove David Warner for a duck and Alex Carey for two. Steve Smith was run out for 10 off a direct hit from Morgan. Aaron Finch (40) and Marcus Stoinis (35) stitched together a 49-run partnership while Glenn Maxwell scored a quickfire 26 off 18 balls to give the Aussies something to defend, but Buttler showed that it was not enough.  The scores: Australia 157 for seven in 20 overs (Finch 40, Stoinis 35, Jordan 2/40) lost to England 158 for four in 18.5 overs (Buttler 77 n.o., Malan 42, Agar 2/27).   Third T20I : Sept. 8 (Tuesday), 10.30 p.m .
07 September 2020||KOCHI,||Thomas Fenn passes away||Thomas J. Fenn, former State basketball captain and coach, passed away in Alappuzha on Sunday. He was 84 and is survived by his wife Accama and son Jacob Fenn, also a former State player. Fenn represented Kerala 10 times from the mid-1950s and, though records are not readily available, many believe he was a part of the first Kerala basketball team. He came into the limelight in 1957 as a guest player for the KSRTC, Kerala’s first institutional side, and later was the captain of the State team twice. He later joined the Kerala Sports Council as a coach and in 1967 guided the Kerala women’s team to the runner-up spot in the Nationals in Kottayam. He was also coach of the St. Teresa’s College in Kochi for many years. He was also an international referee.
07 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Camp for shuttlers from today||The national coaching camp for shuttlers, preparing for the forthcoming Thomas and Uber Cup, will be held at the Gopi Chand Academy here from September 7 to 27. The camp will have 26 players, including Saina Nehwal and her husband-cum-coach P. Kashyap. The latter was not in the list of eight Olympic probables invited for the camp last month. Apart from Sourabh Verma, Sameer Verma and H.S. Prannoy, India’s top doubles pair of R. Satwiksairaj, who tested COVID-19 positive recently, and Chirag Shetty will also not be attending the camp. P.V. Sindhu had already pulled out of the Uber Cup for personal reasons. All the campers will have to stay at the academy as part of the protocol. The players will have the services of seven coaches, four support staff and three sparring partners. Mandatory test Every member of the camp will have to undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test for COVID-19 at their respective hometowns and should test negative before heading for the academy in Hyderabad.  The players’ list: Men: B. Sai Praneeth, K. Srikanth, P. Kashyap, Lakshya Sen, Subhankar Dey, Manu Attri, Sumeeth Reddy, Dhruv Kapila, M.R. Arjun, G. Krishna Prasad, Siril Verma, Ansal Yadav and Kartikey Gulshan Kumar.   Women: Saina Nehwal, Aakarshi Kashyap, Malvika Bansode, Ashmita Chaliha, Ira Sharma, Ashwini Ponnappa, N. Sikki Reddy, Sanjana Santosh, Pooja Dandoo, Poorvisha Ram, J. Meghna, Ashwini Bhatt and Shikha Gautam .
07 September 2020||SOLNA,||Mbappe does it for France||Kylian Mbappe scored with France's only shot on goal to give the World champion a 1-0 victory over Sweden in the UEFA Nations League on Saturday. England, holder Portugal and Belgium all enjoyed winning starts.  Important results:   League A: Group 2: At Reykjavik: Iceland 0 lost to England 1 (Sterling 90+2-pen) 0. At Copenhagen: Denmark 0 lost to Belgium 2 (Denayer 9, Mertens 77).   Group 3: At Solna: Sweden 0 lost to France 1 (Mbappe 41).   At Porto: Portugal 4 (Joao Cancelo 41, Diogo Jota 58, Joao Felix 70, Silva 90+5) bt Croatia 1 (Petkovic 90+1).
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Modes of upasana||In the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, Srishti is explained at the outset itself. “The world existed first as seed, which as it grew and developed took on names and forms. As a razor in its case, or as fire in wood, so dwells the self, the Lord of the universe, in all forms, even to the tips of the fingers. Yet the ignorant do not know Him who remains hidden behind the names and forms.” In a discourse, Sri Rajagopala Sarma drew attention to the fact that the Srutis are so concerned for the well being of the jiva that they try to help him overcome this ignorance of the self that stands as a great hurdle to spiritual progress. The fundamental teaching is to reinforce the same non-dual nature of the self that is in the jiva as well as the Ishwara. The Supreme Brahman is the antaryami in all creation. When the self is associated with avidya it is known as jiva, and when in association with Maya it is Ishwara. So, Maya and avidya are the adjuncts of the self that appears as Ishwara and Jiva respectively. At the time of Pralaya, Ishwara is not associated with Maya. There is no creation. He is in unmanifest form. This is the causal or karana sarira of Brahman that is worshipped by great devotees. But not all can rise to this level. So Ishwara also takes the form of the sukshma sarira, known as Hiranyagarbha for the sake of upasana by quite a few devotees. For many others who are still to reach this level, there is the more accessible sthula form of Ishwara, the Virat swaroopa, such as the vision that was revealed to Arjuna. Suppose even this is not possible, Sruti comes down to show how to do upasana of Brahma, Vishnu and Rudra, in their roles of srishti, stiti and laya.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 07:47 IST,||Sudoku - September 7, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Before you start, remember...||To wear comfortable stretchable clothing. To maintain correct posture, as alignment of the joints is key to an injury-free workout. Avoid the exercises if you are experiencing pain or stress in the joints. Exercises can be done with or without shoes.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||How to save a life||(Trigger warning: If you are in distress or feeling suicidal, please avoid reading this article)   Whether you encounter a casual remark from a friend about the pointlessness of living or a message on social media on someone wanting to take theirs, it is always a good idea to take it seriously. It could be early warning signals or a last-minute intervention to save someone’s life. In fact, 80% of those with suicide ideation are ambivalent, and if counselled appropriately, a majority do not take the extreme step, says Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, Chennai-based psychiatrist and founder-trustee of Sneha, a suicide prevention and crisis hotline. From his 30 years of practice as a psychiatrist, Dr. C. Ramasubramanian, who established the M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation in Madurai, says 90% of callers do not die by suicide when they are heard and feel cared for. Preventing suicide is everybody’s business, not just the ‘job’ of close family and friends. “Each of us has a responsibility to allow others to see themselves as valuable and capable. It cannot be left in the hands of mental health professionals alone,” says Nandini Murali, a suicide loss survivor in Madurai, who runs Project Speak to help those who are contemplating the extreme step. While trained gatekeepers and volunteers at helpline centres and counselling clinics have the tools for both immediate interventions and long-term therapy, people like you and me have the power to reach out to anyone who may put out messages that signal self-harm. Suicide is a serious public health issue caused by multiple factors that can be social, economic, environmental; it is not a disease. It is a symptom that can be addressed by offering hope and each of us can do our bit to contribute responsibly. Understand the urgency Any message that signals death: “sleep forever”, “want to leave this space”, besides more obvious ones like “I do not want to live”, should all be prompts to reach out, for those of us reading them. But what if you do not know the person at all? Even if there is a mismatched emoji attached to telling messages, treat every word as an emergency. Reach out immediately Do not undermine the thought or attempt to make a diagnosis, so avoid writing back and asking the person if they are depressed, for instance. Instead, write back or find a contact number to speak directly. It is important to establish a physical or emotional contact without wasting time. Introduce yourself and express your concern, but in a calm voice. Offer to help in any which way you can, says Dr. Ramasubramanian. “If the person is willing to talk, it means they want to reach out,” says Dr. Sayantani Mukherjee, consultant psychiatrist with Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune. In most cases, people want to be heard, even in the midst of loneliness, helplessness, and hopelessness, she adds. Check yourself Guard against knee-jerk reactions and be gentle in your tone, kind in your words; not over-bearing. Talk to calm them down and gauge the situation they are in. But do not slight or sound judgemental. For instance, if someone seems wealthy and well-educated, avoid telling them they are being unreasonable and ungrateful. Do not trivialise their problem by citing a worse example from your life. Engage in a conversation The objective should be to prevent them from carrying out the death wish. “Ask about friends, family, neighbours, place of residence and allow the person to talk as much and as long. Do not shift the focus of conversation from them,” says Chennai-based psychiatrist and ex-director of SCARF, Dr. Thara Srinivasan. Create a safe supportive space Tell the person you totally understand their feelings and believe it is a phase that shall pass. Assure them that there is help available and that you will stay on the phone with them for as long as they would like you to. The person may be rude, but adopt a non-confrontational approach. “The point is to show concern, and if you do not know them it can be difficult for you to express love, but it is possible to offer words of comfort,” says Dr. Vijayakumar. Understand the person is under psychological distress and an alternative-narrative makes them think and gives hope, says Dr. Mukherjee. Help them to remember their hobbies they could return to. Never advise, but resonate with the person’s feelings, she says. For example, if the person says life is difficult to live without money, ask if they want to talk about earlier struggles and how they faced it. It will give them the confidence to look at options. Make a commitment Ask if you can make a plan (like meeting them for coffee the next morning). If you find out they are good at something — like writing poetry for instance — ask if you can call the next day so they can read you some. Remind them of the protective factors that kept them happy earlier in life. If they talk about supportive parents, caring spouse or children, build on that gently to make them feel less agitated. This is also an activation of a person’s internal and external resources. Connect and be in touch Try to lead to a situation where the person is fine with reaching out for professional help — first a helpline, then therapy. Approaching the police is the last resort and is helpful in case of an emergency with little time on hand. Remain in touch with the person as long as you can. An occasional phone call or a letter could help them, as it does any one of us.  Sneha suicide prevention helpline: 044-24640060 (8 a.m. to 10 p.m.); 044-24640050 (24x7); Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation mental health helpline 022-24131212 (24x7); Vandrevala Foundation: 18602662345/ 18002333330 (24x7); I Call: 022-25521111 (8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday to Saturday); The Samaritans Mumbai: 8422984528/ 8422984529/ 8422984530 (3 p.m.- 9 p.m. all days); Kolkata: Lifeline Foundation — 033-24637401/32   What if it’s your friend? If your friend shows lack of interest in life, appears restless, complains of low appetite and sleep, focusses on fears, and dwells a great deal on problems and how they are not possible to resolve them, how do you react? Dr. Vijayakumar says it is natural between friends to brush it off, but it is better to ask some straight questions. “It is a myth that when you ask directly, you reinforce suicidal thoughts,” she says and adds, “it is better to show your empathy and concern instead.” If timely intervention comes by, the vulnerable feeling of unworthiness and a death wish can be conquered with help. Offer to go with them to a psychiatrist or a registered counsellor.   I’ll be there for you World Suicide Prevention Day is observed on September 10 to raise awareness of saving lives and restoring hope.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Sleep is now a commodity?||About a decade ago, I was privy to a meeting where a company that sells diapers said they would like to focus on sleep and put out communication around it. The reason: it was found that babies’ development happened when they were at rest. Frequent urinating into a cloth nappy would wake them up, interrupting sleep and hence growth. By marrying diapers and sleep, they were putting a cost, not on convenience, but on early childhood development, rendering a costly product inexpensive in parents’ eyes. Over the years, in an adrenaline-high world that runs on stimulants (coffee, cigarettes, stress) and the boast of ‘burning the midnight oil’, we have found the need to advocate for sleep. It gives our bodies time to repair, our brains the rest to consolidate memory, and our hormones the chance to regulate themselves, affecting hunger and circadian rhythms (our natural body clock). A lack of sleep is the reason those on a night shift feel a greater need for junk and oil-laden food. It is the body desperately trying to cope with a situation that is not natural to it. Increasingly, people are understanding the importance of a good night’s rest. Riding on any self-awareness movement though, is marketing, pushing the message ahead with a momentum that only money can buy. To some extent, it is the resources sunk into a health message that takes it to everyone, but it also convinces us to buy into products that purportedly aid in the endeavour. There are mattresses, apps, supplements, white noise machines, masks, teas, essential oils, ear plugs, nose clips, anti-snore chin straps, and more — all promise help. There is nothing wrong with most of the products marketed around rest, except for certain creams and sprays, the ingredients of which you may want to read on the back of the pack. But there is a danger of us buying into them without looking deeper within to examine why we have a problem with sleep. Am I in a state of hyperstress — overloaded with work to the extent that a small trigger can become a big episode? Anxiety ridden? Do I have sleep apnoea? An addiction — even if it is to tech? Why am I not able to have nights of uninterrupted sleep for eight hours? Sleep, like most things in life, is a consequence of how we operate through the day, our activity, thoughts, interactions with those around us. If we hold on to poor routines, habits, and relationships, all the white noise machines and self-affirmation apps in the world will only be band-aids that simply do not address the real reason we are not sleeping well and get up feeling refreshed.
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Seeking forgiveness||A young lady doctor, attending to COVID-19 patients, herself succumbed to the infection she seemed to have contracted. Before she went into hospital, she told someone I know that if she did not make it back, she hoped all those she may have distressed in the course of her life, would forgive her. The poignancy of her plea struck me even more significantly when my mother suddenly passed on within a day of my hearing this comment and sharing it with her. It forced me to ask myself ‘What does this mean?’ In my journey through life, I imagine there are surely some people who may have felt pain in my dealing with them. Do I seek forgiveness from them? A few whom I recall have passed on. While the need to be forgiven by another is important, the greater need in me seems to be the willingness to forgive myself. Some who have said I have caused them pain may not know that my intent may never have been to distress them. If I have done so, more often than not it has been owing to either my insensitivity, which I was not aware of, or even ignorance. Hence to whip myself and fault myself, much after the act has been committed, only seems to heap on me guilt and shame. Possibly a less painful way of apologising is to first forgive myself for any indiscretion I may have committed. In doing so I may then, with awareness, be able to examine the content and process of my errors. I may also feel far less burdened for I know that I am not punishing myself and thus am ridding myself of either feeling a victim or even persecuting myself. It may not be easy to forgive myself, yet if I do not attempt to do so, I do not think I will let others forgive me even if they want to as I would anyway continue to stew irrespective of whether someone forgives me or not. From whom am I seeking forgiveness, if I cannot from self? If not, I am only deceiving myself, and no one else! The writer is an organisational and behavioural consultant. He can be contacted at ttsrinath@gmail.com
07 September 2020||September 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Metro ready, commuters in limbo||Raju Dubey, 26, a cashier at a motorbike showroom in Saket has had a difficult time travelling to work in the last few months. While at times he hopped on his friends’ bikes to reach the showroom, at other times he took a bus at the cost of increasing his travel time, he said. Mr. Dubey, like several other city residents, has been waiting for the resumption of metro services for over five months now. The Delhi Metro, which halted its operations five months ago following the imposition of a nationwide lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, is set to run again from Monday in a graded manner. With 57 trains being made operational for the 49-km-long Yellow Line, trains will be available at an interval of 2.44 minutes to 5.28 minutes at different stretches, officials said. The passenger capacity of each train has been reduced to around 20% of the pre-lockdown period due to social distancing norms. The DMRC has appealed to commuters to travel light, avoid carrying metallic items and “talk less” during their journey to prevent the possibility of short-range aerosol transmission.   Mahesh Chand, who plans to ride the metro to Lal Quila on weekends, said, “Social distancing is not really being maintained anywhere. Look at the buses. Besides, if the government has decided to restart the metro, it must have put some thought behind it.” Measuring the risks However, several others said they would prefer to wait and watch before heading out in numbers. Supriya Sundriyal, a resident of Arjun Nagar and a regular on the Yellow Line for her daily commute to Gurugram, said, “I will initially avoid the metro because of the fear of spread of infection. While the government must have put all safety measures in place, I am not too sure of how it plans to manage the intake of passengers at crowded stations.” “It’s a good move to start the metro in a graded manner, but I think it is better to observe the results first before risking my life and those of others,” said Ms. Sundriyal. Anwesh Patnaik, a student, also rejected the idea of riding the metro anytime soon on account of the soaring number of COVID-19 cases. “I used to take the metro pretty regularly, mostly the Yellow and Violet Line, but I don’t think it makes any sense to start using it right now,” said Mr. Patnaik. Rakesh Ahuja, 32, an executive working at a firm in Noida, said, “On a regular day, my metro commute from south Delhi to Noida included 17 stations across two lines. I am not entirely convinced of using the metro so soon as being in an enclosed space for so long is too big a risk at this stage. Also with longer queues and stricter security checks at every stage, the travel time will increase exponentially, which is not something I can afford right now.”  Last-mile connectivity Ajay Kumar, an autorickshaw driver from Bihar who has been working in Delhi for the last 12 years, said, “During the lockdown I went back to my village with my family. I came back to the city two weeks ago hoping that the situation would have improved but that doesn’t seem to be the case as we hardly get any passengers these days. The metro reopening will definitely boost our passenger load as there will be a little more movement of people.” E rickshaw operators, who ply to and from the Govindpuri metro station, also hoped to get more passengers after the restarting of the metro. Despite the easing of the lockdown, drivers here say they get very few passengers and their earnings are very low. Mohammad Habib, an autorickshaw driver in the Capital for the last 18 years, added, “The situation is quite bad as earnings are lower than ever. I am not sure if the metro reopening is a good sign for us as the few passengers we get might want to travel in the metro and not auto. That will just diminish our earnings further.” Economic activities After a lull in business for several months, street vendors around metro stations are also pinning their hopes on resumption of services. Dayaram Singh, who sells junk jewellery at Connaught Place, said, “I returned to my spot around 20 days ago. Due to lack of public transport, CP was hardly its usual self. Now we will have to wait and watch if the metro helps increase the footfall. These days we are not even earning half of what we used to earlier.” Satyaveer Khushwar, another vendor, said, “One can never tell whether with the resumption of metro services people will be back. A few weeks ago, when the number of cases dropped in the city, the footfall increased and there was a glimmer of hope. Now, with the rising numbers, we are back to almost no business again.” Protocol and guidelines With the resumption of services, metro commuters will have to adapt to new guidelines like occupying alternate seats, mandatory use of smart cards instead of tokens, social distancing and restricted access for entering and exiting stations. In a bid to ensure compliance of protocol, a staff of 800 will be deployed by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) across its stations. While commuters will have to undergo thermal screening and sanitisation processes at the station entry, not more than three people will be allowed inside the lifts. A foot-operated pedal for calling lifts has also been installed at 16 stations across the network. The dwell (stoppage) time of metro trains will also be increased to ensure that passengers have enough time to board or alight. According to the guidelines, metro trains will not stop at stations falling in containment zones. “The list of such stations will be updated on a regular basis depending on the current containment zones,” said a DMRC official. Precautionary measures  The DMRC said that at the end of each trip machine-based sanitisation with special chemicals will be done at all touch points inside the train. “As for station cleaning, sanitisation will be carried out every four hours. In addition to that, all baggages would be scanned at the scan machines,” the DMRC said. Metro officials said that the air conditioning systems of trains have been modified to keep fresh air flow to 100% open mode (fresh air intake) and the AC filters will be cleaned every seven days instead of the earlier 15-day period.
07 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||A boost for businessmen in Gurugram||Though most of the offices in the Millennium City are shut with companies preferring work from home for the employees, the businesses, especially shopping malls and restaurants, are looking forward to the resumption of metro service from Monday after around five months. MGF Metropolitan Mall Association member AmanBajaj, who also runs a gaming and gadget store, ‘music festival’, said that around 40% footfall in the shopping mall, adjacent to MG Road metro station, comprised Delhiites. So he hoped the business to pick up with the resumption of the metro service. “It has helped us in terms of business to be close to the metro station. Most of the crowd travelling by metro comprises office-goers and the offices are now shut, but still the opening of the metro will help the business a great deal. The footfall has already gone up significantly since the malls first opened after the lockdown,” said Mr. Bajaj. He added that the opening of metro signalled that the situation was getting back to normal and gave confidence to the people to step out. With the Haryana government allowing renewal of bar licences from this month, the hospitality industry also hopes to reap the benefits of metro restart, especially the Cyber Hub, which is connected with the Rapid Metro. Inderjeet Banga, head of National Restaurant Association of India’s Gurugram chapter, said that opening metro would make travelling easy and increase the access. He said it was a “welcome move” and helped create a positive mindset. “When the mindset is positive, consumption patterns will go up,” said Mr. Banga. It also means a new lease of life for the rickshaw pullers and autorickshaw drivers, who have been struggling to make both ends meet since the lockdown. Many autorickshaw drivers in the city are forced to convert their vehicles into open carts selling vegetables and tea to earn their livelihood. Three-member team Though Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) would be responsible for the running of metro trains and ensuring adherence to the Standard Operating Procedures inside its premises, the Gurugram district administration has decided to deploy three-member teams comprising a policeman, a health worker and a municipal official, at each of the five Yellow Line stations in its jurisdiction. A nodal official will be appointed for overall supervision of the situation. Haryana Auto Chalak Sangathan State president Mahavir Singh said there would be separate auto stands to pick up and drop the passengers. The 12-km rapid metro network with eleven stations will also be open on Monday, but since it mostly caters to office-goers, the traffic is expected to be less.
07 September 2020||New Delhi/GURUGRAM,||Capital records fresh 3,000 COVID-19 cases||The Capital recorded 3,256 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday with 29 deaths and 2,188 recoveries in the past 24 hours, according to a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The total positive cases stand at 1,91,449, total deaths at 4,567 and total recoveries at 1,65,973. There are 20,909 active cases in the Capital. The bulletin stated that 9,217 RT-PCR and 26,829 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. There are 1,076 containment zones and 11,010 patients are under home isolation. Providing statistics about patient management, the bulletin said that out of 14,171 hospital beds, 9,070 are vacant. At dedicated COVID care centres that have 8,580 beds, 4,679 are vacant. Of the 601 available beds at dedicated heath centres, 188 beds are vacant. On Saturday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the number of cases in the Capital is rising as they have started testing more. The testing had gone from 20,000 to 40,000 per day. Gurugram cases spike In the highest single-day spike, 306 COVID-19 cases were recorded in Gurugram on Sunday. It took the total number of cases in the district to 13,321. With 140 recoveries, Gurugram now has 1,686 active cases. After a steady decline in the number of active cases in Gurugram since June 21, there has been a sudden spurt over the past two weeks. The active cases again crossed the 1,000-mark on September 1 after more than a month. The health officials and the district authorities have attributed the sudden rise in infection cases to the gradual unlocking of various activities, including shopping malls, market places and transport, and also on the people lowering the guard. As per the latest health bulletin, Gurugram has recorded 137 deaths, including 96 with co-morbidities. As many as 1,486 patients are in home isolation, and the rest in the hospitals. Of the total cases, Gurugram city has the maximum 11,057, followed by Pataudi (1,192), Sohna (835) and Farukh Nagar (237). In view of the rise in cases, the district administration mulls to increase the number of reserved beds in private hospitals to 30% and fix quota for the residents of Haryana.
07 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Parties slam Centre’s move to drop Punjabi language in J&K||The Centre’s move of not including “Punjabi” as one of the official languages in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has invited sharp criticism from political parties in Punjab, including the BJP’s alliance partner, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Expressing displeasure, former Deputy Chief Minister and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has termed the move anti-minority. The Congress echoed the allegation and described it as another move that exposes the anti-minority mindset of the BJP. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) State president, Bhagwant Mann, condemned the decision and said he would raise the issue in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament. The Union Cabinet had earlier this week approved a Bill to include Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi as official languages in the newly created Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday told The Hindu, “The move reflects the mindset of the incumbent regime, and it’s because of this mindset that no minority community in the country feels secure — be it surrounding their religion, language or culture. This speaks dangerously about our democracy and our social fabric.” “The government should notify Punjabi language as an official language,” he added. Mr. Badal in a letter to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant- Governor Manoj Sinha, wrote, “Punjabi is not only the mother tongue of a very significant part of the people of the State but it was also a recognised language duly certified in the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir.” The SAD president pointed out that the Punjabi language had profound religious, cultural and emotional implications for the Sikh community. “As such, the exclusion of Punjabi as official language in Jammu and Kashmir is bound to be seen as an anti-minority and is certain to be seen as an anti-Sikh step of the Jammu-Kashmir administration”.  Propaganda ammunition Mr. Badal also cautioned that “decisions such as these provide dangerous propaganda ammunition to those who are always looking for such opportunities to disturb peace and communal harmony in the country, especially in the sensitive border States of Punjab and Jammu-Kashmir”. Mr. Badal said the move would deliver “a severe blow to the idea of cooperative cultural and political federalism in the country”.
07 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Bodies of virus victims get interchanged in U.P. hospital||In a case of gross negligence, the bodies of two COVID-19 patients allegedly got interchanged in Meerut Medical College on Sunday. The District Magistrate has ordered an inquiry into the case and has promised strict action. The lapse came to light when a Modinagar family in Ghaziabad district informed the authorities that the body they were given in a packed form, as per protocol, was not of their father who passed away in Meerut Medical College on Saturday evening. According to Mukesh Kumar, son of the deceased, when the family was conducting the last rites, they discovered that it was not of their father. “I got a call from Meerut Medical College on Saturday night that my father has passed away. The body was given to us in packed form on Sunday morning. Before performing the last rites, when we partially removed the packing to see the face, we were shocked to find that the body was not of our father,” Mr. Mukesh told reporters. The family members also alleged that when they called up the hospital, the officer on duty reprimanded them and said removing the packing could have legal consequences. “When we persisted, we were told that another person from Meerut’s Rohta Road area also passed away because of COVID-19 around the same time and the bodies could have interchanged,” Mr. Mukesh said, adding he was going to Meerut to collect the ashes of his father. The authorities called up Varun, son of the other deceased, but by then the family had performed the last rites of the body. “We rushed to Modinagar and collected the remains of our father. We have been told that we could not perform the last rites here, so we are taking him to Meerut,” he said.  Strict action promised Raj Kumar, Chief Medical Officer, Meerut, who is part of the inquiry committee, told The Hindu that the responsibility would be fixed within 12 hours and strict action would be taken against the guilty. “We are looking into the allegations of misbehaviour as well, and nobody would be spared,” he said.
07 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||COVID-19: constable ends life in hospital||A police head constable who had tested positive for COVID-19 ended his life at a hospital in Moradabad on Saturday evening, police said. The deceased has been identified as Diwakar Sharma, 52, and was posted at the police complaint’s desk. Notably, this is the third death by suicide in the Teerthankar Medical College & Research Centre in the last one month. It is a designated COVID-19 facility meant to treat patients from across the Moradabad divison. On August 19, a 28-year-old COVID-19 positive girl ended her life and on August 28, a 42-year-old bank manager took a similar step. The local police had termed them both as suicide cases. ‘Unstable condition’ Amit Anand, Superintendent of Police (City), Moradabad, said doctors treating the head constable had told the police that he was “psychologically unstable” after he learnt about his condition. He confirmed that it was the third case of death by suicide in the private hospital. “ Preeti Jaiswal, Additional District Magistrate (Finance), who is the nodal officer of COVID-19 control centre in the district, said the hospital was a 500-bed L3 facility acquired by the government. “Here, only those patients who require close monitoring are admitted. Right now, around 300 patients are there in the hospital. Some people get paranoid, perhaps because of false information circulating on social media. The girl ended her life even before she was properly admitted. Preliminary reports suggest that the constable fought with the medical staff before he took the extreme step around 11 p.m.” She said there were two counsellors but still three such incidents had happened which was “unfortunate”. “We are looking into ways to prevent such incidents,” she said.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-40769002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Six held for stealing aviation oil from pipelines of a company||Six members of a gang have been arrested for allegedly stealing litres of aviation oil from the pipelines of an oil and gas company and further selling the same to various places across Delhi, the police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Sanjay Dhawan, Mukesh Kumar, Samay Pal, Avlesh, Himanshu and Sanjay, they said. A probe was initiated after the police received several complaints about a gang involved in the theft of petrol, diesel and aviation oil from the supply pipelines of the oil and gas company in Delhi and NCR. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Bhisham Singh said: “The arrest was made by the Crime Branch after their team received information on Saturday that six members of the gang, involved in the theft were coming to Nihal Vihar to sell the stolen oil in a tanker accompanied by a car. A trap was laid and when the vehicles entered a godown in Nilothi, our team apprehended the accused.” The officer said since Samay and Mukesh have been involved in this theft for over a year, they were well aware of the locations of supply pipelines of the oil and gas company. Firstly, they would identify the area where tanker can reach easily near the pipeline preferably in a field of the full-grown crop to minimise visibility from the public as well as security persons of the oil and gas company and execute their operations at night. Other gang members — Avlesh and Himanshu — would dig a hole over the selected pipeline and fit a valve on it with the help of clamp and later connect the pipeline to a tanker. After filling the tanker with oil, they would close the valve and cover the hole with soil while other members kept a watch, the DCP said. They used to sell the oil at various places in Delhi to the persons, who further sold it in retail illegally to various users, he said. Items recovered The police claimed to have seized the tanker used for transportation of stolen aviation oil from pipelines and recovered 1,100 litres aviation oil along with instruments used for making a hole in pipelines, a car used in the commission of crime, Rs. 60,000 cash, a generator and an oil pipe from the possession of the gang members.
07 September 2020||bhubaneswar,||Home guard killed by smugglers||A home guard of the Odisha police died in an attack by smugglers when a police team tried to stop a group carrying ganja in Malkangiri district on Saturday. The incident took place in the Nuaguda forest near Mathili area, close to Andhra Pradesh. The group of more than 100 were carrying the banned drug in slings when a police team intercepted them. During the scuffle, the miscreants hit the home guard, identified Banabasi Maharana, on the head. He later succumbed to grievous head injuries. Taking advantage of the darkness, the smugglers fled.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ratan Lal case: 2 declared proclaimed offenders||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of the chargesheet filed in the alleged murder case of Head Constable Ratan Lal during the north-east Delhi violence and declared two persons as proclaimed offenders. The court, however, did not take Section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups based on religion, language, caste etc.) as the required sanction has not been filed by the police yet. The court declared Suleman Siddiqui and Ravish proclaimed offenders in the case for allegedly intentionally avoiding to appear in the court despite due service of process under Section 82 (proclamation for person absconding) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “Due to non-appearance despite several calls and due service under Section 82 CrPC, accused Suleman Siddiqui and Ravish are declared proclaimed offenders,” the court said in its order. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purushottam Pathak took cognisance of the chargesheet filed against 17 accused – Mohd. Saleem Khan, Salim Malik, Mohd. Jalaluddin, Arif, Mohd. Ayub, Mohd. Yunus, Mohd. Danish, Shahnawaz, Ibrahim, Furqan, Badrul Hasan, Mohd. Sadiq, Shadab Ahmed, Imran Ansari, Adil, Nasir and Suvaleen – in the case. The court said all the accused should be produced through videoconferencing on September 10.  Mob-turned rioters The court said the mob turned into rioters and in the process of rioting, they obstructed policemen who were performing their duties, led to Lal’s death and serious injuries to several policemen and civilians and also burnt and destroyed several properties. From the statements of witnesses and the chargesheet, prima facie, it was revealed that the riots dated February 24 wherein several policemen were murdered, several policemen and civilians were injured and several properties were burnt and destroyed, was an outcome of a well-hatched conspiracy by the accused, the court said. “They planned the manner of committing the offence of rioting, murder and other offences as alleged and they were instrumental in gathering of unlawful assembly at Chand Bagh on February 24 in conspiracy with each other having common intention and unlawful object,” the court also said. It said there was sufficient material on record to take cognisance of the offences alleged to have been committed by the accused. “However, I am not inclined to take cognisance of the offence under Section 153-A IPC as for taking cognisance for the offence, previous sanctions are mandatory to be filed by the agency but the same has not been filed till today,” the judge said. “The investigating officer has informed that in the present case, a letter dated February 13 has been sent to the competent authority, but it was not clear as to how much time it will take for obtaining sanction and any delay in proceeding further in the matter will unnecessarily defeat the purpose for which the special courts for trial of riot cases have been created, I deem it fit to take cognisance of all the offences as discussed,” the judge said.
07 September 2020||Guwahati,||Assam doctor, teacher wife held for torturing minor help||A court in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district on Sunday sent a doctor and his teacher wife to judicial custody for allegedly pouring hot water on their 12-year-old domestic help. Dr. Siddhi Prasad Deuri of the Assam Medical College and Hospital in Dibrugarh and his wife Mitali Konwar, principal of Moran College near Dibrugarh, were arrested at Raha in central Assam’s Nagaon district on Saturday. They had gone into hiding when child rights activists and local organisations pressured the government for action against them after the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Dibrugarh rescued the boy on August 29 on the basis of a video received anonymously. The boy was engaged illegally to wash five cars and take care of the couple’s dogs since April 2019. The couple had reportedly lain low in West Bengal and were on their way back home as the police had earlier arrested their son and daughter. The doctor and his wife were booked under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Child and Adolescent Labour Prohibition Act and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. “The couple was produced before the local court in the afternoon. The court prescribed judicial custody,” Dibrugarh Superintendent of Police Thube Prateek Vijay Kumar said. He said the police were investigating the case on the basis of the child’s statement and circumstantial evidence.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CM launches anti-dengue drive, seeks participation of residents||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday kick-started the Delhi government’s 10-week anti-dengue campaign that seeks the participation of all residents to fight and prevent vector-borne disease. The campaign that was conducted last year as well was credited by the Delhi government for reducing the number of dengue cases and deaths to two in 2019 from 60 in 2015. 10-week drive Titled “10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute campaign” (10 weeks-10 o’clock-10 minutes) the government asks citizens to take 10 minutes every Sunday for 10 weeks to inspect their house for any signs of stagnant water and drain it. It will ensure that there is no breeding of mosquitoes and vector-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria, and chikungunya. Mr. Kejriwal said that like last time, two crore people of Delhi will join hands and work together to fight against dengue. “The rainy season is here again and we all know that at this point, the breeding of mosquitoes that spread dengue is at a peak. We have to save ourselves and our family from dengue,” he said. He added that last year, there were only 1,400-1,500 dengue cases in Delhi, which was a big achievement because this number was around 14,000-15,000 a few years back. Mr. Kejriwal tweeted, “The people of Delhi have once again started a war against dengue. On the first Sunday of this 10-week massive campaign, I have also changed the clean water accumulated in my house and eliminated the possibility of mosquito-borne diseases”. Several Ministers in the Delhi government and MLAs also joined and tweeted pictures of themselves checking their homes for stagnant water. The government in a statement said that the campaign also seeks to engage residents call 10 of their friends/relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue and children will be encouraged to take part in the campaign.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man with Rs. 1 lakh bounty arrested in riots case||The Delhi Police Crime Branch team probing the north-east riots case on Sunday arrested a man, who carried a reward of Rs. 1 lakh on his head, for allegedly killing a 26-year-old law student near a school in north-east Delhi. Mustaqeem (25) alias Sameer Saifi, a resident of old Mustafabad, who allegedly shot dead Rahul Solanki near Rajdhani Public School in Shiv Vihar on February 24, was arrested by a special investigation team on September 3, the police said. He has been sent to judicial custody, they said. Mustaqeem had joined the protest against the CAA and NRC near Farukia Masjid, they added. Solanki was pursuing LLB from a private college in Ghaziabad and had stepped out of his home to buy milk when he was killed. The SIT has arrested seven others – Arif, Anis, Sirajuddin, Salman, Sonu, Saifi and Irshad – accused in the Solanki case and they have been charge-sheeted for actively participating in the riots with a common objective to cause death and burning properties on February 24, the police said. Solanki was shot dead near Rajdhani Public School and a case was registered at Dayalpur police station. Later, the investigation was handed over to the SIT.  Identification During investigation, eyewitnesses described the person who opened fire on Solanki. They identified the accused from his clothes and appearance after they were shown a video of the incident, a senior police officer said. “We had deployed our sources in Mustafabad to identify the alleged shooter on the basis of his description. Our team questioned hundreds from the area and verified their presence at the spot through physical and technical means, but we did not get any information. After six months, on September 3, one of our sources informed us and he was apprehended from Bhajanpura Majar,” the officer said. Mustaqeem denied his involvement initially, but confessed to it after detailed questioning, he said. The countrymade pistol used in the crime was recovered along with five live cartridges, at his instance. A mobile phone and the clothes, shoes and helmet, which he was wearing at the time of committing the crime, have also been found, the police said. Mustaqeem studied up to Class X and dropped out to work as a carpenter, they said.
07 September 2020||Bhopal,||Research paper calls for change in India’s forest policy: D-G Forests||Director General of Forests Sanjay Kumar has said a research paper which advocated for sustainable forest management based on certification and a policy characterised by restoration, conservation and production equally was relevant in making a “strong case” for amendment in the forest policy. Mr. Kumar on June 28 wrote to senior officials including Inspector Generals of Forests (Forest Policy), (Forest Conservation) and (Survey and Utilisation) to take follow-up action once a vetted review by experts on the paper titled the ‘Impact of forest policies on timber production in India: a review’ was received from the Indian Institute of Forest Management (IIFM), Bhopal. The paper, published in 2016 in the Natural Resources Forum , a United Nations Sustainable Development Journal, while illustrating the potential of timber production from trees outside forests (TOFs) — grown outside government recorded forest areas (RFAs) — points to the lack of reliable data relating to growing stock, consumption and production of timber, which constrained forecast of supply and demand projections. Domestic timber production slumped while imports soared after decades of policies focused on production instead of conservation, following a 1996 Supreme Court order which regulated logging in government forests. The imports affected domestic pricing patterns, said the paper. “The import-export policy of the country should be reviewed to rectify the pricing in the market so that it is economically viable to grow trees on farmlands,” the authors suggested. The domestic demand of timber, they said, was growing owing to increasing population and per capita GDP. And the dependency on imports could backfire as exporters worldwide were shifting to a conservation-based approach, warranting a revision in the Indian policy to boost domestic production. ‘Help rural economy’ Highlighting the pivotal role of TOFs in meeting demand, the paper quotes the India State of Forest Report (2011) which estimated timber production from government forests to be 3.17 million m³ and potential timber production from TOFs to be 42.77 million m³. “Increasing wood production will also push carbon sequestration, and help in mitigating effects of climate change,” said Bhaskar Sinha, Chairperson, Centre for Climate Change Studies, IIFM, one of the authors besides Mili Ghosh, former PhD scholar. “Increasing timber production from TOFs can revive the rural economy.” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu , “Every piece of information is important, particularly if it is coming from academics.” The conservation policy, the paper said, must focus on maintaining ecological balance and improving biodiversity through protected area management. The restoration policy must target reclamation, rehabilitation and regeneration of degraded landscapes and wastelands. Production forestry should focus on “sustainable increase in forest productivity from TOFs and RFAs”. To boost production through RFAs, the paper recommends, States must devise working plans and demarcate 10% of the forests for plantations. For TOFs, a synchronised nationwide policy could be developed.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||NCDRC orders realty firm to refund buyer’s money||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) has ordered RPS Infrastructure Limited to refund a homebuyer’s money along with interest for keeping him in the dark regarding pending litigation that eventually led to a delay in possession. In 2011, Sandeep Nagar booked a flat at RPS Palms Project, RPS city in Faridabad’s Sector 88, against a total consideration of Rs. 50.27 lakh. The apartment buyers agreement signed on January 28 that year promised delivery within 24 months.  Mr. Nagar took a loan of Rs. 30.98 lakh to ensure timely payments. Advocate Aditya Parolia, appearing for Mr. Nagar, stated that despite payment of Rs. 49.53 lakh, the company failed to hand over possession of the apartment by January 2013. After several legal notices, the realty firm issued an offer of possession for July 2016 but with an enhanced cost of Rs. 19 lakh more than the original agreed amount, citing enhanced External Development Charges (EDC). Mr. Nagar then moved the consumer court seeking a refund with interest. Stay order from SC The realty firm stated that it could not have handed over possession since there was a stay order from the Supreme Court. It also stated that the buyer knew about it and hence could not get out of the agreement. Meanwhile, the consumer court said, even though the buyer was aware of the pending litigation, it does not take away the firm’s responsibility to keep him “fully informed and thereby enabled him to exercise choice”. The consumer court pointed out that the litigation, at the behest of some landowners, had commenced soon after the buyer had made his booking. “So, even as this litigation cast a shadow over the project, Opposite Party [RPS Infrastructure] continued to receive payments, and took no step to inform the complainant [buyer],” the consumer court noted. ‘Unfair trade’ “This was an unfair trade practice on the Opposite Party’s part. The complainant had a right to know whether his investment in his booked flat was being used for the purpose for which it was made,” the consumer court said. “Had the complainant [buyer] been kept informed, he would have had the option to decide his future course of action. He could have opted out or stayed on. But as things were, Opposite Party decided for him,” the consumer court said.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Two held for killing man||A 25-year-old man was robbed and murdered by two persons, whom he met on a dating application, in south-east Delhi, the police said on Sunday. The accused — Sumit and Karthik — from Gautampuri have been arrested for the crime, they said. The incident took place on Saturday night at a deserted jungle area of Aali Vihar in Sarita Vihar. A case under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC have been registered. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said: “During probe, mobile phone of the deceased — Sanni Dayal — was missing and when contacted, it was found to be switched off. The last location was traced and call detail records were analysed.” It was found that Dayal was in constant touch with one mobile number. Sumit was then nabbed and during interrogation, he confessed to his involvement in killing Dayal along with his accomplice. Sumit told police that he came in contact with Dayal through a dating app. As per plan, he along with his accomplice called Dayal and took him on a scooty to a jungle on the pretext of having sex and robbed him, the DCP said. On reaching there, they asked Dayal to handover his mobile and when he refused, they robbed him of his phone on knife-point and stabbed him before fleeing spot. On his instance, Kartik was also arrested.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activist seeks appointment with CP to submit plaint against book on riots||Activist Saket Gokhale has written to S.N Srivastava, Commissioner of Police, Delhi, seeking a personal appointment to submit a complaint against the book ‘Delhi Riots 2020’ and its authors as well as submit evidence pertaining to BJP leader Kapil Mishra’s alleged role in instigating the violence in February. Mr. Gokhale, in his letter, said that Mr. Srivastava had earlier met the authors of the said book and accepted a compliant from them. “I am one of the ‘accused’ named in this frivolous complaint. Principles of natural justice demand that both sides in any issue must be treated equally,” Mr. Gokhale said. He added that he was puzzled as to why the Police Commissioner met the delegation personally to accept their complaint instead of directing them to the local police station. He added that he and his associates would also be extended the privilege of being able to submit a complaint personally as was given to the authors of the book.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Ensure rehabilitation of railway slums before demolition’||A recent Supreme Court directive to demolish all slums along the railway tracks in Delhi within three months came under fire from the Communist Party of India (ML) on Sunday. The group called it a “shocking and inhuman” decision which it argued was a violation of the right to life guaranteed in the Constitution. The Supreme Court ordered the removal of nearly 48,000 slums in the safety zone of railway tracks last week. ‘Protect rights’ People living in these slums are part of the working poor and their rights must be protected, the group said. It also demanded proper rehabilitation prior to demolition of slums, a fresh survey among those living near railway tracks to ascertain the correct number of families, intervention of the Delhi government and called for protests against the order.
07 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW rescues teenager trafficked from Jharkhand||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Sunday said it has rescued a teenager from New Rajinder Nagar. She was trafficked from Jharkhand when she was aged nine. Acting on a complaint by her father, who had been searching for her for several years, the commission managed to track down the girl, who was working as domestic help. She was then taken to Rajinder Nagar Police station and during counselling, she said a person from her village lured and brought her to Delhi many years back. “She was first sold off to a trafficker and was allegedly raped by several men. She was able to recount the name of some of the men too,” the DCW said. The girl was then later sold off to a family in Punjabi Bagh, where she worked as domestic help for several years. DCW Chief Swati Maliwal said the commission has been rescuing girls trafficked from Jharkhand, almost every alternate day which highlights the gravity of the problem of trafficking. “The perpetrators of this heinous crime need to be punished. We will ensure rehabilitation of this girl,” Ms. Maliwal said.
07 September 2020||New Delhi,||Stop taking credit for work done by civic bodies: BJP||The BJP on Sunday attacked the Delhi government over its anti-dengue campaign, calling it a publicity stunt, taking credit for work carried out by the municipal corporations. Instead of cooperating with the civic bodies, the Kejriwal government was withholding funds from them and was spending money on advertisements and self-promotion, said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. Mr .Gupta asserted that the corporations were working to prevent vector-borne diseases with a “maha abhiyan” recently launched for the same. Municipal workers were undertaking door-to-door checks and fogging, despite lack of funds, he said. Calling the Delhi government, a “government of advertisements”, Mr. Gupta said that efforts of the municipal corporation ought to be encouraged instead of spending money on advertisements.
07 September 2020||Badaun (U.P.),||Four killed in bike-truck collision||Four members of a family lost their lives when the motorcycle on which they were travelling collided with a truck here on Sunday, police said. Senior Superintendent of Police Sankalp Sharma said the four were going to a dargah, when the motorcycle collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction. Efforts are on to catch the truck driver who fled after the accident.
07 September 2020||Jaipur,||Ajmer Sharif Dargah to reopen today||Some major religious places in Rajasthan, including the Ajmer Sharif Dargah, will reopen on Monday as per the ‘Unlock-4’ guidelines issued by the Centre in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.  ‘Follow guidelines’ The State government has allowed religious places to reopen from September 7 and has asked them to adhere to social distancing and other COVID-19 guidelines under ‘Unlock-4’. Religious places were closed after the Centre imposed a nationwide lockdown in March to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. The ‘Unlock’ process began on June 8 and so far, the Central government has implemented four phases.
