07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus tally crosses 50,000-mark; number of deaths surges to 1,771||For the second consecutive day, India on Wednesday recorded a three-digit rise in deaths though, at 126, it was lower than the previous day’s spike of 195. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases rose by 2,958, the fifth day running when the daily increase exceeded 2,000. At 49,391 confirmed infections on Wednesday, only 14 countries have more cases than India. There were 33,514 active cases while 1,457 people recovered in the past 24 hours, the Health Ministry said. The death toll stood at 1,694. However, reports from the State Health Departments put the total number of cases at 52,468, of which 35,545 are active. The number of deaths rose to 1,771.  On Wednesday, the Centre indicated that it was preparing for an “increase in cases” and readying railway coaches to function as COVID care centres. These carriages would be deployed at 215 stations. To house mild cases While the Railways had said in March that it would offer coaches if needed, this was the first time a detailed set of guidelines explaining how these compartments would be used were publicised by the Health Ministry. A COVID care centre coach ideally ought to have just one patient, but if need be it could have two at the most. These coaches would be used to house people with mild symptoms, who could then be moved to dedicated hospitals, if required, the notification said. Maharashtra leads the number of confirmed cases by a wide margin, with 12,089 active cases — Gujarat comes next at 4,496 — and 617 deaths. On Tuesday, the Health Ministry explained that the rise in casualties from Monday was due to some States reclassifying some deaths as COVID-19 ones. For some weeks, West Bengal had stopped counting patients who died with COVID-19, but had accompanying ailments — diabetes and heart conditions, etc., — as “COVID deaths”.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre is taking arbitrary decisions, say Cong. CMs||At a videoconference with Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday, the Chief Ministers of the party-ruled States accused the Union government of taking decisions without consulting the States and not providing them with adequate funds to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The meeting, attended by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former Union Ministers P. Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, was convened to discuss the policy to exit lockdown 3.0, scheduled to end on May 17. “After May 17th, what? And after May 17th, how? What criteria are the Government of India using to judge how long the lockdown is to continue...?” Ms. Gandhi said at the meeting. Endorsing her statement, Dr. Singh said, “The CMs need to deliberate and ask as to what is the strategy of the Government of India to get the country out of the lockdown.” Mr. Rahul Gandhi, Wayanad MP, said the central piece of the strategy to fight COVID-19 was “to protect the elderly as also those who are diabetic and have a heart condition”. Mr. Chidambaram said, “States are bleeding in terms of finances, but no money is being allocated by the government of India. A number of newspapers have brought out the unavailability of finances with States.” Punjab committees Giving details of the meeting on Twitter, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala wrote Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had informed that his government had set up two committees: to strategise on how to come out of the lockdown and to suggest measures for economic revival. “Concern is people sitting in Delhi are deciding on classification of zones without knowing what’s happening on the ground,” he was quoted as saying by Mr. Surjewala. Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayansamy, too, said the Centre was deciding on zones without consulting the States and creating “an anomalous situation”. “People sitting in Delhi can’t tell the States. No State or CM is consulted. Why? The PM is not saying a word on an economic package for the States,” he said. Both Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel highlighted the precarious financial situation of the States in the absence of Central assistance.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State all set to receive NoRKs: Shylaja||The Health Department is well-prepared to provide the best of medical care and protection to Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) right from the time they land at the airports in the State, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. In an official statement issued here on Wednesday, Ms. Shylaja said all activities were being coordinated around the four international airports in the State. Separate health applications (apps) have been developed for passengers alighting in each of the airports. Details of those who have registered through Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) Department are available in the app and through QR code details. Each passenger can be traced and followed up. Details can be collected manually from those who have not generated a QR code. Passengers with masks will be seated in a zig-zag manner inside the aircraft. There will be announcements about the precautions that passengers need to follow inside the airport and while in quarantine. Passengers should fill in a self-report format, to be handed over to help desks. Screening at airport At a time, 10-15 people will be allowed to alight from the aircraft maintaining one metre distance. Temperature readings will be taken in the aerobridge and anyone running a temperature will be removed to the isolation bay and the rest will be sent to the help desk. There will be four to 15 help desks in the airports depending on the number of passengers. Each desk will be manned by a doctor, a staff nurse or field worker, a volunteer and a data entry operator. Passengers are examined at the help desk and anyone with any of the symptoms are removed to the isolation bay. The rest will be directed to the guiding station and their luggage will be disinfected before being sent to quarantine centres. Those in isolation bay will be taken in ambulances to COVID-19 treatment centres. Their luggage will be disinfected and tagged and sent to the hospital where they are admitted. Those in quarantine will undergo RT-PCR test and if anyone test positive for SARS-CoV-2, they will be shifted to hospitals. The government has readied 207 public hospitals, including 27 COVID-19 care hospitals, as per the Plan A, B, C prepared by the department. These include a total of 11,084 isolation beds and 1,679 ICU beds. If the number of the sick goes beyond expectations, then all 27 COVID-19 care hospitals will be fully converted to dedicated COVID-19 hospitals.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police suffers first COVID-19 death||A 32-year-old Delhi Police constable died on Tuesday night, hours after developing the symptoms of COVID-19. At least two government hospitals refused to admit him, his colleague alleged. This is the first death in Delhi Police with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North West) Vijayanta Arya said constable Amit Kumar was posted at Bharat Nagar police station. A resident of Haryana’s Sonipat, Kumar is survived by his wife and a three-year-old son. Ten officers who came in contact with him have been quarantined, the police said. A constable-rank colleague who was taking care of Kumar since Monday said he initially had fever but his condition deteriorated aro-und 2.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Kumar complained of shortness of breath and around 7.30 a.m., the colleague took him to Haiderpur COVID centre. “The staff there said they would conduct the tests. I told them to admit him but they asked me to take him to Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital,” he said. At BSA Hospital, the two policemen allegedly waited for two and a half hours but the staff there said they could not admit Kumar. “I took him to Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital from where we were sent to a COVID centre in Ashok Vihar for tests and check-up,” the colleague said. The staff at the centre agreed to admit Kumar but allegedly said he will have to manage everything on his own. “I told them he can’t even talk, he won’t be able to do anything,” said the colleague. He then brought Kumar back to his accommodation and made several calls to different hospitals but all of them allegedly refused to admit him. The Station House Officer and other seniors at Bharat Nagar police station had been informed about Kumar’s condition, it has been learnt. Around 8.30 p.m., the colleague received a call from a senior informing him that Kumar can be admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. “I drove fast but he died minutes before we reached the hospital,” he said. Kumar’s test report arrived on Wednesday and he tested positive for COVID-19. “Had any hospital agreed to admit him, he could have been saved,” the colleague said. He said he was in constant touch with Kumar’s family. “His wife is inconsolable. She is constantly asking to bring him back,” he said. A senior police officer said movement of his family from Sonipat will be facilitated if they are willing to visit. Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava tweeted that all assistance will be provided to Kumar’s family.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Braving the heat to grab liquor of choice||Tipplers in the city braved the summer heat and heavy evening showers to lay their hands on their bottle of choice. Exactly 45 days after liquor shops were shut on March 21 evening, shutters went up as throngs of men queued up to buy dozens of outlets across the city on Wednesday. “I came here at 8 a.m. it is nearly two months since I drank. I saved money for this,” said Ram, who owns a welding workshop. He was the first in the queue at Trishanth Wines in the Attapur area. The shops opened at 10 a.m. and had marked out circles to ensure physical distancing between buyers. The shops also put out posters ‘No mask, no liquor’ as announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday. While the police officials ensured physical distancing norms, with an occasional whack of the cane, the queues spilled into residential areas. Smiling passersby stopped to watch and often click photographs with their cellphones of the row of men standing in line. One of the first to lay his hands on the bottles was Yadiah Goud, who sells fodder for animals. “I came at 7.30 a.m. and I bought this for Rs. 1470,” he said pointing to two bottles he was carrying in a bag. “The shop is fully stocked. There is no need to worry,” he told other tipplers waiting in the queue outside Lucky Wines before driving away. By afternoon, videos began circulating about the lines outside liquor stores in the State. At some places, people offered puja to photographs of the Chief Minister and raised slogans as well. The physical distancing norms were limited to the open space near the shops where circles or squares were drawn. Beyond the marked spaces, men jostled, pushed and jockeyed to push ahead in the queue. “We did brisk business through the day. Our people are still calculating today’s sales. It will take some time to reach the correct figure,” said the owner of Lucky Wines at 6 p.m. as police officials ensured that the shops are shut by curfew time.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Hacker sees security flaws in Aarogya Setu||Ethical hacker Robert Baptiste on Wednesday alleged that security flaws in the coronavirus tracking app Aarogya Setu enabled him to see that five people at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and two at the Army headquarters were unwell. Mr. Baptise, who goes by Elliot Alderson on Twitter, also claimed that there was “one infected person at the Indian Parliament and three at the Home office”. On Tuesday, he tweeted that there were security issues with the app. Tagging the official account of Aarogya Setu, he said, “A security issue has been found in your app. The privacy of 90 million Indians is at stake. Can you contact me in private?” ‘Rahul was right’ He went on to add that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who had termed the app “a sophisticated surveillance system”, was right. In response to the issues raised by Mr. Baptise, the team of Aarogya Setu, in a statement, said no personal information of any user was proven to be at risk. “We were alerted by an ethical hacker of a potential security issue of Aarogya Setu… No personal information of any user has been proven to be at risk by this ethical hacker. We are continuously testing and upgrading our systems. Team Aarogya Setu assures everyone that no data or security breach has been identified,” the statement said. Following this statement, Mr. Baptise tweeted that he was able to “... know who is infected, unwell, made a self-assessment in the area of his choice. Basically, I was able to see if someone was sick at the PMO or the Indian Parliament. I was able to see if someone was sick in a specific house if I wanted… This is the issue.”
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records another spike of 771 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded 771 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Wednesday, with three districts — Chennai, Ariyalur and Cuddalore — accounting for 78% of the cases. With this latest spike, the State’s total number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 4,829*. Two more persons died in Chennai, taking the total number of deaths in the State to 35. A 68-year-old man, who was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, died at 6.15 p.m. on the same day. A 59-year-old man admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on May 3 died at 7 p.m. on May 5, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. A total of 13,413 samples were tested today, the highest number till date. Testing of 871 samples was under process. Koyambedu cluster  With the emergence of the Koyambedu cluster, each day’s new cases are surpassing the previous day’s high. Additionally, more districts are reporting new cases in the last few days. A large proportion of the day’s numbers — 771 (575 men and 196 women) — are linked to the Koyambedu cluster. All were contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. A total of 24 districts reported fresh cases. It was another spike in Chennai with 324 cases. This took the city’s total COVID-19 cases to 2,328. Ariyalur reported its highest single-day increase with 188 cases. From 34 cases till May 5, the district’s total positive cases climbed to 222. With 95 more cases, Cuddalore’s tally crossed the 300-mark. Kancheepuram has 45 new cases. There were 34 cases in Tiruvallur, 20 in Madurai, 17 in Tiruvannamalai, nine each in Chengalpattu and Dindigul, six in Vellore, five in Villupuram, three in Perambalur, two each in Krishnagiri, Pudukottai Theni and Thoothukudi, and one each in Karur, Salem Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Tirupattur, Tiruvarur, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi. With the new cases, four districts — Ariyalur, Dindigul, Madurai, Tiruvallur — crossed the 100-mark on Wednesday. Another 41 children — aged between 0 and 12 years — tested positive. As on date, a total of 254 children aged between 0 and 12 years, 4,208 persons aged between 13 and 60 years and 367 persons aged above 60 years tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Till date, a total of 1,88,241 samples were tested in the State. With 13,281 individuals tested on Wednesday, the total number of individuals tested till now stands at 1,78,472. Another 31 persons were discharged from hospitals. So far, a total of 1,516 persons have been discharged in the State. A total of 3,381 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are admitted to isolation wards. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross notified to other states and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Two more die of COVID-19 in State||The State registered two more COVID-19 deaths and 60 fresh cases, including 13 natives of other States, after 7,782 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,777. One patient each from Kurnool and Krishna districts died, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. So far, 36 persons died and 729 recovered, leaving 1,012 active patients under treatment. On the brighter side, 140 patients recovered and were discharged. It was for the first time that a large number of patients recovered in a day. While 61 patients recovered in Krishna district, the number was 39 in Kurnool. Twenty patients were discharged in Chittoor, 10 in Anantapur, four in East Godavari, two each in Prakasam and West Godavari and one each in Guntur and Kadapa were discharged. Meanwhile, most of the new cases were reported from Kurnool (17), Krishna (14) and Guntur (12). Visakhapatnam reported two cases and Kadapa and East Godavari reported one each. Also, 12 natives of Gujarat and one from Karnataka tested positive. Following is the district-wise break-up: Kurnool (533), Guntur (363), Krishna (300), Nellore (92), Kadapa (90), Chittoor (82), Anantapur (80), Prakasam (61), W.G. (59), E.G. (46), Visakhapatnam (39) and Srikakulam (5) and other States (27).
07 May 2020||Srinagar,||Top Hizb commander killed in Kashmir: police||Terror group Hizbul Mujahideen’s “operational commander” Riyaz Naikoo, who was on the run for eight years, was among the three militants killed by security forces in south Kashmir in the past 12 hours. “In an operation in Pulwama’s Beigpora village, Naikoo and his associate were trapped. The operation was launched on Tuesday evening and a contact was established with the hiding terrorists on Wednesday morning. Naikoo was the chief operational commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen,” said a Srinagar-based police spokesman. Naikoo’s killing sparked violent protests by locals in Pulwama and parts of Srinagar, forcing the authorities to snap Internet and calling facility in the Valley as “a precautionary measure”. Several checkpoints were attacked with stones. The police did not confirm any injuries in these protests. Naikoo joined the militant ranks in May 2012 and was a close associate of Burhan Wani, who was killed in 2016. After Zakir Musa’s defection from the Hizb to form his own outfit, Naikoo took the command of the outfit, the police said.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indians returning on Navy ships may have to pay up||Not just trains and flights, the government has decided that passengers who will be brought back by naval ships will also be charged for the service. While the charges will be “reasonable” or nominal, sources said a final decision would be taken by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). On Tuesday, the Ministry of Home Affairs had hinted at the possibility of a charge in its ‘Standard Operating Procedure’ for movement of Indian nationals stranded outside the country. On payment basis According to the Annexure (2-iv /Order No, (40-3/2020-DM-I(A)) issued on May 5, “The cost of travel as specified by the Ministry of Civil Aviation/Department of Military Affairs will be borne by such travellers.” Defence sources as well as MEA officials confirmed that sorties on naval ships and Air Force aircraft would be on payment basis, which would be determined by the MEA and the Department of Military Affairs.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Local body poll process stopped till further orders||State Election Commissioner (SEC) Justice V. Kanagaraj has ordered that the paused election process of the MPTC, ZPTC and urban local bodies be stopped until further orders citing directions of the Supreme Court, A.P. High Court and other factors. In a notification on Wednesday, he stated that the Commission would review the situation from time to time in consultation with the State government, resume the process when the situation was conducive, and complete it by complying with the court directions. He said the Commission decided to withhold the elections as the lockdown guidelines remained in force and the process of removal of colours on the panchayat buildings was yet to be completed as per the High Court directions. Lockdown guidelines Mr. Justice Kanagaraj pointed out that it was specifically mentioned in the lockdown guidelines that all social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings remained prohibited across the country, irrespective of the zone, for two weeks from May 4. Based on these grounds, the Commission stopped the paused election process.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Excise duty raised by 17 % to 25 %||The State government, to increase its revenue, on Wednesday announced a steep hike in the excise duty on Indian-made Liquor (IML), ranging from 17% to 25% in various slabs. The new excise rates, inclusive of the 6% excise duty hike announced in the Budget, will come into effect from Thursday. Sources said the government would be able to garner Rs. 2,350 crore with this hike alone, as against losses of Rs. 2,400 crore to Rs. 2,500 crore during the lockdown. The hike came in the midst of high sales of liquor that is being reflected from the stocks being lifted from the Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Ltd. Over the last three days, about Rs. 450 crore worth of liquor was procured by shops from the corporation.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Veda Nilayam’ set to become Jaya memorial||‘Veda Nilayam’ in Poes Garden here, which served as the residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa for over 40 years, may become a State government property in a few months, if the present plan of the authorities proceeds smoothly. Invoking section 19 (1) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013 and Rule 16 of government rules, Chennai Collector R. Seethalakshmi issued a declaration that the acquisition of the property is needed for a “public purpose”. It is to convert the land and buildings of the former Chief Minister into a government memorial. The plan of the land under acquisition can be perused by interested persons at the office of Revenue Divisional Officer, South Chennai, Guindy. The declaration makes it clear that the authorities concluded that the proposed project “does not involve” any displacement or relocation of families.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Rescue flights delayed||The government’s plan to operate Air India flights to bring back Indians from around the world was deferred on Wednesday by 24 to 48 hours. Sources confirmed that the delay was because the crew were required to undergo COVID-19 tests.page 10
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||State of distress||
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||EAMCET from July 27 to 31||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has released a revised schedule for various common entrance tests. According to a statement, the following are the revised dates: Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET) July 24; Integrated Common Entrance Test (ICET) July 25; Engineering Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) from July 27 to 31; Post Graduate Engineering Common Entrance Test (PGECET) from August 2 to 4; Education Common Entrance Test (EdCET) August 5; LAW Common Entrance Test (LAWCET) August 6; and Physical Education Common Entrance Test (PECET) from August 7 to 9.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||F irst flight today||The first flight carrying Non-Resident Keralites will depart from Abu Dhabi at 4.15 p.m. to reach Kochi at 9.40 p.m. on Thursday.page 4
07 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Home delivery’ of liquor in Punjab from today||Punjab is all set to open liquor vends from Thursday and the Excise and Taxation Department has issued directions to the field staff to be prepared for home delivery as well. The home delivery is proposed only during the lockdown period.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. to release 4,000 Tablighi members||The Delhi government will release 4,000 persons associated with the Tablighi Jamaat over the coming days, a source said on Wednesday. While a little over 2,300 had been rescued from the Nizamuddin centre till April 1, the rest were either visitors or contacts of those rescued.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Police arrest ‘Bois Locker Room’ group admin||Delhi Police’s Cyber Cell has arrested the administrator of the Instagram group ‘Bois Locker Room’, which was being used to share offensive messages and morphed images of underage girls. The 18-year-old administrator of the group had appeared for his Class XII board exams this year, said the police.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Statistics of cases can’t be compared, says Derek||The Trinamool Congress has alleged that West Bengal is being unfairly targeted by false claims on masking numbers and “high mortality rate” in COVID-19 cases. Party MP Derek O’Brien said the case fatality is an absurd metric for judging fatalities.
07 May 2020||UDUPI,||11 with symptoms admitted to hospitals||As many as 11 persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Wednesday. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, of the 11, seven are suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and three from Influenza Like Illness (ILI).
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Confusion as 2 ‘positive’ cases test negative||State health officials were in for a shock on Wednesday when they realised that two people — a policeman and a pregnant woman — who had “tested positive” earlier tested negative after a retest.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Migrant labourers fume as State cancels trains||The Karnataka government’s decision to cancel trains to prevent migrant labourers from leaving Bengaluru has sown seeds of distrust and anger among those who want to go back to their native places.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Waiting game for those who want to return||Many who had travelled out of the State before the lockdown was announced, are still stuck where they are, as they allege that though they have been issued passes from the other State governments, they are unable to get clearance from the Karnataka government.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Residents forcibly occupy houses in Tiruvottiyur||Driven by fear that the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board houses allotted to them may be handed over for the treatment of COVID patients, around 400 residents of NTO Kuppam barged into the new tenements in Tiruvottiyur and occupied them.
07 May 2020||Chennai,||Hospitals fix high rates for COVID-19 treatment||With no cap on the cost of treatment, a few private hospitals in Chennai have fixed ‘high’ rates for COVID-19 patients. One hospital is charging patients Rs. 70,000 per day for an isolation room, while another is asking them to pay for the personal protective equipment used by the staff.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Another portal for e-passes opened||The Tamil Nadu government has opened another portal for registration of persons intending to enter or leave the State. In addition to nonresidenttamil.org , the government operationalised http://tnepass.tneda.org for e-passes.
07 May 2020||Srinagar,||Detention unjustifiable: NC, PDP||The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the National Conference (NC) on Wednesday slammed the Jammu and Kashmir administration’s move to extended the detention of former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti and two other senior leaders. Ms. Mufti, her uncle and former Deputy Speaker of the erstwhile Assembly, Sartaj Madani, and Farooq Abdullah's close aide and former Minister Ali Muhammad Sagar were served fresh orders by J&K Principal Secretary, Home, Shaleen Kabra. “With a view to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order, his detention be extended for a further period of three months,” reads the order served on Mr. Sagar on Wednesday. Mr. Sagar’s son Salman Sagar said, “It is unwarranted and demoralising. In such hard times, I would request all to pin their hopes in the court of law, and abide by the law of land. We want all of you to do the same.” Ms. Mufti's daughter, Iltija Mufti, said the action was aimed at stifling the voices of reason. “It has become a norm for the current dispensation, especially post illegal scrapping of Article 370. Therefore, the extension of my mother’s detention doesn’t surprise me. Wishful thinking to assume that by smothering any debate on Article 370, the issue will vanish”, she stated. ‘BJP is deeply insecure’ A PDP spokesman said, “It's an attempt to criminalise a democratically elected leader for standing against erosion of constitutional rights of Kashmiris. The BJP, by further detaining Ms. Mufti, is only proving that it is deeply insecure of her voice and fearful to compete with the only woman CM J&K has ever had.” Condemning the move, NC vice president Omar Abdullah said, “It smacks of vindictiveness and nothing else.” “Nothing she [Ms. Mufti] has done or said in any way justifies the way the Indian state has treated her and the others detained. For a government that is making tall claims about normality in J&K, the last few days, coupled with the extension of Ms. Mufti’s detention, is proof enough that [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi ji has single-handedly pushed J&K back by decades,” he said. Adnan Ashraf Mir, a spokesman of Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference, said the move was “unjustifiable”. “Keeping them away from their families, especially during Ramzan, is condemnable. Instead of learning from its mistakes since August 5, the government is leaving no stone unturned to further alienate Kashmiris”, he said.
07 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Ahmedabad to shut down for a week||As the novel coronavirus infection is surging, authorities in Ahmedabad have imposed emergency-like measures shutting down the entire city, except for pharmacies and milk parlours, from Thursday till May 15 and deploying paramilitary forces. All grocery stores, vegetable and fruit outlets and those dealing in essential services will remain shut. Even banking services, except ATMs, will not be available. The civic body has requisitioned seven private hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 patients. It has directed all private nursing homes and clinics to open within 48 hours, failing which their licences would be cancelled. These measures were taken after senior IAS officer Rajiv Kumar Gupta, tasked with supervising and guiding the efforts to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the city, held the first meeting. Ahmedabad, the worst-affected city in Gujarat, has so far recorded 298 deaths and 4,735 cases. Dr. Gupta directed civic body officials to prepare a containment strategy for each of the 48 wards, create isolation and quarantine facilities in each ward and increase testing on a war footing. “There are around 2,000 super-spreaders such as vegetable and fruit vendors, grocery-store keepers, salesmen at supermarkets and those delivering online services,” a senior official said. So far, over 100 vegetable and fruit vendors have been found infected. This prompted the authorities to go for the complete shutdown. Asymptomatic and mild-symptomatic patients will be quarantined at their homes, provided they have adequate rooms with attached bathrooms. Private doctors will be roped in for their treatment. Patients showing symptoms will be treated at designated government hospitals. The civic body’s sudden announcement caused traffic jams in the city as people poured into the streets to buy essentials. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani urged the Centre to depute a team of medical experts to Ahmedabad to guide officials and healthcare workers. In a letter, he said the AIIMS Director and others should visit the State. On Tuesday, Mr. Rupani was reportedly reprimanded by the Centre for mismanaging the pandemic, which has spread to the entire State. Immediately thereafter, top officials were roped in to bring the situation under control. On Wednesday, the State recorded 380 cases and 28 deaths, taking its tally to 6,625 cases and 396 deaths, and 1,500 persons have recovered and discharged from hospitals.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Police arrest ‘Bois Locker Room’ group admin||The Delhi Police’s Cyber cell has arrested the admin of the Instagram group ‘Bois Locker Room’ that was being used to share abusive messages and morphed images of underage girls on the social media site, officials said on Wednesday. Police said the 18-year-old admin of the group had appeared for his Class 12 board examinations this year. Police, however, withheld the name of the arrested person, asserting that such disclosure could lead to the identification of other group members, many of whom are minors. The admin is a student of a school in Delhi-NCR. Four other group members, who are all majors and above 18 years of age, are also now being probed, a senior police official said.  The arrested admin, created the group in the first week of April. The group expanded when he went on to add his friends and their acquaintances from other schools and the neighbourhood, said the police official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Police said they were still verifying if the motive of creating the group was to share and discuss such offensive messages and morphed photographs or whether it later led to such conversations. The police also said that they were awaiting a response from Instagram on the accounts held by each individual and were in the process of collecting evidence. 27 members Investigations have revealed that at least 27 members were part of the group, which was deactivated soon after screenshots of the chats came to light, the police official said. A 15-year-old who was apprehended in connection with the case had confirmed that he was an active member of the group and had participated in sharing photographs of girls. He claimed that he had been added to the group by a friend. So far, at least 15 members of the group have been questioned. The juveniles, who are part of the group, are being quizzed at their homes in the presence of their parents and members of NGOs. The devices used to engage in the “offensive and vulgar communication” had been seized from the group members, police added. “The CyPAD unit has sought information about the alleged group and its members from Instagram,” said Anil Mittal, additional PRO of Delhi police. “Their reply is awaited. The devices of the identified members of the group have been seized and sent for forensic analysis,” he added. Instagram had earlier said it takes the issue “very seriously”. It had said the objectionable content featuring minor girls was removed from the platform as soon as it was made aware of it. Information about the group came to light after a woman shared screenshots of its activities. Following this, the group started being called out on social media. A case under relevant sections of IT Act and IPC was registered on Monday, officials said. Appeal to HC Two advocates have written to the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court to take cognisance of the case. Advocates Neela Gokhale and Ilam Paridhi, in a letter to Chief Justice D.N. Patel, said the seriousness and gravity of the illegal activities of a large group of boys, discussing ways to rape and sexually harass women, including underage girls via social media platforms, had compelled them to write this letter.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Flights from U.S., U.K. delayed||The wait to return home for thousands of Indians has become slightly longer after the government's plan to mount Air India flights to bring back Indians from around the world was deferred on Wednesday by 24 to 48 hours. Multiple government sources confirmed that the delay was because Air India crew are required to undergo COVID-19 tests. However, passengers in West Asia will be unaffected as flights to the region will take off on schedule. “Destination countries require the crew to be COVID negative. These are a significant number of pilots and cabin crew who are required to undergo the test on short notice,” a government official explained the reason for the delay in Air India flights.. By the original plan, flights from six countries were scheduled to land on Thursday, but will now arrive either on Friday or Saturday. The first flight from the U.S. was scheduled to arrive in Mumbai from San Francisco at 4 a.m. on Thursday. It now stands delayed by 48 hours. Similarly, a flight scheduled to arrive in Delhi from Washington DC at 1 p.m. on Thursday will now land on Saturday. The first one from London was scheduled to arrive in Mumbai at 1.30 a.m. on Thursday, but this will now bring back Indians two days later. Seven-day exercise However, a flight each to Abu Dhabi and Dubai to be operated by Air India Express will arrive on Thursday without delay, as crew members were able to undergo the mandatory medical test. This Air India subsidiary will operate 22 of the total 64 flights planned by the Government of India. The delay will have a cascading effect on the seven-day plan chalked out by the government. It was scheduled to end on May 13 but has spilled over to May 17.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||RSS pitches for swadeshi model of development||The RSS on Wednesday said India would be well served by evolving a swadeshi model of development, based on self-reliance, as a response to a COVID-19-affected world, while still believing in the concept of Vasudaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one). It said it was time to write “bright new chapters of the new world as one, without any discrimination” and “without creating any feeling of ‘otherisation’ and ‘exclusion’.” RSS joint general secretary Dattatreya Hosabele put these views at a video-conference interaction with members of the foreign press, including Wall Street Journal , Bloomberg, Agence France-Presse, ARD (German television) and the Deutsche Presse-Agentur. He said a detailed investigation should take place into the origins of the novel coronavirus and the world should come together to avoid such emergencies in future and create “new regimes to deal with them, involving responsible individuals, organisations and countries”. Responding to a question on the issues of the minorities and their treatment during the pandemic, he clarified, “Muslims are a part and parcel of our nation and RSS volunteers helped them during the lockdown without any discrimination. The RSS looks at all communities, including Muslims, as brothers.” He dismissed suggestions of discrimination, and said leaders of the community were in touch with the RSS and many had complimented RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on his remarks that the entire community should not be blamed for the mistakes of a “few”. “It is time to fight the enemy of humanity successfully and write bright new chapters of the new world as one people without any discrimination. However, we have to be cautious against such forces as are inimical and antithetical to this oneness, and expose their intent without creating any feeling of ‘otherisation’ and ‘exclusion’,” he said. A background note released by the RSS after the interaction said Mr. Hosabele spoke at length on a new model of self-reliance. “In this indigenous model, local resources, workforce and needs would be integrated into the economic activity, taking into account the ecological considerations,” he said, adding that the pandemic had exposed the limits of both global capitalism and global communism as models. Mr. Hosabele also gave an account of the social work done by the RSS during the lockdown. “Over 3,24,000 swayamsevaks are carrying out various seva [help and relief] activities at 67,336 places and till now, about 50,48,088 families and individuals have benefited by these activities. Over 3.17 crore meals have been served by our swayamsevaks...” he said.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 further dents Karnataka’s fragile finances||In March, when Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa presented his seventh budget and the first in the current innings, he candidly admitted to the poor condition of Karnataka’s finances. The State was staring at a huge reduction of about Rs. 20,000 crore from its share in Central transfers, inclusive of GST compensation and as a consequence of implementation of the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendations, while revenue expenditure had ballooned. Now, the unprecedented economic shutdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic has left the State’s finances literally in shambles, making the Rs. 2.37 lakh crore budget for 2020-21 a non-starter. Some of the government’s key tasks, like helping rebuild livelihoods in the 13 districts where losses due to floods and rains last September are estimated to be about Rs. 35,000 crore, have been overtaken by the present crisis.  No pay cut yet For now, the government has decided not to cut salaries of its employees for the month of April, and has directed departments to ensure that there is no default on repayments. But it has asked departments not to incur any other expenditure or implement any budgetary proposals. On an average, the monthly wage and pension bill is about Rs. 5,000 crore while the annual interest repayment is about Rs. 22,216 crore. The State’s annual committed expenditure that comprises salaries, pensions and interest stands at Rs. 81,000 crore, with a Rs. 10,000 crore increase in the wage bill having been added only this financial year. Meanwhile, while the Centre is yet to release Rs. 8,000 crore of GST compensation for the December-March period, the State’s own tax collections, which contribute 62% of the revenue, have taken a severe hit exacerbating the already fragile financial situation. Weak collections An indication as to what can be expected for April has come through the GST collections for March. Officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, indicated that collections for March were about 20% of the normal, and this in a month when the lockdown’s impact had been only for about a week. “We have collected about Rs. 1,500 crore and the last date for payment has also been extended up to June,” said a Finance department official. “April’s collection will be far less as there was no economic activity,” the official added. On an average, about Rs. 7,000 crore of GST is collected every month. The exchequer has also lost about Rs. 1,200 crore on Karnataka Sales Tax collection on petroleum products over the last 35 days. The bigger loss has come in excise duty collection as the losses have been pegged at about Rs. 65 crore to Rs. 70 crore a day. Since March 24, when all liquor vending outlets were ordered shut, the loss is estimated to be about Rs. 2,400 crore to Rs. 2,500 crore. Similarly, the Stamps and Registration Department, which was shut for more than a month, is estimated to have lost out on revenue to a tune of about Rs. 1,000 crore. Though most of the property registrations had been deferred, officials opined that given the extent of insecurity over jobs and business prospects, these deferred registrations were likely to not happen at all. The collection of transport tax/fee, which is estimated to be about Rs. 16 crore - Rs. 17 crore a day, has been lost for about a month. A desperate State government has announced that it would raise about Rs. 15,000 crore by monetising real estate, including auctioning 12,000 sites and through the regularisation of illegal constructions by levying a penalty. On Wednesday, the government announced excise duty on IML (Indian Made Liquor) would be increased to range between 17% and 25%. The latest duty increase is expected to net Rs. 2,350 crore in this financial year. Separately, the government cancelled leave encashment for government staff for 2020, and said it would withhold dearness allowance payable in July and January 2021.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Centre seeks better supervision in Bengal||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote two letters in a span of 24 hours to West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha highlighting “poor supervision and implementation of crowd control measures by the district authorities” in controlling COVID-19, and flagged stopping of essential goods vehicles by the State government to cross over to Bangladesh during the ongoing lockdown. In a letter sent on Wednesday, Mr. Bhalla said the State’s response to COVID-19 was characterised by a “very low rate of testing in proportion to the population and a very high rate of mortality of 13.2%”, which was a reflection of “poor surveillance, detection and testing.” He said there was a need to increase random testing in crowded clusters. The May 5 letter says the “unilateral action” of the State government in stopping vehicles to Bangladesh will have larger implications for the Indian government with regard to its international commitments. “This act of the State government amounts to violation of the orders issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs [MHA] under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as Articles 253, 256 and 257 of the Constitution of India,” the letter said. The MHA had written to States on April 24 directing them to allow transportation of essential goods through land borders along Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh and sought a compliance report. “I am constrained to say that we have not received the compliance report from the government of West Bengal. Further, it has been reported that goods traffic through border crossings between India and Bangladesh, falling within the State of West Bengal, has still not resumed. As a result, a large number of trucks carrying essential supplies, bound for Bangladesh, are stranded at different border crossing points,” the letter said. The letter adds that under Clause 12 of the the new MHA guidelines on lockdown measures issued on May 1, “it has been clearly spelt that no State/Union Territory shall stop movement of cargo for cross border and trade under treaties with neighbouring countries.” The letter directs the State government to allow transportation through Bangladesh borders. Lockdown violations In the letter, Mr. Bhalla said lockdown violations had been noted in Kolkata and Howrah by specific groups in specific localities with media reports of “Corona Warriors”. “This necessitates stricter enforcement of lockdown,” the letter said. “There remains gaps in the surveillance and contact tracing of positive cases. The State has not furnished any data regarding the number of individuals surveyed for signs of COVID-19 symptoms,” the letter said. Meanwhile, West Bengal had expressed its displeasure at not being consulted before the opening of the land border trade route.  (With inputs from Shiv Sahay Singh from Kolkata)
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Row over sharing of train fares||The Railways on Wednesday said 122 Shramik Special trains had been run since May 1. “Till 1800 hrs [6 p.m.] today [Wednesday], we had run 122 trains,” a spokesperson said. Till Tuesday, the Railways had run 93 such trains. On Tuesday, Union Home Ministry spokesperson Punya Salila Srivastava said these special trains had so far ferried nearly 70,000 migrants. Punjab clarifies Meanwhile, amid a controversy over migrants being asked to shell out the fares for their travel, the Punjab government had said it was bearing the entire cost of travel for such people, and not a subsidised amount as claimed by the Centre. While the Railways have said that the sending State needs to pay the consolidated fare and it is their prerogative to decide whether or not passengers are charged, the Centre has claimed that 85% of the cost of the Shramik Specials will be borne by the Railways and the remaining by the States. “FAQ: Is Punjab Government paying 100% of the Railway Fare for the migrants travelling out of Punjab to their home states? Or, just 100% of 15%-- implying that 85% is being paid for the Indian Railways,” Punjab Special Chief Secretary K.B.S. Sindhu tweeted. He said there was no official document explaining the 85% share of the Centre. The Punjab government was paying 100% of what the passenger was being asked to pay to board a train. “Everything else is either misleading or just notional,” he said. Mr. Sidhu added that the Railway authorities insisted on advance payment before delivering the tickets and were not accepting government-to-government billing.
07 May 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra sees big surge||A total of 1,233 new COVID-19 cases were reported from Maharashtra on Wednesday, as the State crossed yet another grim milestone to breach the 16,000 mark. Its cumulative case tally soared to 16,758, while a further 34 fatalities saw the death toll rise to 651. After the 1,567-case surge on Monday, this is the second-highest spike reported in the State. According to the State Health Department, 26 of the 34 fatalities (one of them a person hailing from Uttar Pradesh) were reported from Mumbai to take the city’s death toll to 412. Three deaths were reported from Pune district. The cumulative fatalities here have risen to 122. “Seventy-nine per cent of the deaths reported today had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. As many as 275 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the cumulative discharged till date to 3,094, said Dr. Awate. Of the 1,233 new cases, Mumbai city’s share was a staggering 769. Its cumulative tally crossed the 10,000-case mark to touch 10,714. Pune district’s tally, according to the State health department figures, has risen to 2,097. However, going by the Pune district administration’s figures, the total case tally stands at 2,287 with at least 86 fresh cases reported across the district on Wednesday. Till date, 1,90,879 samples have been tested in Maharashtra of which 1,73,838 (nearly 90%) have returned negative while 16,758 have tested positive.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fall in key treatment categories||Cardiology treatments offered under the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) declined 45% ; ‘general surgeries’ plummeted 23% and procedures related to gynaecology and obstetrics nosedived 25% from February to April, according to data from the official National Health Authority viewed by The Hindu . The only category of treatment that showed an increase, and in fact accounted for the largest number of treatments and procedures offered overall was ‘general medicine’. In February, there were 54,179 procedures offered under this category. It increased to 65,336 in March and 68,519 in April, the data show. There were 1,98,734 treatments offered under various AB-PMJAY packages in January, which slightly dipped to 1,93,679 in February; 1,88,116 in March and 1,51,672 in April. In the first month after lockdown, March 24 - April 24, 1,59,755 treatments were offered. The AB-PMJAY, according to the Centre, offers health insurance to 10.74 crore poor, rural families and identified occupational categories of urban workers’ families. The government-backed project offers an annual cover of Rs. 5,00,000 per family (on a family floater basis). It covers medical and hospitalisation expenses for several secondary care and tertiary care procedures. These services can be accessed at several private hospitals also. With the lockdown, private hospitals largely shut down with the government itself encouraging people to visit hospitals only for essential treatments. However, with several reports of COVID-19 infections in healthcare workers and doctors, the number of visits to hospitals in general saw a decline, as evidenced by the PMJAY data. “People are hesitant and afraid to go to hospitals. However, general medicine [that has shown an increase] could be because it covers a range of conditions from fever, respiratory illness and even COVID-19. I expect an increase in demand for other services in about two weeks,” Indu Bhushan, CEO, AB-PMJAY, told The Hindu.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bus services may resume with guidelines: Gadkari||Bus services may resume soon, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday. Addressing a video-conference with members of the Bus and Car Confederation of India, he said: “We may soon start bus transport along with some guidelines. Airlines, railways and bus transport are required to be opened on a certain scale as there are many people stranded,” the Minister said. Mr. Gadkari said the challenge staring at the Ministry was to strike a balance between ensuring social distancing and commercial viability for bus operations. Ministry sources said there was no decision yet on reopening road transport and that the guidelines for it would be framed by the Union Home Ministry, followed by the State governments. Many experts also shared their suggestions for resumption of operations. O.P. Aggarwal from World Resources Institute-India shared recommendations for dealing with reduced ridership and the need for more number of buses to ensure social distancing. ‘More buses required’ “In the beginning, there will be reduced ridership because of a drop in demand as people may continue to work from home as well as due to the need to maintain social distancing. We need to look how we can improve the finances of the operators and how we can have more buses to increase their number on the roads,” Mr. Aggarwal said. “With one-third of the capacity, how do we improve finances and how do we increase the number of buses? We need to look at the number of idle buses such as tourist buses and inter-city services. Can we get out of contract and stage carriage limitation to use them for city or regional operations? As far as the financial viability aspect is concerned, some financial support will be required, but we also need to look at the tax structure of bus services versus the metro services. There is also a need to revive the national bus rejuvenation programme,” he said.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||People seeking to fly out are worried||Confusion and anxiety reigned supreme on the minds of many citizens with jobs abroad seeking to fly out of India after the government announced its decision to launch flights to 12 countries to repatriate those stranded. Many have urged the government to relax its visa norms to travel abroad failing which they could lose their jobs. The Centre has said that people could travel abroad provided they are foreign citizens, Indians with foreign visas valid up to one year, Green Card and OCI card holders and those travelling for medical emergencies or a death in the family. “The government must consider supporting documents such as a work permit and a job offer letter to allow people to travel abroad,” said Sai Gunaranjan Sairam, who awaits a flight to Canada and is now in Noida. A recent graduate from a university in Canada, Mr. Sairam has a student visa. Money troubles He bagged a job in Vancouver and can re-enter with his work permit. “My student visa is valid only for five months. So, as per the Indian government’s order I can’t fly out. My job is at stake if I don’t resume soon. I have a student loan of Rs. 30 lakh to repay and I also continue to pay fixed costs in Canada like rent insurance,” he told The Hindu . Sneha Singh, 31, flew from Finland along with her husband in March to be with her family in Mumbai. “Our jobs, visa and livelihood are in danger because of the government’s decision. My visa is valid until June 30. The visas can only be extended in Finland as embassies here are shut due to the lockdown, failing which we will have to apply for a new visa. When the Finland government is allowing us to return, the Indian government’s visa restriction seems arbitrary,” said the engineering professional. Shyamal Subrahmanyam is a 34-year-old scientist working on cancer therapy at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre in New York. He is now in Pune and trying to return to the U.S., but wonders how he can travel to Mumbai, which is the only airport in Maharashtra from where special flights have been planned. “I am not sure how to reach Mumbai and whether cabs will be allowed on passes being issued by the district authorities. My work is an essential service and can’t be performed remotely,” he said. Similarly, Ankit Patel, a software engineer working in San Francisco Bay Area is stuck in Ahmedabad. He too wonders how can he travel from Ahmedabad to Delhi to fly out as there are no flights to San Francisco from Ahmedabad. “It looks like the government is not fully prepared to conduct this exercise,” he said.  Our jobs, visa and livelihood are in danger because of the government’s decision Sneha Singh
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Confusion over circulars, says survey||The lockdown has been extended till May 17, but with a graded exit for various zones. Surveys have indicated that very few people understood the government circulars on what is allowed and what is not. Less than 25% of the over 16,358 responses polled from 12,410 people across 277 districts surveyed by Local Circles (a community platform) indicated understanding of the circulars — a fact borne out by the large number of clarifications issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs after the announcement of the lockdown extension. Of the respondents, 66% were men and the rest women. 42% of the respondents hailed from Tier 1 cities, 36% from Tier 2, and 22% from Tier 3 and 4 and rural areas. The survey also reveals that 74% of those polled wanted no relaxations to the lockdown in districts that showed a high virus load (out of the 277 districts polled, 27 had high virus load). Another survey was taken just after alcohol was allowed to be sold from standalone stores. It showed that 52% of around 8,078 respondents across 250 districts were of the view that home delivery of alcoholic beverages should be attempted by State governments to prevent infection spread through crowding at stores. Around 16% of the respondents said that the shop opening time should be extended, while 23% were in favour of heavy police presence to ensure social distancing. Several States have increased the prices of liquor with a “corona cess”, but the lines have remained long and the shops crowded. While home delivery is not explicitly disallowed or allowed by State excise laws, Chattisgarh has allowed online booking and sale of liquor, for up to 5 litres of alcohol per customer and a delivery charge of Rs. 120. Of the over 8,000 respondents, 69% were men and 31% women, with 45% of them from Tier 1 cities, 35% from Tier 2, and the rest from Tiers 3, 4 and rural areas.
07 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Microwave oven turns sterilisation unit||Rajat Kumar Panigrahy, Principal of the government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Odisha’s Berhampur, has started transforming discarded microwave ovens into ultraviolet (UV) sanitisation chambers for the disinfection of mobile phones, pens and other small objects carried by medical staff working in COVID-19 hospitals. The ITI will approach the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for validation of this low-cost UV sanitisation chamber. “Transformation of discarded microwave ovens into UV sanitisation chambers costs only Rs. 1,200,” explained Mr. Panigrahy. “Any equipment has to be placed in it for 15 minutes for disinfection and we have also added a timer for the purpose,” he added. Existing purpose-built UV sanitiser units in the market were found to cost too much, observed Mr. Panigrahy. UV light sources, he however found, were quite inexpensive. The only obstacle was the availability of an affordable sealed chamber, so as to ensure that the UV rays could not escape posing a threat to human health. Keeping the concept of ‘wealth from waste’ in mind, Mr. Panigrahy started searching for such a chamber. After experimenting with various options, he settled on a discarded microwave oven as the most suitable choice, a decision that was technically endorsed by some of his friends serving as faculty in different Indian Institutes of Technology. One of his students, who works in the servicing unit of a microwave oven manufacturer in Berhampur, managed to arrange a used microwave cooker. Mr. Panigrahy removed its inner circuits and mechanical parts and put in UV lamps, a timer and other necessary equipment. With this small ‘jugaad’, a microwave oven was transformed into a UV sanitiser unit.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Poor find access to accounts hard: study||On a day when the Centre said more than 33 crore people had received cash benefits under its COVID-19 relief scheme, a survey of rural households in six States cautioned that difficulty in accessing bank accounts meant that the impact of these benefits is more limited for the rural poor. Forty days after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a COVID-19 relief package, including extra grain allocations and cash transfers for the poor, Finance Ministry data showed that Rs. 34,800 crore has been transferred so far. Beneficiaries include 20 crore poor women who received the first instalment of Rs. 500 in their Jan Dhan bank accounts, indicating more than 98% coverage of the target group. More than 5.5 crore have got the second instalment as well. Almost 3 crore pensioners, 8.2 crore farmers, 2.2 crore construction workers and 45 lakh salaried workers also received benefits, the Ministry said. It is important to note that some of these groups overlap with each other, and some of the funds are prior existing benefits anyway. A survey of 130 rural families in Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Odisha, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh, conducted by students and volunteers under the guidance of development economists Reetika Khera and Jean Dreze at the end of April, showed that only a third of the households had been able to go to the bank last month. Of those who did go to the bank, 80% were able to successfully withdraw cash. One in five returned without any money; reasons included that the bank was shut or their accounts showed zero balance. Only five respondents were able to access money outside their banks through ATMs, banking correspondents or customer service centres. Only 23% of surveyed households said they had received Rs. 500 in their Jan Dhan bank accounts or received an SMS notification about it. About a third of households did not get any money, but more than 40% said they simply did not know if the money had been received. “The problem with the government’s decision to give female Jan Dhan account holders Rs. 500 is that many poor women have non-JDY accounts,” said Dr. Khera. The survey showed that the foodgrain portion of the relief scheme may have had better reach among intended beneficiaries, with 96% of surveyed households having received their ration for April.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||CPI stages protest against govt. ‘apathy’ towards migrants||The Communist Party of India (CPI) on Wednesday staged a “stand-in protest” at the party headquarters here against the Centre’s “apathy” towards migrant workers. General secretary D. Raja led the protest. Such protests have already been held in several States: in Patna, Bihar, on May 1 and in Hyderabad, Telangana, and Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh, this week. The protests, the party said, would continue till the government changed its position towards the workers and the poor. Mr. Raja said the party had alerted the Centre on the miseries of the poor, but its pleas fell on deaf ears. The CPI has demanded that the migrant workers and the poor, who are suffering hardships because of the lockdown, be provided with rations, medicines and masks free of cost. They should not be charged for their return journey to their native States. He reminded the government that the migrant workers were an essential part of the economy. Mr. Raja said there is a law — The Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 — to regulate the condition of service of inter-State labourers. “The government must respect the Act and implement it without any dilution...,” he said.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi to release quarantined Tablighi members||The Delhi government will release 4,000 persons related to the Tablighi Jamaat — either “rescued” by it from a congregation in Nizamuddin or those who came in contact with its members — over the coming days, a Delhi government source said here on Wednesday. While a little over 2,300 of the 4,000 had been rescued from the centre till April 1, the rest were either visitors or contacts of the rescued persons. Of the total 4,000, over 1,800 were placed under quarantine and over 500 were admitted to hospitals. All of them have completed the mandatory quarantine period. According to the source, of the total 4,000 individuals, an estimated 900 were residents of Delhi and the rest belonged to other States. They also fulfilled the requisite medical requirement of testing negative in two consecutive tests for COVID-19. However, some of them would be handed over to the Delhi police if they were part of the investigation related to the centre, the source said. “Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain has issued an order which also states that those who are named in the investigation will be sent to the custody of the Delhi police,” the source said. “The remaining will be sent back to their home States, for which purpose the Delhi government’s Home Department has been asked to get in touch with the resident commissioners of these respective States,” the source said.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Virus tally crosses 50,000-mark||There was no media briefing by the Health Ministry on Wednesday, a practice institutionalised two weeks ago. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan held a meeting with top Ministers in Gujarat and Maharashtra to review action plans in these States. States needed to ensure that screening and testing of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza-like illnesses were undertaken, and data from this exercise would be used to identify hotspots. “Aggressive behaviour change communication exercises need to be taken for removing stigma against reporting COVID-19,” he noted. This was because there were instances of people suppressing their illness or reporting too late to hospitals because of “fear or stigma”, the Health Ministry said in a statement. States needed to publicise the Aarogya Setu application and have more people use the Aarogya Setu Interactive Voice Response System that could be accessed by giving a missed call at 1921. The latter is useful for those who don’t use smartphones and rely on feature phones. The use of the application would help users know if they were in the vicinity of someone who had tested positive for the disease.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre is taking arbitrary decisions, say Cong. CMs||“Until an extensive stimulus package is given, how will the States and the country run? We have lost Rs. 10,000 crore of revenue. The States have repeatedly requested the Prime Minister for a package, but we are yet to hear from the Government of India,” Mr. Gehlot said. Mr. Baghel said 80% of the small industries in his State had resumed operations and nearly 85,000 workers had returned to work. Days after Ms. Gandhi asked the Congress State units to pay for the travel cost of the migrants, the Chief Ministers discussed the issue. Mr. Amarinder Singh said, “Rs. 35 crore has been set aside, and the Railways is charging Rs. 870 per ticket, which the State is paying.”
07 May 2020||Srinagar,||‘Darbar Move’ fosters unity in J&K, says NC||The National Conference (NC) on Wednesday pitched for the continuation of the ‘Darbar Move’ — the bi-annual shifting of the capital of Jammu & Kashmir — a day after the High Court termed it a “burden on the exchequer”. NC leader Imran Nabi Dar said discontinuing the ‘Darbar Move’ would increase the gap between the two regions of J&K. “The practice helps foster unity and integrity between culturally diverse regions,” he said. Not the only exception Mr. Dar said: “The practice of moving the secretariat between Jammu and Srinagar is a testimony to our complex history and tradition. Seeing it through the prism of only financial implications is erroneous.” “J&K is not the only exception to have two capital cities. Recently, Andhra Pradesh has proposed three capital cities,” Mr. Dar said. Former Finance Minister Haseeb Drabu also questioned the court’s observations. “Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal have called J&K a “fiscally deprived UT”! Deprived? By the Union government? I thought the received wisdom is that J&K has been “fiscally pampered”, living off Central grants. So what gives?! Has it lost out on finances as a UT?” said Mr. Drabu. The J&K High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and the Union Territory administration to take a final call on the continuation of the 148-year-old practice, introduced by a Dogra monarch to escape the harsh winters of the Valley.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Over 80 BSF men test positive in single day||Over 80 Border Security Force (BSF) personnel tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of such cases in the force to 154. Two others have recovered. The cases were reported from the units in Delhi, Jodhpur, Kolkata and Ambassa in Tripura. A senior BSF official said it had been decided to go in for “aggressive testing” after seven men posted on law and order duty with the Delhi Police tested positive last week. The official said 30 tested positive in Jodhpur on Wednesday. “Those tested positive in Delhi and Jodhpur belong to the same company or the unit. They were in quarantine already ... Most of them were asymptomatic and contracted the infection on operational duty,” the official noted. In Tripura, over 40 personnel in a camp at Ambassa got the infection. Five personnel, who escorted a Central team comprising senior officials in West Bengal, also tested positive. Meanwhile, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has reported 158 cases, of which two have recovered and one died.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Top Hizb commander killed in Kashmir: police||The security forces pressed into service helicopters and drones and used heavy machinery to cut off roads to seal the area where the militants were hiding. A house, where the militants were hiding, was also damaged when the security forces used explosives to flush out the militants. “Naikoo had been continuously making audio and video clips and putting up on the social media to motivate youth to join militancy and went on recruiting new boys, the police said. He was a mastermind behind the revival of the Hizb outfit in J&K. His videos and audio carried pro-Pakistan and separatist propaganda,” the police said. Earlier, the security forces killed two unidentified militants in a pre-dawn operation in Pulwama’s Sharshali. “The identification of the killed terrorists is being ascertained. Incriminating material including arms and ammunition was recovered from the site of encounter,” the police said Besides, a Jaish-e-Muhammad militant was also arrested in Pulwama’s Tral.  Naikoo, who was born in Pulwama’s Beighpora village in April 1985, belonged to a family of farmers. His killing has struck a major dent in the striking capability of the Hizbul Mujahideen and its recruitment drive. Over a dozen local youth joined Naikoo’s Hizb this year, a police official said. He carried a reward of Rs. 12 lakh on his head, as the security agencies categorised him as “A plus plus” militant and remained “the most wanted since 2018”. A graduate in mathematics, Naikoo was a teacher and conducted coaching classes in 2010-11 before joining militancy in 2012.  Brain behind several attacks on the security forces and alleged informers, Naikoo surprised the security apparatus when his men kidnapped policemen and their family members in August in 2018, in response to the arrest of the family members of the militants.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Congress slams hike in excise duty on fuel||Instead of cash transfers to the people, the government has done a “cruel” transfer from the people, former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said on Wednesday after the Central government hiked taxes on petroleum products.  “New or higher taxes are justified only when the economy is booming ... Governments should GIVE money to the people in times of distress, not SQUEEZE and TAKE money from the people,” he said on Twitter. “We have been pleading for cash transfers from the government to the bottom half of the people/families. Instead governments are doing a REVERSE TRANSFER of money from the people to the government! Cruel,” he said, adding that higher taxes will impoverish families further.
07 May 2020||Bhopal,||Duo from M.P. who got plasma therapy recover||That day doctors took Priyal Jain’s blood samples at least four times, double-checking to make sure everything was in place. The next 40 minutes were crucial. As plasma carrying antibodies generated on COVID-19 infection were transfused into her blood, three doctors stood by monitoring her oxygen level and pulse. Over days, her oxygen level had dropped to 88%. The illness turned her lungs completely white-out with pneumonia, though the 26-year-old breathed without discomfort, only a mild cough reminding her she was infected. Ten days after the transfusion, Ms. Jain on Wednesday became one of the first two patients, critically ill after battling COVID-19, to recover after plasma therapy in Madhya Pradesh. For the second recovered patient, Kapil Dev Bhalla, 55, diabetes and his age stacked the odds against him. But the day after the procedure, his need for oxygen per minute dropped by five litres. Two days later, he could breathe without an oxygen mask. The X-ray showed near-complete resolution of pneumonia, explained Ravi Dosi, head of the Respiratory Medicine Department. Two doctors, upon recovering from the illness, had donated their plasma that was transfused into four patients. The other two patients, one sample having tested negative, are on their way to recovery too. The hospital had picked 10 critical patients, primarily based on their oxygenation index, for the therapy. With its efficacy yet to be proven for COVID-19, only four consented.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Convince workers to stay, Centre tells trade unions||Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar on Wednesday urged trade union leaders to convince workers to return to work, even as he skirted the concerns raised by them about the non-payment of wages during the lockdown, union officials said. Addressing a meeting via videoconferencing with representatives of central trade unions to discuss labour welfare measures during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, Mr. Gangwar said it was essential to accept the “new normal”. He added that the unions’ suggestions would be taken into account. Amarjeet Kaur, general secretary of the All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), said: “None of the issues that we raised, whether it was the violation of the ministry’s advisory to employers to continue paying wages during the lockdown or our demand for universal access to rations and cash transfers to workers, received any response from the Minister or any officer.”  Saji Narayanan, president of the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, said he had raised concerns about workers being asked to pay train fare to return home.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Publish Aarogya Setu’s source code: hacker||Ethical hacker Robert Baptiste, who alleged security flaws in Aarogya Setu, called for making the application’s source code open. “...When you ask (force) people to install an app, they have the right to know what the app is really doing. If you love your country @SetuAarogya, publish the source code,” he tweeted. As per the statement issued by a team of Aarogya Setu, Mr. Baptise pointed out that the application fetched user location on a few occasions. However, Aarogya Setu said, “This is by design and is clearly detailed in the privacy policy.” It noted that the application fetched a user’s location and stored it on a server in a secure, encrypted and anonymised manner “1) at the time of registration, 2) at the time of self-assessment, and 3) when the user submits his or her contact tracing data voluntarily through the app or when we fetch the contact tracing data after the person turns COVID-19 positive”. Further, the French hacker had said that a user can get the COVID-19 statistics displayed on the home screen by changing the radius and latitude-longitude using a script. The Aarogya Setu statement said, “The radius parameters are fixed and can only take one of the five values — 500 metres, 1 km, 2 km, 5 km and 10 km. These values are standard parameters....” It added that a user could change the latitude/longitude to get the data for multiple locations.
07 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Notice to Mizoram on hospital’s ‘diktat’||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Wednesday issued notice to the Mizoram government seeking a probe into a district hospital’s decision to give conditional access to pregnant women for child delivery. The Commission has asked Mizoram Chief Secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo to find out why the State government had through the Senior Medical Officer (SMO) of Tlabung Civil Hospital made it “mandatory for every woman delivering a child” at the hospital to produce her voter ID first. R. Lalnienga, the SMO, had through a notification on March 1 also said “those who do not possess voter ID cards are not allowed to deliver a child”. ‘Targeting Chakmas’ The NCW acted on a complaint filed by Paritosh Chakma, the president of the Mizoram Chakma Alliance Against Discrimination (MCAAD). “The notification is bone-chilling, outrightly unethical and a flagrant violation of the right to health,” he said. The hospital authorities had defended the notification, claiming it was necessary to ensure Bangladeshi people affected by COVID-19 would not come.
07 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Pigs die of suspected hog cholera in Meghalaya||Suspected hog cholera has killed at least a dozen pigs across two districts of Meghalaya. This coincided with the death of more than 2,900 pigs in Assam due to African swine fever (AFS), a first in the Indian subcontinent. Officials in Meghalaya have allegedly been silent on a possible outbreak of hog cholera, also known as classical swine fever. But pig farmers said the disease, a fairly common one, has struck a village each in East Khasi Hills and Ri-Bhoi districts. The Khasi Jaintia Pig Association said it was worried about the possibility of hog cholera spreading. “We have decided to stop selling pork in the eastern part of Meghalaya for two weeks from today (Wednesday),” a member of the association said. Meanwhile, the Assam government has formed high-level committees in six AFS-hit districts as well as at the State level to deal with the crisis. Farmers have been warned not to dispose carcasses in rivers. Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Minister Atul Bora said, “We have not received reports of fresh pig deaths during the last 24 hours, which is a good sign.”
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Legal system geared to favour the rich: SC judge||Justice Deepak Gupta, Supreme Court judge, has said that the laws and legal system are geared in favour of the rich and powerful. It was the poorest of the poor who suffered the most during a crisis like the COVID-19 pandemic. It was the underprivileged who needed the attention of the Supreme Court now more than ever. In his farewell speech at a webinar organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association on Wednesday, Justice Gupta said the system usually went into a tizzy if a rich person was put behind bars. Applications for his bail and expediting his trial were filed repeatedly. His case was heard at the cost of delaying the case of the poor litigant. The poor too had a right to life and dignity. The judiciary needed to hear and help them, he said.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Indians returning on Navy ships may have to pay up||“Yes, There will a charge [for passengers on the INS ships], as has been mentioned in the PIB press release,” an official said. “But it will be a reasonable amount.” Another official said the “exact amount has not yet been decided”, but was under discussion at present. This is the first time such a charge will be levied for naval rescue operations that have in the past brought back thousands of Indians from the war zones in Yemen (2015), Libya (2011), Lebanon (2006) and Kuwait and Iraq during the Gulf War (1990). “This is not an evacuation effort because this is not a government-sponsored operation,” an MEA official said on Tuesday. “However, this is coordinated by the MEA and our missions worldwide,” the official clarified, adding that returning passengers would also be charged for “mandatory institutional quarantine” facilities and any hospitalisation costs. The naval operations for repatriation of Indians from the Maldives and the UAE have already begun, with INS Jalashwa and INS Magar headed to the Maldives, while INS Shardul and INS Airavat are heading to the UAE. Indian missions in Male and Dubai/Abu Dhabi have opened up booking counters and online registrations. The ships will ply in addition to 64 aircraft in the first week beginning May 7, which will accommodate 14,800 stranded Indians returning from 12 countries, including the UAE. The UAE is likely to see the largest repatriation effort thus far, with about 2,00,000 Indians registering to return. Among them are tourists, business travellers, and thousands of expatriate workers and professionals who have been laid off or completed their contracts. The naval operation from the Maldives will see 700-1,000 Indians return in the first round, estimate officials, who said between 3,000-4,000 Indians working and travelling in various atolls have registered to return.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Pancharatra indicated||In Srimad Bhagavatam, King Nimi asks nine yogiswaras questions about the qualities of bhagavatas and also about how a bhagavata should worship the Supreme One. One of the yogiswaras was Avirhotra. He told Nimi that he should worship Kesava through Tantras. By the word tantra, the Pancharatra Agama is indicated, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. There are two sets of Vaishnava Agamas — Vaikhanasa and Pancharatra. Here, Avirhotra tells Nimi to worship according to Pancharatra, which is also known as tantra, according to the Paadma Samhita. The Paadma Samhita also uses the words moola mantra, Satvata and Bhagavat Sastra for Pancharatra. Avirhotra says that one should learn the method of worship through an Acharya. Once he has studied under an Acharya, then he can worship a murthi of his choice, says Avirhotra. He says the devotee should worship through moola mantra, and by this is meant the Ashktakshara mantra. Because Pancharatra was told by Lord Narayana, it is called Bhagavat Sastra. He taught the Pancharatra to Brahma, in the course of five nights, and hence the name. He taught Brahma one and a half crore granthas, and He later taught the same to five sages in different sacred places, where they received instruction from the Lord. Each of the sages was an amsa of the Lord’s weapons. Sage Sandilya was an amsa of His chakra and he was taught in Melkote. Aupakayana was an amsa of His conch and he was taught in Vanamamalai. Mounchyayana, an amsa of the Lord’s mace, studied from the Lord in Tiruvanantapuram; Kausika, an amsa of His bow studied in Srimushnam and Bharadwaja, an amsa of His sword, studied in Salagrama.
07 May 2020||Mumbai,||Chargesheet against Rana Kapoor, family||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against YES Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his wife and three daughters on charges of money laundering to the tune of Rs. 5,050 crore. The ED said it was investigating debentures and loans worth Rs. 5,402.1 crore that Yes Bank had given to Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL), its group companies, and Sumer Group. The Directorate says the loans above Rs. 5,000 crore had been disbursed for pecuniary gains by Mr. Kapoor. He and his family were linked to 97 companies which were used to either divert or siphon off funds. Mr. Kapoor was instrumental in sanctioning loans worth Rs. 30,000 crore, of which loan accounts worth Rs. 20,000 crore have turned non-performing assets. For the debentures, Mr. Kapoor and his family members got a kickback of Rs. 600 crore from Kapil Wadhawan, DHFL promoter, who paid the sum to DOIT Urban Ventures under the garb of repayment of Rs. 300 crore loan taken earlier, and the rest for general purposes.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Statistics of cases can’t be compared’||The Trinamool Congress hit out at the Union government for pushing the cost of ferrying migrant workers home on the States and said West Bengal is being unfairly targeted by false claims on masking numbers and “high mortality rate” in COVID-19 cases. Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien said the case fatality is an absurd metric for judging fatalities. “Epidemiologists around the world advise against getting into this early comparison because different regions are in different periods of the pandemic cycle,” he said at a virtual press conference. Party MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay alleged that the Centre’s lack of managerial efficiency in announcing the lockdown was the reason behind the suffering of the migrant workers.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Why make expats pay, asks Tharoor||Congress MP from Kerala Shashi Tharoor, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, questioned the Centre’s decision to charge the expatriates for the air fare to bring them back home from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region, and asked the government to use the PM CARES Fund instead. In the letter, Mr. Tharoor also flagged the difficulties faced by Indian citizens in submitting the COVID-19 test results, a mandatory step, prior to their departure to India. While appreciating the government for “finally deciding to address the plight of our strandedpravasis”, Mr. Tharoor expressed concern over its decision to collect air fares from them. Some reports said the expatriates would have to pay Rs. 30,000-Rs. 40,000 each in air fare. There was a strong case for the government to reconsider its position especially for the blue collar workers, those who have been laid off and those with limited resources, he said. “Given these considerations, I would like to urge the government to strongly reconsider the existing decision and come up with a suitable alternative, particularly catering to our more financially vulnerable expatriates,” he said.
07 May 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal records 112 cases, highest spike so far||West Bengal recorded 112 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the number to 1,456. Four more deaths were reported, taking the number to 144. As many as 72 of these deaths were due to co-morbidities. So far, 265 patients have been discharged. The State conducted 2,570 tests in the past 24 hours.
07 May 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||Bail for man who demanded sovereignty for Tamil Nadu||The Ramanathapuram District Court has granted bail to a man who was booked for a speech that he live-streamed on Facebook, calling for Tamil Nadu as an independent sovereign entity. Principal District and Sessions Judge R. Shanmugasundaram granted bail to advocate G. Thirumurugan from R.S. Mangalam, who is State general secretary of Thamizhar Katchi. The case of the prosecution was that the petitioner live-streamed on Facebook a speech in praise of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam and the Tamil Nadu Liberation Army. He allegedly called for a separate State of Tamil Nadu, to be achieved through revolution. The Public Prosecutor argued that the petitioner, in his speech, made a direct threat to the integrity, security and the sovereignty of the country. It was also submitted that already 14 cases were pending against him. The petitioner claimed that he had actively participated in protests for various causes. He said a false case was foisted on him with political motive as he had raised his voice against a multi-crore industrial project in the district. He said his intention was not to threaten the integrity, security and the sovereignty of the country, but he had only exercised the freedom of expression guaranteed under the Constitution. With a substantial portion of the investigation complete, no purpose would be served in keeping the petitioner behind bars, the Judge said, and granted bail to the petitioner with the condition that he had to remain indoors and come out of his house only to buy essential commodities. He was directed to appear before the police concerned every day after the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown was lifted and not to tamper with evidence or witness. The petitioner was also directed not to abscond during trial. The petitioner was further directed to execute own bond for Rs. 20,000, appear before the Judicial Magistrate on May 21 and execute a fresh bond of Rs. 20,000. If the petitioner failed to comply with the conditions, the bail order would stand dismissed, the judge said.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ethottam.com flooded with orders for vegetables, fruits||The Department of Horticulture will clear the backlog orders of vegetables and fruits being delivered through ethottam.com in the next couple of days and restrict new orders. Senior officials told The Hindu that the department had been receiving a large number of orders in the past few days, a situation exacerbated by the closure of the Koyambedu Wholesale Market. In the past few days, people complained about their orders not being delivered and officials were not answering their calls. Many citizens flagged the issue on Twitter demanding that the department either provide the products or refund the money. By Wednesday evening, officials reached out to some who raised complaints and delivered their orders, and more orders were being cleared. An official said the department would clear the backlog in a couple of days. “People are preferring to buy from the Horticulture Department due to the good quality of fruits and vegetables and also due to the low prices. While they deliver around 2,000 packs per day, the orders ranged between 3,000-3,500 per day. The Koyambedu issue has also led to an increase in orders,” the official said. Senior officers such as the assistant director, deputy directors and others personally segregate each pack to provide the best quality products. The issue of officers not answering calls to provide updates on the orders was also reviewed, sources said. “A directive has been given to provide the numbers of the control room of the Agriculture department since these officials are working from 4 a.m. in the morning and segregating the produce. It becomes difficult for them to keep track of everything,” the official said. Those who have ordered products and have pending orders can call the control room on 044- 22253496, 22253884, 22253885. The department will also restrict the number of orders they can deliver every day, the official said.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Control room set up to facilitate movement of people||The Tamil Nadu government has set up a State Control Room to facilitate and streamline the inter-state movement of stranded people, even as confusion prevails over the process of applying for e-passes and the validity of such passes in other States. Earlier, nonresidenttamil.org was the portal meant for the registration of persons intending to enter or leave the State. But the State government has operationalised another portal - http://tnepass.tneda.org - for obtaining e-passes. "In the system, ‘RETURN OF STRANDED PEOPLE’ has been added as the additional provision of issue of e-pass for movement of people within a district/within Tamil Nadu/Inter-State movement, apart from the earlier approved grounds (marriage, funeral and medical emergency)," a G.O. issued in this regard on Tuesday said. "No movement of stranded persons shall be permitted without TN-ePass," the G.O. said. However, officials involved in facilitating the process were not on the same page over e-passes. While one officer said the Tamil Nadu government-issued pass was valid in the State through which the pass-holder was transiting, another said a separate pass had to be obtained from each State. “There is confusion because not all States are accepting a single system. While some States allow people to transit through them with a T.N. government-issued pass, others don't. We are trying to streamline it,” an official involved in the process said. Another issue facing the authorities is duplication of data. “Many have registered themselves multiple times. So, we have operationalised http://tnepass.tneda.org for e-passes,” an official said. Speaking to The Hindu , a person who left Tamil Nadu for Kerala on Tuesday said, “The confusion is due to the fact that different States use different systems. There is no uniformity; no single website where we can apply. There are multiple websites for applying for multiple options in different places. Unless a uniform system is put in place, confusion is bound to prevail.” Officials said the chances of getting an inter-State e-pass depended on the age and address of the applicant and whether the address fell under the red or orange zone in Tamil Nadu or any other State where the individual wished to go. “Unless it is an emergency, it is better to wait for some clarity. All States are confused over this process,” an officer said.  First train from State The authorities arranged the first train to transport migrant workers, patients and their caregivers to Ranchi from the Katpadi junction on Wednesday. Nearly 1,230 passengers had been waiting to return to their home State, Jharkhand.  They were screened before being transported by buses to the Katpadi junction. The train would be a non-stop service to reach Ranchi by Thursday night, said an official.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu traders to decide on shifting to Thirumazhisai on May 8||With the Koyambedu wholesale market shut since Tuesday, wholesale vegetable merchants will announce their decision on shifting to the upcoming temporary market at Thirumazhisai tomorrow. The wholesale merchants had already decided to halt vegetable trade in the city till May 10. Members of the wholesale merchants associations plan to visit the market being set up at Thirumazhisai satellite town on Thursday. The sudden closure of the Koyambedu market without prior information had resulted in a loss of about Rs. 10 crore as stock was wasted, said D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of Koyambedu Wholesale Vegetables Merchants Association. He said several traders were concerned about the facilities in the new market. “Most of the labourers have returned to their native places. We need a minimum of 2,000 labourers to operate the trade. But, there are hardly 250-300 labourers in the city now,” he said. Meanwhile, work is going on in full swing at Thirumazhisai to set up sheds for vegetables shops. The wholesale merchants want to check on the basic facilities at Thirumazhisai before starting business there. Mr. Rajasekaran said, “Traders were concerned about the safety aspects in the market. We will decide on shifting to the new market after consultation with office bearers of 27 associations in Koyambedu and also with the authorities concerned.” On an average, Chennai receives 6,000 tonnes of vegetables daily. The issue of shortage of vegetables may begin to surface in the city in one or two days. When the new market opens, there may be problems related to crowding and it has to be tackled, he said.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Milk supply to Mylapore, Triplicane and Kilpauk hit||Aavin milk supply to several localities including Triplicane, Mylapore, Kilpauk and Perambur, was delayed on Wednesday. C. Ranganathan, a resident of Triplicane, said he did not get milk till as late as 10 a.m. “We usually get it by 5.30 a.m. Many people bought other brands,” he said. Milk supplies to various parts of the city have been delayed since Saturday. Official sources in Aavin said that this was due to reduction in the quantity of milk processed and packed at Madhavaram dairy which has been hit by acute labour shortage after five staff tested positive for COVID-19.  Buffer stock Aavin Managing Director M. Vallalar said that milk production and delivery were being started much earlier than usual to ensure on time delivery. “We are also procuring around 2.5 lakh litres of packed milk from the district unions and keeping a buffer stock. A shortage of tubs was also an issue and we have asked our suppliers to give us at least some small quantities due to which we are now getting 2,000 tubs daily,” said Mr. Vallalar.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals fix ‘high’ rates for treatment||With no cap on the cost of treatment, a few private hospitals in the city, designated as COVID-19 treatment facilities, have fixed ‘high’ rates for patients. One such hospital is charging patients Rs. 70,000 a day for an isolation room, while another is requiring them to pay for personal protective equipment (PPE) used by doctors and other staff every day. Inquiries with a number of private hospitals in the city found that each of them were following their own pattern of charging patients under various heads. Most hospitals did not offer outpatient services for persons with symptoms of COVID-19, and were admitting patients for screening and testing. At one such hospital in the heart of the city, patients are admitted to isolation rooms and their samples sent for testing. The cost per day is Rs. 70,000, and patients need to be admitted for a minimum of two days, until results of laboratory tests arrive, said the hospital staff. The staff at another hospital in the southern part of the city said patients were being admitted based on their health condition. “If the patient needs to be admitted to the isolation Intensive Care Unit, the room charge per day is Rs. 10,000. The cost of COVID-19 testing is Rs. 6,000. The other heads are doctors’ fees and nursing charges. The patient has to pay for the PPE used by doctors every day — one set costs Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000. So, till the laboratory test result arrives, a minimum of Rs. 60,000 will be charged a day,” a staff member said. At a leading hospital, patients are being charged Rs. 70,000 on the first day of treatment, as they have to undergo screening, including a CT scan and a COVID-19 test. “The charges depend on the condition of the patient. The bill could be around Rs. 3 lakh-Rs. 4 lakh or Rs. 12 lakh-Rs. 14 lakh, or more, depending on their condition,” a hospital staff member said. C.S. Rex Sargunam, president, Tamil Nadu Health Development Association, said, “The government should rein in private hospitals and fix the treatment cost for COVID-19. It is the duty of the government to intervene, and also take steps to reimburse patients.” An office-bearer of the Indian Medical Association-Tamil Nadu said the body had requested the government to provide coverage under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme to poor people visiting the designated fever clinics in private hospitals.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac outlets to open but restrictions will be in place to check crowding||After six weeks, despite severe opposition, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday will throw open the doors of its 3,850 Tasmac outlets across the State, barring Chennai, with full police protection. Only medically fit employees of Tasmac (below 55 years of age) have been called for work and tipplers walking in to purchase liquor should carry Aadhaar cards and wear masks. “Aadhaar card is a must and those walking in without a mask will not get liquor,” said a senior government official. The official added that the increase in liquor prices would fetch additional revenue of up to Rs. 4,000 crore for the State coffers. The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation has ordered that there should not be any bulk sales at the outlets. On Wednesday, with the help of district managers, Tasmac moved its stock from godowns and depots to shops through lorries. A few weeks ago, people broke open Tasmac shops to steal liquor, after which the State government had decided to shift stock to nearby godowns and deploy additional security. “Lorries and private vehicles were used to bring stocks to the shops,” said a manager at a shop near Coimbatore. Precautions taken Salesmen at a shop in Madurai said, “We were asked to check the dates on beer and wine bottles that came in. Before that, we were asked to wear gloves and masks. We have been told to give hand sanitisers to those walking into outlets. We have been instructed to keep two drums of water for people to wash their hands and legs,” he added. Tasmac has told district managers that a token system must be followed. “Printed tokens will be given with date and time so that people don’t crowd near the shops. Tokens will not be given beyond 4 p.m.,” said a Tasmac district manager. He added, “Permission has also been given to temporarily hire additional staff to manage the crowd.” By Wednesday, shops disinfected their premises and barricading was done with wooden sticks. Circles were drawn with a distance of six feet between each.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown relaxation norms not implemented uniformly: retailers||Large dealers in consumer appliances and retail chains are worried about “non-uniformity in implementing the State government COVID-19 lockdown relaxation guidelines across the districts”, which were effective from Wednesday. The Tamil Nadu government allowed operation of standalone shops, excluding those in containment zone. “The guidelines are not implemented uniformly in all districts. They are interpreted differently by the enforcing authorities,” alleged B.K. Shankaranarayan, chief executive officer, Viveks, a leading dealer in consumer durables. He said on Wednesday police officers asked the company’s store in Tambaram to close as it was in the Chengalpattu district. “In orange zones in Dindigul, Theni, Madurai districts, consumer durable retail stores were not allowed to be open, while electrical shops were allowed. This a peak summer demand period for products like ACs and we will be badly hit,” V. Kathiresan, manging partner, Venus Electronics said. Nitesh Giria, director of Girias, said the State had given guidelines for every zone and it was assumed they would be the same across the State. “But that is not the case. In one district which is in the orange zone, the authorities allowed us to open. While in another district with the same parameters, the authorities are not allowing to open the store. We are confused why there is no uniformity,” he said. Mr. Shankaranarayan said the guidelines were frequently changed and the local authorities were not updated. He pointed out that an AC installation needed two technicians, but only one person was allowed on bikes. Mr. Shankaranarayan said the summer season accounted for nearly 30% of sales and retailers were sitting on huge inventory. The retailers suggested that the State call them for a discussion to find a solution.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Data show women against opening of liquor shops’||Congress leader and Karur MP S. Jothimani on Wednesday said 89% of 30 lakh women across Tamil Nadu have opposed the State government’s decision to open TASMAC liquor shops from May 7. Ms. Jothimani said the initiative was planned by the Congress’ Data Analytics team and she intends to reach out to at least 1 crore women in all 234 Assembly Constituencies before submitting her findings to the government. People’s consensus She said they mainly reached out to people from her constituency and across Tamil Nadu to understand what people think the issue even as the State continues to battle COVID-19. The recorded message said: “I am Jothimani, Karur’s Member of Parliament. I would like to know your opinion about an important problem. I would then represent you to Tamil Nadu government. From tomorrow, Tamil Nadu government has decided to open TASMAC shops. Do you support this? Please say ‘Yes or No’ after the beep sound.” Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Jothimani said, “Around 89% of the 30 lakh women, we reached out to have said liquor shops shouldn’t be opened. They said that their incomes have dried up and feared that the men would simply start selling vessels that are left in the house to buy alcohol.”
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Elderly must take precautions even after lockdown’||Lower immunity levels and co-morbidities put the geriatric population at a higher risk for COVID-19. This is why doctors have been stressing the need to protect the elderly from the infection. More importantly, precautions should continue even after the lockdown is lifted, they add. In Tamil Nadu, less than 10% of patients who tested positive for COVID-19 are above the age of 60. As of Tuesday, 336 such persons — 221 men and 115 women — have tested positive for COVID-19, accounting for 8.2% of the total number of positive patients in the State. A majority of the fatalities have occurred in the age group of above 50. Senior geriatrician V.S. Natarajan said that elderly persons were more affected due to their lower immunity levels; the reasons being multiple diseases and intake of medications. “If you take the global census, 70% of persons affected are above 60 years. Eighty-three percent of persons who died had more than one ailment. A co-morbid condition is the most important factor in the elderly and is responsible for mortality. The common ailments are diabetes, asthma, renal disease and cancer,” he said. G.S. Shanthi, head of department, Geriatric Medicine, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said with the lockdown in place, persons, including the elderly, were following certain precautions. “Once the lockdown is lifted, elderly persons must still continue these precautions of self-isolation at home, wearing of masks, avoiding exposure to those who cough or sneeze, and regular washing of hands. They need to maintain physical distancing, especially with younger persons who will go out once the lockdown is lifted. These young persons may contract the virus and be asymptomatic, but they can be carriers,” she said. In the last three days, the hospital has been seeing more asymptomatic patients in the 20-50 age group, she said, adding: “Only some have symptoms suggestive of COVID-19. We are isolating the younger patients from those who are above 50. They are in a different block as we need to protect the vulnerable population.” Herd immunity “As more people test positive without too many symptoms, we can expect herd immunity to develop. However, older persons have to be careful as their immunological response will be lower. They should avoid going out, not even for walks or to grocery stores. Their diet should include food items that can improve their immunity and seek medical care if needed,” Dr. Shanthi said. If they are on regular medication for conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart, kidney or liver ailments, they should continue the medicines without fail to avoid complications, she added. Anxiety level Dr. Natarajan said that there was an increase in anxiety levels among the elderly as they have not been able to get advice from doctors on time due to the lockdown. Many have not been able to go and get medicines from government hospitals, while others have been unable to check their sugar and creatinine levels as many laboratories are closed.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Musicians slam Kamal||Several Carnatic musicians have condemned actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan's comment on Saint composer Tyagaraja during a recent video chat with actor Vijay Sethupathi. Vocalist Palghat Ramprasad, who has started a petition on Change.org, said the reference to the much-revered Saint was derogatory in nature. “The actor was talking about his career and films and referred to the Saint in a manner that would cause hurt to musicians and those who follow the Bhakti marga. Thyagaraja was not begging on the streets of Thanjavur.” Malladi Sreeramaprasad of Malladi Brothers said Tyagarajaswamy was never a mendicant nor a beggar. He was a great ‘haridasa’ going around the streets spreading and singing the glory of Lord Srirama. Mridangam vidwan Thiruvarur Bhakthavatasalam said that to draw reference to him in a disrespectful manner was condemnable.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water supply to be stepped up from today||The city will receive an additional 50 MLD water in addition to the daily supply of 650 MLD from Thursday. A decision to this effect was taken on Wednesday at a meeting chaired by Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, to prevent people from crowding to fill up water and ensure that physical distancing is maintained. Around 1,000 streets in the city are already getting water through lorries and this additional 50 MLD will be used to provide water through taps to these streets. The city’s reservoirs have 6.3 tmcft of water this summer and Krishna water has helped in boosting the storage levels. ‘Inspect facilities’ Additionally, the Minister has instructed all officials to carry out proper inspections of places that have been earmarked as quarantine facilities across localities. The officials have been asked to check if there is proper water supply, drainage facilities as well as all the necessary infrastructure in place before people are admitted into the quarantine facilities.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen forcibly occupy houses||Driven by fear that the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) houses allotted to them may be handed over for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, around 400 residents of NTO Kuppam barged into the newly-constructed tenements in Tiruvottiyur and occupied the houses there on Wednesday morning. Policemen were deployed to control the crowd. However, TNSCB officials clarified that the houses in Tiruvottiyur Ellaiamman Koil Street will not be used to house COVID-19 patients or for other purposes. The TNSCB has constructed 480 houses for the residents of fishermen families who resided in NTO Kuppam. There are four blocks, and each block has 10 storeys and 120 houses. “In January 2020, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami allotted houses for five persons and in February, over 400 residents got allotment through the Madras High Court. However, even after this, we were not able to stay in the houses as basic amenities were not provided,” said P.R. Mahendran, a resident of NTO Kuppam. He said that all the residents were staying in rented houses and since they cannot go for fishing due to lockdown, they are unable to pay rent. Power supply provided “We are already struggling, and recently, we heard reports that the houses will be given to treat COVID-19 patients. Our fear increased when we saw that fans were fitted and electricity supply was also provided on a war-footing,” said Gomathy, another resident. On Wednesday morning, the allottees barged into the complex and occupied the houses. Soon, police were deployed on the premises and they held talks with the people. Since people had gathered in large numbers, policemen warned that they may have to use force to disperse the crowd. “People can get infected if they assemble like this at one spot,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, TNSCB officials said that houses in Tiruvottiyur will not be used to house COVID-19 patients. They added that no one can snatch away the houses already allotted to the residents and it will be handed over to them once the pandemic is under control. “As of now we have decided to use our tenements in K.P. Park to house health workers and those under observation alone,” said an official.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prices hiked by Rs. 10-Rs. 20||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) has increased the prices of liquor. The hiked prices will come into effect when Tasmac shops open on May 7, in all districts but Chennai, excluding the containment zones. The Tamil Nadu government has hiked excise duty by 15% on Indian Made Foreign Liquor, resulting in a price increase of Rs. 10-Rs. 20. The maximum retail prices (MRPs) of ordinary varieties of 180 ml of alcohol will go up by Rs. 10, while the cost of medium and premium varieties will increase by Rs. 20 per 180-ml bottle. The cash cow of the State government had last increased liquor prices in February. “When compared to Delhi and Andhra Pradesh, the price hike is Tamil Nadu is quite reasonable,” said a salesman from one of the Tasmac outlets in the State.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only one bottle per person, says High Court||The Madras High Court on Wednesday refused to stay the State government’s decision to re-open liquor shops in the State from Thursday. It, however, ordered that only one bottle (750 ml) of any kind of liquor should be sold to a purchaser and that no customer should be permitted to purchase more than twice in a week with a minimum gap of three days. Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana directed the government to encourage online booking of tokens (to be issued depending upon age group for collecting liquor from retail shops at different hours of the day) after making payments through digital mode and ordered that the online consumers alone could be allowed to purchase two bottles at a time. They also directed Tasmac to discourage payment of cash for purchase of liquor since it leads to complaints of overpricing and use e-wallet payment system at the retail shops as far as possible. It was also made clear that sales bills should be issued to every customer with his/her name, address and Aadhaar number. If any of the shops fails to issue bills, it shall be closed forthwith and not allowed to be open without further orders from the court, the judges said. They said that steps such as barricading and insisting upon masks. The interim orders were passed on a batch of public interest litigation petitions filed against the government’s move to reopen the liquor shops despite the lockdown to fight COVID-19.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police gear up to handle rush at Tasmac shops||As Tasmac shops are expected to be opened in the districts from today, the police in Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts are gearing up to manage the heavy rush that is expected on the first day. Out of the nearly 500 TASMAC shops in these three districts, only around 100 shops will be opened on May 7. The shops were closed on March 24 after the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown was announced. The shops will open for business at 10 a.m. and will close by 5 p.m. However, bars attached to Tasmac outlets will remain closed. In Tiruvallur district, only 50 out of the nearly 350 shops will be opened as most of them are in containment zones. In Chengalpattu, only 40 out of the 86 will be opened and in Kancheepuram district, 16 out of the 49 shops will be opened. “We are expecting huge crowds and hundreds of police personnel and home guards will be deployed for bandobast. Wooden barricades have been placed to ensure a queue system is followed. Police personnel will warn people through a public address system to ensure personal distancing,” said a police officer. Police said that people will be stopped a few hundred meters before the shop. “Their Aadhaar card will be checked to ensure that they are not from Chennai or from containment zones. People will be given tokens and will be allowed to go in batches of 60,” a senior police officer said. Police also said regulations pertaining to senior citizens purchasing alcohol are being worked upon. “There have been recommendations to give priority to senior citizens in the queue and there are also suggestions to not allow those above age of 55 to purchase alcohol,” Police warning Police have warned that people from Chennai who travel to Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu to purchase alcohol will be arrested for violating Section 144. “Only those with passes will be allowed to come into the district and that too for relevant work. Others will not be allowed. If someone tries to enter, they will be arrested,” warned an officer.
07 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Fatal accidents down in city, say police||The Chennai City Traffic Police have said that fatality rate from accidents has reduced significantly in the city, compared to this period last year. A press release said that they are continuously taking various efforts to reduce accidents and fatalities in the city. According to the traffic police, till date, the total number of fatalities has dipped by 212 this current year, when compared to last year. Last year, 483 fatalities were reported as on May 5, whereas 271 fatalities were reported until May 4 this year. In view of the traffic restrictions imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, there were only 15 fatal accidents reported during April this year. This is a reduction of 100 fatal accidents in April 2020 — when compared to the 115 fatal accidents reported in April 2019.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donation to medical college||The Tamilnadu Foundation, a 45-year- old charitable trust set up by NRIs (Tamils) in the U.S., has donated funds to procure a polymarase chain reaction testing equipment to the Stanley Medical College Hospital. An advance cheque for Rs. 16.17 lakh was handed over to the college dean P. Balaji. “We hope to collect more funds to help in fighting COVID-19 in other medical colleges, said S. Rajarethinam, chairman of the Foundation in a press release.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Free online coaching for NEET aspirants’||The School Education Department would take steps to provide online coaching free of cost to students taking up the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the National Testing Agency said NEET would be held on July 26. It was earlier slated to be held on May 3. The long preparation time has increased the competition and the challenges for students who relied on the government’s coaching programme. Government schoolteachers said the programme had picked up steam just before the practicals in December and January but with the lockdown due to COVID-19, it came to a standstill. Private coaching institutes have, however, been providing online sessions.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opposition calls for protest||Leaders and cadre of the DMK and other Opposition parties will wear black badges and raise slogans on Thursday to highlight the State government’s “failure to provide proper relief and rehabilitation to people affected by the COVID-19 pandemic” and condemn its decision to open Tasmac outlets. “We will wear a black badge, stand in front of our houses and raise slogans for five minutes,” said DMK president M.K. Stalin, who held discussions with other leaders through video-conferencing. Dravidar Kazhagam leader K. Veeramani, MDMK founder Vaiko, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan, VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan, IUML leader K.M. Khader Mohideen, MMK leader M.H. Jawahirullah, KMDK leader E.R. Easwaran and IJK leader Ravi Pachamoothoo endorsed the decision. MNM founder Kamal Haasan and PMK MP Anbumani Ramadoss criticised the decision to open Tasmac outlets.
07 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Relief fund receives Rs. 347 cr. so far||A total of Rs. 347 crore has been received so far in the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) towards precautionary and relief measures taken against the spread of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. An official release from the State government said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami thanked all those who contributed to CMPRF.
07 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Drugs Control Dept. collects fever case details from pharmacies||The Tamil Nadu Drugs Control Department is also part of the battle against COVID-19 as it is assisting the Health Department on various fronts. The department has been collecting daily reports from pharmacies about persons who buy drugs for fever, cough and related conditions in all districts. Pharmacies were instructed to include in the daily reports the whereabouts of people who buy paracetamol and drug combinations that include paracetamol. Details collected from customers included name, phone number and address, said S. Gurubharathi, Assistant Director of Drugs Control, Coimbatore zone, which comprises Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Tirupur and Erode districts. “As of now, we are being notified about 70 to 80 people a day in Coimbatore district. At the zonal level, we are getting reports of about 400 people a day. The details are used to track fever cases, which, in turn, helps the Health Department in COVID-19 management,” he said. More than 5,000 pharmacies are functioning in Coimbatore zone, while nearly 2,500 pharmacies and nearly 300 wholesale pharmacies are operating in Coimbatore district alone. According to Mr. Gurbharathi, all the pharmacies were instructed not to sell prescription drugs over the counter (OTC). “Restriction on OTC sale of prescription drugs was already in place. It is being stressed again. Druggists were instructed not to sell fever drugs if the buyer does not produce a genuine prescription,” he said. The department was also checking whether pharmacies were fleecing people who bought mask and hand sanitiser. Druggists found fleecing customers were booked under the provisions of Drug Price Control Order and Essential Commodities Act while the licence of a few violators was suspended for seven days in the zone.
07 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Collectors urged to move skilled workers||To resume the water distribution improvement work (24x7 water supply improvement project) in the 60 wards in the city, Coimbatore Corporation has written to eight District Collectors to allow movement of skilled workers. Sources familiar with the development said the Corporation had written to the Collectors of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Villupuram, Tiruchi, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Salem and Pudukottai districts to permit movement of skilled workers. The workers – around 20 of them – were skilled in laying ductile iron and HDPE (high density polyethylene) pipelines and their presence was required to resume work. As for unskilled labourers – mostly engaged in earth work, the contractor executing the water distribution improvement project – Suez India Pvt. Ltd. - had around 100 of them whom it could summon immediately from within the district. If the Collectors grant permission and company mobilised the unskilled workers, the Corporation could resume work sometime in the second or third week of this month, the sources said and added that it would resume work in Selvapuram and a couple of localities off Marudhamalai Road. The Corporation had also written to the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board and other similar agencies to engage their skilled and unskilled workers for early resumption of the work. The Corporation had to stop the work in the third week of March after the State Government imposed lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19. The Corporation through Suez India Pvt. Ltd. had attended over 1,000 leaks in the distribution system in the old city (60 wards), including major complaints in Selvapuram, West Club Road and Gandhipuram. It had also carried out corrective work to improve water distribution in Ramanathapuram and a few other places. The Corporation is revamping the old city’s water distribution system under the Smart Cities Mission scheme.
07 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Institutions should adhere to govt.-fixed price cap’||With messages about a private hospital in Coimbatore demanding exorbitant rates for COVID-19 tests doing the rounds on social media platforms, the district administration and the Health Department have clarified that all private hospitals and laboratories approved by the government for COVID-19 management and testing should follow the price cap fixed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The government had capped the price of tests at Rs. 4,500, which private facilities were supposed to comply with, District Collector K. Rajamani said. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had, in March, said that private facilities which charge higher amounts would face legal action. The price cap of Rs. 4,500 included Rs. 1,500 for a screening test for suspect cases and Rs. 3,000 for a confirmatory test. Besides those with symptoms of the disease who seek treatment, the tests are carried out on patients who undergo non-emergency surgical procedures. However, according to Mr. Rajamani, it would be difficult to check whether private hospitals were charging excess fees for the treatment of COVID-19 patients and those with suspected symptoms of the disease. Treatment-related expenses also differ among hospitals, he noted. The Joint Director of Health Services was supposed to monitor the operations of private hospitals, he added. While the cost of treatment is borne by the State in government hospitals, the patients have to foot the bill in private hospitals. P. Krishna, Joint Director of Health Services, Coimbatore district, said the Department would check if any private facility was violating the price cap.
07 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Liquor buyers asked to follow norms||The district administration has asked people who would buy liquor from Thursday to maintain personal distancing norms, not gather in front of the shops and wear masks.  ‘Wear mask’ In a release, it said the persons working at the shops should also wear masks. The release comes in the wake of the State government’s decision to reopen liquor outlets on May 7. It warned of action against those who sold liquor illegally or reopened bars. The shops would be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
07 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Restaurants open for parcel orders||A few restaurants in the city re-opened their kitchens on Wednesday for parcel orders. “We are opening the hotels in a few locations with the staff available to cater to take away orders. We want to open in more areas gradually,” said one of the hoteliers. Restaurants that have regular parcel customers have decided to open and use e-commerce delivery services too, the hotelier said. The restaurants are creating space for customers to wait for the parcel orders maintaining social distancing and have created disinfected areas to ensure there is no spread of COVID-19. There are several challenges in the new scenario - the kitchens are designed for larger volume, the staff are used to serving customers with food in the dining area. All these need to be changed now as the volume cooked is minimal and the staff cannot serve food to the customers on the premises, the hotelier said.
07 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Food supply to continue, industries get special permission||On Balasundaram Road, a long queue of people waits on Wednesday morning for a packet of food and water. Every day, the North Taluk office distributes about 1,200 packets of food in the morning and an equal number in the afternoon and night. The food distribution started on March 25 and will go on till May 17, says one of the officials at the counter. Those receiving the packets include migrant workers, those who live on the roadside, and online food delivery men. The cooking is a joint effort of the district administration and the sponsors, the official says. Though several industries, builders, and shops commenced operations in the district after 40 days, the district administration will continue to serve food to the needy and migrant workers till the lockdown ends. Apart from industries that are in the essential sectors and located within the Coimbatore Corporation limits, IT and ITES units, export oriented units located within the corporation limit also need to obtain permission from the District Industries Centre. On Wednesday - 80 to 100 units had applied for permission. On Tuesday, 52 had applied online and the approvals were given manually as there were complaints about the online system. Clear guidelines will be issued on Thursday for industries that want to apply online for approval. Regarding the construction sector, District Collector K. Rajamani issued guidelines on Wednesday that only those with workers staying on the site could commence works. All precautionary measures against spread of COVID-19 should be taken and the site office should not be air-conditioned. The staff and vehicles should carry the official identity card/authorisation.
07 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Lift more samples in containment zones’||As containment zones in the city are to be lifted one after another in the coming weeks, the State government-constituted field inspection team has asked the Coimbatore Corporation to lift more swab samples. The team led by IAS officers E. Saravanavelraj and R. Gajalakshmi held another round of meeting with the Corporation officials on Wednesday. Sources privy to the developments at the meeting held here said the team had asked the civic body’s health team to lift more samples before the district administration lifts the containment zones. This was to ensure the civic body lifted samples from as many people as possible from within in the zones so that there would be no spurt in cases. The city has 11 containment zones – K.K. Pudur, Podanur Railway Station, Podanur, Ukkadam, Flower Market, R.S. Puram, Sundarapuram, Kuniamuthur, Kavundampalayam, Cheran Managar and Vellakinar.
07 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Containment restrictions lifted on 10 streets in Mettupalayam||District administration along with the Mettupalayam Municipality on Wednesday removed the containment restrictions on 10 streets. The administration had imposed the restrictions on 14 streets after 27 persons from within the municipal limits had tested positive for COVID-19. Wednesday marked the end of 14 days after the return of the last person from treatment, a necessity for removing the quarantine restrictions, and therefore the administration and the Municipality decided to lift the restrictions, the sources said. The areas were the restrictions were removed – Balaji Nagar (Naicker Thottam), Sherif Nagar, Madhar Palli Lane, Sirumugai Road (near Aroma Bakery), Medhar Pillaiyar Street, S.M. Nagar, Annaji Rao Road, L.S. Puram, Perumal Layout and K.K. Nagar Second Street. Of the four remaining areas or streets under containment, the administration and the Municipality would remove the one area on May 9, two areas on May 12 and the last on May 14. Currently, 15 people were in quarantine in Mettupalayam. Three of those had returned from Pune, Maharashtra, and the rest from Koyembedu in Chennai. The administration, Municipality and Mettupalayam Police had placed barricades at the city border to monitor movement of vehicles entering the town, particularly the entry of vehicles from the Koyembedu vegetable market. Sources in the town said that lifting of barricades would not make much of a difference as people were in any case moving in and out of the area on one pretext or the other. The municipal officials, however, denied the charge saying the police were in complete control of the areas, monitoring round-the-clock.
07 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Action against those who do not report COVID-19 symptoms||The Coimbatore district administration would initiate action against those persons, who having returned from other districts or states, did not voluntarily report that they had fever or showed COVID-19 symptoms, said a press release from the administration.  Control room Such persons should voluntarily disclose their fever status by calling the district control room at 1077. If they did not do so, the administration would initiate action, the release warned.
07 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Madukkarai sub-station, there will be no power supply on Thursday (May 7) from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the following areas: K.G. Chavady, Palathurai, Bypass road, A.G. Pathy, Arivolinagar, Sugunapuram, B.K. Pudur, Madukkarai and Kovaipudur (part).
07 May 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines issued for operation of shops in Dharmapuri||The district administration has issued guidelines for the functioning of shops in Dharmapuri categorising them with operation time in rural and urban areas. Accordingly, shops selling essential commodities such as vegetables, groceries, fruit stalls, bakeries will function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. in both towns and rural areas; hardware shops, construction equipment stores, sanitaryware shops will function on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in the towns and rural areas from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; electronic and electrical shops, home appliances stores will function on Tuesday, Thursdays and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. i For industries engaging minimal workforce for operations are required to provide vehicle to ferry workers. The workers are not permitted to travel on two-wheelers. Those seeking to travel with emergency pass for medical, marriage, and funeral emergencies may apply on https://tnepass.tngea.org  Similarly, plumbers, electricians are encouraged to apply for passes on the aforementioned website. Lodges and hotels are not allowed to provides rooms for stay; but restaurants are allowed to be open from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. only for food parcels. Autorickshaws, taxis, buses are not permitted to operate, the release said. All shops will continue to ensure strict physical distancing, and shops will not sell goods to customers without masks, the administration has said.
07 May 2020||Dindigul/madurai/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Kodaikanal records first positive case, as Madurai registers highest single-day spike||The first COVID-19 positive case was reported in Kodaikanal in Dindigul district on Wednesday. Officials, who claimed to have ‘sealed’ all entry and exit points to Kodaikanal hills to tourists since March 25, reported the first positive case stating that the patient had returned from Koyambedu a few days ago. The district also recorded positive cases from Batlagundu (6), Athur (1) and Sanarpatti one. Health officials intensified screening of people arriving from other districts and States. Madurai Madurai district on Wednesday crossed 100 positive cases, registering the highest spike in a single day. A total of 20 cases were reported, taking the overall count to 111. At present, there are 61 active cases in the district. The youngest patient was a four-year-old girl and the oldest a 48-year-old woman. A 42-year-old police personnel from Santhapettai also tested positive. Cases were reported from several areas such as Villapuram, Panaiyur, Kodikulam, Villachery, Bethaniyapuram, Mahaboobpalayam, Meenakshipuram, V. Karisalkulam, Sellur, Koodalpudur, Keeraithurai and Melur. Only four of the patients displayed symptoms. A source from the Health department said the rise in the number of cases indicated possible increase in the number of containment zones in the district. There were 33 containment zones in the district now, 17 of which were in corporation limits, Collector T. G. Vinay said. A total of four patients were discharged, he added.   Thoothukudi Thoothukudi district, which was about to attain ‘green’ zone status after being in ‘red’ and ‘orange’, slipped again with two persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The duo were identified as a lorry driver, 36, from Malavarayanaththam near Nazareth and a woman, 22, from Adhanur near Eppothumventran. They were admitted to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Hospital sources said the lorry driver, who returned home with cold, cough and fever after his trip to West Bengal and other north Indian States, was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. Similarly, the woman was also brought to the hospital the same day, following her return from Chennai, with similar symptoms. After they tested positive, efforts were on to identify those who had close contact with them. Also, Malavarayanaththam and Aadhanur were declared ‘containment zones’ and disinfection operations had begun, sources said. Of the 27 positive patients from Thoothukudi district, 26 were treated successfully and discharged from the hospital. The lone victim was a 72-year-old woman. Consequently, the district was categorised as ‘orange zone’ with no fresh cases for the past 19 days. Even as the district was about to receive ‘green zone’ status soon, the two fresh cases delayed its march. Tirunelveli In Tirunelveli, another woman from Melapalayam tested positive on Wednesday. She is the mother of a female patient who tested positive the previous day. “We lifted samples from the mother after her pregnant daughter tested positive on Tuesday when she came to the urban primary health centre for check-up before due date,” health officials said. “The pregnant woman became infected after her husband took her to a family in home-quarantine. She was visiting a hospital at Thiyagaraja Nagar for regular check-up and, hence, doctors and staff there have been quarantined,” the health offcials added. Tenkasi Tenkasi district’s Puliyangudi added one more positive case, a 27-year-old man, on Wednesday. Moreover, four positive patients, who were undergoing treatment in Tenkasi Government Hospital, were shifted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. “We wanted to shift an infected elderly woman to TVMCH as she also had diabetic complications. Her daughter-in-law and grandchildren, who too are being treated for the viral infection at Tenkasi GH, wanted to get shifted to TVMCH. Hence, they were moved,” a doctor said.
07 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Protest against poor quality of rice at ration shop in Erode||Stating that poor quality of rice was supplied to them at the ration shop located at Valliyammai Street in Sampath Nagar, card holders staged sit-in-protest in front of the shop here on Wednesday. As many as 720 card holders are attached to the shop.They said that the rice is of inferior quality and added that it cannot be consumed after cooking. They said that most of the daily earners had lost their livelihood in the past two months and blamed the government for deepening them trouble further by supplying rice which is unfit for consuming. They staged protest in front of the shop while few women dumped the rice on the road. Erode Tahsildar Parimaladevi held talks with them. After they were assured of supply of quality rice, the protest was withdrawn. Likewise, residents of Madheswaran Nagar in Ward 3 in Corporation limits had on Tuesday claimed that poor quality of rice is supplied to them at the ration shop located in their area and staged protest. They wanted quality rice to be supplied to them. Later, officials of the Civil Supplies Department held talks with them and attempted to pacify them. But, residents demand quality rice and officials left the spot.
07 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||146 Tasmac shops to be reopened in Erode||Of the 203 Tasmac shops in the district, 146 will be reopened on Thursday amid tight security and will function from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The remaining shops are in containment zones and will remain closed. Barricades were erected in front of the shops and customers will be asked to ensure personal distancing while waiting in queue to buy liquor. Police personnel will be posted in all the shops to manage crowd. In Salem district, over 170 shops would be opened. A press release said that a distance of six feet should be maintained between two persons and liquor will be sold from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bars will not be allowed to function and violators will face action, he said.
07 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone shop sealed in Erode||A shop selling mobile phone in Gobichettipalayam was sealed after Collector C. Kathiravan during his inspection found no personal distancing maintained among the consumers here on Wednesday. Mr. Kathiravan said that workers did not take any steps to ensure personal distancing. Likewise, officials had sealed over 30 shops at various places in the district where shopkeepers failed to ensure personal distancing and. customers were found not wearing masks during their purchase. Meanwhile, Corporation officials on Wednesday sealed 20 shops for various violations. On Tuesday, they had sealed 27 shops and three ATM centres in the city.
07 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||315 persons quarantined in Erode||A total of 315 persons are in the 14 quarantine centres in Erode district, while 91 persons, who tested negative for COVID-19, have been sent home from the centres as on Wednesday. Persons arriving at the district’s border, from other districts or States, are quarantined for 14 days at the centres established in each of the 14 blocks in Erode district. They are sent home if they test negative at the end of the quarantine period. Precautions taken Meanwhile, Collector C. Kathiravan said that despite no active positive cases reported in the district in the past 21 days, all precautionary measures are being taken to prevent spread of the virus again in the district. Addressing mediapersons at his Camp Office here on Wednesday, he said that inter-district borders continue to be sealed and vehicles with travel passes were allowed to enter the district. “Only after medical test and inquiry, people from other districts are allowed inside”, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that individual shops are allowed to function while shops with air conditioners, textile showrooms and online food deliveries were not allowed to function.
07 May 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Stranded students return||A group of 17 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Karaikal, who were stranded in Madhya Pradesh, where they had gone as part of their curricular activities, returned by road on Wednesday. The students, including nine girls, were advised home quarantine after mandatory screening. They had started their journey from Madhya Pradesh on May 1 by a bus arranged by the Madhya Pradesh government after the intervention of the Puducherry government. The district administration had prevailed upon the Puducherry government to reach out to the Madhya Pradesh government sensing the restlessness of the parents. Collector Adarsh Sharma thanked the Puducherry and Madhya Pradesh government and the administration of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya for ensuring their safe return. As for the people stranded in other countries, Mr.Sharma said those opting for ‘facility quarantine’ over ‘government quarantine’ on their return can choose to undergo the procedure for 14 days in the list of approved hotels. The arrangements have been made for ‘facility quarantine’ as per the guidelines.
07 May 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs resume operations in Karur||Handloom textile made-up producers, mosquito net manufacturing and bus body building units, the three main engines powering the Karur economy, started resuming operations gradually here on Wednesday. The micro, small and medium enterprises, which remained closed for over a month due to the lockdown, made a cautious resumption, amidst uncertainty over future prospects. Units in rural areas have been allowed to resume operations with 50% of staff and those in urban areas could open with 30% staff. All of them have been asked to strictly adhere to Standard Operating Procedure to ensure personal safety. Collector T.Anbalagan inspected some units and checked whether safety norms such as use of face masks and personal distancing were being followed. He also verified whether thermal scanners and sanitisers were available in the units. He said officers in the rank of sub-collectors have been appointed to monitor whether the units were following the norms. About 300 units in rural areas and 100 in urban areas have obtained permission to function. Units seeking permission to operate would be inspected by officials to ensure that arrangements have been made for following all personal safety norms. Units violating the directives would face legal action. Handloom textile units are involved in manufacturing and export of made-ups such as table cloths, kitchen towels, bed sheets, curtains and other home furnishing products. Annual exports from the town is valued at about Rs. 5,000 crore. The industry employs about 1.50 lakh employees directly and provides indirect employment to an equal number. The industry had suffered heavy losses due to the COVID pandemic across the world leading to cancellation of orders and deferred payments. On Wednesday, many units resumed operations seeking to execute pending works, which were brought to a sudden halt when the lockdown was enforced in March. “Some of the units, which really wanted to, resumed operations today. Some others are planning to open by Monday. The District Industries Centre is approving applications swiftly. Teams formed by Collector to inspect units which applied for permission were expected to complete inspections today,” said A. Sethu, Chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry, Karur. However, supply chain of the industry continued to remain broken as dyeing and printing units in Erode district have not opened yet.
07 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two men test positive in Hosur||Two men who returned from from Maharashtra have tested positive for COVID-19 here. In their early 30s, the men were employed in a jewellery showroom in Maharashtra and returned to Hosur in a cab before dawn on May 2. The residents of Mathigiri, the neighbourhood of the returnees, had alerted the health officials on seeing the Maharasthra registration plate on the vehicle. According to V. Govindan, Deputy Director of Health, three persons had arrived from Maharashtra, but two had tested positive. Swabs were collected from all three of them on May 3, and the results came on Tuesday. The men were in good health and put in home quarantine. Health officials were closely monitoring them, Dr. Govindan said. Early this week, two women from Shoolgiri tested positive for COVID-19, and their infection was traced to a visiting contact from Villupuram at a wedding in Shoolagiri. The women were admitted to Krishnagiri government hospital’s COVID-19 isolation ward.
07 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Whirring and clanking back in Madurai’s industrial units||The first day of relaxation provided the much needed relief for industrialists in Madurai as industrial estates and business enterprises in rural Madurai started functioning. But there was confusion on which shops can function in Corporation limits. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry senior president, S. Rethinavelu said that the intention behind the relaxation was good. However, there had been different interpretations on which industries could function. He said the business on the first day of relaxation was not great but will hopefully pick up over time. Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association convenor K. R. Gnanansambandam said automobile spare part shops which opened for business on West Veli Street were told to close down as it was near a containment zone. “We’ve been told that shops inside containment zones must not be opened and we respected that rule but all these shops were outside the containment zone. Still police personnel made them close shop,” Mr. Gnanansambandam said. Same is the case with shops selling chemicals on Vengalakadai Street. They were not allowed to open as they were near a containment zone. “If industries need to disinfect, they must buy soap oil and disinfectants from there. From where else can they buy them?” he wondered. Madurai Paper Traders’ Association president S. Shankar said though paper mills were allowed to function, there could be no sales as stationery shops were not allowed to open. “Printing presses which have been given permission to operate need paper to print. Copier papers are also in high demand. Different districts have different approvals for the functioning of industries. We have submitted a proposal to the district administration to reconsider the opening of shops selling stationery as they were necessary,” he said. Issue a ‘negative list’ Mr. Rethinavelu said that loadmen and labourers did not come toworksites as many did not have passes. “It will be of much use to entrepreneurs if the district administration issued a detailed ‘negative list of industries’ as although it may be difficult to provide a clear list of industries which were allowed to function, the opposite could be of use to us. It would also spell clearly what can and cannot be allowed within the city limits,” he said. District Industries Centre General Manager M. Ramalingam said that passes had been issued to 99 out of 900 people who applied. “Most of the applicants were from rural areas. They need not carry e-passes and only require company identity cards,” he said.
07 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Business enterprises seek loans to tide over crisis as per RBI directive||Several private banks and Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), the premier bank for micro, small and medium enterprises, are reluctant to give loans in these times of cash crunch following COVID-19 lockdown, said K.R. Gnanansambandam, Convenor, Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association. In a release, he said Reserve Bank of India had instructed private banks to provide 10% of working capital as loans to the units without insisting on collateral, and at a nominal rate of interest. They must be given a six-month moratorium and repayment in six instalments thereafter. However, private banks deny having received any such directive from their headquarters. Mr. Gnanansambandam said that as the small business enterprises were unable to sell their finished goods and also could not avail bank loans, pay rent, electricity bill and salaries to employees. In a survey taken among 110 members of the trade body, 44% of the units depended on nationalised banks and 22% on private borrowings. These units could weather the storm. The rest 34%, who were dependent on private banks, would not. Unless the Central government intervenes, most of the units could become sick and non-performing assets of banks would mount.
07 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Domestic helpers desperate to return to work||Domestic workers, who are out of work for more than 40 days now, wish they could return to work just like plumbers and electricians as they are left with no source of income. Although the initial order issued by the government on May 3 said that domestic workers can be permitted to work after getting e-pass, through a clarification it reversed the decision the very next day. M. Manimegalai, 37, from S. M. P. Colony is a mother of two children. Ever since she was deserted by her husband two years ago, she has been working in four houses to support her family. She says not a single household gave her any money since the lockdown began . “I feel uneasy about asking them for money without having done any work,” she says. Now she is unable to buy sanitary napkins for her two daughters and is instead giving them old cotton cloth. “I feel ashamed, but what else can I do?” she says. S. Indirani, 42, from Karumbalai whose husband died a few years ago, says she must support her two daughters somehow as she was not paid during lockdown. With no collateral to give, she is unable to get a loan too. A. Manjula, 56, from Sakkimangalam called on her employer for work but was sent away with ration goods. “I tried to convey that I badly needed cash, but it was not well received,” she says. P. Clarammal, State Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Domestic Workers’ Union, says though the employers need to be prudent and should not ask domestic workers to come for work because of the COVID-19 scare, they must not hold back their wages for the lockdown period and instead cheat them by giving them rations or old clothes. The pandemic had allowed for further exploitation of an oppressed class. “Why can’t houses at least pay half the salary. They are paid Rs. 2,000 per month at the most,” she says. There are around 800 women who have registered their names with the Tamil Nadu Domestic Workers’ Union. Even among them, not many are aware of the Rs. 1,000 assistance given by the State government. “There are at least 5,000 domestic workers in Madurai district and many are unaware of the existence of the Welfare Board. The State government is oblivious to their problems?” she says.
07 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Kamaraj University still awaits a Registrar||Madurai Kamaraj University’s (MKU) Registrar in-charge N. Sankar resigned on May 1, but no decision regarding his replacement has so far been made by the administration. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan had said that a decision would be made on Monday after a meeting with Syndicate members. However, senior officials of Higher Education department had not permitted conduct of the meeting, said a source. The last time the position was occupied by a full-time official was in June 2019. Then the administration held one round of interview for 16 candidates in January 2020 and deemed all the applicants unfit for the post. Although the administration should have called for applications again through advertisements, it has not yet done that. A senior Syndicate member, who was part of the group which interviewed applicants for the post of Registrar, said that re-advertising did not take place because the administration was busy working on a self-study report to be submitted to the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). “We had sought the conduct of an interview via videoconferencing with the VC and immediate re-advertising. However, we are yet to hear from him. We are likely to request Mr. Sankar to continue in the position until COVID-19 lockdown is lifted,” the Syndicate member said.
07 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman makes it home safely after Madurai visit, thanks to official support||When 27 year-old M. Anjalidevi’s husband died on April 1 in Coimbatore, she travelled on the same night to Madurai to ensure the burial of her husband’s body at Kadupatti — his birthplace. She, however, did not anticipate the problems and struggles that she would have to face while attempting to go back home. “My husband was 37 years old. By April 1, he had already suffered two heart attacks due to the stress he faced in his job — welding. Ours was a love marriage so we settled in Coimbatore. It was his wish to be buried in his hometown. This is why I left the same night with my three children,” she said. Ms. Anjalidevi said that the last rites were completed on April 2 in Kadupatti. She decided to spend a couple of days with her husband’s family for mental peace. However, when she began trying to look for options to head back home, several people asked her for exorbitant amounts to transport her back home. “I was asked to pay between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 20,000 to take me and my children back. The people making these propositions did not even promise a safe travel. They said we would be heading back in a truck of some kind,” she said. For one month, she survived on food provided by her sister-in-law. However, she could not bear being considered a burden, she said. Seeing that there was no way out, Ms. Anjalidevi decided to approach Collector T. G. Vinay for help. To her surprise, the Collector immediately answered her call for help. Mr. Vinay said that when the plea came to him, the administration decided to send the family back safely. They left on the night of May 4 in a private van and reached Coimbatore. He added that the administration provided them with enough supply of rice, pulses and other dry ration for the family to tide through the lockdown. Ms. Anjalidevi said that she was thankful for all the support from the district administration. She has some savings that her husband has left but has no idea about how she would support her three children who are aged seven, six and three months. “I will probably rent out welding equipment and hope to survive on that income or appeal to Coimbatore Collector for a job.
07 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Colour-coded passes must for buying liquor’||Madurai City Police have made colour-coded movement passes issued by Madurai Corporation mandatory for buying liquor bottles from TASMAC outlets that are reopening on Thursday. In a statement, Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham said the passes were valid for moving out to buy essential goods between 10 a.m. and 5 pm. two days a week. While yellow passes were valid on Mondays and Thursdays, orange passes were valid on Tuesdays and Fridays, and Green passes on Wednesdays and Saturdays. People who carried yellow passes alone would be allowed to buy liquor bottles from TASMAC shops on Thursdays. Those who were found not wearing face masks and following social distancing norms could not buy liquor. Besides, those who violated these norms would be booked for violating the curfew order. People should also avoid using motor vehicles during their visit to liquor outlets, the Commissioner of Police added. Timings People above 50 years of age could buy liquor between 10 a.m. and 1 pm. Those between 40 years to 50 years would be allowed to buy liquor from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. and the others from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., the statement said.
07 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea adjourned||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday adjourned a plea filed by activist A. Bonyface from Madurai who sought a direction to restrain the State government from opening TASMAC shops in the State on May 7, in view of continuing spread of COVID-19. The petitioner said that Tamil Nadu was already witnessing an increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. With the opening of the Tasmac shops, physical distancing would go for a toss and this would not only increase the number of positive cases, but also lead to casualties, he said. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi adjourned the hearing in the case till May 11.
07 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||No festivity in temples||The district administration has advised people to desist from visiting seven prominent temples for Chithirai festivals on Thursday as a preventive measure against spread of COVID-19 virus. Seeking to drive home the point that lifting of restrictions does not mean free movement of people, Collector Praveen P. Nair said a ban has been imposed by the administration on visiting the seven temples: Subramaniasamy Temple at Ettukudi, Nellukadai Mariamman Temple and Sattanathar Swami Temple at Nagapattinam, Rathinagireeswarar Temple at Tirumarugal, Swarnathavaneswarar Temple at Sithaaymur, Kamatchi Amman Temple at Kazhuvarkadai, and Swetharanyeswarar Temple at Thiruvenkadu. These temples have been kept closed. The usual practice of the people to go to the sea shore for the festivities will not be permitted. Having sent home 44 COVID 19 positive cases after treatment, there was only one more positive patient undergoing quarantine at the Government Medical College Hospital. Teams were monitoring people entering Nagapattinam from other districts and States .
07 May 2020||PALAKKAD,TAMIL NADU||Keralites continue to return via Walayar||More than 1,500 Keralites returned home from other States by road through Walayar checkpost on Wednesday. Over four-fifths of them were men. Most of them reached here from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. On Tuesday, as many as 2,920 people had returned to Kerala via Walayar. Among them were 2,111 men, 559 women and 250 children. The return process of Keralites trapped in other States continued through the night. Meanwhile, the results of COVID-19 tests conducted on three students who reached here from Salem via Walayar checkpost were found to be negative on Wednesday. They had reached here on Monday night, and were shifted to a COVID-19 care centre when they showed symptoms. Those who crossed into Kerala through Walayar on Wednesday were not put in any hospital as they did not show symptoms of COVID-19, health officials said. One person had been shifted to hospital after he suffered a heart attack on Tuesday. His condition continued to be critical on Wednesday. As many as 1,976 people continued to be under observation in the district. While 1,932 of them were in home quarantine, 36 were in the District Hospital in Palakkad, two in Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, and six in Taluk Hospital, Mannarkkad.
07 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer to resume limited OP services||Jipmer will selectively restart outpatient (OPD) services on Friday. According to a press note, patients need to call and register on 0413-2298200. Jipmer will first send the appointment date and time for telephone and video consultation as text messages to the patient’s mobile. After the telephone consultation, selected patients will get a text message for personal visit to Jipmer. Only patients with this message will be allowed to enter the hospital. After checking at screening OPD, patients will be directed to their respective OPDs. Only one attender is allowed with each patient, and both must wear masks. Patients will need to follow travel restrictions imposed by the government, and Jipmer cannot make any exemptions, the press note read.
07 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Tablets given to conservancy workers||To boost immunity against COVID-19, conservancy workers in the Corporation were given zinc and vitamin tablets and bananas on Wednesday. They were also given nilavembu kashayam, kabasura kudineer and homeopathy tablets and also other safety gears to safeguard them from infection. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh also distributed bananas, tablets and dress materials at the corporation office on Wednesday.
07 May 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||After hiatus, graphite unit in Sivaganga restarts production||The State-owned graphite unit in the district on Wednesday recommenced its mining activities after obtaining clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. According to officials, the 600-acre unit situated at Sendi Udayanathapuram, Kumarapatti and Pudupatti villages would benefit around 200 workers directly and another 100 indirectly. Established in 1994 at a cost of Rs. 28 crore, it produced 60,000 metric tons per annum of graphite flakes and others. After obtaining approval and certification from the ministry concerned, the State government proposed to enhance its production from 60,000 metric tonnes per annum to 1.05 lakh metric tonness per annum. ‘Black gold’ Described as ‘black gold’ by locals, the graphite flakes and fines concentrates processed in the unit were unique in many aspects. Expansion of graphite mines with higher production capacity would fetch increased earnings to the exchequer. Since April 2017, the activity in the mines was suspended and production at the graphite plant was halted in December 2018 for facilitating inspection and approval processes, TAMIN officials said. Mandatory approval Due to global warming, it had become mandatory to obtain approval, among other procedure, to condcut mining. In fact, the government held a public hearing in mid-2016. Mining would be carried out to 30 metre depth only from the ground level, As per the project report submitted by an expert panel, 200 tonnes of graphite ore would be produced daily, officials said.  Khadi Minister G. Baskaran, Collector J. Jayakanthan and senior officials from TAMIN and the graphite unit, including its managers Muthu Subramani and Hemanth Kumar, participated at the function. In a brief chat with reporters, the Collector said the district was largely free from any fresh positive cases since April 16. Thanking the public and residents, he appealed to them to cooperate with field staff and health teams to overcome the health emergency. The recommencement of the graphite unit should bring in robust growth and revive the economy in the belt. On need basis, workers would be recruited from the villages nearby, according to the Collector.
07 May 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Volunteer for medical tests, says Minister||Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji on Wednesday appealed to people who entered Virudhunagar from other districts to voluntarily come forward for medical examination. Inspecting disinfection work in Tiruthangal here, he said one person who came to Tiruthangal from Chennai without the knowledge of local authorities tested positive on Tuesday. Infection in Virudhunagar district had spread only through such people. It was only because of the alertness of the district administration and hard work of officials and employees of all departments that the viral infection had been contained. The Minister said the AIADMK had sponsored seven high-speed disinfectant vehicles for fumigation work in Tiruthangal municipality. The vehicles would be deployed along those pressed into service by municipal authorities. All streets in the town would be disinfected, he added.
07 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. staff donate blood||Fifty government employees donated blood on Wednesday. The gesture comes in the wake of blood shortage faced by Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital due to its inability to conduct camps because of the prevailing pandemic. Collector Sandeep Nanduri inaugurated the camp at the government employees’ union office here. Medical Officer, TKMCH Blood Bank, Shanthi said her team collected 50 units of blood.
07 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac shops to resume sale today||Elaborate arrangements have been made in Tiruchi to prevent overcrowding at Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) shops, which are slated to resume business on Thursday. Out of 183 shops in the district, officials have decided to open 163. They have deferred the plan to open the remaining 20 shops as they are located in containment zones. They will resume business only after the zones are de-notified. On an average, Tasmac sells liquor worth of Rs. 3.25 crore in Tiruchi district a day. Officials expect that sale is likely to be heavy on the first day of resumption of sales after a gap of 42 days. They have piled up stocks. Stocks of liquor bottles, which had been kept at Devar Hall, Kalaiarangam, TASMAC depot in the city and a few marriage halls on the outskirts of the city, were transported to respective shops on Wednesday. Senior revenue and police officials held a special meeting here on Wednesday to chalk out a strategy to prevent overcrowding and enforcing social distancing norms.. D.S. Durai Murugan, District Manager, Tasmac, said barricades have been erected in front of all shops so as to regulate customers. Wearing face mask had been made compulsory. If anyone comes without a mask , he would be handed over to the police. Circles have been drawn with a gap of 6 feet for customers to stand in queue in front of shops. Those visiting shops would be given tokens. Similar to the token system in banks, token holders would be informed through public address system. A senior official said that each shop would have two counters for clearing the rush as quickly as possible. Elaborate security arrangements would be in place for regulating the crowd. At least 2 policemen and 2 Home Guards would be on duty at each shop. In addition, volunteers would be involved in crowd regulating duty. About 500 volunteers had been drawn for it.
07 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents throng shops||With shops opening up across the city as the lockdown restrictions were eased on Wednesday, citizens stepped out in large numbers to purchase non-essentials. Most of the standalone shops were kept open in the city. Although establishments in commercial complexes remained closed, electrical appliance repair shops, hardware and electrical shops, tailors and mobile phone shops remained open for business. “My mixer needed to be repaired and nobody was willing to do it during the lockdown. I am so happy it can be repaired now,” a customer at a repair shop in Woraiyur said. There was an increase in the vehicular movement since Monday, a traffic policeman on Salai Road said. “Many people, who needed to purchase non-essential items and who could not do it for the last 40 days came out on two-wheelers,” he said. “The number of vehicles on the street was at 50 to 60 % less than a normal day but thrice the number when compared to the vehicles found during the last few weeks,” he said. However, there were no traffic congestions on arterial roads as larger vehicles - buses and autorickshaws - did not hit the roads yet. Some autorickshaw drivers, who ferried passengers on Wednesday, were fined by traffic policemen. The drivers demanded an explanation as to why they were not allowed to ply when cars could go. “We have been asked to remain off the roads while cars are allowed. What is this unfair treatment? We are ready to take only one or two passengers.” M. Kalyanasundaram, a driver said. With the number of cases increasing after people who returned from Chennai testing positive, the relaxation of lockdown may prove to be costly, some residents said. S. Sekaran, chairman, Citizens Forum, said a petition was submitted to the Collector seeking his intervention on the matter as personal distancing would go for a toss. “I went to purchase some eatables in Thennur and had to return as a large crowd flouting all norms was waiting outside the shop. Many were not wearing masks,” he said. Mr. Sekaran suggested that a shop owner should take the responsibility of maintaining personal distance at his shop. “One of the employees at the shop can stand outside and ensure all those entering the shop are wearing masks and standing at least one metre away from one another. When one asks a fellow customer to keep distance, some people get angry and shout at us. Instead, the shop owner can do it and if it is not maintained, he could stop supply,” he said.
07 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp increase in COVID-19 positive cases in Ariyalur district||A total of 197 patients, 188 of them from Ariyalur district, tested positive for COVID-19 in the Central region on Wednesday. One patient hailed from Karur, three from Perambalur, two from Pudukottai and one each from Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi districts. Among the 188 patients in Ariyalur district was a one-year-old baby girl, and 38 women, all contacts of individuals who returned to the district along with 149 men, many of whom came to the district from Chennai where they had been working at the Koyambedu market. A 38-year-old doctor, an ear, nose and throat (ENT) specialist from Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital has tested positive here. “He was exposed to the virus while treating patients,” sources here said. Of the 188 patients, 20 had tested positive on Monday while the remaining 168 tested positive on Wednesday. In Perambalur district, a 20-year-old pregnant woman, an 18-month-old male baby and another 35-year-old woman tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. The patients were tested at Ariyalur on their way back to their hometown in Perambalur and are all currently isolated at the Ariyalur GH. The pregnant woman and the baby will be shifted to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, sources here said. Source of their infection is yet to be established, they said. Collector V. Santha held a review meeting on Wednesday. She said a 300-bedded facility at the District Headquarters Hospital and a newly constructed Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board were available to handle patients. “Since the number of cases has gone up, the new relaxed norms of the lockdown would not be applicable. We will notify a total lockdown if necessary,” she said. In Tiruchi district, a 23-year-old woman from Palakkarai tested positive at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Government Memorial Hospital. The woman is pregnant, due this month, and visited the hospital for a check-up when a test was taken and she tested positive. However, the source of the infection is not clear. Meanwhile, five patients were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovery on Wednesday. Four hailed from Tiruchi while Pudukottai’s first positive patient, the son of a man who attended the single-source event in New Delhi and hailed from Mirattunilai, was also discharged. So far, 47 patients of the 56 patients, who have tested positive from Tiruchi, have been sent home after recovery. The district administration has traced 309 people who returned to the city from Koyambedu in Chennai over the last week and has lifted test samples for all. Of them, six have tested positive while 302 patients have tested negative. However, they have all been placed under home quarantine for a period of 14 days. A total of six patients from Tiruchi, nine form Ariyalur, 12 from Perambalur and two from Pudukottai are currently undergoing treatment at the MGMGH. Collect S. Sivarasu urged citizens to follow lockdown norms, wear face masks and practice personal distancing. Unless there is a necessity, please do not go out, he said. In Karur, 47-year-old man who returned from Mumbai, Maharashtra, where he was working tested positive . The patient is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here and is responding well to treatment. Meanwhile, in Pudukottai district, two patients, a 60-year-old man and a 13-year-old girl, tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. The man hails from Lakshmi Nagar while the girl hails from Alangudi. Both have been admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH for treatment. The number of persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College hospital increased to 8 with one more person from Vilakudi hamlet near Thithuraipoondi tested positive on Wednesday. According to sources, the infected person had returned to his native place recently from Chennai. In all, 32 persons from different parts of the district were found infected with the virus and out of them 24 have been discharged from the hospital after the results turned negative in three consecutive tests. Meanwhile, Food Minister R.Kamaraj opened a special ward for men infected with COVID-19 virus, at the TGMC hospital on Monday. The 60-bed ward had been set up at a total cost of Rs. 60 lakhs. In Thanjavur district, a 25-year-old man tested positive and is undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, according to a media bulletin issued by the Health Department.
07 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Wedding held sans pomp||The wedding of Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Minister S. Valarmathi’s son N.S. Hariram was held without much fanfare at Gunaseelam on Wednesday. The wedding was to have been conducted in a grand manner with the participation of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and a host of ministers, senior bureaucrats and important personalities. The COVID-19 had not emerged such as major threat when the elders of bride and bridegroom finalised the marriage plan of Hariram and S. Suryaprabha. After getting the consent of the Chief Minister, Ms. Valarmathi booked a marriage hall in the city for her son’s marriage on May 5. With the marriage day approaching fast, the minister was anxious whether it would be possible to conduct the wedding as scheduled and was hoping prohibitory orders would end by May 3. But, as the lockdown was extended, she decided to go ahead with the marriage at Gunaseelam, where the temple of her family deity (kula deivam) Prasanna Venkatachalapathy is located, without fanfare. The bridegroom tied the nuptial knot in front of the temple with the presence of 15 guests. The couple and all those present wore face mask and followed personal distance norms. “The safety norm applies to all. We kept it a very simple family ceremony, and fully adhered to the restrictions that have been notified for conduct of marriages,” Ms. Valarmathi said. Stating that the State government was taking all out measures to control the spread of the coronavirus, she hoped her son’s marriage would send a message to the public on the need to strictly adhere to restrictions imposed in view of pandemic.
07 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police to provide security||The police in Tiruchi range encompassing five districts have geared up to ensure personal distancing and maintain orderliness when Tasmac liquor outlets are to resume sale from Thursday. Detailed security arrangements have been drawn up in Tiruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Karur districts anticipating heavy turnout of customers. The police have placed Tasmac outlets under three categories: those which could be “over crowded,” those with “moderate crowd” and those which could witness “normal crowd.” Security arrangements have been made accordingly. Home Guards and volunteers have been roped in for deployment at every outlet to avoid crowding and ensure personal distancing. A little over 100 outlets are to be opened in Tiruchi district barring those which were situated in containment zones. Quick Reaction Teams/ Striking Force teams would be in a state of readiness to attend and lend support in case of emergency. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, V. Balakrishnan instructed the police to wear masks, gloves and use sanitiser besides maintaining personal distancing with customers approaching the outlets. Officers in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police would be on rounds in their respective sub-division covering “over-crowded” outlets. The Tiruchi Range accounts for a total of 439 liquor shops out of which 408 would resume sale from Thursday. The police have been asked to keep a watch in the wake of messages posted in the social media platforms opposing opening of liquor outlets at a time when prohibitory orders were in place, say a source.
07 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of Mavadikulam begins||The Public Works Department began desilting and development works at the Mavadikulam on Wednesday. The move comes in the wake of persistent demands for desitling and beautifying tanks, one of the few in the city limits. The tank, spread over 143 acres, has been reduced a shallow water body over the years and it has been heavily encroached upon. Voluntary organisations have been flagging indiscriminate dumping of garbage into the tank. A few years back, voluntary organisations and citizens groups launched a campaign to clean the tank which helped conserve some rainwater. However, given the vast area involved, the task could not be completed fully. According to Public Works Department sources, the tank receives water supply from the 15th branch canal from the New Kattalai High Level Canal, which branches off from the Cauvery. Meanwhile, the PWD, which maintains the tank, has taken up development and desilting works on the tank at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.94 crore. Under the initiative, silt accumulation in the tank would be removed. Besides, a walking track would be laid along the banks of the tank. Seating arrangements would be made along the banks. The work is expected to be completed in about six months time, an official said.
07 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Production activities make a slow start||Production activities got off to a slow start on Wednesday as industrial units did not have adequate workforce in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts. Though the industries were permitted to have 50% of workforce, in many units, the turnout was much lesser. The thin turnout was attributed by proprietors to the absence of public transport. It will take two to three days for production activities to resume on a normal pace, G. Ravichandran, General Manager, District Industries Centre, Tiruchi, said. As the industries had been kept closed for more than 40 days, the immediate task was to clean up the floor and machinery, P. Elango, president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association said. At SIPCOT Industrial Estate in Pudukottai district, production activities resumed in 28 units with 50 % work force. Sanitisers were kept at entry points, and wearing of masks was made mandatory. The industrial units were disinfected before resumption of production. Production activities in the rest of the units will resume in phases, Project Officer of SIPCOT, Pudukottai, Kannan, said.
07 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU to create awareness of online-virtual classes||Bharathidasan University has planned to convene region-wise meetings of principals of affiliated colleges (except autonomous colleges) to create awareness of online-virtual classes and e-content development for unfinished syllabus. The meeting will be conducted online via ‘Google Meet.’ Principals are expected to attend the meeting with e-content coordinator/ faculty members by using the link through mobile or laptop or desktop. ‘The objective is to create awareness and harness your existing infrastructure towards e-learning methodologies,’ Registrar G. Gopinath Ganapthy said in a letter to the principals. The meeting will pave way for faculties to upload e-contents of the uncovered syllabus in the university portal, he said. The meeting will be conducted for principals of colleges in Tiruchi and Karur at 11.00 a.m. on May 11, and at 2 p.m. for those in Ariyalur, Perambalur and Thanjavur. For principals of colleges in Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Pudukottai, the meeting will take place at 11 a.m. on May 12. As a transition to online teaching-learning has become inevitable, the university has taken the initiative to make a beginning, though there are challenges in reaching out to students in rural parts through the digital platform, he said. The teachers and students will have to migrate to technology. Teachers will have the opportunity to upload e-contents in the cloud space of the university in their names.
07 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers in Tiruppur demand special pay||Nearly 1,800 conservancy workers attached to the Tiruppur Corporation on Wednesday wore black badges demanding special pay of a month’s salary as announced by the Chief Minister. The protest was organised by the Tiruppur District Conservancy Workers Association, affiliated to the All India Trade Union Congress, as part of the State-wide protest. According to P.R. Natarajan,, general secretary of Tiruppur District Conservancy Workers Association, nearly 1,000 contract workers and 800 permanent conservancy workers participated in the protest. Mr. Natarajan noted that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami made an announcement regarding one-month special pay for doctors, nurses, medical staff and sanitary workers to honour their contribution in the fight against COVID-19. “But, till now no steps have been taken in this regard,” he alleged. All conservancy workers must be subjected to periodic medical checks and temporary workers must be made permanent, Mr. Natarajan demanded. The protests will continue if the demands are not met, he added. When contacted, Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar said that their demands will be fulfilled at an “appropriate time.” Medical checks for conservancy workers are being done regularly and the workers are provided with masks and gloves to ensure their safety, the Commissioner said.  Special Correspondent adds from Coimbatore  Coimbatore Corporation conservancy workers, including those on contract, staged a protest in front of the North Zone office. The workers, who reported for duty with black badges, sought more wages, personal protection equipment for all workers, frequent test for COVID-19 and reinstatement of a suspended driver. Representatives of Coimbatore Labour Union, Tamilnadu Annal Ambedkar Sugadhara Thuppuravu Matrum Podhu Paniyalar Sangam and a few other unions led the protest.
07 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur COVID-19 testing centre awaits approval||The COVID-19 testing centre, which was recently set up on the Tiruppur Government Hospital premises, is still awaiting approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Tiruppur GH Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy said on Wednesday that the approval process has been initiated and that it is expected to be finalised by next week. Once approved, all the swab samples collected in Tiruppur district could be tested here as the samples are being sent to the testing centre at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, she said. “We can test between 70 to 100 samples a day,” Dr. Sathyamoorthy said. The centre has been set up as per the protocols laid down by ICMR and has four technicians and one microbiologist, according to the Dean. On Tuesday, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan visited the testing centre. Seven green blocks With only two active COVID-19 cases in the district, seven out of 13 blocks have been declared as green zones as of Wednesday. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan tweeted the zone-wise map of the district, according to which Udumalpet, Gudimangalam, Madathukulam, Kundadam, Vellakoil, Mulanur and Uthukuli blocks were green zones. Dharapuram, Avinashi, Palladam, Pongalur and Kangeyam blocks were orange zones while Tiruppur block was red zone. Among these, Tiruppur Corporation and Udumalpet Municipality were also red zones. Green zones are where no COVID-19 cases have been reported for the past 28 days. Orange zones are where cases were reported between 14 and 28 days and red zones are those where cases were confirmed within the past 14 days, according to the map.
07 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||60,000 masks distributed||P.H. Krishnaraj, a garment manufacturer and a social worker, said that he has distributed 60,000 masks across Tiruppur city. He said on Monday that the masks were distributed at grocery shops, pharmacies and on Collectorate premises to raise awareness. He also said that he distributed vegetables.
07 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||All cardholders to get more free rice||The Tamil Nadu government had purchased two lakh metric tonnes of rice from the Central pool at a cost of Rs. 22 a kg for distribution to family cardholders in the State, according to the Food Minister, R.Kamaraj. Disclosing this to reporters here on Wednesday, he said that the Union Government had directed the Tamil Nadu government to distribute five kg of rice per person to family cardholders in the priority sector and to Anthyodaya Anna Yojana scheme beneficiaries for three months from April. It had released 5.36 tonnes of rice from its pool for this purpose. However, Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami felt that it would not be fair to distribute additional rice to a section of family cardholders only while all people were suffering from financial crisis caused by the pandemic. So, the State government allotted Rs. 438 crores for purchase of two lakh tonnes of rice from the Central pool for free distribution to all eligible cardholders. Thus, for a family of four persons 30 kg of rice would be given during May in addition to their regular allotment of 20 kg of rice per month. Similarly, for a family of five 62.50 kg of rice and for a family of six 75 kg of rice would be distributed in May and June. As announced earlier, cereals, oil and sugar would also be distributed to family cardholders free of cost during this month and in June. Stating that the entire quantity of two lakh tonnes of rice had been moved to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies godowns in the State, he said the required quantity of stock had been moved to the Public Distribution System outlets for smooth distribution of the priceless rice to family cardholders. Responding to a query on spurt in COVID-19 infection cases, Mr.Kamaraj said there was nothing to worry about the increase in the number of cases across the State. All of them were asymptomatic cases. The number of deaths due to the novel coronavirus was relatively low and most of the persons who test positive for COVID-19 virus have been cured and returned home, he maintained.
07 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Illegal gold mining: mill sealed in Devala||A mill where rock and sand from the illegal gold mines in Devala are ground down was sealed by the revenue department officials on Tuesday, while police arrested two persons in connection with the incident. Police said that despite mining being banned in Devala near Gudalur, local residents and labourers routinely venture into the mines to excavate soil and rock in the hopes of finding small quantities of gold which they can sell. The mines, which are dug into the cliff-face, are extremely dangerous, and are located on forest land, posing risk for people and wild animals, said officials. On Tuesday, police received information that a consignment of rock excavated from the mines was being ground down at a mill in Devala Hatty. They immediately reached the mill and searched the premises and found 125 kg of rock and sand that had been ground down in the mill. They arrested a mill worker and another person in connection with the incident. Revenue department officials said that they visited the mill and sealed the premises. “The rock and soil is ground down, and then sifted to find small quantities of gold by these people, who are putting their safety at risk undertaking this dangerous vocation,” said P. Rajkumar, Revenue Divisional Officer, Gudalur. He added that people in and around the area have been given strict warnings to desist from venturing into the mines of Devala. Strict action will be taken against people defying the orders, he said.
07 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks, printing units resume operation in Virudhunagar||A day after the district administration gave permission to industrial units to resume production, around 400 fireworks units started operation on Wednesday. “About 60% of the units have started functioning at half strength. Others will resume work in the coming days,” said Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Assocation president Ganesan Panjurajan. Stating that the 43-day lockdown had led to Rs. 300-crore loss of production, Mr. Ganesan wondered how long the restriction on worker deployment would continue. “If we are forced to work with limited strength for another two months, we may lose 40% to 50% production before Deepavali,” he said. Raw materials were, however, available sufficiently. Also, the units were in the process of getting passes for vehicles and workers. All units had been advised to take up disinfection thrice a day, follow social distancing norms and provide hand-washing facility. Workers were being scanned with thermal scanners before being allowed into the units. “We need to follow the conditions for the well-being of our workers and our own good health,” he added. Meanwhile, a majority of the printing units had started functioning in and around Sivakasi, said Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar. Collector R. Kannan inspected some of the units, the official added. Match works were given permission to resume operation in April.
07 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Man electrocuted||A. Palanikumar, 44, was electrocuted when he attempted to provide lighting facility for a newly constructed toilet at Periya Thatampatti on Wednesday. His family members rushed him to a private hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Soolakkarai police are investigating.
07 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Woman burn victim dies||Tamaraiselvi, 50, who suffered burn injuries while working in a match unit near here on May 1, died on Wednesday. She suffered about 50% burns while undertaking box-filling work. Friction while handling dipped sticks was suspected to have triggered the fire. She was admitted to a private hospital in Madurai. Two other women workers also suffered burns in the incident.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Confusion and disappointment as relaxations are implemented||The rush on the city's roads on Monday morning were missing on Wednesday. Police patrol vehicles and personnel were seen at all the commercial areas, instructing retailers on what shops can be kept open and what cannot be, the social distancing norms that they need to maintain, etc. Gandhipuram, Oppanakara Street, Variety Hall Road, etc saw only limited shops opening shutters. "There is a lot of confusion as the police did not permit many shops that are not in the negative list to be opened. For instance, furniture retail outlets are not in the negative list. And it is easy to maintain social distancing at these shops. But the police did not permit the furniture showrooms on Variety Hall Road to be opened," said a dealer. Air-conditioned showrooms in some areas were not asked to down shutters while those without AC were not permitted to be opened in other areas, another trader claimed. Some of the members of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, met the District Collector on Wednesday afternoon and sought permission to open automobile showrooms. "The Collector has permitted shops that do not have AC and are not in the negative list to be opened," said V. Lakshminarayanaswamy, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore. Meanwhile, micro, small and medium-scale industries (MSMEs) in many parts within Coimbatore Corporation limits operated their facilities on Wednesday though all the industrial associations had asked the members in the Corporation limits not to operate and the district administration had said that MSMEs in the corporation limit should not operate. At Avarampalayam, employee at an unit said there was no problem in the workers commuting to the workshop as they all lived nearby. A metal dealer said he had opened the shop only on Wednesday and industries have started operating. "We need to wait and see how the demand will be," he said. "When Tasmac outlets will be open from Thursday, why stop micro units in the Corporation limits. We are asked to make all the mandatory payments. Where will we go for money? Essential product manufacturers and their job workers have been given permission. While most of the members of the associations are not operating, others do. Those who comply with the government orders are at the risk of losing orders. The micro unit owners are agitated and feel helpless," said another micro unit owner. Micro and tiny unit associations appealed to the district administration to permit the units in the corporation limits to function. Across Coimbatore district, in many places social distancing was given a go-by though many were seen wearing masks. More than 50% large-scale industries started functioning in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. There is no clear data on how many MSMEs in the rural areas of the district started functioning. In Tiruppur district, nearly 1000 factories started functioning on Wednesday with 20% to 25% workforce.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac outlet decorated for reopening ordered closed||A Tasmac outlet, near Perur, which was spotted with traditional decorations to celebrate its reopening was ordered to shut down by revenue officials on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday. According to sources in the Revenue Department, Perur Tahsildar K. Radhakrishnan was in his morning rounds on Wednesday when he spotted the outlet no. 1773 sporting banana trees and thoranam (string of mango leaves) at its entrance. The decorations were purportedly made to ‘celebrate’ the reopening of the outlet after a gap of over 40 days due to the lockdown. Upon seeing the decorations, Mr. Radhakrishnan immediately ordered the village administrative officers of Thondamuthur and Kalikkanaicken Palayam to remove the decorations and to not allow the outlet to open on Thursday. The VAOs and revenue inspectors inspected the outlet in the afternoon, sources added. Meanwhile, images of the decorations went viral on social media platforms. Although all Tasmac outlets were asked to clean and disinfect their premises as they remained closed for over 40 days, these kinds of celebratory decorations cannot be allowed, sources said. Disciplinary action will be initiated against the salesperson of the outlet, sources said.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Non-COVID-19 emergencies in pandemic times||Amongst the chaos of the COVID-19 pandemic across the world and in our city, as emergency physicians we find that people are delaying their visits to the hospital, thereby resulting in an increase in complications and jeopardizing their own lives. During the lockdown, emergencies that led to serious complications could have been avoided if medical aid had been obtained on time. One such case was a burns patient brought to the hospital after one week of self-medicating on a second degree burn, with a huge infected blister over the right palm and wrist. If the patient had availed early treatment, he could have easily avoided the complications. People with chronic conditions such as hypertension and diabetes might need immediate care and attention if symptoms persist or heightened discomfort was experienced. A hypertensive and diabetic patient, suffering from abdominal pain, constipation, and vomiting, was brought to the hospital after one week of self-medicating, that had led to complications in her small intestine leading to an obstructed hernia and disrupted kidney functions, which required emergency surgical intervention and treatment. The patient had to be hospitalised and was discharged after 5 days, once she her kidney functions normalised. The elderly are prone to infection and existing chronic conditions can cause life-threatening complications if not treated immediately. It is highly advisable for adults to not avoid any delay in availing treatment for even minor symptoms. To cite an instance, a 70-year-old male, diabetic and hypertensive patient, was brought to our ER with multiple episodes of seizures for two days and in an unresponsive state with persistent seizures. Extended treatment He was found to have increased pressure within the brain cavity, which caused the fits. He had to be in the ICU for a couple of days and receive extended treatment for over a week to reach normalcy. The list of medical and surgical emergencies is endless, these time-critical emergencies if not treated on time could be life threatening. For instance: Acute heart attacks are best treated with good reversibility of cardiac function if treated on time and the golden hour being one hour from onset of pain. Delay in treatment can cause complications like irreversible muscle damage leading to pumping failure, fatal abnormalities in electrical conduction of the heart, leading to very low or very high pulse rate, which can lead to sudden death if not treated on time. Acute onset strokes are best treated within 4.5 to 6 hours of onset of symptoms, but delay in presentation to hospital beyond this can lead to severe morbidity, disability and mortality. Patients with trauma at home secondary to accidental falls or RTAs — whether limb fracture or head injuries, they should be addressed on time to prevent complications. Any patient on dialysis needs timely intervention to ensure life-threatening complications are avoided. Never forget that complications of high and low blood sugar need to be addressed in time, else that could lead to various complications ending up with multi-organ dysfunction. My only request to all would be — please don’t ignore your symptoms. Act smart, act fast. Let the fear of COVID-19 not stop people from treating what can be prevented.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records another spike of 771 cases||There were 34 cases in Tiruvallur, 20 in Madurai, 17 in Tiruvannamalai, nine each in Chengalpattu and Dindigul, six in Vellore, five in Villupuram, three in Perambalur, two each in Krishnagiri, Pudukottai Theni and Thoothukudi, and one each in Karur, Salem Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Tirupattur, Tiruvarur, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi. With the new cases, four districts — Ariyalur, Dindigul, Madurai, Tiruvallur — crossed the 100-mark on Wednesday. Of the 324 new patients in Chennai, nearly 100 were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. Patients admitted Thirty-five patients were admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, while 87 persons were admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. There were 48 admissions to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital till late Wednesday. The hospital shifted 51 patients to quarantine facilities. Another 41 children — aged between 0 and 12 years — tested positive. As on date, a total of 254 children aged between 0 and 12 years, 4,208 persons aged between 13 and 60 years and 367 persons aged above 60 years tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Till date, a total of 1,88,241 samples were tested in the State. With 13,281 individuals tested on Wednesday, the total number of individuals tested till now stands at 1,78,472. 31 discharged Another 31 persons were discharged from hospitals. So far, a total of 1,516 persons have been discharged in the State. A total of 3,381 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are admitted to isolation wards. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross notified to other states and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hike in excise duty on petrol, diesel flayed||The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has condemned the Centre and the State governments for increasing excise duty on petrol and diesel and road infrastructure cess. The Chamber has urged the governments to bring down fuel prices with immediate effect and bring all petroleum products within the ambit of GST, like other products. According to a statement, the Chamber said the move was shocking as international crude oil prices had witnessed an unprecedented steep fall. The COVID-19 pandemic had already affected various sectors. In the view of steep fall in crude oil price from 70 Dollar per barrel to 30 Dollar per barrel, it was expected that domestic petrol and diesel prices would be cut down by at least Rs. 20 per litre . However, there is an increase in the excise dutyated. The Central Board Indirect Taxes and Customs had all of a sudden levied special additional excise duty of Rs. 2 per litre on petrol and road infrastructure tax of Rs. 8 per litre on petrol and Rs. 5 per litre special additional excise duty and Rs. 8 per litre road infrastructure tax on diesel. This was the second time that the Central Government had opted for an increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel since last March. VAT on petrol and diesel was increased by Rs. 3.25 per litre on petrol and Rs. 2.50 per litre on diesel recently. The increase in prices of petroleum products at this juncture would result in an increase in prices of all essential goods and compound the problems of people. Therefore, the Central and State governments should immediately withdraw the rise in excise duty and road infrastructure cess.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bus body builders too face uncertain future||Many of 60-odd bus body building units, which reopened on Wednesday, too faced an uncertain future. Karur is the hub of bus body building industry in Tamil Nadu, churning out about 200 to 300 fully built buses (over chassis brought in by bus operators and companies) on an average every month. While a dozen odd units that execute orders for the government are on relatively firm ground, the rest are faced with bleak prospects. The industry provides direct employment to about 5,000 workers and indirect employment to another 15,000. Even if many did not have orders at hand, they had to open to carry out cleaning and maintenance work on machines and equipment. “Some of us may complete a few pending works, which were halted when the lockdown came into force. As of now the future seems very uncertain. We may not have workload for even 50% of our workforce. However, we have resumed work adopting all safety norms” said M.Balaji, secretary, Association of Tamil Nadu Coach Builders, Karur. Bus body builders are worried that the personal distancing norms that would have to be adopted in buses (as and when public transport is resumed) and the recent diesel price hike may adversely affect their prospects. “The industry was reeling due to the need to comply with BS VI emission norms and the talk of introduction of electric buses. Not many were purchasing new vehicles. The pandemic has come on top of it. We do not know what is in store for us. Only those executing government orders are doing well,” said Mr.Palanisamy, president of the association. The industry hopes that the Union government would come up with a good package for MSMEs. “Though a moratorium on loan repayment has been offered, we still need to pay interest. We need waivers. Besides, working capital credit limits should be enhanced without any additional collateral requirement,” said Mr.Balaji.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Veda Nilayam’ set to become Jaya memorial||It is to convert the land and buildings of the former Chief Minister into a government memorial. The plan of the land under acquisition can be perused by interested persons at the office of Revenue Divisional Officer, South Chennai, Guindy. More importantly, the declaration, which describes the house as ‘Veda Illam’, makes it clear that the authorities, after holding a public hearing and an enquiry, concluded that the proposed memorial project "does not involve" any displacement or relocation of families. “There are no Project Affected Families (PAFs) and hence, no question of relocation, resettlement and rehabilitation," the declaration states, adding that no idea has been identified as a “resettlement area. Purchased by Jayalalithaa and her mother, Sandhya, also an actor, in July 1967 at a cost of Rs. 1.32 lakh, the former Chief Minister’s residence, measuring around 24,000 sq. ft, was valued at Rs. 43.97 crore as assessed in 2016, months before Jayalalithaa died. Pointing out that the steps have been initiated for getting the declaration notified in the gazette of the State government, an official at the Chennai Collectorate says that the process for awarding the compensation would begin shortly. The award will be made after getting government nod. Even though legal heirs have not yet been ascertained, there is no legal bar to completing the land acquisition process. The heirs, as and when ascertained, can collect the compensation from the authorities, the official clarifies, adding that the authorities will apprise the High Court of the developments. A senior government official said it will take “at least three months” to acquire the property. If Veda Nilayam is converted into a memorial, it will be the second memorial in Chennai for a former Chief Minister, the other being the Kamaraj memorial house on Tirumalai Pillai Road in T. Nagar.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||329 arrested for violation||The Coimbatore rural police registered 310 cases and arrested 329 persons who violated prohibitory order on Tuesday, a release said. The police seized 240 vehicles from them. The police slapped fine to the tune of Rs. 1.67 lakh on violators.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||32-year-old man held for murdering wife||A 32-year-old man murdered his wife on Wednesday as he suspected her of having illicit affair. Police said Sorimuthu of Kurichikulam fell in love with Ramlath, 30, when he worked as construction labourer in Kerala. He married her and settled down at Kurichikulam. As he did not have adequate income, he returned to Kerala again, leaving Ramlath and his two sons behind. Ramlath allegedly developed extramarital relations with a youth in the village and Sorimuthu, who returned home after the lockdown, censured her. When she was still in touch with the youth over phone, he became agitated. Against this backdrop, Ramlath was found murdered in her home on Wednesday morning. Even as Thaazhaiyoothtthu DSP Ponnarasu was inspecting the scene of crime, Sorimuthu surrendered before police. Further investigation was on.
07 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Doctors cautioned||Following the declaration of Belagavi as an Orange zone district, the district administration has cautioned private clinics of strict action if they did not treat patients. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli has asked all private clinics and hospitals to remain open and treat patients. If this instruction is not followed, the government will be forced to initiate legal action against the doctors, including suspension of their licence, he told The Hindu . However, these doctors and hospitals will be asked to treat only non-COVID-19 patients and refer COVID-19 patients to the district designated hospital. All doctors should wear protective gear in their hospitals and screen all patients. If they find anyone with symptoms of the coronavirus infection, they should refer them to the district designated hospital.
07 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Constable found dead||Police Constable Prakash Gurayyanavar (35), who was posted as a security guard at the Deputy Commissioner’ s residence here, was found dead on Wednesday. The night duty guard was one of the four constables posted there. He had apparently shot himself using his service self-loading rifle. There was a gun shot wound near his neck. The incident must have occurred during the night. The guard who came to relieve him found him dead, a police officer said. The constable is survived by a wife and two young children. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)
07 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLE Society hands over cheque for relief fund||KLE Society and other organisations have contributed Rs. 2 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Rajya Sabha Member and KLE Chairman Prabhakar Kore handed over a cheque to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for the amount in Bengaluru on Wednesday. The amount includes contributions from Prabhakar Kore Credit Souhard Cooperative Ltd. (Rs. 11 lakh), Chidanand Basaprabhu Kore Cooperative Sugar Factory (Rs. 5 lakh), Shivashakti Sugars Ltd., Soudatti, (Rs. 5 lakh), Rani Chennamma Mahila Sahakari Bank Niyamit (Rs. 5 lakh), among others.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Confusion prevails as two ‘positive’ cases test negative after retest||State health officials were in for a shock on Wednesday when they realised that two people — a policeman and a pregnant woman — who had “tested positive” earlier tested negative after a retest. It appears that there was confusion in the swab collection and sample testing of two policemen attached to the Begur police station and the 30-year-old pregnant woman from Bengaluru Urban. Both the pregnant woman and the policeman were discharged from the COVID ward late on Wednesday night. “However, they will have to be isolated and observed for 14 days as after spending two days at the COVID ward, they are under high risk now,” sources said. The pregnant woman and one of the two policemen tested positive on Monday and had been admitted to Victoria Hospital’s COVID ward. However, it has now come to light that these two persons are negative. Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer G. Srinivas told The Hindu that the samples had been retested at VRDL lab in BMCRI and IISc. lab and found to be negative. “We will again do a retest at NIV lab on Thursday,” he said. Sources said while the pregnant woman’s sample had been tested in a private lab (Lal Path Lab), two swab samples of two different policemen were collected at Jayanagar General Hospital on May 2 and 4 and had been sent to NIMHANS for testing. V. Ravi, head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, said his lab had received two samples with the same name, same sample ID, same age and same address but with different mobile numbers. “We have only tested what was sent to us. One sample that was sent on May 2 tested negative and the other sent on May 4 tested positive,” he said. Kiran Kumar, medical superintendent of Jayanagar General Hospital, said he was not aware of two samples being collected at his hospital. “We are only a collection centre and send samples to the lab. We collected one sample as far as I know,” he said. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), denied it was a goof-up. “When the samples were collected, two persons filled the ICMR Specimen Referral Form with the same name and age but with different mobile numbers. But when the police station sent the list of people tested, there were two different names and different mobile numbers. The samples have been sent for retest,” he said adding that he was not aware about the test reports of the pregnant woman. Meanwhile, the family of the pregnant woman is aghast over the goof-up. “While we are happy that she is negative, we demand an enquiry into this by the government. She was due for delivery on Friday and we were going through hell,” her husband told The Hindu . Following her admission in Victoria, health officials had also asked a private maternity hospital in J.P. Nagar to close down as she had visited there for check-up. “All our family members were tested and are negative. We demanded a retest as she had never gone out or interacted with anyone. Thankfully, she is negative. There should be a comprehensive probe into this,” he said. In a statement, the Health and Family Welfare Department has said that in the list of police personnel provided to Jayanagar General Hospital, there were two with same mobile numbers. The two forms filled at Jayanagar General Hospital gives the same name with different mobile numbers. “The samples of both persons were taken. Once P-650 was shifted to a COVID-designated hospital, other person was facility isolated,” the statement said. “The negative report of one person was received on May 5. The confusion was created due to entry of the same name twice. Hence, the repeat samples of both the persons have been taken and sent for confirmatory testing. Remedial action will been initiated once the final confirmatory reports are received from the labs,” said the statement. Disciplinary action will be initiated against the rned officials responsible for the confusion.”
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. urged to allow other licence holders to sell liquor||On the heels of liquor sale being allowed through wine stores and State-run MSIL outlets, the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, has asked the State government to allow the sale of liquor by other licence holders too. They also said that the decision to increase Excise duty would harm business. “Impose restrictions and allow all categories of licence holders to sell liquor. This will enable them to recover some losses,” the federation said in a memorandum, adding that huge stocks of beer are lying behind sealed doors, especially in bars, that will expire soon. “We may have to destroy beer worth crores if these licence holders are not allowed to sell them,” the federation said. On Monday, about 4,500 wine stores opened after being closed for over 40 days and they reported brisk business. The sales stood at Rs. 231.6 crore on Wednesday, while it was close to Rs. 250 crore the previous two days. There are nearly 4,000 licenced bars and several hundred clubs that have remained shut owing to a lack of permission. In all, there are about 11,000 liquor licences in various categories in the State. “A bar and restaurant owner’s investment is very high. While his licence fee is costlier, he would have hired more manpower to run the business. With the lockdown, the business has come to a halt and he has to meet his overheard costs,” a federation office-bearer said.   Inventory checking Meanwhile as wine stores opened on Monday, an earlier order of the Excise Commissioner to take stock of the inventory, which was issued in the light of allegations of bootlegging and theft in liquor outlets, has been modified, allegedly under pressure. Though the special report was to have been submitted on Tuesday, the modified order also came on Tuesday. It stated that the stock checking will have to be undertaken only in those outlets against whom there are complaints as against all outlets earlier mentioned. Sources said that normally when the liquor outlets are closed, the officials should have checked the available stock. “Also, since outlets were closed abruptly, owners did not have time for stock checking. This was leading to officials demanding hefty bribes. We have also asked for a probe against officials,” said a source.    Liquor procured by shops on by Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Limited for May 6  IML -- 39 lakh litres Beer -- 7 lakh litres  The cost of liquor  IML -- Rs. 216 crore Beer -- Rs. 15.6 crore
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parents worried as schools flout directions and raise fees||Many schools in Bengaluru affiliated to Central boards have raised fees for the 2020-21 academic year despite the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) stating that they should not do so in light of the financial toll of the COVID-19 pandemic on families. Parents allege that they are under pressure to pay the fees with managements sending them constant reminders. The hikes range from anywhere between 15 and 30%, and some schools are offering incentives, telling parents that they can claim a refund of 5-10% if they pay the fees in one instalment. A parent said that fees have been hiked by 26% for Class eight, and 30% for class six, respectively. “In total, the hike is Rs. 60,000 for my son and daughter. My husband is a college lecturer, and there has been no increase in his salary. We just cannot afford such high fees,” she said, adding that she has been offered a 5% discount if she makes the payment in full. Another parent whose son studies in class nine in a south Bengaluru school said that the management has hiked fees by 17%. “I work in a private company. Our salaries have been cut by 50%. I will have to take a loan to pay the fees by the end of the month,” he said. Many parents have written to the management seeking an explanation for the fee hike, which is in violation of the government’s direction, but are yet to get a response. A parent pointed out that as the department had said that schools could not force parents to pay the fees, the management has not specified a deadline for payment. “However, they said that they will not provide textbooks or allow students to attend online classes if we don’t pay up,” he added.  Helpline to be launched K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that parents can file a complaint with the jurisdictional Block Education Officer (BEO). “The department will launch a helpdesk for parents. They can call or send an email to the helpdesk. We will ensure that the school rolls back the fee hike,” he said. Department officials admitted that they are aware of schools flouting their directions. “The Karnataka Education Act allows schools to hike fees by 15% each year, but that hike too is not allowed this year. However, some schools seem to have increased fees by over 15%,” said an official.  D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that their member schools had stated that they would not hike the fees during the lockdown. “But after the lockdown is over, we will have to assess the situation and take a call. The department could issue notices to schools if they were hiking fees during the lockdown.”
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deaths per crore population increasing in State||The deaths per crore population in Karnataka due to COVID-19 has doubled in the last 20 days. The deaths per crore population as of Wednesday stands at 4.7. On 16 April, it stood at 2. So far in Karnataka, there are 29 deaths due to COVID-19 and another death has been attributed to non COVID-19 related causes. S. Sachidanand, Vice-Chancellor of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), who heads the committee that has conducted an audit of the COVID-19 deaths in the State, said that mortality rate among patients who are aged above 60 was higher compared to the rest of the population. He said that the same pattern was reported in the rest of the world as well. Doctors and medical experts point out that it was a matter of concern if patients who have influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) catch the infection, which were not being detected early. Slew of measures Dr. Sachidanand, however, said that the State government had initiated a slew of measures to test and ensure early detection of COVID-19 among those having SARI and ILI. He said that the case history of the 17 deaths analysed by the committee showed that majority of them did not have fever initially. Another senior official of the Department of Health and Family Welfare pointed out that all the patients who passed away, besides testing positive for COVID-19, also had other comorbidities. “As symptoms show up several days after the person has caught the infection, it remains a challenge. We want to detect cases early so that we can provide the necessary medical intervention. If the patients are admitted late, it becomes difficult to save lives. We have ordered a survey of the SARI and ILI cases across the State so that our monitoring mechanism becomes more robust,” the official said. The State, which was in 10th position in the deaths per crore population category, has now slipped to the 12th position. The number of deaths in other States too are on the rise over the last fortnight. As of Wednesday, the highest number of deaths per crore population was 60.9, which was reported in Gujarat. Among the southern States, Karnataka fares better than Telangana and Andhra Pradesh but Tamil Nadu and Kerala have fared better than Karnataka.  As of May 6 Telangana - 8.3 Andhra Pradesh - 7.3 Karnataka - 4.7 Tamil Nadu - 4.6 Kerala - 1.2
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Oppn. pressure pushed govt. to announce package||The principal Opposition Congress in the State seems to have played a role in pushing the BJP government to announce a Rs. 1,610-crore relief package. KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar has been questioning the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government since the announcement of lockdown for its “poor response” to difficulties faced by the unorganised sector workers. After holding a series of meetings with party’s senior leaders, the Congress petitioned the government demanding announcement of monetary relief of Rs. 10,000 each to unorganised workers and small and medium industries who are in distress owing to COVID-19 induced lockdown. Though the BJP government announced some relief measures to farmers and construction workers during the passage of the State budget in March, the Congress said the relief was like “peanuts” when compared to financial difficulties faced by daily wage workers during the lockdown. The Congress kept up sustained pressure on the government to announce relief measures. A few Congress legislators even visited villages around Bengaluru to buy produce from farmers and distributed it among the poor. This forced the government to not only constitute ministerial teams but also directed Deputy Commissioners to make arrangements to procure perishable commodities in rural areas and sell them in urban centres. Even KSRTC buses were pressed into service to fetch essential items. Pressure from Congress also had a role in the government’s decision to operate free KSRTC buses for migrant workers travelling back to their homes in North Karnataka districts. The government had initially fixed hefty ticket prices. The party offered to pay Rs. 1 crore towards bus fares of migrant workers. It is apparently with the support of Congress that liquor shops were opened in non COVID-19 containment zones, which would help the government tide over the financial crisis to some extent. Again, it was the Congress’s suggestion that the BJP stop releasing funds for implementing projects that are economically unviable.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress seeks special legislature session||The Opposition Congress has urged the State government to convene a special session of the legislature. In a tweet, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar said: “I urge the @CMofKarnataka to convene a special session of the Assembly to rework the budget and to discuss ways to revive the economy.” He said his party legislators were willing to forego travelling allowance and dearness allowance to attend the session. Karnataka passed the 2020-21 State budget in March last, before the impact of COVID-19 on the State economy. The 40-day lockdown and partial relaxation has severely impacted the State’s revenue sources and rendered lakhs of people jobless. The Congress leader, speaking to reporters, said: “We also need to discuss the plight of farmers and the millions who have suffered in the unorganised sectors.” Mr. Shivakumar said many community-based professionals, farmers and daily wage earners need attention and immediate financial assistance and demanded the government to convene the legislature session to discuss a range of issues that have adversely impacted the economy. Ashok responds Revenue Minister R. Ashok, however, declined the demand by Mr. Shivakumar by pointing out that such a measure amid COVID-19 would require permission from the Centre. Speaking to reporters here, he said the State governments were functioning as per guidelines of the Centre with respect to COVID-19. “We are not functioning as per the diktat of Mr. Shivakumar. His own party members do not obey his instructions,” he said. Answering a query, he said the State government was not preventing any migrant worker from returning to their native place.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It’s a waiting game for those who left State before lockdown||Shankar (name changed on request) and his family had travelled to Chennai to visit his parents mid-March as his daughter’s exams were over. But before he could return to Bengaluru, the lockdown was announced. Almost two months down the line, the banking services professional, armed with a transit permit from Tamil Nadu, is awaiting clearance from Karnataka to be able to come back. His office has resumed work post the relaxation. “I am stuck. I am having to explain to my office management why I am unable to return to work even though there are relaxations now and I can drive down to Bengaluru,” he said. There are many like him who had ventured out to their hometowns and have been stuck there since. For those in the neighbouring States, it is a case of so-near-yet-so-far. “I thankfully still have work from home till the end of June. It would have otherwise been difficult,” said Ranjini K., an IT firm employee who also travelled to her hometown in Tamil Nadu. Employees, who had travelled out of the State before the lockdown was announced, are still stuck where they are, as they allege that though they have been issued passes from the other State governments, they are unable to get clearance from the Karnataka government. Twitter too has many desperate pleas. Arvind (@Arvind42960633) wrote, “I applied on May 2nd in SevaSindhu. It’s more than 40 days (since I) am in Coimbatore. Please sir, (I) am running behind this for 5 days. Will go in own vehicle”. Basavaraju K.P. (@BasavaKp) also wrote that he is stuck in Hyderabad: “I have applied epass to come to my native Mandya in Seva Sindhu app. Still I we have not received any update”. Srinivas (@srinikollapudi9) also appealed to the Karnataka government that he is stuck in Hyderabad due to the lockdown. “I have got the epass from Telangana police. Can I travel or should I wait for Karnataka police’s approval?” However, the office of one of the nodal officers said it was necessary to get the approval of the Karnataka government. “They will have to apply on Seva Sindhu. They will be processed. There may be a delay because there is a huge number of applications foe e-passes,” said an official.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Examine lacunae in food distribution via anganwadis, FPS found in surveys: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to examine lacunae in distribution of ration to children, pregnant woman and lactating mothers through anganwadis, and ration distribution through fair-price shops (FPS) during the lockdown, as pointed out in the reports of two random surveys conducted during April. The reports highlighted the issues of not opening some FPS, non-availability of sufficient ration at FPS, shortage of ration supplied to pregnant women, lactating mothers, and nutrition food for children, among others. The People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) had carried out a survey as the HC had asked it to take feedback on the government’s claims on ensuring supply of ration at the grassroot level during the lockdown. The Centre for Child and Law (CCL) of the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, had conducted an independent rapid assessment of impact of lockdown on food and nutrition security in rural Karnataka by interviewing 152 persons from five districts over telephone. A special Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, which went through the survey reports, specifically directed the government to respond on the issue of closure of ration shops in some areas as indicated in the report of PUCL. Counsel for PUCL, Clifton D’Rozario, pointed out to the Bench that though a food delivery service is in place, there is a wide disparity in the quantity of ration being provided to the beneficiaries. Senior Counsel Jayna Kothari, appearing for CCL, pointed out from the report that the tollfree number is not functional and the entire system of monitoring and grievance redressal under the National Food Security (NFS) Act, 2013, has collapsed at a time when its need is paramount. Noting these aspects, the Bench directed the government to state whether the monitoring and grievance redressal under NFS Act has stopped functioning and whether the State Food Commission is not functioning proactively to monitor service delivery under the NFS Act as pointed out in the report of the CCL. The Bench also directed the government to look into the recommendations made in the CCL report under three broad categories — the immediate relief through schemes and services, the health and social security, and the long-term measures for sustainable food and nutrition security. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the government to specify in what manner, the district administration acts after receiving the details of the calls received on the hunger helpline, which is mainly Bengaluru city-centric. The government has also been directed to submit the district-wise data of the calls received by hunger helpline and the action taken by the district administrations on the basis of the calls transferred to them from the helpline.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Contractors of stalled projects struggle with labour problems||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has restarted several infrastructure works. While this spells good news for citizens who hope that these pending works will be completed in time, the BBMP’s direction has contractors worried, as they are grappling with labour issues. Over the last few days, thousands of migrant workers have left the city, while those that have been forced to stay back due to the cancellation of trains, are trying to leave. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar stated that approved works and those that had stopped due to lockdown in the projects, road infrastructure, lakes and stormwater drains departments have been taken up. “Instructions have been issued to the engineers concerned to ensure that the deadlines are adhered to,” he said and added that the onus of ensuring that the labour force was adequate is the responsibility of the contractors. A contractor who spoke to The Hindu , said that only 10% of his labour force remains in Bengaluru. “Those that are here want to go to their home towns,” he said. He is trying to contact those who had left the city asking them to return in a month. Another contractor claimed to have managed to convince labourers to stay back. “Most of the migrant workers with us have been involved in infrastructure projects over the past couple of years,” he said. BBMP chief engineer (projects) N. Ramesh and chief engineer (stormwater drains) Prahallad B.N. admitted to labour issues. Mr. Ramesh said that the executive engineers had been directed to take up spot inspection and submit a report on the progress of work and whether the deadlines will be met. Mr. Prahallad said that the contractors were compensating the reduction in labour by using more machines. “There has been a shift from labourers to the use of machines to execute works,” he claimed.  Only 10% of my labour force remains in Bengaluru. A contractor
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chandni Chowk in Shivajinagar sealed||Three days after the housekeeping staff of Regent Place in Shivajinagar tested positive for COVID-19, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) sealed Chandni Chowk, where he resided. According to a senior health official of the BBMP, the 13 primary contacts and 61 secondary contacts of the patient have been shifted to quarantine centres. The swab test for the 13 primary contacts was conducted on Wednesday while all the contacts were being closely monitored. The results of the swab tests are expected on Thursday, the official said. Chandni Chowk, which has been sealed, is a mainly commercial area with just a few houses. “There are around 100 residents in the area, who have all been home quarantined,” the official added. Meanwhile, the number of wards with containment zones has increased to 24. On May 4, according to the BBMP war room report, there were 21 wards with containment zones. Reports of May 5 and 6 show that three additional wards – Begur (192) in Bommanahalli zone, Shivajinagar (92) in East zone, and BTM Layout (176) in South zone – now have containment zones. BBMP’s Special Commissioner Lokesh M. told The Hindu that soon after a COVID-19 case is reported, the place of residence is identified and a 100-metre radius around the same is sealed. This area is termed as a containment zone. “This is done to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread to others and remains contained in the area,” he said.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||20 people test positive||Twenty new cases have been detected on Wednesday morning taking the total number of positive cases to 693. Among the new cases, 13 are from Badami in Bagalkot alone. Except in one patient who reported with Influenza Like Illness (ILI), the infection has spread to 12 others from Patient Number 607 in Badami, according to the departmen’s bulletin. While three have been reported from Dakshina Kannada, two are from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Kalaburagi and Vijayapura. In Bengaluru Urban, two cases — a 40-year-old woman and a 25-year-old man, who were contacts of Patient 654 (a 45-year-old man with ILI) — have been reported. G. Srinivas, Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer, revealed that the 25-year-old man was working as a delivery boy in an e-commerce company. However, he was at home for the past two months without work. His father is also a contact of a patient who tested positive last week. Hospital sealed Meanwhile, Mangala Hospital in Yeshwantpur was sealed after a woman under treatment for dengue tested positive. “She was tested for COVID-19 to rule out other infections and tested positive. She has now been shifted to a designated hospital. Now, the hospital is closed down for 15 days and staff will be quarantined,” the DHO added.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Politicians, unions condemn govt. decision||The decision to cancel trains for migrants to return to their home towns has drawn much ire from the political Opposition, activists, and labour outifts. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah termed the decision by Chief Minister B.S Yediyurappa “inhuman and a violation of fundamental rights”. “His argument that construction will not happen if migrants return exposes his mindset. The decision to go back or stay should be with labourers and not government. Are we still practising bonded labour?” he asked in a series of tweets on Wednesday. A coalition of over 500 organisations, workers unions and activists have written an open letter to Mr. Yediyurappa, demanding the order be rescinded. They also questioned the motive claiming that it was made hours after the Chief Minister’s meeting with leading builders of the city. “This move of cancellation of trains violates the right to movement under Article 19(1)(d). By infringing on the basic freedom to make fundamental choices about their lives, it violates the right to dignity under Article 21. By cancelling trains and ensuring workers continue to labour in Karnataka, it violates the constitutional prohibition on forced labour under Article 23,” the letter said. Meanwhile, a tweet by BJP MP Tejasvi Surya drew much ire on social media. “Stoppage of interstate trains by the CM is a bold and necessary move. It will help labourers restart their dreams. It will also kickstart economic activities full throttle. Karnataka will emerge out of this stronger.”
07 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||It is inevitable to allow economic activities: CM||Strongly defending the partial easing of lockdown norms to facilitate several economic activities, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday maintained that the move was inevitable as the State’s economic development also needed to be focused upon alongside fighting COVID-19. “I want to make it very clear that fighting COVID-19 and relaxing lockdown norms to facilitate economic development are completely different aspects. It is only the lockdown that has been relaxed, but COVID-19 is yet to be eradicated. But it is inevitable for us to allow these relaxations to ensure that life goes on and to improve economic condition,” he said. Fighting COVID-19 on the one hand and allowing economic activities for the State’s progress on the other is an inevitable thing, Mr. Yediyurappa said, and asked people to take precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing whenever they venture out.
07 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Meeting favours 2013 land acquisition Act for UKP||A high-level meeting of the State government on Upper Krishna Project held on Wednesday favoured acquisition of land for the project under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Final call However, the meeting that was attended by Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, among others, decided to take a final call only after holding a meeting of all the authorities concerned under the chairmanship of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Mr. Jarkiholi told reporters after the high-level meeting that it had also been decided to expedite the process of land acquisition for the Upper Krishna Project.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online yoga, sports classes||Undergraduate courses at government and aided degree colleges will now have yoga and sports classes online. The Department of Collegiate Education, which has asked all teaching and non teaching staff to report for work from May 5, has instructed all physical education co-ordinators to start providing content on sports and yoga for the online classes. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the department has allocated the work schedule for all teachers. Besides physical education teachers, other subject teachers have been asked to start preparation of admissions for 2020-21 academic year, uploading video-audio content of pending syllabus on college websites, prepare question banks, create awareness and boost students morale by contacting them on social media.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||49% dip in perishable cargo: KIA||Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) saw 49% dip in the movement of perishable cargo in April. In a release, the Bangalore International Airport Authority said 1,425 metric tonnes (MT) of perishable cargo was processed last month compared to 2,770 MT in April 2019. “Ten airlines, including two Indian carriers, transported perishables to 28 international destinations,” it said.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Some start walking to U.P.||Small groups of migrants have begun an arduous journey back to their homes in Uttar Pradesh on foot. Byatarayanapura MLA Krishna Byre Gowda spotted some of them near Devanahalli on Wednesday afternoon and posted a video of his interaction with them on Twitter. One of the labourers making the journey said that they decided to make the journey on foot as they had neither food nor work in the city, and that trains were cancelled. “This is inhuman. They are so disturbed as to walk home. Some may die,” said Mr. Krishna Byre Gowda in a tweet.
07 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Entries invited||Kannada Book Authority has invited entries from writers and publishers of books published from January to December 2019 for Kannada Pustaka Sogasu-2019 award. For details, call 080-22484516 or 080-22107704.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Hike stipend’||The Directorate of Medical Education on Tuesday requested Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar to increase the stipend amount for postgraduate medical students in government colleges. This comes after several proposals were submitted to the government in the recent past. A senior official said at present, the PG students were receiving a stipend of Rs. 35,000, Rs. 40,000, and Rs. 45,000 per month in their first, second, and third years.
07 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ravi suggests setting up 24x7 helpline for NRIs||Listing measures to provide relief to those from the State who are staying abroad, Kannada and Culture Minister C.T. Ravi has suggested setting up a 24x7 helpline on the lines of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. In a press release here, the Minister listed these measures to be initiated, based on feedback from his interaction on May 2 with Indians staying abroad. As many as 55 persons from 34 countries had participated in it, he said. He suggested that the countries should be convinced to extend the visa of Indian students till the completion of their academic year. Embassies in Europe and Africa, where the number of Kannadigas is less, should be requested to facilitate registration of those people, he said.
07 May 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free mask distribution||Health Minister B. Sriramulu inaugurated a programme to distribute N-95 Mask for doctors, nurses and staff across the State. This is part of the CSR initiative of Vijetha Enterprises in Bengaluru, while the masks have been provided by Venus Safety and Health Pvt. Ltd. of Mumbai.
07 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Postal rule||The Department of Posts has given one-time relaxation and permitted posting of mails franked prior to the lockdown and also during the extended lockdown period till May 9.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC operates 265 buses||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said KSRTC employees will be paid April salary in the next three to four days. KSRTC operated 265 buses on Wednesday ferrying around 8,000 passengers, mostly labourers.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No power disconnection till June 30||Power connections will not be disabled till June 30 for consumers who have not paid their electricity bills. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced that the relief would apply to power consumers of all categories. In addition, certain incentives would be provided to those paying their bills on time and also in advance. There will also be reduction in the interest amount for delayed payment. Opportunity will be provided for payment of balance bill amount in instalments.
07 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister urged to include hamalis under relief package||Welcoming the Chief Minister’s Rs. 1,610-crore relief package for workers in the unorganised sector, Karnataka State Headload Workers Federation has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to include them also under the package. In a press release issued here on Wednesday, State general secretary of the federation Mahesh Pattar has said that in the wake of further extension of lockdown to fight the pandemic, crores of workers in the unorganised sector have been left in the lurch as they have their lost their sources of livelihood. Terming the Chief Minister’s package as a welcome move, he, however, pointed out that the package had left out several sections of unorganised sector, including headload workers (hamalis), tailors, mechanics, domestic maids, beedi workers and roadside vendors. Mr. Pattar has said that among the workers of the unorganised sector, the life of the hamalis was full of hardships and their work required more physical strength. “They play an important role in commodity trade but are still backward economically and socially. Barring those working at APMC yards and government warehouses, the others are struggling to make ends meet,” he has said. As there was no work for them, nearly four to five lakh hamalis were struggling in the State. The Chief Minister should immediately take steps to include these workers under the relief package, Mr. Pattar has urged.
07 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Delay in setting up virology laboratory in Davangere||Though the Davangere district administration is busy fighting against a sudden rise in the number of coronavirus positive cases, by taking all precautionary measures to check the spread of the disease, the setting up of a virology laboratory is likely to be delayed due to a change in plan. Initially the plan was to have the virology laboratory to cater to the needs of the districts of Davangere, Haveri and Ballari and the Union government had sent a proposal for the same. Now, considering the sudden increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, there has been a change in plan and now the State government wants to set up a virology laboratory for Davangere district itself under the SDRF (State Disaster Relief Fund) grants. Davangere has so far registered a total of 44 cases. Of them, 39 are undergoing treatment at the designated hospital, three have died and two have been discharged from the hospital after treatment. Confirming the development, Davangere district-in-charge Minister B.A. Basavaraj said in Davangere on Tuesday that now the Centre had been be convinced of the government’s plan to set up the laboratory under SDRF grants and the necessary process has been started. He said that Rs. 74-lakh proposal for setting up the laboratory had been prepared and sent for approval from the commissioner of the department concerned. Meanwhile, steps are being taken to set up the laboratory in anticipation of the required approval from the competent authorities, he said. The Minister also said that steps were being taken to establish the laboratory at the district hospital at the earliest and it would be a permanent facility. Meanwhile, SS Hitech Hospital, a private hospital in Davangere, is likely to start conducting COVID-19 tests in another three days. The Minister said that the hospital was expected to get approval from the competent authorities in a day or two and thereafter, the laboratory would start conducting tests.  Considering the sudden increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, there has been a change in plan and the government wants to set up the virology laboratory for Davangere district itself under SDRF grants
07 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Five patients discharged||As many as five COVID-19 patients, including a mother and a four-month-old baby, who recovered after treatment, were discharged in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. The discharged patients are a 26-year-old female (P-425) and her four-month-old baby boy (P-424), a 50-year-old male (P-394), a 19-year-old male (P-395) and a 46-year-old female (-P421). Meanwhile, a 52-year-old male (P-679) who came in contact with (P-610) tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday.
07 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 14,000 penalty collected in a day||The Kalaburagi City Corporation penalised 140 people on Tuesday and collected Rs. 14,000 from them for not wearing masks in public places. To ensure that people develop the habit of wearing masks in public places as precautionary to contain the spread of coronavirus, Kalaburagi City Corporation Commissioner Rahul Pandve on Tuesday announced that a fine of Rs. 100 will be imposed if people violated the rule.
07 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Another Indian Gaur spotted in Mangaluru||A day after a bison (Indian Gaur), which had strayed into the city, died a few hours after it was tranquilised and let into the wild, another one was sighted in Mangaluru on Wednesday. The second one was spotted last under the Kuluru bridge built across the Phalguni on NH 66 (Kerala-Goa national highway) at about 4.30 p.m., V. Karikalan, Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF), Dakshina Kannada told The Hindu . It was taking shelter inside a culvert, near the bridge, connected to the river close to the KIOCL Junction. “It seems to be a female aged about seven to eight years. But it is not ferocious like the one which died on Tuesday,” he said. The animal was first spotted in Ashok Nagar residential area at 2 a.m. It was later found in Kodical residential area at 4.30 a.m. It was sighted at Kuluru area at 5.30 a.m. and later it did not move from the Kuluru area (all are nearby locations). The DCF said that five teams, comprising 30 persons, are involved in the operation to drive the animal back into the forest. Referring to the bison captured on Tuesday, he said that it is suspected to have died due to cardiac arrest after it was released in the forests in the Charmadi Ghat in the Western Ghats in the evening. The post-mortem report is awaited.
07 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Treat twin dists. as one for movement of people’||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) on Tuesday urged the State government to consider Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts as one geographical area for the movement of people and private vehicles on the lines of the arrangement made for Bengaluru and the adjoining districts. Congratulating the State government for its efforts to control the spread of COVID-19, chamber president Issac Vas wrote to the Chief Secretary that Udupi district was carved out of Dakshina Kannada in 1997 for administrative purposes. However, the two are actually an urban agglomeration with a majority of the population residing in cities and towns. Office staff, technical workers and workers in many industries reside in either district and commute daily for work ably served by an efficient public transport system. The restrictions on inter-district movement in view of the lockdown are hindering the efforts to kick-start industrial and commercial activities, Mr. Vas said. While workers were deprived of livelihood, entrepreneurs were finding it challenging to move forward. Reverse migration of workers has added to the miseries of entrepreneurs. Mr. Vas said that many entrepreneurs have approached the chamber seekings its intervention. He noted that the erstwhile parts of Bengaluru district have been considered as one geographical area for the movement of people and vehicles. As such, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi too may be considered as one geographical area.
07 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stranded from Kerala set to enter Kodagu||Surveillance on the Kerala border has been stepped up with reports of many stranded persons from Kodagu availing themselves of passes in the neighbouring State to enter the district with the Karnataka government, acting on the Centre’s directive, permitting one-time inter-State and inter-district travel following easing of lockdown curbs. The entry to Kodagu district, which is in green zone, is only through Koppa check-post in Kushalnagar bordering Mysuru and Sampaje check-post bordering Dakshina Kannada. “It has been brought to the notice of Kodagu district administration that many people obtained passes through COVID-19 Jagratha portal to enter Kodagu from Kerala. The Karnataka government has issued standard operating procedure (SOP) to travellers from other States, including to those travelling from Kerala, and the guidelines should be complied with,” a note from the administration said. As per the SOP, a person will be allowed to enter Karnataka if he or she carries a valid e-pass issued by Seva Sindhu portal. Entry will not be permitted with other passes. The Seva Sindhu application will be accepted only if it is submitted with authentic documents declaring that the applicant was an original resident of Kodagu. As of now, there are no entry or exit points to Kodagu from Kerala. The persons entering Karnataka from other States may have to undergo home/institutional/ hospital quarantine for 14 days based on the decision taken by the medical screening committee at the check-post, the note said. Meanwhile, in a message shared to the DCs by the Health Commissioner, there is no home quarantine for asymptomatic persons moving within the State / inter-district movement.
07 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Repair of rail bridge over Tunga completed in record time||Taking advantage of the suspension of passenger train services due to the lockdown, the authorities completed a major bridge repair work in the Mysuru Railway Division in a record time of seven days. The re-girdering of bridge number 86 across the Tunga river in the Birur-Shivamogga section was taken up in the last week of April. The bridge was constructed in the late 1800s by the Mysore State Railway for the metre gauge railway line, which was in place then. The nearly-350-metre-long bridge has 15 spans of 18.30 metres each. A release said it was “re-braced in 1994 when the section was converted to broad gauge, but still it was non-standard requiring frequent work on the bearings and rivets, which resulted in speed restrictions on trains.” The bridge has been made fit for 25-ton loading standards to cater to traffic with high speed. The work was completed at a cost of Rs. 5 crore. This work was in the pipeline for over four years, the release stated. T he re-girdering work called for massive off-site and on-site preparations, like fabrication and preparing the work site. The intense activity saw deployment of four cranes and two earthmovers to replace 15 spans of girders at a height of 6 metres above the river. The other challenge was to mobilise men and machines, and retention of labour – nearly 120 persons in all – including taking care of their accommodation and food during the duration of the repair work. Ms. Aparna Garg, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru, said in the last two years re-girdering of all the three major bridges in the division has been completed. This is expected to improve operational efficiency and safety.
07 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi jasmine growers seek more relief||The Udupi Mallige Belagarara Sangha has sought more compensation from the State government for growers of Udupi Mallige, which enjoys Geographical Indication (GI) tag, for the losses suffered during the lockdown owing to COVID-19 pandemic. While welcoming the State government’s relief package for flower growers, it stated that this was not enough for Udupi Mallige growers. According to the Department of Horticulture, Udupi Mallige is grown on 116 hectares of land. The annual production of Udupi Mallige is 863.55 tonnes and its value is estimated at Rs. 120 crore. As per the crop survey carried out by the department, there are 1,300 jasmine growers in the district. However, according to the sangha, there are about 10,000 jasmine growers. Sangha president Ramakrishna Sharma told The Hindu that the government had announced a relief or compensation of Rs. 25,000 per hectare for flower growers. But the cost of cultivating one plant of Udupi Mallige was Rs. 1,000 per year. This made the relief grossly inadequate, he said. “Instead, the government should provide relief on the basis of per-plant-cultivated. It should provide a relief of Rs. 1,000 per jasmine plant. Then only it will help growers to recover the loss they have suffered during lockdown,” he said. Meanwhile, Assistant Director of Horticulture Guruprasad said that the department had estimated the loss to growers during lockdown (till May 31) at Rs. 16 crore.
07 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||CEO inspects work under MGNREGA||Chief Executive Officer of Yadgir Zilla Panchayat Shilpa Sharma on Wednesday inspected the spot where works under MGNREGA have been taken up in various villages in Shahapur taluk on Wednesday. She inspected work to rejuvenate open wells in Rastapur and Naikal villages. She interacted with workers engaged in embankment work at survey number 918 in Khanapur village and visited the government high school in the village.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A mark of respect||
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Work at last!||
07 May 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Idukki continues vigil as T.N. reports many positive cases||The Idukki district administration continues its vigil in border areas as Tamil Nadu continues to report a large number of COVID-19 cases. Despite its proximity to Tamil Nadu and the hotspot of Munnar, no positive case has so far been reported in the Anchunadu valley, which consists of Marayur, Kanthallur, Keezhanthur, Karayur, and Kottagudi (Tamil Nadu). Anchunadu is nearly 40 km from Udumalpet in Tamil Nadu and Munnar. In addition to sealing main roads, Forest Department officials are constantly monitoring the Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary to plug chances of human movement there. Though shops are allowed to function except in hotspots, towns and junctions look deserted. According to traders, business has not resumed and it will take some more time to truly recoup. The District Collector has declared 11 grama panchayat wards as containment zones. The lockdown and curbs on people’s movement will continue there. One case The district currently has only one positive case after 11 persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 were tested negative during the last few days. An official at the Collectorate said the patient was undergoing treatment at an isolation ward.  Result awaited The test result of an ASHA worker who has been quarantined is yet to be received. As many as 14 persons were discharged from isolation wards on Tuesday after they tested negative for the infection. Of the 1,591persons undergoing home quarantine, 58 persons were discharged. As many as 2,118 people have undergone COVID-19 tests and 456 results are awaited, the official said.
07 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Route map of three patients traced||Aimed at tracking all those who had come into contact with the three COVID-19 patients who were detected on Tuesday, the Wayanad district administration on Wednesday released the map of the routes taken by the three patients under the Mananthavady Municipality limits. All three contracted the disease from a truck driver who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus after his recent visit to Chennai. Those affected are his mother, wife, and the son of his lorry cleaner. According to the authorities, the son of the truck cleaner had visited nine places, including the Mananthavady branch of the Syndicate Bank and Kerala Grameen Bank at 11.50 a.m. and 12 noon respectively on April 28. He had also visited a petrol bunk at Chettappalam near Mananthavady around 12.30 p.m. on the day. While the wife of the driver was staying in home quarantine, his 85-year-old mother had visited Mananthavady Cooperative Milk Society, St.Vincent Giri Hospital, and St.Joseph’s Hospital at 6.15 a.m.,10.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. respectively on April 28.
07 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Police all set to ensure smooth handling of NRI arrivals||The Ernakulam Rural police have made extensive arrangements for the smooth handling of expatriates set to arrive at Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) on Thursday. Two hundred police personnel will be deployed at the airport and nearby areas. The police will restart its COVID-control room at the airport at 2 p.m. The control room will be under the charge of two DySPs and two sub-inspectors, and four civil police officers will be deployed to manage it. Details of flights and passengers would be collected at the control room, said District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. The arrival gate at the airport will be manned by three inspectors, three sub-inspectors and seven civil police officers. Social distancing norms will be strictly followed at the gate. The arrival area will be under the full control of the police. Police picket will be set up at the airport check-post area as well. Vehicles will be allowed in and out of the airport after strict checks. Passengers will be escorted to the quarantine facility after medical screening. Special taxis have been arranged for the transportation of expatriates. Two passengers and driver will be allowed in cabs with a seating capacity for five and four passengers other than driver in cabs with the capacity for seven. “Police guards will be posted at the quarantine institutions round-the-clock,” said Mr. Karthik. 200 passengers CIAL has said that there will be only be a single evacuation flight landing in Kochi on Thursday against two flights announced earlier. The flight will land here from Abu Dhabi with 200 passengers at 9.40 p.m. Earlier, it was announced that another flight, one from Doha with 200 passengers, too would land here. This flight has been rescheduled for Saturday.
07 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Crew of evacuation flight trained in infection control||Air India pilots and cabin crew of the flight departing from Kochi on Thursday to bring back stranded NRIs from abroad were provided training in infection control practices at Government Medical College, Ernakulam. All crew members were also subjected to Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test for COVID-19. An expert panel at the medical college trained the crew in keeping away infection that included steps regarding donning and doffing  Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) suits, infection control practices to be followed in flight as well as the management of health emergencies during flight. A practical demonstration of donning and doffing PPE suits was also given to the crew. They were also provided with practice kits. A statement issued by flight captain Partha Sarkar said that the training given by GMC, Ernakulam, had helped boost the confidence level of the crew. “We are now fully confident to undertake the rescue mission,” he said.` Training was given to 12 Air India personnel including four pilots. The expert panel was headed by medical college RMO Dr. Ganesh Mohan M, ARMO Dr. Manoj Antony, Dr. Gokul Sanjeevan and infection control staff nurse Vidhya. Quarantine in college The first batch of non-resident Indians arriving on Thursday at Cochin International Airport will be kept under observation at the Rajagiri College hostel. There are 75 rooms in the hostel for persons who do not have any symptoms of coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Those who have fever or other symptoms will be shifted to the Aluva District Hospital. People from other districts will be sent to the respective observation centres arranged by each district. KSRTC buses will take the returnees to their respective districts from the airport. According to preliminary reports, there are over 20 persons from the district in the first flight arriving on Thursday. They include pregnant women, elderly people and those requiring medical care.
07 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Influx of people may prove a big challenge to Kerala||Surveillance activities in the State will become more difficult with people pouring in by road and air in the last phase of the lockdown. While the people arriving by air are more manageable as their quarantine and treatment, if needed, will be facilitated by the State in a systematic manner, health authorities are a little sceptical about keeping track of all those reaching the State by road from various places. Even though a system is in place, there could be breaches, says a volunteer working in the health sector. Even when people are queueing up at check-posts with e-passes, there could be a few who slip by without registration and passes. Various routes People were coming in through various routes, hiding on trucks or walking even during the earlier phases of the lockdown when the government had not allowed movement of people, the volunteer says. It certainly would be a bit difficult to keep a tab on all those crossing the borders, says a senior health official on condition of anonymity. The challenges have been discussed in meetings and solutions are also being charted by identifying problem areas, the official says. Digital platforms The digital platforms used by the government help track all those entering the State borders through proper channel. Even when it could be officials from various departments — police, revenue, health — overseeing the entry of people at various points, the data are collected and collated in a single portal that makes identifying people easy and tracking their quarantine period. There have been various checks in the district that does not share borders with the neighbouring States, says Ernakulam District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan. There is a separate surveillance system for truck drivers here, which is helpful in keeping in the loop the truck drivers and the contacts they make. The surveillance team had quickly moved into high-risk quarantine the contacts of one such driver from Tamil Nadu who turned positive after going back. He had delivered eggs from Namakkal to the Koothattukulam market on May 3 and had gone back the next day. But he tested positive at the Vennandoor check-post in Tamil Nadu.“There are also protocols to be followed at the market for loading-unloading and many other trade-related activities,” says Dr. Kuttappan.
07 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Practitioners make a high pitch for Ayush||Practitioners of alternative medical systems, who come under the umbrella of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homoeopathy), have called upon the government to support and explore these systems to create a model health-care system in the wake of COVID-19. With studies based on autopsies on COVID-19 patients in Italy challenging the prevailing protocols, the practitioners of indigenous medicine believe a new approach should be presented in managing the disease. Ayur Raksha clinics  “Possibilities of the Ayush health-care system have been sidelined as the government took to the modern health-care system to prevent and mitigate the disease. Now, the government has come out with Ayur Raksha clinics that are expected to work towards prevention and rehabilitation of people who have severe to mild infection and also to provide services to those in quarantine,” says Sadath Dinakar, general secretary of the Kerala branch of the Ayurveda Medical Association of India (AMAI). “We have submitted proposals to enable Ayurveda treatment too that could lessen the severity of symptoms and also provide symptomatic treatment, like modern medicine does,” says Dr. Dinakar. In the absence of effective medicines against SARS-CoV-2 and the fact that most of the infections are mild and self-limiting, the potential of Ayurveda in the management of patients is immense, says Raju Thomas, president, AMAI, Kerala. Dr. Dinakar says the arrival of non-resident Indians that will increase the number of people in quarantine shall be seen as an opportunity to provide integrated services. Trials are on in certain hospitals in India to know the efficacy of Ayurveda medicines in lessening viral load in patients and disease complications. Sreevals G. Menon, homoeopathy practitioner and managing trustee of the Global Homoeopathy Foundation, says the scope of homoeopathy in management of COVID-19 is grossly unidentified.
07 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pig farms in State on alert against African swine fever||Pig farms across the State have been cautioned against procuring piglets and feed from outside the State in the wake of an outbreak of African swine fever in Assam. The State Institute for Animal Diseases has issued an advisory to all district animal husbandry officers asking them to step up the biosafety measures in the pig farms. Assam cases The advisory has been issued after nearly 3,000 animals died of the disease in six eastern districts of Assam. There are reports that the disease has been reported in the country for the first time. Though ASF is considered a severe viral disease, which affects both domestic and wild pig populations, it does not pose any risk to human health, according to the World Organisation for Animal Health. Thousands of poultry had to be culled following the outbreak of avian influenza in northern parts of the State recently. Check-posts alerted Alert messages have been send to all inter-state check posts to prevent the transport of pigs after the disease has been conformed at the National Institute for High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, said a communication issued by B. Jayachandran, Chief Disease Investigation Officer, Kerala, on Wednesday. The closure of the transport network following the COVID-19 lockdown has reduced the possibility of infected animals reaching the State. However, pig farmers and animal health experts have been cautioned about the disease. Restricting the purchase of piglets from outside the State is one preventive measure. Pig farms in the State used to bring in the piglets from places such as Bengaluru, he said. The farmers have also been asked to pay attention to the animal feed. They have been directed not to feed the animals with food brought from outside the State, he said. The statistics wing of the Department of Animal Husbandry has put the number of animal farms in the State, including the pig farms, at 40,000. No separate data on the number of pig farms are available though the population of pigs farmed in the State is estimated to be around 1.03 lakh, department sources said.
07 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Major fire in SmartCity high-rise||Fire fighters from multiple fire stations had to toil for over eight hours in harrowing conditions to douse a major fire that broke out in one of the twin IT towers being constructed on the SmartCity Kochi campus on Tuesday night. It took over 60 personnel and six fire tenders from Thrikkakara, Eloor, Gandhi Nagar and Thripunithura fire stations to put out the fire on Wednesday around 5 a.m. Fire and Rescue Services officials suspect it to be a case of electrical short circuit caused, perhaps, by some welding equipment. Sands Infinit, twin IT towers being promoted by Lulu International with three basements, ground-plus-29-floors and rising to a height of 152 metres, would be the tallest in South India when completed. Thrikkakara fire station sources said that the fire erupted on the 25th floor of the tower and spread down to the 17th floor since the structure was somewhat hollow and separations between the floors were not yet completed. The Thrikkakara fire station was alerted about the fire shortly after 10 p.m. on Tuesday. “The fire fighting process was highly risky since the fire had erupted around 60 metres high beyond the reach of the conventional firefighting mechanism. We had to use a temporary lift meant for construction purposes to transport two temporary water tanks to the 17th floor. From there, our men used single ladders available on the construction site in scantly-lit conditions to fire fight their way up to the 25th floor,” said K.K. Shiju, Regional Fire Officer. “Since it was an under-construction site, the ground was found too uneven to pitch the legs of the skylift. So, we had to use high pressure pumps after reaching the 17th floor to douse the fire,” said A.S. Joggy, District Fire Officer. SmartCity Kochi CEO Manoj Nair said, “The co-developer, Sands Infrabuild Private Limited, along with their main contractor, Tata Projects Limited, and project management consultant CBRE South Asia Pvt Ltd involved with the project, are conducting a detailed investigation to identify the root cause of the incident”.
07 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant labourers in Ernakulam in ‘stay or leave’ dilemma||Ajay Kumar, a labourer from Bihar working in a construction site at Kakkanad, remains caught between a rock and a hard place. If he goes back home, which he plans to do at the earliest, he fears that he will have to forgoing his pending wages of Rs. 22,000. And there seems to be many others like him. “These workers are returning to absolute penury and it is not easy for them to forgo those dues. In fact, many of them were so broke that they had to skip the train back home as they weren’t able to raise the ticket fare,” said George Mathew, coordinator, Progressive Workers Organisation. District Labour Officer V.D. Biju, however, said the Labour Department was yet to come across complaints about pending dues. Small-time contractors engaging migrant workers were not in a position to immediately clear the dues. “Though works have restarted to some extent, it is not clear how long it will take for us to start generating revenue,” said V.S. Shahajan, a contractor from Nedumbassery. The uncertainty over the scheduling of trains is also making life difficult for migrant workers. “Trains are scheduled at short notice with the intimation coming just hours before the scheduled departure,” said Railway Protection Force sources. Mr. Mathew said because of the uncertainty, many workers were giving up what little work was coming their way . However, the police said the advantages of operating trains at short notice surpassed the disadvantages. “We are finding enough migrants to board these trains anyway. However, if these trains are announced in advance, then there is the risk of anxious migrants overcrowding at the station or even blockading trains,” said a senior officer.
07 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CBSE council plea to govt.||The Council of CBSE Schools Kerala has requested the government to withdraw the increased power tariff for the unaided sector and the tax hike for school buses based on the number of seats in view of the financial crisis following the COVID-19 outbreak. The power tariff imposed by the Kerala State Electricity Board was applicable only for the unaided sector, it said. The government decision to increase the tax on school buses has to be withdrawn in view of the financial burden on the managements, Indira Rajan, secretary general of the council, said on Wednesday. The council will offer district-level online training to its teachers ahead of the start of new academic year. Discussions have been held on the implementation of the reduced syllabus proposed by the National Council for Educational Research and Training in the wake of the COVID-19 situation and the conduct of online classes to avoid the loss of academic sessions for the students. Ms. Indira Rajan said the council would abide by the decisions taken by the departments concerned while hoping that such directions may not affect the regular functioning of educational institutions.
07 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for impersonation||The Ambalamedu police on Wednesday arrested a person on charge of impersonating as a police officer and cheating an online cab driver by promising him a job abroad. The arrested man was identified as Sreejith, 36, of Thiruvananthapuram. The accused impersonated as a sub inspector with the special squad attached to the Vandiperiyar police station and convinced the petitioner of securing him a job abroad while taking a ride in the latter’s cab in 2018. The petitioner transferred Rs. 94,000 to the account of the accused and also gave his birth certificate and passport.
07 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Handloom weavers rue lost Vishu season||Hit by the loss of back-to-back seasons and the shortage of raw material, the handloom sector in the State is awaiting a bleak future with no immediate chances of revival. Even as small units slowly scramble back to work, the weavers have no idea how to hold on as the virus has completely upended the industry. Onam and Vishu are two revenue-generating seasons for the sector and after losing the Vishu sales to COVID-19, they fear an all-time low business in the coming months. “In Malabar the domestic sales will peak during April because of Vishu and various temple festivals. In May we usually start preparations for Onam, but now everything is on hold as we have no idea when the disease will abate. Most probably there will not be a huge demand for Onam market and there are mass cancellation of orders as people are postponing weddings and calling off celebrations,” says Geetha, a weaver from Kannur. Transport troubles While the weaving villages across the State are looking forward to resume operations after the lockdown, they will have to face logistic issues. “Unavailability of cotton yarn will be a major problem. It comes from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra where the situation is not good and transporting the raw material will be an issue. Even if we are ready we will have to wait for these States to become stable,” says K. Sudhir, Director, Handlooms and Textiles Department. Exhibitions unlikely Also, the possibility of huge trade fairs and exhibitions is very low. Since Onam falls in August, the stalls should be ready by mid-July with the new stock and this looks highly improbable. “There will be restrictions even after the lockdown and we cannot plan events that draw crowds. Most of our sales are through such platforms and if they do not happen, it means a huge dip in revenue.” Suffering for long According to Mr. Sudhir, the sector has been suffering since demonetisation and of late there has been a substantial drop in exports as well. “There was some respite in 2019 and we registered record sales during last Onam. But now it will take several months for the sector to bounce back and make profit. The loss this Vishu season alone will be around Rs. 20 crore, but we will get the exact figures only after we reopen,” he adds.  The loss this Vishu season alone will be around Rs. 20 crore. K. Sudhir Director, Handlooms and Textiles Department
07 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam COVID-19-free once again||After a prolonged phase of uncertainty that witnessed the district gradually moving to the Red zone, Kottayam on Wednesday joined the list of COVID-19-free districts in the State. A total of 18 persons, including a patient from Idukki, had been undergoing treatment at various hospitals here since April 23.While 12 patients recovered from the disease by Monday, the remaining persons could leave the hospital on Wednesday with their swab samples testing negative twice. The patients who left the hospital during the day were a postgraduate student from Channanikkad; a trader from Vadayar; a female nurse from Punnathura who works in Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram; a railway employee from Tamil Nadu who resides in Velloor; and a woman from Pala who returned from New Delhi.  The driver of a truck transporting eggs from Namakkal in Tamil Nadu who visited a few shops in Kottayam two days ago has been tested positive for the disease. Shops shut Following this, the Health Department on Wednesday directed these shops to close down till further notice. As many as 21 persons who came into direct contact with the driver had also been put in home quarantine. Meanwhile, the truck owner, who had accompanied the driver during the trip, tested negative for the infection. The authorities have taken a serious note of the situation and decided to continue high vigil in the district. As part of it, 40 persons were advised to go in home quarantine, taking the total number of people in home isolation to 1,624.
07 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Only 749 under observation in Kozhikode district||The number of people under surveillance of the Health Department came down to 749 in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, this includes 18 people who are at the hospital. Nine were discharged on Wednesday. No SARS-CoV-2 positive cases have been reported here after April 23 and no one is under treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital now. Of the 2,119 body fluid samples of suspected patients sent for lab tests, 1,939 are negative. The results of 150 samples were awaited, said a release.
07 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||189 expatriates to arrive at Karipur from Dubai||The first special flight carrying Malayali expatriates from the Gulf will reach Karipur airport at 10.30 a.m. on Thursday. The first flight will be from Dubai. There will be 189 people from nine districts, including Malappuram. Most of them, however, will be from Malappuram. Apart from 82 people from Malappuram, the flight will have 70 from Kozhikode, eight from Palakkad, 15 from Wayanad, six from Kannur, four from Kasaragod, and one from Kottayam and Thiruvananthapuram each, and two from Alappuzha. Elaborate arrangements were being made at Karipur to ease the return of Malayalis. Officials and people’s representatives examined the arrangements made at Karipur. Kunhalikutty and E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MPs, were there among them. Officials said that people from other districts would be transported in taxis or KSRTC buses if they did not have any sickness or symptoms. Complete information about them would be given to their respective district authorities. Those reaching Karipur by an Air India Express special flight will be subjected to a thorough health examination soon after getting out of the airport. Those showing symptoms of COVID-19 or any other disease will be shifted to the Government Medical College at Manjeri or Kozhikode. The others will be shifted to the special COVID-19 care centres set up by the government. Officials said that adequate care would be taken while transporting the passengers. Those in perfect health and displaying no symptoms, and pregnant women who tested negative for COVID-19, children below 10 years of age, senior citizens with health issues, differently-abled persons, and those who were bereaved would be allowed to go home with strict conditions of self-quarantine. All returnees were asked to download the Arogya Sethu mobile application. Drinking water and resting facilities have been arranged at the airport for the Gulf returnees.
07 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Online elocution contest for students||The Youth Speakers Forum, a body of young orators from across the State, will conduct an online elocution competition for school and college students on May 10. The competition titled ‘Pandemike’ will be held in English and Malayalam. The receipt for a minimum Rs. 10 donation made to Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund is needed for registration. Students wishing to take part should register by May 8. For details contact: 9645512901 or 9400205852.
07 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||First train from Palakkad leaves for Odisha||The first train carrying migrant workers from the district back to their homes left Palakkad Junction Railway Station on Wednesday evening. The Shramik special train (06094) left here at 4.45 p.m. for Jagannathpur in Odisha carrying 1,207 workers. The workers from different places in the district were brought to the railway station in 37 KSRTC buses. Each bus carried a maximum of 30 migrants. The Railway used a modern LHB (Linke Hofmann Busch) rake which could carry 60 passengers in each sleeper coach even by avoiding the middle births. The train had 20 coaches. The workers were registered and tested under the leadership of tahsildars. Sub Collector Arjun Pandian, Assistant Collector Chetan Kumar Meena, and senior officers of the police, Railways, revenue, health and labour departments saw off the returning migrants. All the passengers were given medical certificates after a check-up by the health officials. Medical examinations were held at centres in six taluks in the district.
07 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Madhurampuzha being cleaned up to avert flood||With the southwest monsoon fast approaching, villagers have started clearing flood escape routes in the low-lying flood-prone areas of Central Travancore. The Madhurampuzha stream, leading to the Manimala river at Kuttoor village in Thiruvalla, is being rejuvenated under the aegis of a committee comprising local people. The 2.5-km-long stream, meandering through the fertile delta of the Manimala river, was a major flood escape route which helped avert many floods in the region till late 1990s. However, excessive human intervention, including encroachments, has left this stream choked on many stretches, because of which around 800 families in the locality were inundated in floods over the past 25 years. Another concern is the damaged shutters of an irrigation canal that links the Manimala river with the Madhurampuzha delta. Villagers’ plea over the past five years to get the shutters repaired has yielded no results yet. Delay likely Mathew T. Thomas, MLA, told The Hindu that he had sanctioned Rs. 17 lakh from his local area development fund for replacing the damaged shutters. But, new shutters are unlikely to be installed before monsoon. In all likelihood, the villagers will have to face the fury of nature this time too. The grama panchayat has passed a resolution to construct a temporary bund on the canal mouth, once the Irrigation Department gives consent, to mitigate flood impact this year. Popular committee leaders Prasannakumar, Abraham Kunnukandathil, and Jayakrishnan Nair have called upon the revenue authorities to clear all encroachments on the 2.5-km-long Madhurampuzha canal without delay. They said a huge quantity of silt and waste accumulated along 700-metre stretch of the stream towards the east of MC Road was being removed.
07 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Last patient cured in Pathanamthitta||The 17th and last COVID-19 patient in Pathanamthitta too was cured of the disease after 41-days of treatment at the General Hospital here on Wednesday. With this, Pathanamthitta that had became the epicentre of the second spell of COVID-19 in the State exactly two months ago on March 7 has found a slot on the list of COVID-19-free districts in the country. The 40-year-old man who reached his home at Aranmula from the United Kingdom on March 14 had been sent in home quarantine. He was admitted to the General Hospital following a fever and cold on March 24 and tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 the next day. The medical board here declared him cured of the disease on Wednesday as his two successive throat swab tests were found negative. In the meantime, his swab samples sent for examination had been tested negative thrice only to test positive the very next day, sources said. He had to undergo treatment for 41 days at the hospital isolation ward. District Collector P.B. Noohu and District Medical Officer (DMO) A.L. Sheeja too joined the health-care personnel and hospital staff at the General Hospital to extend a warm farewell to him. He will have to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. The Collector congratulated the health-care professionals, officials, and hospital staff for collective efforts put in for curing all the 17 COVID-19 patients in the district in a systematic manner. The DMO said the department had conducted a total of 21 sample tests before declaring the last patient cured of the disease. Mr. Noohu said nothing but the collective effort put in by various departments was behind the success of the anti-COVID-19 drive in the district.  46 days It is worth mentioning that a 62-year-woman patient had to undergo treatment for 46 days at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry before being cured of the disease on April 24. As of now, only five persons with symptomatic fever remain at three government hospitals in the district, Mr. Noohu said.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Entry points to capital being opened||With the easing of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in the district, entry points to the capital city are being opened in a phased manner. Traffic movement through Mangattukadavu and Vellaikadavu was restored on Wednesday, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The entry point at Pappanamcode will be opened on Thursday, Kizhakke Mukkola on Friday, Kachani on Saturday, and Chenkottukonam and St. Andrew’s Road on May 11 (Monday), Mr. Upadhyay said. Under surveillance On Wednesday, 202 persons were placed under disease surveillance in the district while 154 others completed the observation period without exhibiting any symptom, the district administration said. As on Wednesday, 2,905 people are under surveillance in the district. Of this, 2,789 are in home quarantine while 49 are under observation in hospitals and 67 in COVID care centres. Inspections on Eighty-one samples were sent for tests on Wednesday and 104 samples collected from the district tested negative. Meanwhile, inspections as part of the security arrangements in the district are continuing, Mr. Upadhyay said. Cases were registered against 47 persons for violation of lockdown rules. Of this, 36 were booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Majority of the latter cases were registered by the police stations at Kazhakuttam, Vanchiyoor, and Kovalam. Petty cases were registered against 151 persons for not wearing masks and 11 others for unnecessary travel. Everyone should compulsorily wear masks to prevent disease transmission, Mr. Upadhyay said. Directive to shops The police seized 15 two-wheelers and four autorickshaws as part of the inspections on Wednesday. Further, the police have directed shops and other establishments to function with minimum staff. It is also the proprietor’s responsibility to ensure that social distancing norms are strictly adhered to, Mr. Upadhyay said.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nearly 3,500 Keralites return home||Nearly 3,500 Keralites returned home through the six designated State border check-posts by late evening on Wednesday. Walayar accounted for the highest number of returnees with 2,262 people crossing the border, followed by Manjeswaram (786), Muthanga (393), Inchivila (326), Kumily (251), and Aryankavu (232). Of those who came through Walayar, more than four-fifths were men. Most of them reached here from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. On Tuesday, as many as 2,920 people had returned via Walayar. Among them were 2,111 men, 559 women and 250 children. The return process of Keralites trapped in other States continued through the night. 3 test negative Meanwhile, the results of COVID-19 tests conducted on three students who reached here from Salem via the Walayar check-post were found negative on Wednesday. They had reached here on Monday night and were shifted to a COVID-19 care centre when they showed symptoms. Health officials said none who reached here from other States on Wednesday were either tested or shifted to hospital. They said none showed any symptoms. One person had been shifted to hospital after he suffered a heart attack on Tuesday. Of the 326 who entered the State through the interstate border check-post at Inchivila in Thiruvananthapuram district on Wednesday, 149 were women. None of them displayed COVID-19 symptoms, the district administration said. Eighty-four of the returnees whose travel originated in designated red zones in Tamil Nadu were shifted to the surveillance centre at Mar Ivanios College in the city.  (With inputs from Kollam, Idukki, Palakkad, Wayanad,and Kasaragod Bureaus)
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schools to be disinfected||Schools in the district are getting ready to welcome students in the new academic year. All government schools under the district panchayat will get a facelift before they reopen. Classrooms and school campuses will be disinfected. School premises will be spruced up before the onset of monsoon. The clean-up and disinfection are being taken up considering the possibility of communicable diseases. Petty maintenance and clean-up will be completed this month itself. An amount of Rs. 5 crore has been set aside for this in the district panchayat’s Plan. Colour code Government high schools, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary schools, will be painted, repaired, disinfected and cleaned up through the school parent-teacher association. Painting will be done in the colour code directed by the panchayat. In schools with less that 500 students across lower and upper primary, high school, higher secondary, and vocational sections, a maximum amount of Rs. 5 lakh has been sanctioned. In schools where the total strength is 1,000, a maximum of Rs. 6 lakh, and in institutions where more than 1,000 children study, Rs. 7 lakh is being sanctioned. All work will be completed before school reopening. Furniture to the tune of Rs. 1 crore has been made available through SIDCO this year. Library improvement programmes have also begun. Books for Rs. 10,000 will be provided to each school.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel to study impact on State finances||An expert committee headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham and comprising Rajesh Kumar Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, and R. Ramkumar, Planning Board member, has been constituted for studying the debilitating impact of COVID-19 and the lockdown on public finances and various other sectors of the State. The committee will assess the impact on State’s own tax eevenue, make a short-term and likely projection of collections for the current financial year with special thrust on Goods and Services Tax, Central transfers, especially tax devolution, non-tax revenue mobilisation, and liquidity issues that impact treasury management. It will suggest specific and significant additional revenue mobilisation measures. The committee will identify the impact on key sectors of the economy that make significant contributions to the State’s Gross Domestic Product. The panel will review how the crisis has impacted the remittances from non-resident Keralites. The outcome of the return of migrant labourers will come up for review. It will estimate the effect of additional expenditure obligations in the current year due to the recovery measures initiated. Drawing out proposals for expenditure control and identifying specific issues to be raised with the Centre too have been included in the terms of reference of the committee. The committee will submit an interim report within a month and final report within three months.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||AIE to operate 14 flights to State||Air India Express (AIE) has been given the mandate to operate 23 flights to bring back stranded non-resident Indians from West Asia, Malaysia, and Singapore from Thursday. Of the 23 flights that will be operated till May 13, 14 will be to the four airports in the State. Kochi has been given nine flights, Kozhikode three, and Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur one each. In addition to the airports in Kerala, the airline will station aircraft in Tiruchi, Chennai, Lucknow, Amritsar, and Bengaluru. The first flight to bring back non-resident Keralites will depart from Kochi at 12.20 p.m. on Thursday to reach Abu Dhabi at 3.15 p.m, sources said. The flight will return with 177 passengers at 4.15 p.m. to reach Kochi at 9.40 p.m. The second flight on May 7 to Dubai will depart at 1.20 p.m. from Karipur. It will depart from Dubai at 5 p.m. to reach Kozhikode at 10.30 p.m. “The crew for the two flights were tested for COVID-19. All have tested negative and certificates have been received,” sources in Air India Express said. Protective equipment The crew will be wearing personal protective equipment and the passengers will be provided snacks and drinking water during the flight. Social distancing norms to contain COVID-19 are not being followed in seating as it is not practical in commercial aircraft operations, the sources said.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||HSE examinations to resume on May 21||The Plus One and Plus Two examinations in the State that were put on hold following the lockdown will resume on May 21 and go on till May 29. The Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations will be held from May 26 to 28. While the Higher Secondary Education (HSE) examinations will be held in the morning, the SSLC examinations will be conducted in the afternoon to ensure social distancing. Three papers remain for SSLC students – Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry, while higher secondary students have to appear for four papers. Valuation Valuation for the papers already held will begin on May 13. The valuation will be considered as special duty and teachers will not face any hurdles in travel, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Training for over 81,000 primary and upper primary teachers that had got under way online before the announcement of the current lockdown will be completed. Besides this, special vacation training will be conducted for them by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) via VICTERS channel from May 14. Digital content for this will be available through teachers’ login on the Samagra portal. VICTERS to pitch in Even if school reopening for the new academic session is delayed, a special educational programme for students will be telecast through VICTERS from June 1. These classes will also be available on the Web and on mobile phones. Special arrangements will be made for students who do not have any such facilities, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The government would make special arrangements for students who have no access to television or the Internet. It has made it compulsory for cable television operators and DTH services to air VICTERS channel. Mr. Vijayan asked schools to repair and preserve high-tech infrastructure before the onset of the monsoon.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PWD readies 1,63,303 beds for expatriates||The Buildings Division of the Public Works Department (PWD) has readied 1,63,303 beds across the State for the quarantine of returning expatriates and Keralites stranded abroad and in various other States. At a review meeting here on Wednesday, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran directed officials to focus their efforts on the regions around airports and entry points for citizens returning from other States. Officials said they were working in coordination with the district administration to ensure hassle-free quarantine for return migrants. Protocol The meeting authorised the Chief Engineer to prepare a protocol for equipping buildings identified for quarantine. Additional Chief Secretary T.K. Jose and senior officials participated in the videoconference.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No new COVID case||Kerala reported no COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. With seven more persons having recovered from the disease, the State now has just 30 patients undergoing COVID-19 treatment in the State, 18 of them being in Kannur district. Of the 502 cases reported in the State so far, 469 have recovered. Eight districts in the State -- Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram -- currently have no COVID-19 patients. The number of those under surveillance has also come down to just 14,670, of which, 268 are in isolation wards in hospitals while the rest are in home quarantine. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that of the 34,599 samples the State had tested so far (including the 3,000-plus augmented survey samples), 34,063 returned a negative result. Of the 2,947 samples collected from selected priority groups in the population, 2,147 samples have been negative.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online puja booking in 27 TDB temples||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has introduced an online facility for booking pujas and other offerings in major temples under its ambit. A board release said here on Wednesday that devotees could use the the website www.onlinetdb.com for booking their offerings. The facility was provided for Sabarimala earlier.  No entry for devotees With the lockdown curbs coming into force, devotees are not allowed entry into temples, but pujas and other rituals are being held as usual. It is in this context that the board decided to extend the online booking facility to 27 major temples, including the Sree Krishna temple, Ambalappuzha; Maha Ganapathy temple, Kottarakara; Subramanya Swamy temple, Haripad; Maha Ganapathy temple, Pampa; Mahadeva temple, Ettumanur; Mahadeva temple, Vaikkom; and Chettikulangara Devi temple, the release said.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Veggie farm in fallow land||A model vegetable farm has been set up in a one-acre plot of land in Kuravankonam as part of an initiative of the city Corporation and the Swasthi Foundation. The farm was prepared in fallow land following Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s call to the people to take up farming. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sivakumar, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, and Mayor K. Sreekumar participated. Farming activities will be carried out in 20 acres of land in Vellayani and Karyavattom. On Wednesday, vegetables were harvested from a garden prepared by 70 homeless people rehabilitated at the Central High School in Attakulangara.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alerts for 3 districts||Some districts, particularly Idukki, can expect heavy rainfall till at least May 10, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) weather updates. Yellow alerts, indicating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall (6.4 cm to 11.5 cm in 24 hours), have been issued for Idukki for Thursday, Friday, and Sunday, Malappuram on Thursday and Sunday and for Ernakulam on Sunday. Some parts of the State can expect thunderstorm, accompanied by lightning and gusting winds, till Sunday, the IMD has warned.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU to declare exam schedule after lockdown||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has chosen to defer the declaration of its examination schedule until the lifting of the lockdown. In an official release on Wednesday, Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree said an academic subcommittee, chaired by Board of Governors member and Idukki Government Engineering College Principal C. Satheesh Kumar, will explore the various possibilities of conducting the examinations in accordance to the guidelines laid down by the University Grants Commission.   Academic Council meet The Academic Council will meet in the second week of May to decide on the subcommittee’s recomm- endations. Priority will be accorded for final-year examinations to ensure that the prospects of those who have received placement offers and those aiming to pursue higher studies remained unaffected, Dr. Rajasree said.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No anniversary fete for LDF government||The State Cabinet on Wednesday decided to cancel the fourth anniversary celebrations of the Left Democratic Front government in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the State’s efforts to contain the disease. The Cabinet meeting resolved to declare the construction works of the Water Resources Department as an essential service. Priority to projects A release issued by the Chief Minister’s Office said this was to ensure timely completion of the projects before the onset of the southwest monsoon. Tinku Biswal will be appointed Secretary, Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online system for inter-district travel passes||The online system for obtaining passes for inter-district travel has come into effect. People who require the pass should visit pass.bsafe.kerala.gov.in. Once approval is given, the applicant will receive a link to the pass on his mobile phone. This pass can be produced on demand.  Passes will be issued only for the following purposes: medical emergencies, attending funeral, rejoining family after being stranded in lockdown, helping stranded family members to return, rejoining work/duty, students stranded in the lockdown to return home, and marriage (self/close relative). Government employees and persons engaged in essential services need not apply for the passes.
07 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly/Subscription fee waiver||Asianet Satellite Communications Pvt Ltd said it would waive the subscription fee for April for government doctors and nurses, other government health workers and police officials for both Asianet digital TV and Asianet broadband services. This is acknowledgement of their yeoman services during the COVID-19 crisis. They can avail of the subscription waiver by submitting their official identity cards and subscriber code via WA number 9072610002. The benefit is open till May 10.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||JDC entrance: last date extended||The last date for receiving applications for the entrance test for the Junior Diploma in Cooperation (JDC) course conducted by the State Cooperative Union has been extended till May 23.
07 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||73 NoRKs to reach Thrissur||Arrangements are in place to quarantine 73 Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who will reach the district on Thursday. The Pravasis, who will reach Kochi at 9.40 p.m. will be subjected to medical examination. People with symptoms of COVID-19 will be sent to hospitals. Others will be sent to the observation centres arranged by the district administration. Quarantine centres have been arranged in three guest houses in Guruvayur. The returnees will be sent to Guruvayur from the airport in special vehicles. Food and other facilities have been arranged in the centres. It is expected that 3,000 Pravasis will reach airports in the State between May 7 and 13. Of them, 30% are from Thrissur district. The first ship with Pravasis will reach Kochi on May 10. People from the district returning in the ship will be housed at the COVID care centres in Thrissur taluk. In all, 17,122 beds have been arranged in 354 buildings. People who have returned from others Sates too have been kept under observation. People returned from red zones will be sent to COVID centres. Control rooms have been set up to coordinate the centres. The contact numbers are 9400063731, 9400063732, 9400063733, 9400063734, and 9400063735.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking solutions||
07 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,800 migrants shifted in buses from Guntakal railway station||The Anantapur Region of the APSRTC operated 47 special buses from Guntakal railway station in the district to ferry 1,800 migrant labourers, who arrived in a Shramik Rail from Mumbai, to various destinations in Ballari, Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Wednesday. Migrant labourers hailing from this region came in a 24-coach special train from Mumbai to Guntakal and arrangements were made on the platform to screen the health of all persons arriving here before they boarded their designated buses. While originally only buses were to be run to Kurnool and Anantapur, the Ballari Deputy Commissioner requested the officials here to send people to Karnataka also and the RTC obliged. APSRTC Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said that while three buses went to three different villages in Kurnool and two to Ballari, the remaining were operated to different quarantine centres at various places in Anantapur district. On Saturday last, two buses were arranged from Puttaparthi to Baruch and Rajkot in Gujarat for transportation of stranded people at Puttaparthi, after getting approvals from the district administration at both ends.
07 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP objects to State putting +ve cases in ‘others’ group||The Bharatiya Janata Party has taken exception to the State government placing 27 COVID-19 positive persons in the ‘others’ category as those hailing from other States, and has advised it to merge all of them and stop alleged discrimination on the basis of region. Party Anantapur district general secretary Duddakunta Venkateswara Reddy said in a release that by naming a group of people from a particular State (Gujarat) would discriminate them in the eyes of the general public. The Central government in its directive had made it clear that any particular community or religious group should not be named while identifying the COVID positive persons.
07 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant labourers fume as Karnataka cancels trains||The Karnataka government’s decision to cancel trains to prevent migrant labourers from leaving Bengaluru has sown seeds of distrust and anger among those who want to go back to their native towns. Tension was brewing at a labour camp of over 700 construction workers at the site of an upcoming apartment complex in Konanakunte Cross on Wednesday. Hundreds of people had packed their bags and gathered at the gates waiting to return home, but were not allowed to leave by private security guards. The labourers wanted no part in the government’s attempt to kickstart economic activity. As their anger and frustration mounted, they started shouting slogans: “We won’t work, let us go home”. The crowd eventually spilled out onto the streets, and the police had a tough time ‘pushing them in’, as a senior officer put it. “This is a ticking bomb. We do not know for how long we can manage them. Going home is an emotional issue, not just an economic one,” said a senior police official from one of the outer zones, which has a large concentration of labour camps. Across the State, as many as 2.13 lakh migrant labourers, a majority from Odisha and Bihar, registered on the Seva Sindhu online platform to return home, said sources. However, just over 8,000 labourers were able to leave on eight trains before services were cancelled. Ravindra Ram, 32, from Jharkhand, was one of the hundreds gathered at the gates of the labour camp in Konanakunte Cross with his luggage. When informed that trains were cancelled, the workers refused to believe the representatives of the contractors. “Two of my friends had boarded a train on Tuesday. I did a video call with them while they were on the train,” he said. Pointing to a 31-storey apartment complex he helped build, Ravindra Ram said, “We have built so many houses. Can’t we just go back to our home?” Despite politicians claiming otherwise, labourers say their living conditions are pathetic. “We were given rice and potatoes, and Rs. 200 per week, which was stopped two days ago. Now we have been asked to resume work,” said Imran Khan, 42, from Bihar. He alleged that the contractors have informed that the money will be cut from their wages. “We have been told to begin work, or we won’t be allowed to live in the shed. They are treating us like slaves. We won’t resume work and want to go home,” he said. Many police personnel were not aware of the government’s decision to cancel trains, which led to further confusion. Hundreds of labourers from Garudacharpalya turned up at Mahadevapura Police Station on Wednesday morning, wanting to register on Seva Sindhu. Gulab Mandal, a labourer at Garudacharpalya, said there were over 1,600 labourers in the camp where is based. Caning at Anchepalya In another instance, a group of labourers from Dabaspet went to Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) where the government had housed those wanting to board trains. On finding that the camp has been disbanded, they proceeded to Majestic on Tuesday night in search of a train. The police made them walk back to their camp near Dabaspet. They were picked up by a bus midway and housed in a ground in Anchepalya for the night. On Wednesday morning, they had an altercation with the police. “The police resorted to caning to control the situation,” said a police officer. Suresh Hari, chairman, CREDAI-Bengaluru, said builders need to reach out to their labourers, give them emotional support and convince them it is better to go home after normalcy returns. “If they go home now, they will be stuck in their villages without work or pay. With lockdown, they may not be able to return soon. Work is restarting here. They can earn some money and go home after a few weeks,” he said. Police officials are bracing themselves for more trouble. “Many who have registered to return home are neither construction labourers nor live in labour camps. They live in rented accommodation and hostels. They work in malls or as security guards. None of the business establishments are open yet. At the same time, they have been denied a chance to go home. It is tough to manage crowds of such people,” a police official said.
07 May 2020||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yediyurappa announces Rs. 1,610 crore package||The Karnataka government on Wednesday announced a Rs. 1,610-crore relief package to help those in distress owing to COVID-19 lockdown. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s announcement is aimed at helping a cross-section of affected people — including small and large industrialists, weavers, flower growers, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, construction workers, barbers, and washermen. Flower growers, who have taken up cultivation on an estimated 11,687 hectares of land and have suffered huge losses with markets closing, have been given a one-time compensation of Rs. 25,000 per hectare. The Chief Minister said compensation would be offered for cultivation on land up to a maximum of one hectare. Mr. Yediyurappa said the government was also in the process of announcing a similar package for growers of vegetables and fruits. In a bid to help revive MSMEs which have suffered huge production losses owing to the lockdown, the Chief Minister announced that their monthly fixed charges in electricity bills would be waived for two months. Similarly, payment of fixed charges in the electricity bills of large industries have been deferred without penalty and interest for two months. The CM said the government had provided a one-time compensation of Rs. 2,000 to 11.8 lakh construction workers of the total 15.8 lakh registered. While the remaining would get the benefit soon, the government would provide an additional Rs. 3,000 to all, he said. This, the Chief Minister hoped, would prevent the return of migrant labourers to their native places. A one-time relief of Rs. 5,000 has been announced for washermen and barbers, both in urban and rural areas, as their business has come to a standstill in the last one and a half months. He said the State has about 60,000 washermen and about 2,30,000 barbers. A one-time compensation of Rs. 5,000 has been announced for autorickshaw and taxi drivers who number around 7,75,000 in the State. To reach out to about 54,000 handloom weavers who are in distress, the Chief Minister announced Nekarara Samman Yojane under which each of them would get Rs. 2,000 a year. He announced that the government would release the second instalment of Rs. 80 crore from the Rs. 129-crore loan waiver scheme announced for weavers. To ensure that all weavers got this benefit, the government has decided to reimburse the loan amount of up to Rs. 1 lakh that has been paid by some weavers from January 1 to March 31 in 2019.s  It is inevitable to allow economic activities: CM  Strongly defending the partial easing of lockdown norms to facilitate several economic activities, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday maintained that the move was inevitable as the State’s economic development also needed to be focused upon alongside fighting COVID-19. “I want to make it very clear that fighting COVID-19 and relaxing lockdown norms to facilitate economic development are completely different aspects. It is only the lockdown that has been relaxed, but COVID-19 is yet to be eradicated. But it is inevitable for us to allow these relaxations to ensure that life goes on and to improve economic condition,” he said. Fighting COVID-19 on the one hand and allowing economic activities for the State’s progress on the other is an inevitable thing, he said, and asked people to take precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing whenever they venture out.
07 May 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tendu leaf collection to begin in Rampa Agency||After a lull of over a month due to the existing health emergency, efforts are on to begin the much-awaited collection of tendu leaves in the Rampa Agency this week. On May 5, the Forest Department conducted the auction of the 11 tendu leaf units geographically located in East Godavari (nine) and West Godavari (two) districts under the aegis of the Additional PCCF (Production) R.K. Suman in Chintoor. As many as 11 contractors have won the bid and all of them belong to Telangana. Chintoor Divisional Forest Officer V. Saibaba told The Hindu that a target has been set for collection of the 19,300 Standard Bags (SB) of leaves during the 2020 season. A single SB consists of 1,000 bundles and 50 leaves make a single bundle. The leaf collection, normally done in the months of April and May, provides employment to 13,000 to 15,000 tribal people mandals under the Tendu Leaf Scheme in six submergence mandals in the Rampa Agency, he added. The highest royalty of Rs. 5,229 per SB has been offered for the leaf in the Kunavaram Range this season.  Destination W. Bengal The leaf collectors are being offered Rs. 2,000 for the one SB. The Forest Department offers the bonus to the collectors from the royalty earned from the tendu units. B.L. Sampath Reddy, the Warangal-based contractor, who won the bid of one unit, said: “A majority of the contractors are preparing to begin collection this week as the ideal time to collect the leaf is elapsing. Above 90 % of the leaf collected from the Andhra Pradesh forests is exported to West Bengal.”
07 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||With no workers, mango traders in a fix||Despite a delayed start of the mango season in Chittoor district this year, mango growers are hopeful of a bumper crop and the initial crop has started arriving at the markets. But what worries the growers and mundi operators (traders) is the acute shortage of workforce in the orchards, market yards and trading centres. Chittoor district is expecting a whopping 7 lakh tonnes of various prime varieties of mangoes spread over 1.12 lakh hectares this year. Cheap labour A migrant workforce of about 10,000 from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar arrives in the district in batches from March till the end of July to work in in the mango orchards, pulp units and market yards. Both the farmers and traders usually prefer the migrant workers rather than the local force considering the flexibility in labour charges. The nationwide lockdown since March 23 has blocked the entry of migrant workers from the north, forcing the stakeholders to depend on the local workers at considerably higher wages. The prime expenditure with the mango trade would commence from mid-May with the start of collection of the fruit from orchards, loading and unloading of stocks, crushing, grading, cutting, tinning and packaging. In this backdrop, the mango traders at a meeting with Chittoor Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta on Wednesday urged him to allow migrant workforce from other States into the district. But, the Collector said that under the present circumstances, no such permission could be given. The traders urged the Collector to at least allow workers from Prakasam and Kurnool districts, to which Mr. Gupta said that the request would be scrutinised as Chittoor was a red zone. The traders were told to furnish information pertaining to the inter-district workers along with Aadhaar numbers. Guidelines Mr. Gupta told the traders to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines, which included conducting business between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m., and supply of masks and sanitisers to the workers. The patrons who engage the workforce should also bear the responsibility of providing them shelter and food. Those who were above the age of 60 and the women with children below the age of 5 have been barred from working in the market yards and orchards.
07 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police lay focus on Koyambedu link||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Wednesday said that special teams were formed to identify the people from Chittoor district who have possibly visited the Koyambedu market in Chennai since the lockdown. The Koyambedu market was in the headlines after the sharp increase of COVID-19 positive cases in Chennai. The SP was inspecting the red zone areas in Nagari town and Nindra mandal. Going round the public places, he sought information from the Nagari urban and rural circle officials regarding people who keep regularly moving between the Nagari Assembly constituency and the neighboring Tiruvallur and Vellore districts towards Chennai. It was observed that some local traders in and around Nagari, apart from those who participate in the weekly village shandies in the region, would frequent Koyambedu market in Chennai due to its close proximity to the area. Speaking to the media, the SP said that special teams were formed to identify the people with possible links with Koyambedu market. He said that such people should also voluntarily cooperate with the police and revenue officials so that the issue could be nipped in the bud. Mr. Kumar sought the local police to keep extra vigil on the border areas and strictly prevent the inflow of TN men entering the district to purchase liquor here.
07 May 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa sees spike with 14 cases in a single day||In spite of the seemingly sincere efforts by the Kadapa district administration, there appears to be no respite in keeping COVID-19 spread under control, as 14 positive cases surfaced from a single locality on Wednesday. BKM Street in Kadapa town, which reported 14 cases on Wednesday and was declared a containment zone, immediately turned into a fortress with barricading and entry restrictions. With this, there are two containment clusters in the city, spread over 27 wards. Across the district, there are containment zones in Proddatur town and rural, Yerraguntla, Pulivendula, Badvel, Mydukur, Kamalapuram, Vempalli, C.K.Dinne, Chennur and Pullampet.  Sale of meat Wednesday’s development brought the district the dubious distinction of having seven municipalities and five mandals as containment zones, which is indicative of the rapid spread of the virus. The tag attached to the zone will be reviewed only if it does not show symptoms of further spike in the next 28 days. At the constituency-level task force meeting, Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha called for an end to sale of meat from May 7 to 17 in Kadapa. Suggesting heightened efforts towards contact tracing, he appealed to the public not to conceal their travel history or symptoms fearing stigma. Vegetables and groceries would be supplied to every household as the residents would be barred from moving out of the containment zone, he said. Similarly, all the retail outlets would remain closed in the zone and only push carts permitted by the Tahsildar would be allowed inside the area. Meanwhile, Badvel town witnessed an ugly scene late on Tuesday night, with some farmers dumping their vegetables on the road, protesting against police clamping restrictions in the market area. As the main market came under containment zone, farmers were told to vacate the vicinity, who, however, objected to the same. The acrimonious scene ended with the farmers pouring their vegetables on the street. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan objected to the act and said any such activity in areas notified as containment zone would be dealt with severely. “Farmers should raise such issues by calling the police control room and not adopt such methods,” he cautioned.
07 May 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala tribal woman scales new heights of success||Kozhikode has always accorded royal treatment to top civil servants. The latest recipient of the hospitality of the district is Sreedhanya Suresh, the first ever Civil Services rank holder from the Scheduled Tribes in the State, who is set to take charge as Assistant Collector (in training) in Kozhikode. As soon as the news came out a few days ago, even though she is yet to leave her training at Mussoorie, social media platforms were abuzz with details of her background and achievements. Her interviews, even those that date back a year, were widely shared to motivate youngsters, especially Civil Services aspirants.  Background Sreedhanya’s rise from an underprivileged background to securing 410th rank in one of the most prestigious examinations in the country is indeed motivational. Second of three children of Suresh and Kamala, daily wage workers at Ambalakkolli in Pozhuthana grama panchayat in Wayanad district, Sreedhanya studied in local schools. She graduated in zoology from St. Joseph College, Devagiri, Kozhikode, and completed postgraduation in applied zoology from the Calicut University campus. Though Civil Services had always been in the back of her mind, it was a meeting with S. Sambasiva Rao, the then Subcollector of Mananthavady, four years ago that firmed up her resolve. Interestingly, she will be working under Mr. Rao, District Collector of Kozhikode, during her probation. Sreedhanya hails from the Kurichia community that also contributed P.K. Jayalakshmi, the first Minister from a tribal community in the State a few years ago. She attributes her success to self-determination and smart work and credits her parents, who set aside a major chunk of their meagre income to support her dream, for her achievements. At present undergoing training at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie, she will take charge after the lockdown is lifted and completing her mandatory 14-day quarantine.
07 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool tally climbs to 533 with 17 new cases||The Kurnool Government General Hospital, which has been designated as State COVID-19 Hospital, got 10 Negative Pressure Intensive Care Units and a safe Swab Collection Kiosk on Wednesday. Kurnool MP Sanjeev Kumar reviewed the COVID-19 situation and visited various units of the hospital. Cases on the rise The number of positive cases continued to rise in double digits and reached 533 on Wednesday with 17 new cases reported. Workers sent to Bihar District Collector G. Veerapandian said there was one death recorded in Panyam mandal and with that total number of deaths has gone up to 11 and 148 persons were discharged leaving 374 COVID active patients getting treated. A large number of workers from Ramco Cement Factory and other migrant labourers (769 in all), who had applied online, were grouped and sent to Jharkhand and Bihar in a Shramik Express train from Kurnool railway station at midnight. Joint Collector Ravi Pattanshetty and ZP CEO Venkata Subbaiah got packed food ready for 800 persons along with mineral water for their journey. Plasma therapy The Kurnool MP, meanwhile, appealed to the doctors’ fraternity to work without fear and bring to his notice any problems they faced so that he could resolve them. He told them that ‘Plasma Therapy’ would be started very soon in Kurnool. Critical cases could be treated in the new Negative Chamber ICU beds so that they could work as airborne infection isolation rooms and appreciated the agency for installing them very fast. These would be operational within the next four days, he added. College Principal Chandrasekhar was present. An alumni of Government Medical College Srikanth presented a DRDO-developed COVSAK - Swab Collection Kiosk that was very safe. The kiosk costs Rs. 2.5 lakh. Dr. Sanjeev Kumar said that producing a skilled doctor takes 10 years and it was our duty to protect them in possible ways.
07 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Akhila Priya seeks action against MLA||TDP leader Bhuma Akhila Priya Reddy has alleged that Allagadda MLA Gangula Bijendra Reddy and MLC Gangula Prabhakar Reddy performed ‘Shanti Sudarshan Homam’ in Ahobilam Narasimha Swamy temple during the lockdown. Taking to the Twitter, Ms. Akhila Priya posted: “Why are temples open for YSRCP leaders? Strict action needs to be taken against them.” She tagged photographs of the leaders purportedly performing ‘homam’ .
07 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers stage protest at Chimakurthy||More than 2,000 workers from different States staged a protest at Chimakurthy in Prakasam district on Wednesday, demanding that they be sent back to their native places forthwith. Giving a go-by to social distancing, they staged a noisy protest on the the Ongole-Kurnool highway for more than one hour demanding that the authorities arrange for their travel to their native places immediately. As tension mounted in the town, police reinforcements were rushed to the spot by Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal. The personnel, led by Ongole Rural Police Inspector Subba Rao, had a tough time in pacifying the workers who insisted that they wanted to go home and that they would return to work only after the town was declared a green zone. ‘We have no money’ A majority of the workers from the States of Odisha, Rajasthan and Bihar were jobless as no economic activity was permitted in the town, which has been declared red zone after one person tested positive for COVID-19. They had exhausted whatever little money they had and with no work they were clueless, said a group of agitated workers. Their kith and kin in their native villages were a worried lot, said a worker who had last visited his native place six months ago. The personnel explained to them that they could not be allowed to go without getting clearances from the respective State governments. They need to first undergo test and transport would be arranged for those who tested negative. More than 14,000 workers from different States work in the granite mines and processing units and in construction sites in Chimakurthy and other places. As many as 7,800 of them had so far registered their names with the revenue authorities and waiting for their turns to return to their native places.
07 May 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete pending Polavaram works by early 2021: Minister||Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar on Wednesday asked the officials and the Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) group to prepare a roadmap for completion of all the pending works of Polavaram irrigation project in West Godavari district by February 2021. The MEIL group has bagged the contract for executing the works through the reverse tendering process.  Targets fixed Mr. Anil Kumar, who inspected the project site on Wednesday, set a deadline for the pending spillway works including concrete works by mid-July and spillway bridge construction by early November. “The works of the Reach-1 of the upper cofferdam will begin on November 1 while the Reach-III works will start in January next year. If this schedule is executed meticulously, the water could be released into the Godavari delta through the spillway reverse sluice by February next year,” said Mr. Anil Kumar. The officials have been told to speed up the works of the earth-cum-rock-filled (ECRF) dam during the flooding period. “The rehabilitation works of the evacuees of the sites for spillway, spillway channel, cofferdam, and the ECRF dam should be completed by July,” said Mr. Anil Kumar. It has been decided that rehabilitation colonies would be handed over to the 10,171 evacuees on July 8, marking the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy Jayanthi, he said. A target has been set to complete the construction of the 61,15 houses by the May-end, while 4,056 more houses are expected to complete by the June-end in all the rehabilitation colonies. Review next week Mr. Anil Kumar is scheduled to inspect the rehabilitation works next week. MEIL DGM A. Venkata Sateesh and engineering department officials accompanied the Minister during the inspection.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala on alert ahead of flights from Gulf||The Kerala government on Wednesday braced itself to receive non-resident Keralites returning home from COVID-19-hit countries in the Gulf. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the first two flights were likely to land in Kochi and Kozhikode from Abu Dhabi and Dubai respectively on Thursday. The State is on high alert and has geared itself up to receive them. Officers in the rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police would monitor the disembarkation process at airports. They would transfer the arrivals into mandatory institutional quarantine for seven days. Pregnant women and children have been exempted from the regulation. The police would escort them to home in designated vans and make sure they go into safe-isolation. The police would not allow any person to receive or welcome the returnees. Mr. Vijayan requested the media to refrain from interviewing Non-Residential Keralites (NoRKs) on their arrival. Thousands would trickle into the State steadily as air and sea travel picks up. Many in the U.S., U.K. and Europe were awaiting return. Training for flight crew Air India pilots and cabin crew of the flight departing from Kochi on Thursday to bring back stranded NRIs from abroad were provided training in infection control practices at Government Medical College, Ernakulam. All crew members were also subjected to Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test for COVID-19. An expert panel at the medical college trained the crew in keeping away infection that included steps regarding donning and doffing  Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) suits, infection control practices to be followed in flight as well as the management of health emergencies during flight. ‘Well prepared’ Meanwhile, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said the Health Department has been well-prepared to provide the best of medical care and protection to the Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) right from the time they land at the airports in the State. In an official statement issued here on Wednesday, Ms. Shylaja said all activities were being coordinated around the four international airports in the State. Separate health applications (apps) have been developed for passengers alighting in each of the airports. Details of those who have registered through Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) were available in the app and through QR code details. Each passenger could be traced and followed up. Details could be collected manually from those who have not generated a QR code.  (With inputs from Kochi)
07 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narasimha Jayanti celebrated||Narasimha Jayanti was celebrated on Wednesday at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara. Special rituals were carried out for the presiding deity at the sub temple of Sri Yoga Narasimha swamy, situated on the north-east corner inside the Vimana prakaram. Prominent among others who took part in the fete include the TTD Executive Officer A.K. Singhal, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy and Deputy Executive Officer (temple) Harindranath besides temple staff.
07 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Charity continues, in spite of initial protest on liquor||After a brief hiatus for two days, charity measures by social organisations and political leaders continued on Wednesday. Though the sight of the poor and working classes making a beeline to liquor outlets initially caused resentment among the public, which could be seen from various videos and messages in the social media, charity work continued on Thursday. The employees, charitable organisations and social activists breathed fire at the sight of people from lower income groups standing in the queue lines that appeared endless on Monday, when the liquor outlets were opened after lockdown relaxation was announced. Ramakrishna Mission provided groceries and vegetables to migrant labour families from Rajasthan, who are residing in tents near Chandragiri fort on Chittoor highway. Tirupati-based CVS Krishnamurthy Teja Charities trust member and Nidadavole MLA G. Srinivasulu Naidu presented Rs. 25 lakh to CM Relief Fund, part of which is meant to be spent on the local homeless poor. Meanwhile, BJP state spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas faulted the State for putting the blame on the Centre for opening liquor outlets. “The Centre only issued guidelines on relaxation and left it to the discretion of the States to open liquor outlets. It was the State’s decision to open the shops and also hike price by 75%”, he said. His clarification came in the wake of some YSRCP leaders trying to portray it as the ‘Centre’s decision’, after the government was apparently caught on the wrong foot.
07 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown helps TTD speed up cable work||With an aim to providing a robust network infrastructure in place, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has taken up the Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) laying work, taking advantage of the thin vehicular movement between Tirupati and Tirumala during the lockdown 3.0. Ring topology The objective is to connect the data centre located at the TTD administrative building in Tirupati and the smart centre on Tirumala hills. Garuda circle at Alipiri is currently deserted in view of the lockdown and as such, the main road made of heavy concrete is dug up and the cable laid underneath. The current job involves two components -- laying of cable from the TTD administrative building to Alipiri (2.8 km) and to Srivarimettu (16 km). The idea is to connect the two data centres at Tirupati and Tirumala in a circular format, by laying a cable via Alipiri and the other via Srivarimettu. The data centre in Tirupati is functioning and the infrastructure backbone at Tirumala is also almost ready. Similarly, ring topology is adopted atop Tirumala hills to lay OFC cable from the smart data centre to various connecting nodes, covering a length of 12 km. The plan to lay two OFC routes is not only meant to connect the darshan ticket issue points at Gali Gopuram and Srivarimettu, but also serves as a standby to ensure uninterrupted connectivity, in case of cable-related damage or disruption. Once a ring is formed, it helps the TTD’s Information Technology department to stay seamlessly connected. thus eliminating instances like server failure.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight fishing harbours will be set up in next three years: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that eight fishing harbours and a fish landing centre will be established in the State at a cost of Rs. 3,000 crore in the next three years. Launching the YSR Matsyakara Bharosa by initiating payments to the beneficiaries of the scheme at his camp office here on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan said the government felt that the problems faced by the fishermen were bigger than the constraints being faced by it. Hence, assistance was being provided to them. “The government has increased the assistance to each family from the earlier Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 10,000. In all, 1,09,231 families will stand to gain,” said Mr. Jagan. The previous government hardly paid any compensation to fishermen during the period of annual ban on fishing in the sea from April 15 to June 15, he alleged. Recalling that the fishermen in East Godavari district had approached him during his padayatra in the run-up to the general elections, Mr. Jagan said a compensation of Rs. 70.53 crore was paid to them. The fishermen suffered losses due to drilling activities of the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPL), but the company did not pay compensation. The government had cleared it on humanitarian grounds, he added. Gujarat returnees The government gave a financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) to the fishermen who were brought back from Pakistan jail. Recently, about 4,300 fishermen, who were stranded at Veraval of Gujarat due to the lockdown, were brought home on government expenses. They would be paid Rs. 2,000 each after the quarantine period, he said. Fisheries Minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and representatives of fishermen associations were present on the occasion.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest Dept. steps up vigil to prevent poaching||Officials of the Forest Department have set up base camps, satellite camps and check-posts in all national parks, tiger reserves and sanctuaries to prevent poaching during the summer season. About ten persons, including beat officers or assistant beat officers, tribal watchers, locals and staff, will do patrolling and keep a vigil through surveillance cameras installed in forests to prevent movement of poachers. Besides, the forest officials gave instructions to the staff to keep a watch on the movement of habitual offenders and persons who are facing PD Act and criminal history of hunting animals. Forest check-posts have been set up in all forests and the staff will thoroughly keep a watch on smuggling of forest produce or hunting of animals. “We arranged base camps in Nagarjuna Sagar, Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR), Papikonda National Park and Sri Venkateswara National Park and vigil has been stepped up in all wildlife sanctuaries, including Krishna, Kolleru, Nelapattu, and Pulicat in the State,” said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF-Wildlife) D. Nalini Mohan. The base camps were equipped with wireless sets, electricity, high-mast lights, and other facilities. "Staff in the camps will have to report on the situation to the DFOs from time to time. More than 400 tribal watchers are helping the forest officials in preventing hunting," said the Wildlife PCCF. Forest officials spotted Royal Bengal tigers, Indian bison, Nilgai, sambar deer, wild dogs, hyenas, cheetas, honey badgers, spotted deer, wild boars, bears and many birds in the sanctuaries. Many animals have been sighted directly in the forests during patrolling. “There is no organised hunting or smuggling of animals in AP forests. However, we have a list of notorious hunters in some forests and we have kept a vigil on their movement,” Mr. Nalini Mohan told The Hindu.   Awareness programme  The officers are focusing on conservation and protection of forests and animals. As a part it, awareness and educational programmes are being conducted through ‘kala jatas’ in the hilly areas, state borders, Chenchu gudems, Gottikoya and Kondareddy hamlets. “Tribals can move in forests for collecting forest produce. But, they should not resort to tree felling and hunting. Recently, we booked two cases and arrested about 20 persons for hunting Indian bison in two cases on the State borders in Papikonda National Park. Officials are explaining the villagers about the consequences, if they resort to poaching,” the Wildlife PCCF said.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Works worth Rs. 9,514 crore will be linked with MGNREGS’||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Wednesday said that the State government had chalked out a plan to provide employment to the labourers in rural areas, apart from supporting the agriculture and horticulture sectors. The Minister said that the government was giving a top priority to creating infrastructure in villages. “The government has decided to link the development works with the Mahatma National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). Projects worth Rs. 9,514 crore will be converged with the MGNREGS,” he said. Referring to the agriculture sector, he said the government would allocate Rs. 300 crore to small and marginal farmers. Mulberry saplings worth Rs. 76 crore would be raised. The Forest Department would set up 1,000 nurseries at a cost of Rs. 117 crore. The Minister said that Rs. 5,079 crore would be spent on village secretariats, health clinics and Rythu Bharosa Kendras. The Rural Water Supply Department would construct CC side drains at 3,932 places with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 593 crore, while Panchayat Raj Department would lay cement roads in villages at Rs. 1,640 crore. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the Tribal Welfare Department would lay roads with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 46.70 crore. Also, Rs. 100 crore would be spent on improving ground water scenario in the problematic areas. Compound walls would be built at 11,623 schools under the ‘Nadu-Nedu’ programme, he added.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCS State branch, UNICEF plan COVID-19 recovery programme||The Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), Andhra Pradesh branch, and UNICEF will jointly organise COVID-19 response and recovery programme in the State. UNICEF chief of field office, Hyderabad, Meital Rusdia, wrote a letter to Governor and president of IRCS AP State Branch, Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, in this regard. As part of the tie-up, UNICEF will organise a series of capacity enhancement programmes for red cross volunteers to strengthen the preparedness in schools on child protection, water, hygiene and sanitisation activities and on how to reach out to the children in Anganwadi centres through District Women Development and Child Welfare Department. Governor's secretary Mukesh Kumar Meena on Wednesday conveyed to the Chief of UNICEF Field Office, the appreciation of the Governor for the proactive initiative of the UNICEF. "The initiative of the UNICEF is a sign of collaborative effort to fight the menace of COVID-19 and will be useful to effectively deal with the after-effects of the pandemic," the Governor said.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC tells govt. to file counter on local job quota||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has directed the State government to submit a counter affidavit within a month making clear its position on the A.P. Employment of Local Candidates in Industries/Factories Act, 2019. The Act guarantees 75% reservation to local candidates in jobs in government-run and private industries and factories. Legislative competence The court was hearing a writ petition filed by a city-based advocate Ch. Varalakshmi questioning the constitutional validity of the Act. She contended that the Act was beyond the legislative competence of the State, apart from violating the Articles 14, 16(2) and 16(3) of the Constitution. Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice K. Lalitha Kumari did not agree with the view of government pleader Sumon Chintala that no one from the industry had any objection to the Act and the petitioner was totally unrelated to it.  Ms. Varalakshmi argued that the State, through this Act, was seeking to exercise its power with regard to factories and establishments owned by private individuals and it (the State) had no power to prescribe the domicile or place of birth or place of residence as a requirement for public employment. The power to make a law prescribing any requirement as to residence within the State as a prerequisite for such employment or appointment is vested only with the Parliament, she insisted. She prayed that the High Court should declare the Sections 3 and 8 of the Act as beyond the powers of the State government.
07 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy Secretary denies excess billing||Energy Secretary and AP-Transco CMD N. Srikant has asserted that the electricity billing for March and April has been done in a scientific manner and denied reports that there is excess billing. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Srikant said there was a drastic increase in domestic power consumption during April as people stayed indoors during the lockdown. Going by the last five years’ trend, consumption in March and April would be in the 46:54 ratio. Now, the bills were prepared in 50:50 ratio as the meter readings were not taken in April month due to the lockdown. Mr. Srikant said the slab rates for the 2020-21 financial year were being calculated on the basis of monthly power consumption. As a result, the consumers got low bills than the real consumption during April. There was no increase in bills as four percent of April power consumption was included in March bill as the slab rates were fixed on 2018-19. Besides, the interest on security deposits of the consumers was also exempted from April bills to benefit them. Giving an example, Mr. Srikant said, if a person consumed 440 units in the two-month period (202.40 in March and 237.60 in April), bills were prepared basing on 220 units per month. Toll-free number A toll-free number 1912 was set up to redress the consumer grievances and a special officer was appointed for each district to deal with the billing issues, he added.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People not wearing masks to pay Rs. 100 fine in city||Making it clear that wearing face masks and maintaining social distance have been made mandatory in the city, the authorities have said that the enforcement teams of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) will collect a fine of Rs. 100 from the violators. District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, in a review meeting with the VMC officials on Wednesday, said that special teams had been formed to create awareness on the usage of face masks. “The violators will be imposed a fine of Rs. 100 as per the government orders and those who spit in public places are already being slapped with a fine of Rs. 1,000,” he said. VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said that teams would be posted at four checkposts to enforce the lockdown norms and a mobile team would be enforcing the rules in the city.
07 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online money transaction failure irks HDFC customers||Day-long disruptions in online money transfers was a cause of concern for HDFC Bank customers. The bank officials, however, brush them off and say that technical glitches and poor internet connectivity could be the reason. According to a customer of the bank in the city , the site is shooting an error message when he tried to complete the online IMPS transfer to another bank. But it is interesting to note that the transfers to HDFC Bank from other banks are normal. “We regret to inform you that we could not complete your transaction. Please contact your nearest HDFC Bank branch, or our PhoneBanking service,” was the transfer failure message from the bank, according to the customer who faced the problem. “We attempted the transfer four times in the morning at regular intervals starting at 10.30 but they failed and shot the same message. We also tried in the evening by about 5.30 and it too failed and received the failure message. Bank officials say it’s a common problem but for us not being able to do an important transfer on a particular day is a major issue. It’s all the more important now given the lockdown and other related hassles,” added the customer. The official concerned at the HDFC Bank branch in Vijayawada, after checking the failure of the transfer and subsequent message, said there were some server issues reported of late due to which such problems arise. “We have these issues and are escalating them to our technical teams. But there was nothing to panic about it as server issues are common,” he said on condition of anonymity. Responding to the issue, an official spokesperson of the bank from Mumbai stated, “There have been no major disruptions on Wednesday. At best there have been isolated cases caused by connectivity issues.”
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to ensure safety norms in conduct of SSC exams||The government has been urged not to establish SSC Board examination centres in buildings that are now being used as quarantine centres for social distancing of people testing positive for the coronavirus. In a letter addressed to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Bode Ramachandra Yadav, a social activist from Punganur in Chittoor district, said the reported decision to conduct 10th class exams by maintaining physical distance between students was appreciable, but the government should ensure that the exam centres were not set up in any of the buildings that now served as quarantine centres keeping in view the health aspect of the students.  School preparedness The Krishna district unit of the Child Welfare Committee, meanwhile, has urged the government to take up preparedness of schools and hostels to combat the virus in the fresh academic year. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, committee Chairman B.V.S. Kumar said there was a need to relook at the availability of space to maintain physical distance among children on school campuses. There was a dire need to improve the infrastructure since it would not be possible to accommodate three-four children on a single bench like it was in the past. Every school and hostel should have a hand-wash facility at the entrance and during lunch hour, teachers should supervise children to prevent exchange of lunch boxes or water bottles, screening of the children at the entrance with Infra Red Thermometers and setting up an isolation/sick room in every hostel to isolate children with suspected symptoms was mandatory.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Use welfare cess to help construction workers’||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to release Rs. 197 crore for mitigating the suffering of the construction workers affected by the lockdown. In a letter, Mr. Lakshminarayana stated that the Central government had issued orders for utilising the money from of the the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Cess Fund, adding that it could benefit 19,67,484 workers in the State. A double whammy The BJP leader said a large number of construction workers had lost their livelihood due to the inordinate delay in the implementation of the new sand policy and suspension of various works in the wake of the ‘three capitals’ controversy. “Now, the lock down has made their lives worse,” he said. The government should release the amount to help the building and other construction workers in these tough times, the BJP leader insisted.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu takes up A.P. fishermen issue with Karnataka CM||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday urged Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to reach out to the 300 A.P. fishermen stranded on the Malpe coast in Udupi district. Later, in a tweet, Mr. Naidu said that Mr. Yediyurappa promised to offer the fishermen immediate help. Mr. Yediyurappa said efforts were on to send the fishermen from Srikakulam district back home State, Mr. Naidu tweeted. Mr. Naidu also wrote a letter to Mr. Yediyurappa lauding the “tremendous efforts” the Karnataka Government had been taking to check the pandemic. He expressed solidarity with the people of Karnataka in their fight against the disease. Many Telugu people who migrated to other States were facing hardship due to the lockdown, Mr. Naidu said. “In this backdrop, the families and relatives of the fishermen are worried over their safety. On their behalf, I appeal to you to arrange for sending them back home. If that is not possible, I request you to provide them shelter, food, water, medical aid and other essential commodities until the lockdown is lifted,” Mr. Naidu said in the letter.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP rule replete with retrograde steps: Kala||The YSRCP rule so far is replete with retrograde steps, according to TDP State president Kimidi Kala Venkata Rao. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Venkata Rao said teachers were asked to control the queue lines at liquor outlets. In the last one year, the courts found fault with the government in 64 instances. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has proved that he lacks leadership qualities. People and entrepreneurs are afraid of the J-tax,” he alleged. “The decisions and policies of the Chief Minister have proved to be disastrous for the State. Under the garb of Navaratnas, the government has deceived the people. By choosing to have three capitals, Amaravati has become an orphan. In the name of three capitals, the YSRCP leaders are resorting to land-grabbing ,” Mr. Venkata Rao charged. Anna Canteens Anna Canteenshad been closed down. Liquor shops were allowed to function amid COVID-19 scare, he said. “By supplying substandard liquor, the government is playing with the lives of people,” he added. “Polavaram works have been stopped with an eye on commissions,” the TDP leader alleged.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP men destroyed orchard’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged DGP D. Gautam Sawang to initiate action against those involved in damaging the mango orchard belonging to a party sympathiser. In a letter, Mr. Naidu alleged that 100 trees were axed allegedly by the YSRCP men. They entered the orchard belonging to G. Dilli Rani at Nagurupalli of Chittoor district and caused extensive damage. “YSRCP leaders axed the trees as Ms. Dilli Rani is a TDP sympathiser,” Mr. Naidu alleged.
07 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PIL against liquor sale during lockdown||A. Edukondalu, convener of the Guntur-based G.V. Krishna Rao Memorial Trust, filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution, seeking directions to the government to prohibit the sale of liquor during the lockdown. He argued that the government allowed the liquor sale during the lockdown for increasing the revenue, and it was bound to affect the efforts being made to check the spread of COVID-19. If people were let out to buy alcohol without following social distancing, there was a risk of the disease spreading further, he argued.  The court should, therefore, prohibit the sale of liquor until the lockdown is lifted and sufficient number of tests conducted to prevent a major outbreak of the disease, the petitioner appealed. The PIL may be admitted on May 7.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City reports two new positive cases; total count rises to 41||Two more COVID-19 cases were reported from the GVMC limits in the city on Wednesday, taking the total cases in the district to 41. Both the cases were reported from the hotspot of Dandu Bazaar area in Maharanipeta, from where a total of 12 cases have now been reported within a span of one week. Both the cases, including a senior citizen and a young woman, were confirmed by officials from the Health Department and would be officially confirmed in the State Government’s health bulletin on Thursday. “With 12 new cases in a week, Dandu Bazaar has become a hotspot. So far, we have not seen so many cases from a single area, that too within a radius of 500 metres,” said P.V. Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College. It is learnt that one of the 12 cases recorded so far from this area reportedly had physical contact with a person who returned from New Delhi. Police are verifying details, including call data records, to complete the contact tracing process. ‘Triple Ts’ District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the entire area has been contained and only one entry and exit point has been created. “The entire area, including the houses, are being sanitised and essentials are being provided at doorsteps, so that people need not come out or go in,” he added. “As far as our medical approach is concerned, we are following the protocol of 3 Ts – Trace, Test and Treat. We are first tracing the originator, and from there, we are going for mass testing, which is followed by treating positive cases,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. According to the Collector, all residents in the area, irrespective of age or symptoms or comorbid conditions, are being subjected to RT-PCR tests. So far, since the first case, we have done about 560 tests from one street alone. On Tuesday, we did 181 tests of which two tested positive. On Wednesday, around 180 tests were done, reports for which will come on Thursday, he said. Extensive testing The district administration has deployed a number of testing teams, and tests are being conducted from house to house, the Collector said, adding that everyone will be tested and daily surveillance will be maintained at least for the next 14 days. The district administration has already quarantined over 150 people, who have come in contact with both primary and secondary contacts, in community quarantine centres and they are being monitored on a daily basis. “This apart, we are setting up at least two mobile clinics by diverting two 104 ambulances in the area, to facilitate voluntary check-up and testing,” said the District Collector. Apart from Dandu Bazaar, the other areas of focus are Madhavadhara and Marripalem, from where five cases were reported in the last one week. Of the 41 cases so far, including the two cases on Wednesday, the active cases in the district are 20, after 21 discharges.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freshwater fish flood market in Vizag||Fall in exports as a fallout of COVID-19 and subsequent lockdown has led to flooding of freshwater fish in the lanes and bylanes of the city. “Another reason for the unusual supply is said to be bumper production of aquaculture fish, mainly the white-leg fish, known as Vannamei, an exotic species grown in large quantity at Bhimavaram and other coastal area,” Joint Director of Fisheries K. Phaniprakash told The Hindu . ‘Pocket-friendly’ Fish lovers are very happy as during the lockdown the consumption has gone up steeply and they have not felt the absence of sea fish. Due to the 62-day annual ban, mechanised boats are not venturing into the sea. “We are very happy as the prices of prawns (small size) and Rohu are wallet-friendly,” said Prantik Mukherjee of the Bengali Association, Waltair. While prawn is available for Rs. 250 per kg, Ruhu is sold at Rs. 200. “Roopchand, a fish brought from Bhimavaram, is sold like hotcakes in the Gajuwaka area. It looks and tastes like pomfret and is priced at Rs. 200 to Rs. 250 per kg,” Ummidi Nalini, a vendor, said. A large quantity of fish from the Godavari captured near Kakinada is also finding its way to the city. Market watchers say curbs imposed on vehicle transport during the lockdown is also preventing many traders from transporting the perishable item in reefers to overseas destinations in container ships and lorries to the northeastern States. Vendors benefit The situation is helping the vendors make both ends meet during the lockdown. “As margins are low, the State government should give a cash compensation of Rs. 10,000 to all the vendors,” said Arjili Dasu, executive director of the A.P. Fisherfolk Foundation.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Looking to buy liquor? Don’t forget to carry your umbrella||Excise and police officials on Wednesday ordered people going to buy liquor to carry umbrellas and wear masks, without which they would not be allowed to stand in line outside the wine shops. The order is meant to ensure that people stand at a distance of at least two metres from each other, and also to avoid the stampede-like situation that was witnessed outside several wine shops in the last couple of days in the city. Many wine shops in Siripuram, Dwaraka Nagar, Gajuwaka and other areas in the city witnessed frenzied crowds on Monday as liquor shops opened after a gap of 43 days, which prompted the police to issue the order. “Carrying an umbrella serves two purposes. One is social distancing, and the other is protection from the scorching sun,” a police official said. However, all liquor outlets are yet to enforce this order. Joint Collector and Ex-Officio, Executive Director, APSBCL, Visakhapatnam, L. Siva Shankar, in a release on Wednesday said that umbrellas have been made compulsory in the district for those standing in queues before retail outlets to ensure social distancing. A senior Excise official said that it is a temporary measure to ensure that there is no stampede-like situation, and most importantly, to ensure a minimum distance from each other. Kutikuppala Umbrella Principle Padma Sri awardee and renowned doctor Kutikuppala Surya Rao was the first to suggest usage of umbrella to effectively implement social distancing. “ Using an umbrella would automatically enable social distancing, as if two persons are standing in line holding umbrellas, the minimum distance between them would be at least one-and-a-half metres,” Dr. Surya Rao said. Rs. 16 crore sales in 48 hours Liquor worth Rs. 16 crore was sold at 276 APSBCL retail outlets in Visakhapatnam district on May 4 and 5. Officials said that about Rs. 10 crore liquor was sold on the first day itself.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stranded, but away from the cares of the pandemic||For many such as students, pilgrims and migrant workers, getting stranded at some place during the lockdown period is a bitter experience. But, for the pilgrim party that is stuck at Mt. Abu in Rajasthan, it is a moment to cherish, thanks to the services being extended to them by the Brahma Kumaris. About 700 people from the Telugu States, about 550 of them from Andhra Pradesh, are stranded at Mt. Abu for the last 50 days due to the lockdown. ‘No cause for worry’ “We are happy to be in the safest place, and we have no reason to worry,” members of the group say without any second thought. They had all gone there to participate in the annual ‘Milan’ organised by the Prajapita Brahma Kumaris Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya, which was slated for March 20. The ‘Milan’ was later cancelled due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the restrictions imposed on mass gatherings. “We came to know of the cancellation after reaching Mt. Abu on March 14. We chose to stay back to participate in other programmes. The Janata Curfew was announced at short notice, and from the following day a nationwide lockdown was imposed,” B. S. Anand of Visakhapatnam, who had gone along with his family, told The Hindu over phone. Social distancing “Normally, a large room is allotted to eight persons. But now, not more than two persons are allowed in view of the COVID-19 guidelines. We are given masks and sanitizers free of cost, and social distancing is made compulsory. The daily routine begins at 3 a.m. with a glass of milk or coffee. Spiritual message is given from 5 a.m. to 6 a.m. every day. Breakfast is served at 7 a.m., lunch at 12 noon, tea/coffee at 3 p.m. and dinner at 7 p.m,” he says. Yoga and service “The volunteers are serving us with the same zeal as on the first day of our visit. They never show any sign of irritation. In fact, many of the visitors vie with one another to participate in the service activities. The visitors spend most of the time in meditation, yoga and service. This, perhaps, explains why they are not unduly worried about the pandemic,” says Mr. Anand “Some of the devotees from nearby States have been sent home by special buses. I was initially worried at the thought of having to travel by bus for three days,” said Padmavathi, an octogenarian. She was, however, relieved as the special train left Abu Road Station in the early hours of Wednesday. The stranded pilgrims who started their return journey by that train are expected to reach Vizag by Thursday.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals plan agitation against SC order after lockdown||Tribal people, especially the educated youth, have taken strong objection to the Supreme Court quashing the order providing 100% reservation to Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates for the posts of teachers in the schools in the Scheduled Areas and are on the warpath. They are mobilising support to take up a sustained agitation after the lockdown period.  “The judgement clearly undermines the rights of the tribals, but we are unable to take it up, due to the lockdown. Once it is lifted we will represent to the Governor, who is the protector of the Schedule Five areas. Already, we have brought it to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and it is learnt that a senior IAS officer has been deputed to study the ground realities, so that a review petition can be filed,” said Araku MLA Chetti Phalguna. The agency area in Visakhapatnam district spans over 6,200 sq km with 11 mandals of which at least nine are seriously affected by the influence of the CPI (Maoist). It has a population of over 10 lakh tribals. There are around 200 high schools and about 600 primary schools with about 5,000 teachers all of whom, except for about 100, are from the tribal community. ‘Flawed judgment’ “This judgement is flawed, as it is based solely on Article 16 (4). One should acknowledge the far-sighted vision of the makers of the Constitution who drafted two exclusive schedules (Schedule V and VI) out of a total of 12 Schedules, for the tribals who represent just 8% of the population,” said former head of the Department of Anthropology, Andhra University, Prof. P.D. Satyapal. According to V.S. Krishna of the Human Rights Forum, the motivation for the 100% reservation to local STs stemmed from Article 46 of the Directive Principles of the Constitution. “Education for tribal children starts at home and in the hamlets and extends to schools. Every tribe has a distinct culture, language and dialect. Non-tribal teachers cannot relate to the root of the tribal students,” felt Prof. Satyapal. Left wing extremism For the tribal youth, recruitment in the education sector has been the main source of employment and it was visualised 20 years ago to do so, to keep the youth away from joining the Left Wing Extremists, and over the years it has been paying dividends, said a teacher in the tribal area, Krishnamurthi. The object of the 100% reservation was to solve the perennial issue of absenteeism of teachers, added Mr. Krishnamurthi.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KK Line death toll now 3||The death toll in the boulder collapse between Chimidapalli and Borra Guhalu railway stations on the Kottavalasa-Kirandul (KK) Line has gone up to three, with two more persons succumbing to their injuries on Wednesday. Killer landslides Boulders fell on the track due to incessant rains on the hills, in the early hours of Tuesday. The workers were clearing the boulders when another landslip occurred at 1 p.m. on Tuesday. One railway employee died in the accident on Tuesday; he was identified as V. Suresh (39), a railway employee. The two other persons who died on Wednesday are contract workers. They were identified by railway officials as Veera Swamy and Suri Babu (both aged 45). The condition of three more persons undergoing treatment at hospital is said to be serious.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI gives Rs. 39 lakh to COVID fight||As part of its corporate social responsibility, the Visakhapatnam Chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) has contributed Rs. 39.50 lakh for programmes aimed at mitigating the hardship of various sections of people hit by the COVID-19 lockdown. The contribution included Rs. 5 lakh to the GVMC and the cheque for the amount was handed over to the Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana by Visakhapatnam Lok Sabha Member of Parliament M.V.V. Satyanarayana on Wednesday. President of the chapter Bayana Srinivasa Rao, treasurer Ch. Govinda Raju, former president Peela Koteswara Rao and executive committee member P. Narasimha Rao were present.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU exams postponed||The term-end examinations of Indira Gandhi National Open University scheduled to begin from June 1 have been postponed. The revised schedule will be decided later, Vice-Chancellor Nageswar Rao said. Students should be prepared to take the examination at a short notice of at least 15 days, he said. The last date for submission of exam forms has been extended to May 31.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP slams govt. for resuming sale of liquor||BJP State secretary S. Kasi Viswanatha Raju on Wednesday criticised the State government for its decision to reopen liquor shops across the State. “Instead of using the opportunity provided by the COVID-19 lockdown to lead people towards deaddiction, the YSRCP Government resorted to selling liquor by throwing caution to the winds,” Mr. Raju said. “Opening the liquor shops has become a mere revenue-earning source on the lines of private operators hiking bus fares during holiday season or petty traders jacking up prices during festivals, showing the government’s irresponsibility and lack of experience,” he said. The money given with one hand in the ‘Amma Vodi’ programme was taken away with the other by selling liquor at exorbitant prices, he said.
07 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC sets up 24x7 call centres||The GVMC 24x7 call centres can be reached on 0891-2869127 and toll-free 1800-4250-0009 on which grievances can be registered. Contact: Executive Engineer (9951532875) for Zone I, II and Bhimili comprising Tagarapuvalasa, Bhimili, Marikavalasa, Madhurawada, Endada, Arilova, M V P Colony and Waltair from Ward 1 to 18. Executive Engineer (7729995962) for Zones III and IV comprising One Town, Tatichetlapalem, Allipuram, Daba Gardens, Sitampeta, Akkayyapalem, Dondaparti, Madhavadhara, Muralinagar, Kancharapalem, Marripalem and Prahladapuram (Wards 19 to 49). Executive Engineer (8187898428) for Zone V, VI and Anakapalli comprising Sheelanagar, Nathayyapalem, BHPV, Aganampudi, Gopalapatnam, Simhachalam, Pendurti and Anakapalli (Wards 50 to 72).
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tamil Nadu reports record 771 new cases in a single day||Andhra Pradesh reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 60 fresh cases on Wednesday, while Kerala had no new cases. In Telangana, 11 more tested positive for the virus, while in Karnataka, 20 new cases were detected. With seven more people recovering from the disease, Kerala had 30 patients undergoing COVID-19 treatment, 18 of them in Kannur district. Of the 502 cases reported in Kerala, 469 had recovered. Eight districts — Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram — currently had no COVID-19 patients. The number of those under surveillance came down to 14,670, of which 268 were in isolation wards in hospitals while the rest were on home quarantine. Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said that of the 34,599 samples the State had tested (including the 3,000-plus augmented survey samples), 34,063 were negative. Of the 2,947 samples collected from selected priority groups in the population, 2,147 samples were negative. There were 89 hotspots in the State and no new ones were declared. Focus on two districts In Andhra Pradesh the 60 fresh cases included 13 natives of other States after 7,782 samples were tested, taking the tally to 1,777. One patient each in Kurnool and Krishna districts succumbed to the disease, a bulletin from the Health Department said. The toll stood at 36 and 729 people had recovered, leaving 1,012 active patients under treatment. Also, 140 patients were discharged after recovery, the first time such a large number were declared recovered in a day. Among those who recovered, 61 were from Krishna district and 39 from Kurnool. Twenty patients were discharged in Chittoor, 10 in Anantapur, four in East Godavari, two each in Prakasam and West Godavari and one each in Guntur and Kadapa. Meanwhile, most new cases were from the worst-hit districts of Kurnool (17), Krishna (14) and Guntur (12). Visakhapatnam had two new cases and Kadapa and East Godavari one case each. In the case tally, 12 natives of Gujarat and one of Karnataka were included. The district tallies were: Kurnool (533), Guntur (363), Krishna (300), Nellore (92), Kadapa (90), Chittoor (82), Anantapur (80), Prakasam (61), West Godavari (59), East Godavari (46), Visakhapatnam (39) and Srikakulam (5) and other State cases (27). A total of 1,41,274 tests had been conducted so far and the positivity rate was 1.26%, the recovery rate 41.02% and mortality rate was 2.02%. In Karnataka, with 20 new cases on Wednesday, the total rose to 693. Of the 20 new, 13 were from one location, Badami in Bagalkot. Except in one patient who had Influenza Like Illness (ILI), the infection had spread to 12 others from one patient in Badami, an official bulletin said. While three others were from Dakshina Kannada, two were from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Kalaburagi and Vijayapura. In Bengaluru Urban, two cases, of a 40-year-old female and a 25-year-old male, who were contacts of a 45-year-old male patient with ILI were reported. An official said the 25-year-old man was working as a delivery boy in an e-commerce firm, but was at home for the past two months without work. His father was a contact of a patient who tested positive last week. Mangala Hospital in Yeshwantpur was sealed after a woman under treatment for dengue tested positive. She was shifted to a designated hospital.  Tamil Nadu reported a record 771 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Wednesday, with three districts - Chennai, Ariyalur and Cuddalore - accounting for 78% of total cases. With this latest spike, the State’s total number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 4,829. Two more persons died of COVID-19 in Chennai, taking the total number of deaths in the State to 35. A total of 13,413 samples were tested today; the highest till date. Testing of 871 samples was under process. With the emergence of the Koyambedu cluster, each day’s new cases were surpassing the previous day’s high. Additionally, more districts were reporting new cases in the last few days. (With inputs from Vijayawada, Karnataka, and Chennai)
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State, Centre differ on period of quarantine||The Union and State governments do not appear to be on the same page on the enforcement of quarantine norms for Non-Resident Indians (NRI) who are returning home from Thursday. A section of Health Department staff believe that this could turn out to be problematic. The Kerala government has declared that those returning from abroad would have to be on a mandatory seven-day quarantine at State-controlled facilities irrespective of their COVID-19 infection status or age. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) released by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday night, however, says the returnees would have to give an undertaking that they are willing to undergo institutional quarantine for a minimum of two weeks at their own cost. They would also have to submit results of the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RC-PCR) test to the Indian missions where they have registered themselves.  Symptomatic cases The SOP says that symptomatic passengers would be immediately taken to a medical facility and the remaining persons to the institutional quarantine to be arranged by the State government. If they test negative after 14 days, they will be allowed to go home and undertake self-monitoring of their health for another two weeks as per protocol. The State government, however, is planning to conduct RC-PCR test on them in seven days. Those who test positive would be hospitalised and people who test negative can go home. They can be in home quarantine only for another week. The health authorities here claim that the State’s containment protocol has to be changed against the backdrop of the Centre’s decision not to conduct medical check-up at the point of departure of the NRIs. The authorities here are planning to follow the same protocol for people returning from 10 other States classified as intense disease transmission zones and those coming back through sea ports. “It may take at least 6 to 7 days or more for the virus to show up in the lab test. Around 30% to 40 % of people who test negative within seven days may test positive subsequently,” says a senior official, who does not wish to be quoted. Also, a small section of people may take longer time to test positive for the virus, he adds, pointing out that any lapses may lead to the situation going out of control. In his press meet, the Chief Minister claimed that the decision on seven-day quarantine was taken based on a suggestion by experts.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Utilising lockdown norms||
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clinging on||
07 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Adivasis name new village after former District Collector||The aboriginal tribes in former composite Adilabad invariably acknowledge a good deed and they do so in their own unique traditional ways. But naming a village after a benefactor has never been a part of thanksgiving of the Adivasis, like what has been done by the 20 Thotti tribal families of Chinchughat in Adilabad rural mandal. The Thotties have named their resettlement colony Divyaguda after D. Divya, the previous District Collector of Adilabad who was instrumental in allocating a piece of land for the purpose. This is a rare honour which has eluded even the likes of the legendary Austrian anthropologist Christoph von Furer-Haimendorf, who is considered to be the biggest benefactor of ethnic tribes in these parts. The researcher has a street named after him in Marlavai village in Jainoor mandal of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district where he was based during his period of anthropological studies on the Raj Gonds and other tribes during the 1940s decade. The other instance of a place being named after an individual is naming Asifabad district itself after the legendary tribal martyr Kumram Bheem but, that was done by the government in his honour. According to Sethu Madhav Rao Pagdi, a former civil servant who wrote about the naming of Gond villages in Adilabad in his book Among the Gonds of Adilabad , ethnic tribes named them after trees, fruits, birds and animals. There is no recorded instance where a habitation was named after an individual. “We are grateful to her for solving our long pending problem by allocating alternative house sites. Our homes used to get waterlogged during the rainy season when the Gundamloddi checkdam overflowed,” recalled the elderly Thotti bard Kumra Lingu, of the reason for thanking Ms. Divya. The present Collector A. Sridevasena visited the new colony of temporary structures a few days back in connection with distributing COVID-19 relief. She promised the tribals, who are ethnic bards categorised as Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group owing to their utterly poor and backward condition, of providing all facilities in the new hamlet like power and drinking water. “The Collector has also assured us of getting 2BHK houses constructed on the sites,” pointed out Kudmetha Maruthi, a villager who was just through with laying corrugated tin roof on his hut. Each family has spent about Rs. 30,000 for erecting the new temporary homes and appealed for construction of houses at the earliest.
07 May 2020||DOLLARA (ADILABAD DIST.),TELANGANA||Vehicle with expired plasma denied entry||Authorities manning the check-post on the border between Telangana and Maharashtra on NH-44 at Dollara village in Adilabad district, late on Tuesday, refused entry into the State of a vehicle carrying nearly 200 litres of expired blood plasma to an unnamed pharmaceutical company in Hyderabad. The vehicle that was coming from a private blood bank in Yavatmal district headquarters in the neighbouring State had 1,043 bags of plasma, which was a Government of India supply and not for sale, manufactured in March 2018 and expired in February 2020. The vehicle was intercepted and checked for proper documents for entering Telangana State at the check-post. “The driver could not produce proper documents or the name of the consignee. So we did not allow him inside our State with the dead material in the shape of plasma,” said Adilabad DSP N.S.V. Venkateshwar Rao. “The authorities could have stumbled upon a racket involving blood banks and pharma companies. There is a lot of talk on finding a cure for COVID-19 using the plasma of cured patients,” observed a suspicious staffer at the check-post as he talked of his suspicion. DMHO Thodasam Chandu conceded there was something wrong as the plasma was not being carried in a cold chain either, as per the protocol. Pathologist and former DMHO Rajeev Raju opined that it could either have been destined for some biomedical waste disposal unit in Hyderabad or for research. “Transporting biomedical waste without proper documents is in violation of the Biomedical Waste Management Rules,” Dr. Raju pointed out. Needless to say use of expired plasma in research is also a crime.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR for strict regulation in city, border areas to contain spread||Strict regulatory measures must be enforced in Hyderabad and its surrounding areas where coronavirus is severe, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao instructed officials. Apart from Hyderabad, vigil should be maintained in the border villages of Kurnool and Guntur districts, he said at a review meeting on COVID-19 and implementation of lockdown at Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday. He said that coronavirus and its spread was under control in the State except Hyderabad and its surrounding districts. All new positive cases that were being registered are from Hyderabad, Medchal, Rangareddy and Vikarabad districts. Thus, officers should focus more on these districts. Anybody with COVID symptoms should be tested and treated immediately. If required, treatment should be extended and all the contacts of the positive patient should be traced and quarantined. “Enforce strict measures so that nobody from Hyderabad goes out and outsiders do not enter the city. Police officers, medical and health department officers and IAS officers must be appointed as special officers to monitor this. Let the whole of Hyderabad be surrounded and monitored by them. This is how the virus will be eliminated,” he said. “Special officers should be appointed in villages close to the borders of Kurnool town and Guntur district and movement of people across the borders should be strictly regulated. The coronavirus did not originate from here and it came from outside. The more effective regulation of movement of people is, the better will be the containment of virus,” the Chief Minister added.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flat owners in city divided over entry of maids||To allow or not to allow maids inside the buildings is the question faced by residents of many apartment buildings here in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic. A considerable number have strictly barred entry of maids, apparently apprehensive that it might lead to spread of the virus. For example, some flat owners in a complex in Gandhinagar said they cannot manage without maids as they had undergone a surgery or were facing health problems. “We cannot attend to our daily chores without a worker. We will ensure the maid complies with all precautions,” a flat owner argued in the association meeting. But others outright opposed the request saying entry of outsiders would put the occupants, especially senior citizens with lesser immunity, at risk. “Hence, we decided to go for an opinion poll among the 150 apartment owners,” said Siddamshetty Himasai Heights flat owners association secretary C. Ravinder Reddy. The association sent paper slips door to door to collect opinions of all flat owners in the complex and decide as per verdict of majority. In another complex in Ameerpet, flat owners refused entry to vehicle drivers. “Fortunately, we don’t have any family with serious health issues. There are some senior citizens but they have decided to do the cleaning work on their own,” a flat owner said. In another building in Srilakshminagar of Manikonda, occupants have stopped using the elevator. “Even to go up to the fifth floor, they are using the staircase. They are worried about contracting the virus through touching of doors and lift buttons,” one of the residents said. Some flat owners are so cautious that they don’t want the milkman, garbage collectors or any outsider to come close to their main door. A housewife living with her two children keeps money in a box abutting the steel grill of her flat’s main door. If money is to be paid to someone, she moves the box towards the locked grill. The person receiving money inserts his/her hand through the gap in the grill and collect the currency notes. This was one way of maintaining physical distance and avoiding contact with outsiders.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RGI Airport gears up to receive stranded nationals||The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) is all set to be in a new avatar for the expected evacuated nationals from other countries in the next few days and for domestic flights whenever they are allowed to operate by the State government post lockdown. Common use self service kiosks making use of mobiles, automatic hand sanitisers at hygiene stations for frequent washing at different points across the terminal, contact-less drinking water facility, hands-free elevator control with foot pedals, automatic scrubbing of escalators, and cleaning handrails at various places, for passenger safety are getting ready. This is apart from the mandatory social distancing markings at all points — seating, security checks, retail, baggage, counters, boarding buses and other places — along with acrylic glass shields in counters to separate passengers from security personnel, who will also be sporting full body protection suits, especially during screening, informed an official spokesman on Wednesday. Passengers will have to use web check-in before arriving and contact-less terminal entry system is put in place to avoid any possible contact with security personnel. Temperature screening with automated thermal cameras will be done at all entry points, self check-ins and self bag drops are going to be the norm. Airport authorities have fine-tuned the exercise of frequent sanitisation and disinfection of trays, metal detectors and monitors as well as seats, aero-bridges and boarding gates after every departure. Thermal screening is mandatory for those arriving too, using temperature screeners and thermal screening cameras. Self-declaration forms will be taken for a record of passengers’ travel history, health status and contact details. A dedicated waiting room has been provided if a passenger is found symptomatic. Separate designated areas of bus entry, baggage reclaim and thermal screening have been put in place for arrivals from countries with transmission, he said.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrant workers continue to register to go home||Migrant workers continued to pour into Hitex and other centres on Wednesday so as to register themselves with the police, hoping to return to their States. As was seen a day before, most of these migrant workers hail from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha and have been either working as daily-wage earners, cooks in restaurants, security guards, besides other vocations. Several workers arrived early in the morning to beat the long queues. Vinod Saha, a migrant worker from Cuttack in Odisha, who has been working in a restaurant for nearly two years, said that he arrived at the gate around 4.30 a.m. while Vijay Jana from Midnapore, showing his ‘Movement Pass for Railway Station’ said that he arrived around 4 a.m. Some of the migrant workers said that they are confused with the procedures and are expecting to be informed when the Shramik trains would leave for their home States and from which station. Scores of others converged at Sandhya Convention Centre in Gachibowli. Occasionally, migrant workers were breaching social distancing norms after which police intervened and ensured that there was space between them. Much like Tuesday, police organised registrations at the Jubilee Hills Metro Station where a number of migrant workers gathered.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR runs 10 more migrant specials from State||South Central Railway (SCR) has made plans to run 10 or more migrant special trains from Wednesday night to early on Thursday morning from Telangana and at least three from Andhra Pradesh. Passengers of these trains would be determined by the respective State governments and most of these trains will be starting from suburban stations of Hyderabad-Secunderabad and Vijayawada, top railway officials informed. Earlier, the zone had run 13 trains or Shramik specials — 11 from TS and two from AP — carrying up to 13,533 migrant workers to northern states starting from Tuesday night till early hours of Wednesday. About 11,761 passengers from TS and 1,772 from AP travelled in these 24 coach trains escorted by the railway police. These special trains were run amidst Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressing his disappointment with the railways for collecting migrant worker fare during a press conference. Highly placed railway sources, on condition of anonymity, revealed that Rs. 97 lakh was received from both the governments for running the trains. The TS government has announced that it is footing the bill but we are not aware if the AP government is doing the same, they said. The first migrant train was from Ghatkesar that began its journey to Bhagalpur in Bihar and another from Rayanapadu near Vijayawada in AP started towards Wadsa in Maharastra at about 10 p.m. The other 11 trains began their respective journeys between 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. The second train from Ghatkesar started towards Tatanagar in Jharkhand, two other trains started from Bibinagar towards Gaya in Bihar and Habeebgunj in Madhya Pradesh. Three migrant specials moved towards Dharbanga and Bhagalpur in Bihar, and Gorakhpur in UP. Two other trains started from Cherlapalli towards Sitamarhi in Bihar and Barabanki in UP. One migrant special train each started from Medchal towards Patni in UP and another from Bollarum to Jodhpur in Rajasthan. From AP, a migrant train was run from Kurnool towarrds Bharuni in Bihar. Passengers were registered by the State governments and were thermal screened before being allowed entry into stations and trains. The governments (of the two states) provided them with food and drinking water, while we took take care of it during the journey along with security. Social distancing was maintained in the seating arrangements by removing the middle berths, explained senior railway officials. Meanwhile, the second migrant special that took workers to Khagaria in Bihar is expected to return on Thursday morning but railway officials are clueless whether it is carrying any stranded person from TS.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Why the stock was audited||When Telangana Prohibition and Excise officials audited liquor stock available at wine shops across the State on Tuesday, majority of the officials and the store owners did not have a clear idea of reasons for the exercise. Though speculation was thick such as cross checking to determine if the stock on the last day before lockdown (March 21) and on Tuesday was the same, they got clarity on Tuesday midnight when detailed instructions were issued. The prices of liquor were increased by a maximum of 16%. Since existing stock at wine shops too was sold at hiked prices, the difference in MRP has to be paid to the State government. So knowing the amount of stock available at wine shops was needed. The reason was not revealed to officials or staff till Tuesday night. “Though there were speculations about reasons for auditing, we did not have confirmed information. We got clarity after instructions were issued in the night. We noted down stock available with them after sales on March 2, the last day before lockdown. Licensees have to pay difference amount on the existing stock,” said an official from the department. President of Telangana Wine Dealers Association D Venkateshwara Rao said they would pay the amount after officials informed them. “We continue to get old profit on the existing and new stock. There are no further benefits to licensee when sold at higher prices. The sales will be high till Sunday. They might come down from Monday as people out of work do not have money,” Mr Rao said. Price hike An additional Rs. 20 is charged on pint of beer, and Rs. 30 more on 650 ml bottle. In case of Indian Made Liquor (IML) or foreign liquor such as whisky, vodka, rum and others, the liquor is divided into three categories: a) Ordinary b) Premium c) Scotch. Depending on the category and quantity in bottle, such as 90ml or 375 ml, additional prices are charged. For instance, 90 or 180 ml bottles of premium IML is sold at excess of Rs. 30, 375 ml at Rs. 60 more, and additional Rs. 120 is collected on 750 ml bottle of premium IML. Compared to other States, people opined that the crowd in Hyderabad that waited in queues for liquor was disciplined. Excise officials said that numerous shops present in the city was one of the reasons for it. “People got distributed to various shops rather than crowding at one place. In some other States, the wine shops are owned by State governments and the stores are less in number, leading to crowding. This got avoided in the city. Besides, every one here knew that there will be repercussions if they indulgence in violence,” an official said.
07 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM had forgotten decency: Congress||Stung by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s attack on the party, Telangana Congress reacted sharply and said the Chief Minister had forgotten decency and claimed the abusive language was to divert attention from his failures. “The language used by the Chief Minister will never be used by any person sitting on that chair in India and they would consider it an insult to the party that gave Telangana,” TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said at a press conference here. Senior Congress leaders Ponnam Prabhakar, Marri Shashidhar Reddy, V. Hanmantha Rao, M. Kodanda Reddy, Gudur Narayan Reddy were among those present. The TPCC chief said that he was surprised by the language and tone and tenor of KCR while attacking the Congress for raising the problems of migrant labourers, farmers and mishandling of the coronavirus issue. “If the Chief Minister is cutting salaries of employees but paying the contractors fully should we keep quiet?” he asked, alleging that in March crores of rupees were released for contractors when the State was under lockdown. Repeating all the harsh and insulting words used by the Chief Minister, Mr. Reddy said during 30 years of his political career he had not seen any Chief Minister stooping down to such a low level. He said it was unfortunate that a person who began his career as a ‘passport broker’ was calling Congress leaders ‘brokers’. “What would you call a person who went on record in Assembly that coronavirus could be treated with a paracetamol tablet?” he asked. Mr. Reddy challenged the Chief Minister to come with him to Chattisgarh, Rajasthan and Punjab to study the procurement of farmers’ produce rather than making baseless allegations without stepping out from his palatial buildings. “You don’t even have figures of migrant workers in the State and you claim to have helped them,” he said. The TPCC chief wanted to know why the Chief Minister was getting agitated if representatives of some small parties meet the Chief Secretary to raise public issues.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Alcohol consumption does not prevent or cure COVID-19||If you believe that alcohol consumption is a shield against the novel coronavirus, you are not the first to hold the troubling misconception. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has stated that consumption of alcohol does not provide any protection against COVID-19. WHO Regional Office for Europe has released a fact sheet which explicitly states that consumption of alcohol does not provide protection against the virus or prevent a person from being infected. As on date, there is no vaccine or medicine to cure the infectious disease. Scientists and researchers across the world are striving hard to find the drugs. Debunking the myth about alcohol as means of protection or prevention against COVID-19, the Europe Office stated that consumption of alcohol is associated with a range of communicable and non-communicable diseases and mental health disorders, which can make a person more vulnerable to COVID-19. “In particular, alcohol compromises the body’s immune system and increases the risk of adverse health outcomes. Alcohol (at a concentration of at least 60% by volume) works as a disinfectant on your skin, but it has no such effect within your system when ingested,” it states. In its myth vs facts section, WHO Regional Office for Europe clarifies, “Consumption of alcohol will not kill the virus in the inhaled air; it will not disinfect your mouth and throat; and it will not give you any kind of protection against COVID-19”. Domestic violence The fact sheet also touches upon alcohol’s association with intimate partner violence. It suggests victims of violence confined with the perpetrator at home to have a safety plan if the situation were to escalate. “This includes having a neighbour, friend, relative or shelter to go to in the event that you need to leave the house immediately. If you are under quarantine and need to leave the house immediately, call a local support hotline and reach out to someone you trust,” it suggests. In Telangana, people can call Sakhi call centre’s toll-free number ‘181’ to report domestic violence. The toll-free number is managed by the State Women and Child Welfare department.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Day 1 witnesses Rs. 45-crore liquor sale||In what could be a coincidence, exactly 45 days after sale of liquor was allowed amid COVID-19 outbreak, Telangana witnessed brisk sale of Rs. 45 crore on a single day on Wednesday. All the 2,220 shops in the State opened to huge crowds of people to buy their choicest brands. Realising that the stocks would not last even till the evening, wine shop licensees rushed to the Telangana State Beverages Corporation Limited depots to get replenishment. “While all the retailers had stock worth Rs. 45 crore prior to the lockdown, they purchased stocks worth Rs. 45 crore today alone in view of the rush,” said Dalavai Venkateswara Rao, president, Telangana Wine Dealers Association. The liquor outlets expect the rush to continue till Sunday. Due to server problem, the stocks could not be delivered to the licensees in certain cases as the depots closed around 5 p.m. “The way people are buying liquor it is nothing short of panic buying. It looks as if there will be no sale tomorrow,” Mr. Rao said, pointing out that even brands which were not popular or new were off the shelves in no time. “We used to have certain brands and new products, which would not attract buyers. But today, even that brands vanished from the counters,” he said. For the record, there are 19 TSBCL depots in the State, of which six are located in and around Hyderabad. All these depots have stocks that can last a month. The licensees are also watching the situation and are hopeful that they would get some clarity by Saturday on the trend that could continue in the days to come. The number of distilleries and breweries in Telangana stand at 18, of which 12 are distilleries and six breweries. Mr. Rao said it was altogether a new experience for the liquor outlets in view of the lockdown and strict implementation of social distancing. “We ensured that all the shop employees took proper precautions. We also expect the customers also to respect social distancing. Police officers also did a very good job of controlling the huge crowds outside the shops,” he said.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR urges Centre to relax drug price control norms||Telangana Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao has urged the Centre to expedite Income Tax and Goods and Services Tax (GST) refunds to pharmaceutical companies as a measure to ease the financial burden they are experiencing on account of challenges triggered by COVID-19. Making a set of recommendations, in a letter to Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda on Wednesday, Mr. Rao said though manufacturing plants around the world were limping to resume operations fully, supply chain issues continued to remain and the pharmaceutical industry is experiencing exorbitant increase in input cost of manufacturing. Drug prices “In order to provide interim relief to pharma industry, government of India should relax the price control norms, wherever applicable and allow additional 10% increase in prices above the existing allowance,” he said in one of the recommendations titled ‘Price control relaxation for essential and non-essential medicines.’ “GoI should also consider extending a moratorium on tax payments for the next six months, at least for the MSMEs, to further ease the financial stress,” Mr. Rao said. More than 80% of the firms in the industry are small and medium enterprises. Mr. Rao also wanted the Centre to expedite clearance of incentives under export promotion schemes, provide export incentives and consider lowering the cost of capital for the industry. He said the industry has begun to experience financial burden due to reduced production capacity, shortage of labour, price pressure caused by supply chain issues and maintaining a large skilled workforce on payrolls among the many other deeper issues as a result of COVID-19. Telangana is the largest pharmaceutical hub in the country contributing over 35% of the national production and home to more than 800 Life Sciences companies employing about 1,20,000 people. Elaborating on the financial stress faced by the industry, Mr.Rao said the cost of operations has increased tremendously owing to the increased cost of raw materials, inputs, logistics, reduced capacities and interim measures to comply with the lockdown guidelines. He wanted the Centre to reduce GST on active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) to 12% from 18%.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AP plans to divert 6-8 tmc ft water a day from Srisailam||Andhra Pradesh Government has stoked a fresh controversy in the matter of Krishna waters utilisation by planning to divert a whopping quantity of 6 tmc ft to 8 tmc ft water a day from Srisailam reservoir by increasing the water drawal capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator to about 80,000 cusecs (5 tmc ft a day) and another 3 tmc ft from one more point. According to an order issued by Andhra Pradesh on May 5, the government has given administrative approval for the works pertaining to the diversion with an estimated cost of Rs. 6,829.15 crore. Drawal capacity Although, the Pothireddypadu head regulator has the water drawal capacity of 42,000 cusecs officially, it has practically proved that over 55,000 cusecs of water could be drawn from the system. The diversion of Krishna at about 8 tmc ft a day has been planned with Rayalaseema Lift Scheme to draw and utilise 3 tmc ft a day from Sangameswaram to Srisailam Right Main Canal (SRMC) at 4 km from Pothireddypadu head regulator with an approach channel, lift system and infrastructure for pumping station. Upgrading Another component proposed as part of the diversion is upgrading canal system from Pothireddypadu head regulator and a pumping station complex from the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir. It also includes widening of approach channel, improvements to old Pothireddypadu head regulator, lining to SRMC, a pool pond, installation of gates to Telugu Ganaga Project, escape channel and Srisailam Right Branch Canal (SRBC) and a loop canal to connect SRBC to escape channel. Lining of existing SRBC and Galeru-Nagari Sujala Sravanthi Canal up to berm level to draw 30,000 cusecs up to Gorakallu balancing reservoir, construction of additional in-fall regulator with three vents to carry 10,000 cusecs water including an approach channel and leading channel for Gorakallu and lining of SRBC/GNSS canal to draw 30,000 cusecs between Gorakallu and Owk reservoirs in Kurnool district also included the proposed works to divert huge quantity of Krishna water. Meanwhile, Telangana Retired Engineers Association has opposed the AP’s plans and termed them undermining the riparian rights and interests of Telangana by the work amounting to diversion of a river itself. President of the association S. Chandramouli and general secretary M. Shyam Prasad Reddy said plan to divert about 1.15 lakh cusecs from one river basin to another. The Telangana government, however, has not reacted on it stating that the Government Order and its repercussions and its implications on Telangana would be studied before taking a stand and working out a strategy.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pilgrims stranded in Rajasthan to be brought home soon||Telangana High Court on Wednesday asked the State government as to what steps it is taking to bring back 107 pilgrims of the State who are stranded in Sirohi of Rajasthan due to the nationwide lockdown. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL petition seeking a direction to bring home the stranded pilgrims, directed the government to file counter affidavit by Friday. A lawyer, K. Ramakanth Reddy, wrote a letter to the HC stating that 107 pilgrims from Telangana had gone to Shantivan Prajapita Brahma Kumari Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya in Sirohi of Rajasthan to attend a spiritual retreat. However, they are stranded there for over the past six weeks due to lockdown. On April 29, the Centre had permitted inter-State movement of stranded persons. While 1,200 pilgrims of Maharashtra were allowed to go back to their places, those from Telangana could not be brought back, the lawyer said in his letter. Taking up the latter as PIL petition, the bench asked Advocate General B.S. Prasad about the status of 107 stranded pilgrims. The AG told the bench that authorities already contacted their counterparts in Rajasthan. All the pilgrims of the State would be brought home safely at the earliest, he assured. In another PIL plea over conditions in old-age homes in twin cities, lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj, who was appointed as amicus curiae, sought one month time to file a detailed report. The lawyer informed the bench that she could not visit the old-age homes due to lockdown. The bench asked her to file a detailed report on the matter by June 10. The HC had taken up a letter written by Telangana Legal Services Authority member secretary over lack of basic amenities in old-age homes in general and Mamatha Old Age Home of Nagaram specifically as PIL petition. The old age home in Nagaram had only two toilets for 52 inmates in a block of two double bedroom houses, the letter said.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nepali immigrants in dire straits||Rajkumar Bhangre has never been so distressed. A resident of Bhongir, he had spinal injury in an accident which has rendered him partially immobile. His wife suffered fractures in her leg, leaving her disabled for life. They are dependent on their two teen-aged boys who worked as helpers in hotels to run the household. Now both of them lost their livelihood owing to lockdown, which has pushed the family into destitution. Despite their condition, they could not benefit from any of the reliefs announced by either the Central or the State government for the below poverty line population owing to their nationality. Rajkumar and his wife are immigrants from Nepal who arrived in Telangana about 12 years ago in search of livelihood. They moved from town to town before finally finding a home in Bhongir. “We begged our neighbours, and got 5 kilograms of rice. Recently, there was a rumour that the police were distributing rations, hearing which my children ran there. But the police beat them up for violating lockdown,” Rajkumar rued. He is not alone in his predicament though. Bhongir alone has around 150 Nepali immigrants who have lost livelihood, yet unable to get any help owing to their nationality, says Human Rights Forum (HRF), which has addressed a letter to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar about this. Attempts by HRF to reach out to the community with rations have failed. “Our nearest volunteers are about 30 to 40 kilometers away, and could not reach the location despite the best of the efforts due to stringent lockdown restrictions,” Syed Bilal, a volunteer from Hyderabad informed. Hyderabad too is home to about 1,000 Nepali immigrants, employed in odd jobs as drivers, cooks at fast food joints, helpers in hotels, security guards, and others. Several women work as domestic help. Residing in areas such as Banjara Hills, AC Guards, First Lancer, Mallepally, Shantinagar, Vijay Nagar Colony, Secunderabad, Rasoolpura, Begumpet, Minister Road, East Marredpally, Parsigutta, Hitech City, Gachibowli, Kukatpally and Lingampally, none of them have received any help from the government. Most of them have stayed here for a minimum of 10 years, and rarely ever returned to Nepal. “I came here after marriage 18 years ago. My mother and brother too stay here, so I have never really felt the need to go back. But the lockdown is pretty hard on us now,” says Radha Bishwakarma, who ekes out her living as domestic help after her husband’s death. She is not getting paid for the lockdown period, and has three children to look after. Anita, who is resident of Malakpet says her father who is a driver and mother, a housekeeper, are not getting salaries during the lockdown. “We got ration a few times through charity, but they did not last for many days. There are hundreds of Nepalis like us who have no wherewithal to survive the lockdown,” she says.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Engineers welcome CM’s opposition to changes in Electricity Act||The All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has expressed gratitude to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for raising voice against the Electricity (Amendment) Bill. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, federation chairman Shailendra Dubey and secretary general P. Rathnakar Rao said on Wednesday that as rightly pointed out by the former, the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act, if passed in Parliament, would vest the powers of appointing regulatory commissions and subsidies to the consumers in the hands of Central government, although electricity is in the concurrent list and is a State subject. Apprehensions expressed by Mr. Rao are correct and it would be hard to imagine as to what would happen to farmers and common consumers if the power distribution is privatised, as proposed in the amendments, the power engineers said. “Power engineers across the country feel very much overwhelmed with your statement that Telangana government would strongly oppose the draconian bill in the Parliament,” they said in the letter. The AIPEF is federation of all power engineers’ bodies in the State Power Utilities, Central Electricity Authority, Damodar Valley Corporation and Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB). We appreciate Mr. Rao’s vision and planning in improving the power generation capacity and expanding transmission and distribution network to provide 24×7 power supply to all consumers and free power to agriculture sector in Telangana. On behalf of AIPEF, we express our heartfelt gratitude and thank you for taking a bold decision to oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 in larger public interest, particularly in the interest of farmers, common consumers, power utilities and employees,” Mr. Dubey and Mr. Rathnakar Rao said.
07 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||11 test positive in Telangana||Rise in COVID cases continued in the State with 11 more testing positive for the virus on Wednesday. The total number of affected persons stood at 1,107 in the State. No deaths were reported during the day and the number of people succumbing to the virus remained at 29. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area continued to contribute to the positive cases with all the 11 cases reported during the day being from the GHMC jurisdiction. Ten out of the 20 persons discharged from the hospitals were from the GHMC taking the total number of persons to 648. The total number of active cases in the State as on Wednesday was 430, according to the bulletin released by the Public Health and Family Welfare department. Three districts - Warangal (Rural), Yadadri-Bhongir and Wanaparthy - maintained their record as districts with zero incidence. The number of districts reporting zero cases for the last two weeks also increased to 22 with officials exuding confidence that the number was set to rise further in the coming days.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Russian cargo plane lands||RGIA handled its first ever commercial cargo service from Russia with the landing of Aeroflot Airlines, flag carrier and largest airline of the country, on Tuesday. The freighter came from Moscow at 11.17 a.m. and departed on Wednesday midnight. This is the first time a commercial B777 P to C flight landed here to take pharmaceuticals to Moscow.
07 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||230 buses pressed into service||The Telangana Road Transport Corporation on Wednesday pressed into service as approximately 230 buses to transport migrant workers to railways stations in Lingampally and Ghatkesar. According to TSRTC officials, while more than 600 buses were kept on standby on Tuesday, around 426 were used to transport migrants. The corporation began to receive fresh requisitions from the police around Wednesday afternoon. “So far we can say around 230 buses will be used to take migrants to railway stations. The requisitions may increase and we will have to act accordingly by increasing buses,” a TSRTC official said.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man held on charge of sexual assault||A 24-year-old man was on Tuesday arrested by Chaderghat police on charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl. The accused, Shakeel, who was known to the 16-year-old, had raped her repeatedly. On Wednesday, he was caught red-handed.
07 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Follow Buddha’s path :CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that the path of compassion, peace and truth as preached by Goutham Buddha should always be adhered to by people of Telangana. He said this in a message on the occasion of Buddha Jayanti.
07 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SCCL donates Rs.40 crore to CMRF||Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has donated Rs. 40 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to support the government in its measures to curb the spread of coronavirus and help the poor affected by the lockdown. SCCL Chairman and Managing Director N.Sridhar handed over a cheque to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragati Bhavan here on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Lalitha Jewellers donated Rs. 1 crore to the CMRF. CMD M. Kiran Kumar handed over the cheque to Mr. Rao.
07 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||AIDWA stages protest||Irked over liquor outlets opening amid the lockdown, activists of AIDWA staged a protest on the premises of the Association’s district office here on Wednesday demanding immediate closure of all liquor shops to protect public health in these difficult times. The activists led by AIDWA district secretary M Bharathi displayed placards condemning the reopening of liquor shops at a time the deadly coronavirus threat is still looming large over the State. Speaking after the small protest attended by a few activists, the AIDWA State vice-president B Hymavathi alleged that the government was bent on minting money out of alcohol business thereby exacerbating health and financial vulnerabilities. The government should order closure of all liquor outlets, she demanded.
07 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||TSRTC ferries 21 Bihar students home||As many as 21 students from Bihar, who had been stranded in the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) at Palair in Kusumanchi mandal for over 40 days due to coronavirus lockdown, returned to their homes in a hired bus from Palair on Wednesday. All the 21 students, including 15 boys and six girls, had studied Class IX in the Palair-based JNV as part of the student-exchange programme aimed at fostering national integration. Responding to an appeal made by the JNV principal Koteshwara Rao, Collector R V Karnan facilitated the return journey of the stranded Bihar students by arranging a hired bus of the TSRTC, sources said. All the 21 stranded students had left for Muzaffarpur district in the special bus on a long journey from the JNV premises in Palair on Wednesday afternoon. As many as four staff members of the residential school, including DVN Rao, mathematics teacher at the Palair-based JNV, accompanied them in the bus to ensure hassle-free journey across the inter-State borders. According to sources, the transportation expenditure will be borne by the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti.
07 May 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Kondapochamma canal work commences||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon farmers to spare land for the construction of canals and reservoirs stating that the government is committed to provide irrigation to the last acre. Along with Collector K. Dharma Reddy, MLA M Padma Devender Reddy, the Minister formally commenced Kondapochamma canal work at Nalapur village in Nizampet mandal on Wednesday. He said the will release compensation amount for farmers within one week.
07 May 2020||Vadapalli (NALGONDA DT.),TELANGANA||Brakes on onward journey of migrants at AP-TS border||Lack of coordination between the Telangana police and their Andhra Pradesh counterparts is visible at the Vadapalli inter-State border. The former maintain that passes issued by them are not being accepted by those on the other side of the border, while AP police say they cannot accept any passes other than those issued by the DGP office. Hundreds of migrants are caught up in this impasse, endlessly waiting in long queues under the scorching sun. “The situation went almost out of control on Monday with more than a thousand people waiting, and then SP Ranganath intervened. Talks were held with AP top officials, but they were adamant. They are violating Central guidelines on moving stranded people,” says Miryalaguda rural inspector A. Ramesh Babu, in-charge of the check-post operation with his team of 50 personnel. Revenue and medical teams, which record entries into Telangana, also recollected the extreme situation. “At least 300 people took the river Krishna route and walked through knee-high water to reach parts of AP,” they said. Since May 2 until Tuesday, a total of about 1,100 people have entered Telangana from AP. “Most of them are workers, then there are people with health and family emergencies. Numbers of those belonging to other States are not recorded,” field officials said. However, about 200 metres ahead on the other side, the situation is calm. “We have a DSP-rank official who supervises the DG control, and the Principal Secretary, who recommend letters for inter-State migration and emergency transfers. And we accept returning population from Telangana only if they are recommended by the DGP office or the Principal Secretary. This has been the clear instruction in the past 45 days,” says Repalle rural inspector G. Srinivasa Rao, in-charge of the check-post on AP side. “The biggest problem from Telangana side is that most of the returnees to AP come with recommendation letters issued by SP, DSP, Tahsildar and even inspectors. We cannot accept those as per instructions; there should be wider awareness about it in Telangana,” he said. However, the rules are flexible in situations involving women in their ninth month of pregnancy and close family members in case of death.  At least 300 people took the river Krishna route and walked through knee-high water to reach parts of AP. Revenue and Medical teams
07 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT,TELANGANA||Long queues at liquor shops||Long queues were seen at retail wine shops as they were opened near one-and-half months after lockdown. The increase in price did not deter buyers who arrived three hours before the shops were opened across the city here on Wednesday. Speaking to The Hindu , Excise Superintendent of Warangal Rural district, P Srinivas said there are 258 retail wine shops across the erstwhile Warangal district. There are 59 shops in Warangal urban district, 56 in Warangal rural district, 43 in Jangaon district, 52 in Mahabubabad district and 48 in combined Bhupapally and Mulugu districts. The sale of liquor per day from these retail outlets is around Rs. 150 crore per day and now it may be around Rs. 170 crore as the price was hiked by 16 per cent by the State government. The Excise department in collaboration with the police department took adequate measures to ensure law and order at these shops on Wednesday. Besides following physical distancing, face masks were made mandatory for customers and sales boys.  Shortage of stock In Adilabad district, long queues were seen in front of liquor retail shops in old united Adilabad district but not all shops had required stock apparently because much of it was sold away during the lockdown. The queues ended by afternoon as most customers purchased liquor in more quantity, but there were always a few customers in front of the shops. New stocks would arrive after the revised price list is circulated for the purpose of filing indents, according to the IMFL Utnoor depot manager Ananthu Srinivas. There was, however, no shortage of beer at present, he said. The sale of liquor in March this year when the lockdown was announced was worth Rs. 50 crore against the Rs. 66 crore worth sales in March 2019. This was due to the 10 days of business lost due to the closure of retail shops and the depot. Women in queues In Sangareddy district, long queues were seen in front of liquor shops from 8 a.m. onwards. Police had a tough time in dealing with the crowds. At several places women were also found waiting in queues to buy liquor and the queues stretched to more than a kilometre at some places.
07 May 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Can’t allow movement on Haryana borders’||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said he has been receiving requests everyday from people wanting to cross the State border with Delhi but he will not give in to any pressure. It will not work with me, he said, adding that the issue was linked to people’s safety. He said Haryana has sealed its border with Delhi as a spike in COVID-19 cases has been witnessed in the past a few days in the State, with most cases being reported from districts adjoining the national capital. Ever since we sealed these borders, I have to deal with many kind of pressures, which people try to put on me. But I am willing to take any kind of pressure because I have to keep people of my state safe, Mr. Vij said. A few days ago, Mr. Vij had issued orders to stop daily movement of people on inter-State borders, especially the Delhi-Gurugram border. Mr. Vij said during the past few days he has been getting phone calls daily as some people try to use their influence after which pressure is put on him to allow certain individuals or some people from a particular department cross the border.  We have also sealed borders Punjab, Himachal, U.P. and Rajasthan. This is our right, we have to protect our people, he said.
07 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Only one domestic help for each house||Clearing the confusion on the entry of domestic helps in housing societies, the district administration of Gautam Buddha Nagar came up with detailed guidelines stating the dos and don’ts for residents, on Wednesday. It said the Resident Welfare Associations could allow/disallow/allow with conditions the entry of domestic helps after discussion with residents. However, it would be mandatory that they could come only from non-containment zones. One house help could work only in one house and RWAs would ensure thermal screening for them. The same guideline would apply for car cleaners and drivers. The washermen would be allowed to collect clothes from multiple houses. The guidelines stated taking walks would not be permitted. Gautam Buddha Nagar didn’t report any positive case on Wednesday. The district has 83 active cases. Ghaziabad reported 12 new cases on Wednesday.
07 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Only half the liquor shops open shutters in Gurugram||Numerous complaints of overcharging were received with the opening of liquor shops in Gurugram on Wednesday, more than a month after they were shut due to the lockdown. However, only half of the vends could open due to the scarcity of staff and stock. The upscale DLF areas recorded low business while long queues were witnessed in Sector 40, South City-I and on Golf Course Extension Road. The vendors ensured that social distancing norms were largely adhered to and did not allow more than four-five customers inside. But there were complaints of overcharging at many places. Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, East Zone, Aruna Singh conceded that there were reports of overcharging. She said no maximum price was fixed for liquor in the State and incidents of overcharging were because of demand-supply mismatch. Ms. Singh said the situation would become normal in a couple of days. Almost half of the 112 vendors opened their shutters in East zone while 26 sites are yet to be auctioned. Auction to resume Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, West Zone, H.C. Dahiya, said only 65 out of the total 106 vends under his jurisdiction opened and 40 sites are yet to be auctioned. “The auction process was suspended midway due to the lockdown in March. It will resume on Thursday,” he said. The officer said that some of the owners struggled due to the scarcity of stock and staff and many had not reached rent agreement for the spaces, forcing them to remain shut. He, however, expressed hope that all the vendors would become operational in the next few days. Meanwhile, DLF areas, including Cyber Cityrecorded poor business due to the closure of the offices and the Cyber Hub. Sanjay of Krishna Wines near Ardee City said that around a hundred customers had come to them enquiring about liquor since morning, but they did not have enough stock. .Waiting for his turn outside a liquor shop on Vikas Marg, Kanishk Sharma said that he was not comfortable paying higher price after waiting in the queue for so long. “But I don’t mind paying extra bucks if the delivery is made at my doorstep,” he quipped. The vend’s manager said the rush was less than expected and the people seemed sceptical about venturing out due to corona threat. Ms. Singh said tenders for liquor vends in Haryana were given for a particular location and therefore online supply of liquor could be allowed only after necessary amendment in the excise policy. “As of now, a vendor is allowed to cater to a particular area only,” said the officer.  I am not comfortable paying higher price after waiting in the queue for so long. But I don’t mind paying extra bucks if the delivery is made at my doorstep Kanishk Sharma A customer
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Doubling time of COVID-19 in Capital is 11 days, says Minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said, “Doubling time of COVID-19 is now 11 days. There was a time when it was 4-4.5 days. If doubling time reaches 20 days, we will be more comfortable. About four days ago, it was 13 days, but now it has decreased as thousands of pending reports are coming.” In a related development, one more area was removed from the “containment zone” list by the Delhi government on Wednesday. A containment zone has a stricter form of lockdown and entry and exit of people are not allowed in these zones and there are 87 such zones in the city. Slams Central govt. Meanwhile, AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said that the Central government was not providing financial assistance to Delhi to fight COVID-19 stating that Delhi is a Union Territory. “The Central government had distributed Rs. 16,500 crore to almost all States, but Delhi was not given a single rupee from the disaster management funds and no BJP leader questioned this,” he said. Also, the Delhi government on Wednesday said that they were taking measures to ensure minimal disruption of immunisation services amid the nationwide lockdown.  Immunisation services “The Delhi government is ensuring immunisation services at functional fixed public facilities and the government has already issued instructions to all the District Immunisation Officers to update the list of children eligible for vaccination who could not be vaccinated due to the lockdown. Birth dose of vaccines [OPV, Hepatitis] and BCG were being given to newborns at all the delivery points even during the lockdown,” an official statement said. A total of 83 people working at Delhi government-run Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, including doctors and nurses, have tested positive till now, said hospital officials on Wednesday.  The Central government had distributed Rs. 16,500 crore to almost all States, but Delhi was not given a single rupee from the disaster management funds Sanjay Singh AAP Rajya Sabha MP
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Passengers from abroad to undergo 2 screenings at IGIA||The Delhi government on Wednesday released guidelines for handling passengers coming from abroad and landing at the city airport. The passengers will have to undergo two screening processes at the airport and will be quarantined at a paid facility for 14 days, the guidelines state. Passengers deboarding a flight will be escorted by airline staff to health counters of the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) for initial thermal screening, where symptomatic passengers would be isolated and moved to designated hospitals. Self-reporting form After screening, the remaining asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to move to the designated immigration counters with passports and a copy of the SRF (Self-Reporting Form). After clearance of immigration, passport of the passengers will be retained by the immigration officials and passengers in batches of 30, will be handed over to an escort team headed by a CISF officer. The passports would be handed over to the team officer and not to the passengers. The team, along with the passengers shall move to the luggage belts to collect the luggage and passengers will proceed further through the Customs. The passengers will then move to the designated triage area manned by Delhi government officials. Here, the passports of the entire batch will be handed over to the medical officer in-charge at the counter. After checks, they will be moved to a paid quarantine facility. The passengers who are not residents of Delhi will be looked after by resident commissioners and nodal officers of their respective States after the screening, including boarding and lodging in Delhi and transportation to their respective States, the guidelines said. The Delhi government spokesperson said that people from Delhi “cannot opt for home quarantine” and will have to undergo “institutional quarantine”, which is a paid quarantine facility.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dwarka society to allow house helps||After a doctor alleged that he was harassed by his housing society in Dwarka and did not allow house helps inside the premises, the society’s management said that domestic helps will be allowed only if they test COVID-19 negative and remain in the complex. In a circular issued on late Tuesday, the society general secretary, B.D. Virdi, said that there are a number of senior citizens living in the society and seven COVID-19 positive cases have been detected in the adjacent apartments, “exposure to persons could be a very serious health threat”. “If anyone insists to avail the services of domestic helps, the latter should be clear of the virus [medical certificate needed] and be allowed to remain in the house instead of going out every day,” the circular read. Allegations denied In a written response to the police after Mani Shankar Madhav’s complaint, the society’s president B. Brahma also denied the allegations of harassment made by the doctor. In a parallel development, Dr. Madhav has shared the complaint with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Health Minister Satyendra Jain and District Magistrate via email. He received a response from Mr. Jain’s office stating that his complaint has been forwarded to the authorities concerned, the doctor said. Dr .Madhav was on COVID-19 duty in March and is Chief Medical Officer at Pandit Madan Malviya Hospital. He alleged that people in his society ill-treated him as if he was a “COVID-19 carrier”.  If anyone insists to avail the services of domestic helps, the latter should be clear of the virus and be allowed to remain in the house instead of going out every day Society management circular
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Police chief reviews opening of city liquor vends||Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Wednesday held a videoconference with officers to review the preparedness and arrangements of personnel to handle the COVID-19 pandemic. He directed them to disinfect police stations and take adequate precautions as more police personnel were tested positive for the virus. Amid huge crowds gathering at liquor shops across the city, Mr. Shrivastava reviewed the situation and heard strategies made by the Joint CPs for maintaining social distancing and crowd control. He directed Joint CPs to conduct meetings with DSIIDC officials and suggest to them to execute sale through online portals to avoid crowding at vends. Joint CPs and district DCPs should ensure that instructions issued by the government are complied with by all vends, he added.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP leader for home delivery of liquor||The Delhi government should start home delivery of liquor to prevent an increase in COVID-19 cases and smuggling, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri told Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal here on Wednesday. He also demanded the rollback of increased prices of liquor arguing that it could trigger smuggling of liquor from neighbouring States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. “The government should start a special website on which people can book and buy liquor online. With the introduction of home delivery, many people will get employment and social distancing will also take place,” the BJP leader said.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. launches Twitter handle for queries about virus||The Delhi government launched the Twitter handle ‘@DelhiVsCorona’ to ensure the dissemination of “authentic information” about the disease. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had also set up a team of representatives to monitor this handle to ensure “speedy solutions”. “The Twitter handle @DelhiVsCorona will be a one-stop solution for all the COVID-19-related queries and complaints,” the Delhi government said in a statement. “This team will gather the live status of the situation in the government hospitals and provide authentic information on COVID-19,” it said. The team will respond and solve the issues of patients and doctors in the government hospitals, the statement also said.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Road to recovery||
07 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Home delivery of liquor likely in Punjab from today||Punjab is all set to open liquor vends in non-containment areas in the State from Thursday and the Excise and Taxation Department has issued direction to the field staff to be prepared for home delivery as well. The home delivery is proposed only during the lockdown period, a senior official said on Wednesday. “In view of the pandemic situation, we have proposed to start online delivery during the lockdown period. All liquor expect Punjab-Made Liquor (PML) can be delivered up to a maximum of two litres,” said Navdeep Bhinder, Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner. Ms. Bhinder said the final decision on home delivery would be taken by the Cabinet on Thursday. Shehzad Luthra, a liquor contractor, has demanded that the State government should come to the rescue of the business which is reeling under severe loss.  ‘Extend business year’ “The dealers have lost several days of sales. The government must extend the business year from 365 working days to 465 so that the trade could regain its sales, protect the government revenue and manage to survive this prolonged agony which is perhaps the worst in many decades,” he said. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar directed all Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to constitute district-level teams headed by a Magistrate to eradicate smuggling of illegal liquor across the borders and also prevent the supply of non-duty-paid liquor from the distilleries to the vends. Mr. Khattar presided over a meeting with the officials through videoconferencing. The Chief Minister directed the DCs and the SPs to ensure quick installation and regular monitoring of flow meters in every distillery. While directing the SPs to identify illegal godowns, if any, Mr. Khattar said an inventory of such liquor seized should be prepared, according to an official statement.
07 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘One should take safety measures for family’||“The biggest worry was the health of family and friends,” said Anant Sharma, one of the three doctors of Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College who tested positive for COVID 19, after he was discharged on Wednesday. His second consecutive report came out negative on Tuesday. “I was confident that I will come out of it but was worried about my parents and friends,” said the postgraduate student of anaesthesiology. “The biggest learning is that one should take safety measures for the family and friends.” Narrating his fight with COVID-19, Dr. Sharma said he developed high fever and sore throat on April 23. “I went to the fever clinic... two days later, I was declared COVID-19 positive and admitted to the isolation ward where two of my colleagues were already admitted.” Once admitted, his ECG and X-ray were taken which turned out normal. “ECG is important to determine whether the patient could be given hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). I was given HCQ along with a broad spectrum antibiotic so that I would not develop any infection. By the time I was admitted, my fever had become moderate and after 2 to 3 days I didn’t require any medicine for fever as I had become asymptomatic.” Dr. Sharma refused to comment on the efficacy of HCQ. “I would insist that it should not be taken without a doctor’s advice.” The moment he tested positive, his wife, also a doctor, was sent into home quarantine and her samples along with that of his parents were tested. “Thankfully, they all tested negative.” He could not determine his source of infection. He said he had worked with the other two doctors before they tested positive. “As none of us was posted in the fever clinic, we were not given PPE. However, now every patient who comes to the hospital is tested for COVID-19 and all the doctors have been given PPE.” ‘Communal virus’ When he was in the hospital, a local MLA held JNMC responsible for the spread of the virus. The district administration complained of delays in reports. “Like COVID-19, the communal virus also demands social distancing,” said Dr. Sharma. “The more you ignore it, the less it will spread.” Dr. Sharma has rented a flat in a society in Zakaria Market, near the medical college. “It is a predominantly Muslim locality and the support we got from our neighbours will remain etched in our memory. So does the support of my friends and senior members of Resident Doctors’ Association. Their messages, calls, and, not to forget, food gave me confidence that I am not alone in this fight.” Dr. Sharma has been advised two weeks of home quarantine. “I am eager to return to the front line. With the number of cases increasing in the city, that’s where I should be,” he said.
07 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam traders’ body seeks relief from donations and shutdowns||A traders’ federation in Assam has sought relief from donations by students’, social and underground groups and periodic shutdowns in order to bring the State’s economy back on the rails after the COVID-19 lockdown. The All Assam Traders’ Association, representing some 500,000 small and medium traders, said various groups should spare them from donations — a soft word for protection money — and avoid calling shutdowns for at least two years after lockdown ends formally. The association has also sought relief from all kinds of taxes and interest on bank loans for a similar period.  Cost of bandhs A 2003 study by the Federation of Industries and Commerce of North Eastern Region said Assam loses an estimated Rs. 900 crore annually because of Statewide, regional, district and localised shutdowns. An average trader also ends up paying ‘donations’ to at least 30 groups of all kinds every year. “All organisations can help us recover faster from the economic disaster if they desist from seeking chanda (donation) and calling bandhs for at least two years,” Prantush Roy, the association’s chief convenor told newspersons. He added that members of the association had met key government officials on Monday to raise their concerns and help them revive their businesses after the severe lockdown impact. The Gauhati High Court had in 2019 declared bandhs and blockades unconstitutional and directed the police to book those who call and enforce them. The court’s directive made no difference to what is today referred to as ‘ bandh culture’.
07 May 2020||JAIPUR,||High Court stays FIR against BJP chief Nadda||The Rajasthan High Court has stayed a first information report registered against Bharatiya Janata Party president J.P. Nadda in connection with a social media post made by the party’s IT department in-charge Amit Malviya allegedly disparaging Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the fight against COVID-19 pandemic in Bhilwara. The FIR was registered in Hanumangarh on the complaint of a Congress worker, Manoj Kumar Saini, who had taken exception to a tweet by Mr. Malviya. The tweet said: “Sonia Gandhi claims Bhilwara tested 22 lakh people due to Rahul’s warning! Wherever there is Rahul [Gandhi], can exaggeration and maths blunder be behind?”  ‘No role in tweet’ Mr. Nadda had filed a criminal miscellaneous petition in the High Court, seeking directions for quashing of the FIR with the contention that he had no role in Mr. Malviya’s tweet and he had falsely been accused of controlling the office of the IT department in-charge.
07 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Back in U.P., migrants stare at an uncertain future||The palatial red-white façade of the Charbagh railway station towers above Manfur Nishad and his two young sons. As the evening light fades, his emotions reflect a sombre mix. While he is relieved to be back in his home State after being stranded in Gujarat during the lockdown, he is disappointed to find that he doesn’t have a direct bus to his village near Kalpi town. The bus will drop him in the district headquarters of Jalaun, 45 km west of his destination, and 220 km from the State capital. “If they drop me in Jalaun, I will be stranded. I don’t have a single penny in my pocket to pay for any fare,” said Mr. Nishad, desperately calling his relatives on the phone for guidance. It is 7 p.m. on Tuesday, an hour since Mr. Nishad and 1,200-odd passengers got down from a special Shramik Express at the end of a 1,126-km journey from Vadodara. In the labyrinth of parked State-run buses, the migrants, most of them labourers, workers and artisans, try to locate the designated vehicle that would take them home free of cost. While the migrants said they were charged for the train journey, ranging from Rs. 600 to Rs. 800 each — they carried tickets displaying a fare of Rs. 555 — Mr. Nishad and his 12 colleagues managed with some monetary help from a senior policeman at Rajpipla in Narmada district. Attempted walk Mr. Nishad spent more than a month under quarantine in a school in the Gujarat town, 130 km from Surat, where he worked in a sari firm. After the lockdown was declared, Mr. Nishad and others tried to walk back home in Uttar Pradesh and even managed to reach near Rajpipla after three days of toil before being stopped by police. Like lakhs of workers across the country, Mr. Nishad had no option but to return home. The textile firm he worked for shut and his ration ran out, forcing him to survive on the food provided by the government. But Mr. Nishad says he got bored of the “tehri” (spiced rice) served to them. “ Ek mahina toh buri tarah se kata [We passed the month with much difficulty],” he says. The Rs. 500-Rs. 600 he had with him before being sent to quarantine was spent on bidi and tobacco, he admits. “Had they run the train then [in March], we would not have had to go through this difficulty. Many people are still stranded,” Mr. Nishad says, echoing a common refrain among the other migrants. Unemployed and back home for an unknown period, the migrant workers stare at an uncertain future. Like many migrants, he hopes to use his time and energy on farming; his family owns 8 bighas. Unfair fare A little distance away, Ajay Kumar, 24, was frantically trying to locate the right bus to Mainpuri. With a bag hanging on his left shoulder and a food packet, he says the ordeal would have been avoided had the government acted sooner and made the journey free of cost. “ Nai kiya toh kya kare, mazboori thi toh aana pada. Itna takleef nahi jhelna padta [But what can we do if they haven’t? We had no choice but to return. However, it could have been made less arduous for us],” he says. In Surat, he worked at a dye and painting firm. After arriving at Charbagh, the migrants were made to queue up at screening booths before being sorted for boarding buses. All the while, they were asked to maintain physical distance through the public announcement system. Vinod, a native of the backward Siddharthnagar district, said he had to pay a total of Rs. 2,800 for his wife and three minor children. “It should have been less,” complains Vinod, who sold ‘khari toast’ in a Gujarat town. Kusma, who is travelling with her son, 7, and husband, has argued that the migrants should not have been asked to pay. They paid Rs. 1,200 for the journey by bus to Vadodara and train to Lucknow for three members. Strength of home Kallu Nishad of Kanpur faced a peculiar situation. He lost his Aadhaar card during the journey and approached officials for help. He heaved a sigh of relief when he was told that the medical certificate issued to him during quarantine in Narmada would serve as proof of identity. “Store it carefully,” an official told him. Kallu is an artisan in the embroidery sector in Surat and paid Rs. 600 for the journey with the money borrowed from a relative. Just before the lockdown, he was due to receive his wages for 12 days, but the manager delayed the payment till March 25, when the lockdown came into force. He then tried to walk back but was stopped. He stares at an uncertain financial situation, but argues that staying hungry at a familiar place is better than being stranded in an alien city. “ Wahan khane ko nahi milega toh kya karenge, ghar mein jo rukha-sukha hai chalaenge [What would I do if I did not get food there? At home, I can manage even with meagre means],” he says. Hariom, his wife, young child, ageing father and another female relative, also waited at the station for their bus. He was not sure if and when he would return to Tejgadh, near Vadodara, where he sold chowmein. “ Sochega, abhi kehne ka nahi hai. Dhanda chalega toh jayenge, warna yahin rahenge [I will think, can’t say anything now. If my work resumes, I will go back. Or else, I will stay here],” he says. He has five bighas of land to farm. A young migrant who sold juices in Godhra said the government should have brought the migrants free of charge as they were without any income. He was dismayed by the entire experience and did not want to work outside any more. “ Ab idhar hi padenge. U.P. mein hi rehke kamaenge [Now I will stay back to study and earn in U.P.],” he said, as he advanced in the queue for thermal screening. The enigma of return Many like Pinki Srivastava of Kannauj, who drives an auto for a living, look forward to going back to work after the lockdown is over. But Suraj, a native of Agra’s Bah, is unsure. He sold namkeen in Gujarat. Along with financial instability, migrants ran the risk of infection. “ Kya pata, zindagi rahi toh phir a ayenge [Who knows, if all is well, I will return],” he says. The lockdown has not only affected workers and labourers but also derailed the lives of students. Arjun Patel of Varanasi is one of them. A PhD scholar in physics at M.S. University in Vadodara, Mr. Patel says he was not planning to go back home but had no option after the lockdown was extended. All research work has been suspended till September. “What will I do there? Our work will be pushed back by six-seven months.” He is unhappy that the migrants were not informed beforehand that they would be charged for the travel. “I don’t mind the fare. It’s up to the government. But they should have given us the correct information. We were under the impression it would be free,” he said. Many migrants had attempted walking back home or hiring a vehicle before being put under quarantine. Amir Ahmed, a construction worker in a Vadodara village and native of Budaun, did not take the chance. “People told me not to go back. What if someone thrashes you? How will you handle it,” he said from inside the train moments after it arrived. The passengers said their journey from Vadodara was smooth and they received food in Jhansi.  Situation so far Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to prepare a strategy to provide employment opportunities for 15-20 lakh people who have come back to the State or are on the way. While those migrants without symptoms will be put under 14 days of home quarantine and given a ration kit, suspected cases will be sent to institutional quarantine. So far, 19 trains from other States have arrived in various districts of Uttar Pradesh, including Agra, Kanpur, Jaunpur, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Bareilly, Prayagraj and Ballia, said Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department. Each train carries around 1,200 persons. Of the 19 trains, 13 were from Gujarat and four from Maharashtra. Nine more were expected on Wednesday, while clearance had been given for 38 fresh trains, said the official.
07 May 2020||Patna,||‘Let’s visit quarantine centres together’||In a meeting with Opposition leaders through videoconferencing on Tuesday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar invited the leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, to accompany him on visits to the quarantine centres in the State to look at the conditions there.
07 May 2020||Brussels,||European economy faces historic recession||The EU on Wednesday forecast a historic recession on the continent battered by the deadly coronavirus pandemic, as the U.S. and China escalated their war of words over the origins of the disease. The grim prediction from Brussels came as Europe’s biggest economy Germany unveiled plans for a near-return to normality, even as fresh data from the powerhouse revealed manufacturing and car sales have been badly hammered. Countries in Asia joined step in easing punishing lockdowns that have kept swathes of humanity indoors for weeks and pummelled economies, tipping the world toward a recession not seen in decades. Students in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where the outbreak emerged in December, were back in classrooms Wednesday, while South Korea lept back to life with offices and museums open once again. The pandemic has now killed more than 2,57,000 people globally and officially infected nearly 3.7 million, although with only the most serious cases being tested the number is believed to be far higher. Europe accounts for the lion’s share of deaths and infections, though hardest hit Britain, Italy, Spain and France have started to see new cases and fatalities level off in recent weeks. On the economic front the news was less optimistic. The eurozone economy is forecast to contract by an eye-watering 7.7%, EU Economic Affairs Commissioner Paulo Gentiloni said. “Europe is facing an economic shock without precedent since the Great Depression,” he warned. Governments are seeking to revive stalled economies by slowly lifting lockdown measures that have hemmed in more than 4.6 billion people worldwide — while avoiding a second wave of the virus. Germany forged ahead with its plans to reopen, and will allow all students back to school this month, all shops to reopen and even restart the top-flight football Bundesliga. Drop in car sales So far only some shops and schools have been open, and sports matches across the country have been suspended. But fresh data revealed the extend of damage in some sectors: car sales plunged by 61% last month while new industrial orders hit a record low in March. In Britain, the Mayor of London eyed a gentler return to normal, saying pedestrian and cycle routes would be expanded to help people avoid public transport. The U.K. on Tuesday overtook Italy for the highest number of deaths in Europe, and is now second after the US in terms of fatalities. France is inching towards a May 11 deadline to allow some schools to open their doors again after almost two months, while lawmakers in Spain met on Wednesday to vote on extending lockdown measures by two weeks. The vote comes as Spain said foreign tourist arrivals plummeted by 64% in March, a major blow one of the country’s key economic lifelines. Some residents were in favour of a gradual return to normal to avoid a resurgence of the disease that has paralysed the country. “The end of confinement wouldn’t be bad, but we have to go through all the phases,” said Adrian, a gardener in Madrid. “It’s better to have a bit more patience.”
07 May 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka’s election date challenged in SC||Sri Lanka’s parliamentary poll date of June 20 has been challenged at the Supreme Court, with four recently filed petitions questioning its timing amid the coronavirus pandemic. In separate petitions, the Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB or United People’s Front), the opposition party led by former Leader of Opposition Sajith Premadasa, senior journalist Victor Ivan, the Colombo-based NGO Centre for Policy Alternatives, and Attorney-at-Law Charitha Gunarathne have contested the Election Commission’s decision to hold polls on June 20 — it has said the date is subject to review — arguing that the environment was not conducive to hold a free and fair election. Further, they emphasise the need to reconvene Parliament in the face of a national crisis, citing the potential need for new legislation and legislative oversight of the executive. On March 2, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa dissolved last Parliament, and called for snap elections on April 25. However, as COVID-19 spread in the region and entered Sri Lanka, the Election Commission postponed the polls, later announcing June 20 as the new date. However, all major Opposition parties strongly objected to the new date while Sri Lanka has been battling the pandemic — 771 cases, 215 recoveries and nine deaths reported as of Wednesday afternoon — since March 10, when the first local resident tested positive.  Constitutional crisis Instead, the parties urged President Rajapaksa to reconvene Parliament using his discretionary powers and promised to offer responsible cooperation and to forego salaries. That way, an imminent constitutional crisis could be averted, they argued, as Sri Lanka’s Constitution mandates that the Parliament be summoned not later than three months after the proclamation dissolving the House [March 2]. But President Rajapaksa has ruled out reconvening Parliament. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa on Monday invited all legislators of the last Parliament for a discussion at Temple Trees, his official residence. All opposition parties except the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) that represents Tamils of the island’s north and east boycotted the meeting on grounds that when the option of reconvening the legislature was available, they did not wish to participate in an extra-parliamentary meeting. In a letter handed over to the Prime Minister, TNA Leader R. Sampanthan pointed out that the Parliament elected in 2015 unanimously resolved to convert itself into a Constitutional Assembly to evolve a new Constitution that would look into Executive Presidency, electoral reforms and the Tamil national question. Mr. Sampanthan said he decided to attend the meeting to convey that members of the Alliance were prepared to extend their cooperation to the resolution of the issues “in a reasonable and acceptable manner”. “However, we wish to emphasise that the meeting summoned by you is not and cannot be a substitute for convening the Parliament. We are of the firm view that the Parliament must be convened...to deal with several constitutional and legal issues that have arisen, which Parliament alone can deal with,” he further said in the letter.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Independent probe will give China credibility: Menon||An independent inquiry into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic, conducted by internationally respected experts, would give China credibility as it grapples with a global “reputational loss”, former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon said on Wednesday. “China’s case would be much stronger if they were saying, ‘We are willing to invite reputed people in from across the world, allow them to conduct an independent inquiry, [give them] complete access and let them ascertain facts of what happened so we can avoid this in the future. If they did that, that would give them much more credibility,” he said. “It would make sense if they did this... find people with international credibility who will not lie. If they were confident of their narrative, they would do that. It sounds to me that they do sound not confident about what they are saying.” Mr. Menon, a former Foreign Secretary and Ambassador to China, said the pandemic was “a huge reputational loss” not just for China but for most major powers, including the U.S., the EU and others. “There is a huge diminution of reputation for all states involved. The bigger the state, the bigger the loss of reputation... It is very hard to find a single major political entity which has said, ‘We did well and we knew what we were doing.’” India, he noted, had issued over 4,000 notifications, rules, instructions since the first lockdown. “That to my mind is not a coherent response. India is not an exception, the same is true of all major economies and how they reacted,” said Mr. Menon, who was speaking at a webinar organised by the Institute of Chinese Studies, New Delhi. On the question of accountability from China, the former NSA said the priority for the world should be focused on outcomes and ensuring lessons are learned, rather than political point-scoring in a battle of narratives, as was currently being fought between Beijing and Washington.  ‘Political bonfire’ “When we talk of a reckoning, what kind of reckoning are we talking about? Are we talking about victor’s justice, some sort of allocating blame or responsibility? That is going to be just another political bonfire.” Holding an independent inquiry to learn lessons, Mr. Menon said, was not the same as an inquiry aimed merely at emphasising guilt. “If you think holding an inquiry and finding China guilty will be able to prevent a recurrence, I don’t think that will happen,” he said. “China won’t cooperate. This is a dilemma the World Health Organization found itself in, they didn’t know if they should continue working with the Chinese even when many knew things were being hidden, or if they wanted to continue working with China in the future. I am not saying this is a happy choice. Most governments will probably choose [such] an inquiry but whether that will lead to outcomes in the long term is for me more important.”
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Ex-U.S. soldiers, Venezuelan rebels and a raid: the plot to topple Maduro||In the early morning of May 3, Venezuela’s Interior Minister Nestor Reverol appeared on TV and claimed that security forces had foiled a “maritime invasion” by “terrorist mercenaries” who came from the Colombian coast. Details emerged soon after. According to the official version, a boat full of armed men was planning to land at the coast of Macuto, north of Caracas. But they were surrounded by helicopter gunships and snipers before they could reach the coast. In the ensuing shoot-out, eight of them were killed and two were captured. Later in the day, a video emerged online in which Jordan Goudreau, a former U.S. Special Forces soldier who’s now running a private security company Silvercorp USA based in Floridia, claimed responsibility for the raid. Silvercorp posted in a tweet on the same day, tagging U.S. President Donald Trump, that 60 Venezuelans and two American ex-soldiers were part of the ongoing operation. The next day, the Venezuelan government announced that occupants of another boat were arrested, including two Americans. ‘Freedom fighter’ Mr. Goudreau, a three-time Bronze Star recipient for bravery, told a Venezuelan journalist that he had signed a contract with Juan Guaido, Venezuelan Opposition leader who the U.S. and several other western nations have acknowledged as the country’s legitimate leader, for the operation. In the interview, which has been posted on YouTube, he claimed that Mr. Guaido didn’t pay him but he still continued with the plan because “he is a freedom fighter”. The plan was to enter Venezuela via sea and detain President Nicolas Maduro and other top political leadership and “liberate” political prisoners. Silvercorp USA, established in 2018, describes itself as a company that provides “governments and corporations with realistic and military solutions to irregular problems”. The company’s website claims that it is present in over 50 countries. The rebel General On May 1, The Associated Press carried a report about a plot hatched between a rebel Venezuelan military officer and Mr. Goudreau. Cliver Alcala, a retired Major General in the Venezuelan Army, had been living in Columbia since 2018 after he fell out with the government of President Maduro. Gen. Alcala had the support of some 300 Venezuelan military dissenters, who were being trained in the Colombian forests. Mr. Goudreau and Gen. Alcala started working together in Colombia, apparently with the support of Mr. Guaido. Gen. Alcala’s plan was to send his men to Venezuela and ignite military revolts against the regime, leading to President Maduro’s ouster. But the plot crumbled in early March after one of the rebel combatants was held by the Venezuelan troops in the border region. Soon, Gen. Alcala surrendered to the U.S. to face drug trafficking charges. The plan goes on But the setbacks did not seem to have deterred Mr. Goudreau from going ahead with the plot as this week’s incidents show. The two Americans arrested by the Venezuelan troops on Monday — Luke Alexander Denman, 34, and Airan Berry, 42 — had served with Mr. Goudreau in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Venezuelan government has claimed that the U.S. “is fully and completely involved in this defeated raid”, an allegation Washigton has dismissed. The Venezuelan government had intelligence about Mr. Goudreau. In late March, Diosdado Cabello, a powerful regime figure, showed a picture of Mr. Goudreau in a television programme and claimed that he was plotting against the government. “We knew everything. What they talked about. What they ate and drank. Who financed them,” President Maduro said on Monday. “This is the second coup attempt against the Chavista government. The first in 2002 failed because of underestimation of the military which had become a stakeholder in the regime and the hasty rush of the coup plotters to share the spoils prematurely. This time, the gang of mercenaries had underestimated the Cuban intelligence which is advising Venezuela, with its successful record in thwarting many such attempts against Cuba itself,” R. Viswanathan, a former Indian Ambassador to Venezuela, told The Hindu.  But Mr. Goudreau seemed unperturbed by the failed bid. In the interview with the Venezuelan journalist, he claimed that he has active ‘cells’ within Venezuela and his plan was to start a rebellion against the regime. Asked about the wisdom of sending a few dozen armed men to Venezuela on fishing boats to oust its government, Mr. Goudreau invoked Alexander the Great. Referring to the Battle of Gaugamela, in which Alexander attacked the Persian Achaemenid Empire in 331 BC, he said: “Completely outnumbered. He struck to the heart of the enemy, and he won.” But Mr. Goudreau didn’t.
07 May 2020||Beijing,||A lab at the heart of U.S.-China virus spat||The Chinese laboratory accused by top American officials of being the source of the pandemic conducts research on the world’s most dangerous diseases. U.S. President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have both claimed that there is evidence the pathogen came from the lab in Wuhan — the city where the disease was first detected late last year. But the World Health Organization (WHO) said Washington had offered no evidence to support the “speculative” claims, and scientists believe the coronavirus jumped from animals to humans, possibly at a Wuhan market selling wild animals. The top U.S. epidemiologist Anthony Fauci has echoed the WHO’s statement, telling National Geographic that all evidence so far “strongly indicates” a natural origin. China’s Foreign Ministry responded on Wednesday that Mr. Pompeo had no evidence and that questions over the origin of the virus should be left to scientists, “not politicians who lie for their own domestic political ends”. Here are some key questions about the Wuhan Institute of Virology: What do researchers do? Work by the lab’s scientists helped to shed light on the COVID-19 pathogen in the early days of the outbreak in Wuhan. In February, they published work concluding that the new virus shared a 79.6% sequence identity to the SARS coronavirus, and that it was 96% identical at the whole-genome level to a coronavirus found in bats. The lab’s researchers had already conducted extensive investigations on the links between bats and disease outbreaks in China, and had highlighted the need to prepare for viruses potentially spreading out of their natural reservoirs into human communities. What does it handle? The Wuhan institute houses the largest virus bank in Asia which preserves more than 1,500 strains. The complex contains Asia’s first maximum-security lab equipped to handle Class 4 pathogens (P4) such as Ebola. Could there be a leak? US diplomatic cables seen by The Washington Post earlier said that officials were concerned about inadequate safety standards related to researchers’ handling of SARS-like bat coronaviruses in the high-security lab. The institute has said it received samples of the then-unknown virus on December 30, determined the viral genome sequence on January 2 and submitted information on the pathogen to the WHO on January 11. Shi Zhengli, deputy director of the Wuhan P4 lab, said she would “bet her life that (the new coronavirus) had nothing to do with the lab”, according to state media.
07 May 2020||Beijing,||Won’t tolerate trouble in Hong Kong, says China||China warned Hong Kong protesters on Wednesday it would not tolerate them “stirring up trouble again” in the semi-autonomous territory that was rocked by months of pro-democracy demonstrations last year. Mass arrests of protesters and a ban on large gatherings due to the coronavirus outbreak in the financial hub have stifled the protest movement, but small demonstrations have been held in recent weeks as contagion fears ease. Hong Kong police used pepper spray to disperse protesters last on Friday after a largely peaceful public holiday. “We noticed that the black violent forces slowed down a little when faced with the Hong Kong epidemic, but now they are stirring up trouble again,” China’s top body overseeing Hong Kong said in a statement, referring to the black clothing worn by many of the protesters. “The central government will not sit idly by and watch these insane and wantonly destructive forces,” said the State Council’s Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, adding that protesters wanted to “drag Hong Kong off a cliff”. The statement came after Hong Kong’s economy posted its worst-ever quarterly decline of 8.9%, pushing the territory deeper into recession. Mass anti-government demonstrations began in June last year, triggered by opposition to a bill that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China where courts are controlled by the Communist Party. But they have since grown to include demands for democracy.
07 May 2020||Dhaka,||Dhaka, May 6, 2020 (AFP) -||A cartoonist was among 11 people charged on Wednesday for “spreading rumours” about the pandemic on social media. Police have arrested at least 40 people under controversial digital security laws that activists say are being used to suppress criticism of the government.AFP
07 May 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, May 6, 2020 (AFP) -||Russia recorded more than 10,000 new coronavirus cases for the fourth day in a row on Wednesday, surpassing Germany to become the country with the sixth-highest number of confirmed infections. Health officials on Wednesday reported 10,559 new cases over the last 24 hours, bringing the total number of infections to 1,65,929, with 1,537 deaths.AFP
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Resuscitating multilateralism with India’s help||Even as the coronavirus pandemic unleashes its devastation across the globe, the great and the good have been quick to remind us of the value of multilateralism and the necessity to preserve it. And yes, they are right. To reduce the further spread of the virus, to develop effective medical treatments, and to curtail the worst effects of the inevitable recession that is already in the offing, cooperation among nations will be necessary. But there is a problem: multilateralism is possibly at its weakest today, when the need for it is more dire than ever before. Unless the fundamental problem is addressed, no meaningful fix will be possible. We believe that India may be uniquely positioned to help resuscitate multilateralism. With the United States facing multiple internal challenges including the prospects of a deeply divisive Presidential election in November, New Delhi (together with like-minded partners even beyond the usual suspects) could assume leadership in strengthening constructive transnational cooperation. At a time when China is facing a global crises of credibility, India may even consider a last-ditch attempt at mediation; to temper what is increasingly seen as Beijing’s unilateralist revisionism; revive the promise of the gradual socialisation of China into the international system; and its acceptance of the norms and rules that regulate the principal multilateral institutions. Deepened by the pandemic The malaise that afflicts multilateralism is not new. The paralysis of all three functions of the World Trade Organization (WTO) — negotiation, dispute settlement, and transparency — was one sign of that deep-rooted malaise; the severely dented credibility of the World Health Organization (WHO) is just another more recent indicator. The pandemic has heightened the crisis of multilateralism, not created it. And amidst the many cracks in the system, it has deepened one especially dangerous fault-line: multilateralism, in its current form, is incapable of dealing with misuse by “systemic rivals”, and this goes beyond the personality of its current Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, and his perceived Chinese bias. The underpinning assumption of the post-war multilateral system was that peace and prosperity went hand in hand. Some like-mindedness and a commonly-held purpose were also assumed among members: increasing economic integration and shared prosperity would help enhance these affinities and contribute to peace. Countries with fundamentally different domestic systems of governance did not form a part of this multilateral order, as was the case with the Soviet bloc in the Cold War years. None of our multilateral institutions was built for a world where the ties of interdependence — which were supposed to enhance the well-being of all — could themselves be “weaponized” for nationalistic gain, at the expense of other players. The misuse of existing rules (or loopholes within the existing rules) by several countries, especially by China (e.g. via forced technology requirements, intellectual property rights violations, and subsidies), to gain an unfair advantage in trade relations was already attracting critique in the last years. But the pandemic has provided us with some even more alarming illustrations of how damaging the weaponisation of global supply chains can be. As death tolls rose (in some cases, to catastrophic proportions) many countries responded with export restrictions on critical medical supplies. This was far from ideal, but almost inevitable given the absence of adequate stocks within countries, and little in the rules to curb export restraints. Recognising the shortages that countries were facing — masks, personal protective equipment, ventilators and more — to deal with COVID-19, China offered to sell these products to countries in need. For instance, when the European Union (EU) put up export restrictions, China stepped in at Serbia’s request. But China’s coronavirus diplomacy did not stop there. When India complained that test kits imported from China were faulty, China slammed it for “irresponsible” behaviour. When Australia indicated that it would conduct an independent investigation of China’s early handling of the epidemic, China threatened it with economic consequences. Add to this the dangers of using faulty equipment on critical patients, plus the risks that several actors, including the EU and India, see of predatory takeovers of their companies by China. The pandemic is teaching countries, through bitter experience, that weaponised interdependence is not just a theory but a practice that is rapidly evolving. And it can have life and death consequences. Against this background, repeated calls by heads of governments and international organisations urging countries to remain committed to multilateralism ring hollow. Reforming multilateralism To argue for a multilateral rules-based system will never suffice on its own; one must always address the issue of the goals and values that underpin the rules. The remedies are obvious. First, of course, is the need for reassurance and policies that reflect a renewed commitment to the raison d’étre of multilateralism. A “retreating” United States must, of course, demonstrate in word and deed that autarchy is not the way forward (of this global crises) and that it remains committed to strengthening global supply chains which are based on the promise of ensuring global stability and the attendant promise of peace and prosperity. Second, irrespective of the above, there is an urgent need for some strategic decoupling, handled smartly in cooperation with other like-minded countries. This will not happen overnight. And it will undoubtedly cause considerable disruption to existing global value chains. This in turn, will result in a shrinking of the global economic pie. We will be less prosperous. But we will also be more secure. Third, flowing from the above, a multilateralism that recognises the need for decoupling will necessitate closer cooperation with some and distancing from others. Membership of such renewed multilateral institutions would not be universal; rather, one would limit deep integration to countries with which one shares first-order values — such as pluralism, democracy, liberalism, animal welfare rights, and more. A role for India The current crisis in multilateralism could be a remarkable opportunity for India, a country whose pluralism, democracy, and liberalism have often been underestimated by the West. At an immediate level, the gains are obvious: India has also maintained a consistent reserve about a blanket entrenchment in global value chains. As some constituencies in the West seek a gradual decoupling from China, they would be well served to look toward India. To make use of the opportunities, for itself and for the provision of certain global public goods, India’s cooperation with like-minded actors will be key. Here, India could work closely with the Alliance for Multilateralism (an initiative launched by Germany and France) to shape both the alliance itself and the reform agenda at large. Working together with a group of countries from the developed and developing countries could further amplify India’s voice. But beyond these immediate gains could be a greater role for India. Not since Chernobyl has global public opinion lost as much faith in the competence and integrity of a great power as it has in China because of COVID-19 and the apparent malfeasance and the opaqueness with which it has dealt with the crises. While China may recover faster than most economically, and its military might remains intact, its image as a reliable partner has suffered a huge dent. Neither aid diplomacy nor the unleashing of Chinese soft power can easily recover the trust deficit that exists today between China and much of the rest of the world. While prudence may demand gradual decoupling, it is critical to not be seen as immediately isolating China; with fewer stakes in world order, Beijing’s turn towards revisionism could be faster than anticipated. Instead, India could lead a coalition to bridge this deficit of trust through a regime of incentives and sanctions that seek to embed Beijing into a much more guided and directed socialisation into the rules of the international system. Clearly, the strategic and economic have, however, to be in consonance with each other. In the longer term then, whether multi-polarity is the only firm guarantor of a sustainable and fairer multilateralism requires further debate among scholars and practitioners alike. Amitabh Mattoo is Professor of International Relations at Jawaharlal Nehru University and Honorary Professor at the University of Melbourne. Amrita Narlikar is President of the German Institute for Global and Area Studies (GIGA)
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Fear and loathing in the land of the free||If U.S. President Donald Trump looked unassailable early this year as the prospective incumbent in November’s presidential election, the onslaught of the COVID-19 pandemic, with its severe toll on human life and damage to the U.S. economy, has dented his re-election prospects considerably. Presumptive Democratic nominee and former Vice-President Joe Biden has for several months now launched scathing attacks on Mr. Trump, specifically targeting the President’s bumbling mismanagement of the pandemic, including his disregarding of intelligence calls to act fast and early, given the alarming signs of a biosecurity disaster emanating from China; his deliberate antagonism of Democrat-governed States in the context of their need for medical equipment; and his reckless comments on untested treatments for the infection. The challenge before Biden However, similar to former Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in 2016, Mr. Biden cannot hope to win the electoral college — an institution that renders an absolute majority of votes insufficient to secure victory — without paying heed to undecided and independent voters, including in swing States. Going by the evidence of the previous election, these voters care as much about job security and the impact on this of globalisation, as much as they do about mainstream Democratic Party issues such as expanding the social security net for the middle class. This cohort of the population — including factory workers, teachers, service sector employees, miners, truckers and farmers — may have thrown their lot in with Mr. Trump in 2016 in the belief that this rambunctious candidate would disrupt business-as-usual politics in the elite circles of Washington and bring real economic succour to where it was most needed. But do these voters continue to back Mr. Trump for the same reasons they did in the previous election? In part, this depends on how harshly they judge their President for his handling of the COVID-19 crisis — for the pandemic has now got inextricably enmeshed with one of the steepest economic declines witnessed in recent history. On the one hand, in terms of pandemic politics, the impact of the virus has been more severe in Democratic-controlled States, mostly along the East and West coasts, than in the less-populated, Republican-dominated States – bearing in mind the caveat that testing levels across the country are not at their optimal level. Simultaneously, evidence, including that emerging from political rallies held across several States, suggests that the President still enjoys a considerable vector of support. These rallies saw gun-toting protestors raise slogans supporting early reopening of the U.S. economy and reject social distancing norms as a Democrat-perpetrated “hoax” leading to anti-economy lockdowns. A second term for Trump? Thus, it is unsurprising that Mr. Trump’s ratings appear to be holding steady. Gallup’s survey of 1,016 adults, taken in the last two weeks of April 2020, showed that Mr. Trump enjoyed a 49% overall approval rating — the highest of his presidency so far — and, unsurprisingly, a whopping 96% rating among Republican respondents. If this continues — and there is no reason at this point to assume it will not, given that the COVID-19 pandemic might subside to a relatively manageable level and the economy may begin limping back toward normalcy before the election in November — the U.S. and the world may be staring at the prospect of a second Trump presidency. That said, if the recent State-level polls in Wisconsin are a barometer for how the U.S. will cope with the presidential election, it is almost certain that there will be amplified chaos, contested outcomes and a heightened risk of a setback to the country’s recovery from the pandemic — for several reasons. First, the U.S. government at multiple levels has struggled to cope with the sheer bureaucratic requirements of tackling the pandemic. The administration’s efforts to slow the spread of the virus has been hobbled by a lack of personal protective equipment, ventilators and more. In this context, it is an open question as to whether and how a mega-exercise in democratic practice can be carried out while remaining faithful to the notion of social distancing. Even if technological advances permit a massive transition to online campaigning and voting, uncomfortable questions about fake news, propaganda and foreign powers seeking to influence the outcome will remain. Second, Mr. Trump’s staccato, inconsistent response, sometimes bordering on the bizarre — such as his espousal of UV rays and injected disinfectant as potential antidotes to the coronavirus — is likely to produce an increasingly acerbic campaign. The President’s impatience to get the U.S. economy opened for business, combined with his anxiety over avoiding blame for failure to effectively contain the pandemic, will likely lead to a vindictive rather than a substantive race to the Oval Office. A divided landscape If indeed this is the scenario that the U.S. faces in the months ahead, it could be inferred that the very same worldview that propelled Mr. Trump to power in 2016 has remained dominant and has deepened its footprint on the landscape of U.S. policy in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In such a scenario, we might expect that the pandemic will only become one more excuse for the White House to shore up protectionism in international trade, harden national borders against undocumented workers and asylum seekers, degrade multilateral organisations and regional cooperation frameworks, shut down U.S. government institutions associated with reducing fossil fuel dependence, and shrink the economic space for government to provide public goods such as affordable healthcare. Then, there is the denouement of the pandemic itself — will the Trump administration de facto put its faith in the notion of “herd immunity,” and continue to prioritise economic activity over social distancing? Will the soaring death toll — which Mr. Trump predicted could exceed 1,00,000 — lead to further vitriol targeting China, even tectonic shifts in the foreign policy landscape? One thing is clear: with or without a vaccine, the coronavirus is here to stay, and will reshape social behaviour regardless of White House’s policies. Through this climate of fear and loathing, there is one hope for a less unhinged American future: that, Mr. Biden will have the perspicacity to run a nuanced campaign, balancing policies promoting mainstream values of his party with bipartisan outreach that brings a large swathe of economically insecure, working Americans under the Democratic tent. American society, which is currently polarised over everything from the role of the government in the economy to immigration, gun control, and reproductive choice, is desperately in need of such a unifying force. narayan@thehindu.co.in
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||A war-like state and a bond to the rescue||As India’s ominous COVID-19 curve stretches further, urgent attention needs to be paid to an economy that is teetering on the edge. Several economists, former Finance Ministers and central bank Governors have made the clarion call for a large stimulus to pull the economy back from the brink. There are a few who seem to believe that there are ways and means to provide this stimulus without breaking the bank as it were. As we spend more time in a national lockdown or quasi-lockdown situation, I believe that austerity measures and reallocations notwithstanding, we will definitely need to go beyond current revenue receipts to fund the complete stimulus. A gathering financial storm In the Budget before the pandemic, India projected a deficit of Rs. 7.96-lakh crore. However, even then there were concerns around off balance sheet borrowings of 1% of GDP and an overly excessive target of Rs. 2.1 lakh crore through disinvestments. The financial deficit number is set to grow by a wide margin due to revenue shrinkage from the coming depression that will most certainly be accompanied by a lack of appetite for disinvestment. In addition to the expenditure that was planned, the government has to spend anywhere between Rs. 5-lakh crore and Rs. 6-lakh crore as stimulus. The Finance Ministry is sanguine about this fact as was clear in a press conference held by the Economic Affairs Secretary on March 31, 2020, where he said that the government will not exceed the borrowing limits indicated in the Budget. The insipid stimulus provided by the government so far and recent announcements by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) only serve to highlight how out of touch with reality they are. All the RBI’s schemes are contingent on the availability of risk capital, the market for which has completely collapsed. The two have tried several times over the last year to nudge banks into lending to below investment grade micro, small and medium enterprises, but have come up short each time. Furthermore, while the 60% increase in ways and means limits for States is a welcome move, many States have already asked for double the limits due to the shortages in indirect taxation collections from Goods and Services Tax, fuel and liquor. The government and the central bank need to understand that half measures will do more harm than good. It will only lull us into a false sense of security, much like a lockdown without adequate testing. Echo from the past Politicians and epidemiologists across the world have used the word “war” to describe the situation the world is currently in. As we wage a united war against this virus, it would be interesting for us to look at war-time methods of raising financing. One such method that has been used as early as the First World War is the Consol Bond. In 2014, the British government, a century after the start of the First World War, paid out 10% of the total outstanding Consol bond debt. The bonds, which paid out an interest of 5%, were issued in 1917 as the government sought to raise more money to finance the ongoing cost of the First World War. Citizens were asked to invest with the advertising messaging: “If you cannot fight, you can help your country by investing all you can in 5 per cent Exchequer Bonds. Unlike the soldier, the investor runs no risk.” One cannot help but wonder how successful a Consol Bond issue would be for the Indian government if the Prime Minister had made a similar call to every citizen of our country to invest in them instead of making donations to PM-CARES, or the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund. After all, most of the Consol bonds in the United Kingdom are owned by small investors, with over 70% holding less than £1,000. Furthermore, unlike PM-CARES, the proceeds of the bonds could be used for everything — from Personal Protective Equipment for doctors to a stimulus for small and medium-sized enterprises. Why it is a better option There is no denying the fact that the traditional option of monetising the deficit by having the central bank buy government bonds is one worth pursuing. However, given an as yet hesitant (to raise debt) Prime Minister’s penchant for making citizens active participants to his missions, he might view a Consol Bond as a more compelling alternative. Furthermore, with the fall of real estate and given the lack of safe havens outside of gold, the bond would offer a dual benefit as a risk free investment for retail investors. When instrumented, it would be issued by the central government on a perpetual basis with a right to call it back when it seems fit. An attractive coupon rate for the bond or tax rebates could also be an incentive for investors. The government can consider a phased redemption of these bonds after the economy is put back on a path of high growth — a process that might take that much longer for every day we extend this lockdown. Rangarajan Mohan Kumaramangalam is an Angel Investor and Working President of the Tamilnadu Congress Committee
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Everyone wants a good stimulus||From time to time some of India’s most respected CEOs say “the only thing we ask of the government is to leave us alone and let us grow”, whereas often they turn to the government to bail them out even in normal times. The irony is inescapable. While pleading for less or no government, corporate India wants to always privatise profits and socialise losses. So, when a Jet Airways crumbles, or a Yes Bank implodes (for reasons other than business risk), everyone goes running to the government seeking bailouts. Now, it is natural that with a legitimate contraction in economic activity due to the COVID-19 pandemic (and deep uncertainty), which is an endogenous shock, everyone wants a good stimulus. But what will constitute a “good stimulus”? The poor must be supported, but what is the best way to do it? Indeed, who should get what, when should they get it, and how? The Reserve Bank of India can print notes, no questions asked, but this is not without serious consequences and the trade-offs need to be understood. Supply-side shutdown First and foremost, there is this rampant belief that a fiscal stimulus package has to follow the timeline set by the media or by consultants, which won’t happen. No one appears to understand that you cannot ‘stimulate’ an economy during a supply-side lockdown and that there are ‘announcement effects’ — both good and bad — that go with the stimulus. It is like trying to jump-start a dead engine when you also have a flat tyre! So, any ‘good stimulus’ can only come into effect post lockdown and extensive consultations are on with everyone for that. Second, everyone, when talking about the stimulus, conveniently forgets that government revenues too will be seriously hit. This will be anywhere from 2-3% of GDP (given that disinvestment target itself is 1% of GDP and the realisation is likely to be close to zero in the current financial year). So, the effective fiscal deficit is going to be somewhere around 7.5 % (if you take into account all the off-balance sheet borrowings). So, while everyone is talking of how the U.S. government has set aside $2 trillion for bailouts or 9% of its GDP, no one is ready to face the trade-off that India’s starting point is going to be at around 7.5% of GDP fiscal deficit (net of savings due to both, cuts and deferred expenditure), and then how much more can we afford on top of that? On top of this is all the ‘merit expenditure’ on health and direct income support to the poor. Can we still formulate a stimulus package comprising 10% of GDP, to be footed by the Central government alone? It may be worthwhile to bear in mind that from 1947 to 1997, the Central government always routinely monetised its deficit, without leading to high rates of inflation, much less hyperinflation. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) limits are hardly a grand success and routinely all governments have broken the barrier. Other countries with huge debt-to-GDP ratios like Japan (>200%) and U.S. (125%) get away with barely a rap on the knuckles but India is pulled up for minor slippages on a 70% debt-GDP ratio. Third, some prominent commentators have argued extremely fallaciously, that bailouts should be based on need and not affordability. Given the data above, can one forget about affordability and print money with all the attendant side effects? Which economist will go and face the electorate, if the currency plunges, inflation rages and rating agencies downgrade us to junk? Shouldn’t there be a more nuanced approach to what constitutes a ‘good’ stimulus? Giving grant to States Fourth, indeed there is a lot of liquidity in the economy, but limited credit is flowing due to anaemic lending. Thus, another mantra being espoused is that bank managers should be incentivised to lend and the government should indemnify loans given during this period. It remains to be seen what fiscal support tools the government will use that can ensure that credit flows to various sectors. The government owes about Rs. 1 lakh crore on tax refunds and also had promised to make up for any difference to the States, if the GST did not grow by 14% per annum. This is the time for it to transfer this to the States as a grant, for one year, to offset the revenue loss to States. Fifth, there is talk of going to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Do we really need the IMF’s conditionality-led bailout when there is no foreign exchange crisis for financing rupee expenditure? What about the perceived global stigma of doing so? Won’t the conditionality-led cure be worse than the disease? Only a fool confuses fate with destiny. Fate is what happens to us. Destiny is what we make in spite of our fate. India’s destiny appears relatively safe, if we cast the mind’s eye around the globe. Lifting the lockdown will be the first step towards a good stimulus and one does need to un-handcuff a billion people to save their lives too. Srivatsa Krishna is an IAS officer. Views are personal
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Rent control amidst pandemic||With the social and economic impacts of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown more discernible than before, there is a clarion call made to landlords by tenants to ‘forgive’ rent for a month or two — especially for poor migrant families, who do not have other housing options or savings. Government, civil society, academia, and migrants themselves are urging landlords to stop evictions as it would exacerbate the pandemic. It does not help matters that policymakers do not know who these landlords actually are, since the vast majority of rent arrangements in India are informal and unrecorded. As of now, governments are ‘ordering’ or requesting landlords to excuse rent and stop evictions on the basis of the Disaster Management (DM) Act of 2005. This, however, is a very roundabout way, as this Act does not have any provisions for demanding continuation of rental housing arrangements. The focus has to shift away from the DM Act to rent control acts that actually aim to regulate rental housing. This is where some medium to long-term thinking on rent control laws in States, as well as the Central government’s Model Tenancy Act, 2019, could be useful. Regardless of how it sounds, landlords have a right to evict tenants as per any agreement they may have mutually. At the same time, tenancies are not unregulated by law — all tenancies should be administered by the state’s rent control laws. Interests of landlords & tenants Typical rent control laws have historically favoured tenants, in extremis in fact — the logic being driven by a popular conception of landlords as petty capitalists exploiting poor, vulnerable tenants. This is only partly true. Research has shown that landlords, especially in the rental housing market in poor parts of our cities, are as poor and vulnerable as their tenants. Consumption data for poor households in urban areas indicate a uniform lack of savings or access to social and economic safety nets — for both landlords and tenants. In other words, landlords themselves, by and large, cannot afford a no-rent month. So, we are faced with a terrible quandary — there is no legal obligation for landlords to excuse rent or not evict tenants in the current pandemic, and this is also a situation that they themselves cannot afford. This predicament is further compounded by the informality in the rental housing market — we do not even know how many people are giving out their houses on rent, for how much, how long, or under what terms and conditions. Consider two things: first, we have to make the rent Act applicable across more and more tenancies. This means that all tenancies, including those informal in nature, must get registered under the Act. This is the only way we will know who actually the landlords and tenants are, and where these houses are. Here, we also see the proposed MTA playing a key role in emphasising the registration of rent agreements through to-be-established rent authorities in every State. This is doable, and all States should pursue it. Tamil Nadu has already launched such an authority that manages a portal for simplified registration.  Second, the rent Acts, as well as the Model Tenancy Act, need a force majeure clause for emergencies such as the pandemic. In times of dire stress, there is a strong case for passing an order to prevent evictions. When passed under a rent law, for registered tenancies, it will carry a far stronger legal sanction than under a disaster law. We still need to consider that landlords may not be able to afford a rent-free month — they need the rent for their own survival. For this, a mobilisation of housing, welfare and disaster funds is required to make up for this loss of rent. Funds could also be crowd-sourced, acquired from corporate social interests, and grants from international and national donor organisations. The advantage of having registered tenancies would then be evident — because the government would be able to channel funds directly into the accounts of landlords and tenants. The writers work at the Indian Institute for Human Settlements. Views are personal
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Blame game||President Donald Trump’s recent attacks on China over the coronavirus outbreak risk further deterioration of already strained ties between the two countries at a time when the global economy is in a precarious situation. Mr. Trump, under fire at home over his handling of the pandemic, seeks to hold China accountable for the infection spread. He has attempted to tie the virus to a virology lab in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, endorsing an unproven theory, while his administration officials accuse Beijing of withholding information about the virus. Over the past week, the President went so far as to seek compensation, threatening to impose more tariffs on China. This is a U-turn given his initial appreciation of his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping’s handling of the crisis. Stepping up the attacks on China might help Mr. Trump, whose approval ratings are falling, to mobilise his base. The Republican Party has already issued a memo asking candidates to attack China. Mr. Trump echoed the party sentiment when he said last week that China “will do anything” to defeat him in the November election. His supporters are portraying Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, as a representative of the old political elite that is “soft on China”. With six months left for the U.S. Presidential election, Mr. Trump and his party have effectively turned China into a campaign issue. The question is about what shape this renewed anti-China rhetoric will leave U.S.-China relations; ties have been uneasy since Mr. Trump became President. The trade war by Mr. Trump and the push to weaken Chinese giant Huawei’s global bid to roll out 5G technology had impacted the four decades long partnership. However, both sides agreed to an initial trade agreement in January that cut some U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods in return for China’s pledges to buy more American products. A final trade deal is yet to be reached. If Mr. Trump decides to punish China over the COVID-19 outbreak, it would, in all likelihood, lead to the unravelling of the trade talks during an unfortunate time for the global economy. Also, China, which has brought the virus situation at home under control, has sent economic and medical assistance to the hardest hit countries. Even the U.S. is importing personal protective equipment supplies from China. When Mr. Trump halted funding for the World Health Organization last month, China stepped in with an additional $30 million grant for the agency. Mr. Trump should look beyond his narrow blame game and see the larger picture. If the goals are to defeat the virus, save lives and rebuild economies and societies, those can be achieved only through global cooperation, not through unsubstantiated accusations, conspiracy theories and threats.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Back home||After nearly two months, stranded Indians across the world will begin their journey home this week as aircraft and naval ships, in a government-coordinated plan, are to bring back about 15,000 nationals from 13 countries in the first week. The mammoth exercise, dubbed the “Vande Bharat” mission by the External Affairs Ministry, is expected to last for weeks, given the numbers of people who have registered with embassies in these countries. The stranded include business travellers and tourists who were unable to return in time; due to the pandemic, the last flights allowed to land with incoming passengers were on March 22. There are also students whose university hostels have shut down. Increasingly, those appealing to be allowed to return have included professionals and labourers who have lost jobs due to the economic impact of global lockdowns. With estimates of applicants ranging between 5,00,000 to 10,00,000, embassies and missions will have their task cut out prioritising lists of those who will return. According to the Standard Operating Procedures released by the Home Ministry, only those who have “compelling reasons to return” — people whose visas are expiring, who face deportation, with family emergencies, medical issues including pregnancy, and students who have lost their accommodation — will be allowed to return in the first phase, which is open to only Indian nationals at present. In addition, the government has also laid down stringent conditions which include “mandatory institutional quarantine” for 14 days. All those returning will also bear the costs for travel arrangements and accommodation. Despite these, the returnees will no doubt be grateful to the government for its efforts, Indian diplomats who have helped keep them informed, organised food and shelter, and also to airline and naval crews who will carry out these operations despite the risks of infection. The efforts required by unsung diplomats and officials have been made all the more difficult by India’s stringent lockdown and the government’s decision not to allow its own nationals to return, even as about 60,000 foreign nationals were flown out during this period. As the government plans its exit from the lockdown, as well as its repatriation manoeuvres, it is necessary to consider putting in better systems so that it does not have to repeat the trauma of keeping Indian citizens stranded outside the country for extended periods away from their families. It is necessary that quarantine facilities are identified or makeshift centres built to deal with the large numbers of people who may need to return. In particular, the government needs to prepare for both a possible second wave of the novel coronavirus as well as a rapid increase in Indian expatriates needing to return given the drop in oil prices in West Asia and the downturn in global economies.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Cricket Behind Barbed Wire||The Government of India’s decision not to permit an Indian team to participate in the Commonwealth Games at Edinburgh if the impending South African cricket tour of England is not abandoned is in line with the stand taken by the majority of non-white member countries of the Commonwealth. The argument that politics should be kept out of sports is untenable in the case of South Africa for that country’s whole attitude to sport has been politics-ridden. Its Government regulates sport at home on strict apartheid lines and has had no qualms about extending that pernicious doctrine even to international sport. It refused to entertain the M.C.C. team which included the coloured cricketer, Basil D’Oliviera. The South African visit has raised a storm of controversy within Britain itself. There is so much opposition to it that, if the tour does take place, it seems a certainty that anti-apartheid groups will make an attempt to disrupt the games. The M.C.C. has therefore made arrangements for the matches to be played in grounds protected by barbed wire fences. The Government cannot officially ban the tour because that it will affect Britain’s economic relations with South Africa. Further, the Conservative Party has come out in favour of the tour, thus making it a domestic political issue.
07 May 2020||Mumbai,||SBI to extend loan moratorium to NBFCs||In a move that could give a huge relief to the non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) facing a cash crunch, the State Bank of India (SBI) has decided to extend loan moratorium to these entities. According to top sources in the bank, the decision was taken after a meeting on Wednesday, wherein it was decided that non-banks that wanted to avail the three-month moratorium on payment of instalments will have to apply for the same and the facility will not be extended by default. The move comes days after a recent meeting between the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and commercial banks wherein the issues of moratorium and liquidity flow to NBFCs were discussed. Assess cash flow The SBI will assesss the cash flow situation of the NBFCs before deciding on extending the facility. If an entity had a negative cash flow, that is, if repayments or inflows to the NBFC were lower than the outflow, only then the facility would be extended. At end March, following the nationwide lockdown, the RBI had allowed banks to extend three-month repayment moratorium to their term loan customers without classifying them as non-performing assets. Lenders’ reluctance While the banks had extended the facility to the retail borrowers, they were reluctant to extend the same to the NBFCs, including housing finance companies and micro-finance institutions. Bank funding is a key source of liquidity for the NBFCs. As a result, NBFCs that had extended the benefit to their customers but were not granted one from the banks, were facing a severe liquidity crunch. Rating agency Crisil had said that the NBFCs rated by the agency would face a Rs. 1.75 lakh-crore debt obligation maturing by June end. Similarly, micro-finance institutions had informed the RBI during a recent meeting that they had to repay a debt of Rs. 18,500 crore in the next three months. Sa-Dhan, the industry body of micro lenders, had urged that the moratorium be extended until June 30, as March payments were mostly done by customers. With SBI now deciding to offer the moratorium, NBFCs expect other commercial banks also to follow suit. “Since the SBI had decided to extend the moratorium, we expect other banks also to extend the same benefit to the NBFCs,” said the MD & CEO of a housing finance company.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI/new delhi,||Automobile majors resume partial operations||Royal Enfield, TVS Motor Company, MRF and Apollo Tyres resumed operations at their manufacturing facilities on Wednesday based on the government’s directions even as the country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki said it will restart vehicle production at its Manesar plant in Haryana on May 12. Royal Enfield said its manufacturing unit at Oragadam, near Chennai, was the first to begin operations in a staggered manner, with minimal staff over a single shift. “Employees and shop floor staff residing in and around plant locations will be aligned to work in these units so as to avoid long-distance travel and minimise contact during transportation. There will be complete compliance with norms of social distancing and workplace sanitisation,” the company said. Operations at two other manufacturing facilities at Tiruvottiyur and Vallam Vadagal will resume in a phased manner, it said. Dealerships stay closed While a majority of Royal Enfield’s dealers will continue to remain closed, about 120 dealerships have begun partial operations, the company said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges. “We expect about 300 dealerships, in all, to be operational by mid May with strict safety measures and social distancing norms followed at dealerships as well,” it added. Meanwhile, MRF said it had partially resumed its operations at most of its plants with restricted manpower. Some of the stocking points have also partially resumed operations. The continuance of operations in these places however depends on directives of the local authorities, issued from time to time, based on the incidence of COVID-19 cases in the area concerned, it added. The operations will be scaled up as and when authorities relax the restrictions, MRF said. Apollo Tyres said operations at its Chennai plant had partially resumed, adhering to the standard operating procedures/guidelines for industrial units, prescribed by the State government. TVS Motor Company had commenced its operations in India across all its factories in Hosur, Mysuru and Nalagarh. A comprehensive preparedness manual has been designed for the employees to ensure complete adherence to necessary safety guidelines to help minimise the spread of the virus, it added. Work-from-home option also continues for certain category of people, in adherence to respective State government guidelines, TVS Motor said. Hyundai has also resumed partial operations. “Maruti Suzuki India Limited would re-start production of vehicles at its Manesar plant from the 12th of May 2020,” the company said in a filing with the stock exchange. “All activities would be carried out strictly in accordance with the government regulations and guidelines and observing the company’s own concern for the highest standards of safety,” the company added.
07 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Kirana stores turn lifeline during lockdown||The close to 12 million neighbourhood kirana stores that dominate the domestic grocery retailing landscape of India with a 90% market share have emerged stronger during the ongoing lockdown, with people depending on them to procure daily essentials. Though the online disruption has been hurting their profitability for some time, the kirana ecosystem was seen fighting back to regain the spotlight despite the competitive battleground of supermarkets, modern retail and e-commerce players, said analysts. During this period, the kiranas also facilitated financial transactions for a large number of people in urban and rural India. “Kirana stores will remain evergreen as people in India still rely on their neighbourhood kiranas for their daily essential needs. The humble kiranas have become the backbone of the Indian grocery market and have proved extremely durable over the years,” said Arvind Mediratta, MD & CEO, Metro Cash & Carry India Pvt. Ltd. “During the COVID-19 crisis, Kirana stores have stood tall and they ensured that every household gets their daily essentials. They were and are the lifeline of consumers in India,” he added. As supply chains were disrupted and migrant workers were unavailable, impacting regular delivery by wholesalers and stockists, the kirana store owners themselves went to depots, markets and suppliers’ places to procure the essentials. “The biggest arsenal for kiranas is their business model; it is much simpler to set up a kirana shop with lesser stock keeping units (SKU) vis-à-vis a retail store with huge capital cost and inventory,” Mr. Mediratta said. He said METRO Cash & Carry India has been helping in modernisation and digitisation of kiranas to make them attract more footfalls and profitability. The kirana network also played a crucial role in enabling financial transactions for the masses during the lockdown. Residents of high-rise buildings in Mumbai’s Worli and small societies in Worli Koliwada invited retail agents of PayNearby to help them with banking services. Similarly, in rural areas, many people who were unable to travel long distances to conduct transactions or withdraw cash from ATMs, rushed to the kiranas to meet their banking needs. “In such a situation, kirana stores, especially Digital Pradhans have emerged heros. Armed with AePS and MicroATMs, they have been a saviour to populations faced with a scarcity of ATMs, helping them transact with ease,” Anand Kumar Bajaj, CEO and Founder, PayNearby, said. “The ubiquitous nature of kirana has given it an advantage over the banking sector. It is important that no matter how much money one has in bank account, unless it is available in hand to make payment, it is of no use,” he added. “We are conducting an estimate of transactions worth over Rs. 100 crore daily, with our daily AePS numbers doubling from what it was before the lockdown — from an average of 2.3 lakh to 5.6 lakh,” Mr. Bajaj said adding “Overall, we were able to dispense Rs. 2,970 crore in April.”  The ubiquitous nature of kirana has given it an advantage over the banking sectorAnand Kumar Bajaj,CEO and Founder, PayNearby
07 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Equity trades dip by 14% in April||Equity markets witnessed the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing nationwide lockdown not only in terms of a drop in stock prices, but also the quantum of trading. Data from the National Stock Exchange (NSE) and the BSE clearly show that the total number of transactions in April — the first full month of the lockdown — dipped by almost 14%, while the total number of shares traded fell by a much higher proportion. In April, the number of equity trades on the NSE fell to about 36 crore from the almost 42 crore in March, while the total number of shares traded fell a little over 27% from 5,884 crore to 4,273 crore equity shares. On the BSE, while the number of trades dropped almost 14%, the total number of shares traded fell by 36%. Market participants attribute this to the increased underlying risk aversion among the investor community following virus-related global lockdown. More importantly, the fall in the turnover came even as the benchmark Sensex rose 14.42% in April, the highest monthly gain since May 2009, when the barometer had gained 28.26%. “A combination of factors like crude prices crashing to settle in negative territory on settlement day, gold bouncing very rapidly, equities remaining highly volatile and commodities in general remaining soft made investors very risk averse in April,” said Arun Kejriwal of Kejriwal Research and Investment Services. Interestingly, the fall in number of trades and the quantum of shares traded comes close on the heels of many brokerages registering a spike in the number of new client additions in March. Flavour of the season Most of the discount broking firms like Zerodha, 5Paisa and Upstox, among others, that predominantly cater to retail clients and are completely dependent on technology — clients trade through their apps — had reported a huge jump in new client additions. “When the lockdown was announced, it became imperative for the people to organise their daily schedule. This also included people who are actively involved in the stock market. As life started getting re-organised, they had the time to devote to stock markets. This trend also hints at higher volumes in the coming months as clarity emerges in global and domestic factors driving the stock markets,” explained Mr. Kejriwal. Incidentally, both average daily turnover and the average trade size registered a marginal increase on the NSE in April. While the average trade size increased to Rs. 25,118 in April from Rs. 24,065 in March, the average daily turnover rose to Rs. 50,322 crore from Rs. 47,917 crore in the same period on the NSE.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 to help accelerate e-com adoption||The COVID-19 pandemic could accelerate the adoption of e-commerce in the country, with online sales accounting for over 10% of Indian retail sales in the next 12-18 month period, from 5% currently. “Demonetisation accelerated the adoption of digital payment in India and we expect COVID-19 to do the same thing for online commerce. Presently, 95% of India’s retail sales do happen at stores, and online contribute only 5%. However, we expect this order to change dramatically. Online sales will breach the double-digit mark within the next 12-18 months,” Prashobh Chandralayam, executive director (Retail), Global Business Services, IBM India/South Asia told The Hindu . Talking about changes in shopping experience, Mr. Chandralayam said since safety and security was going to be the single most important thing, he expected end-to-end digitisation at stores to be mandatory. “Touchless payments to virtual try-on will be the new norm. The perfect combination of digital and physical will define the new shopping experience,” he said. For example, trial rooms at fashion retail outlets will need to have virtual try-on facility with 3D avatars, as customers may not be comfortable trying out any garments in the trial room. He added that customers would also want more information about the product they are buying, to know how genuine the product line is. “The entire product value chain will need to be articulated as part of the product info. Farm to fork and fibre to fashion is what matters. Customers will not shy away from paying extra money for the product information,” he said.  Mr. Chandralayam pointed out that 31% of the world’s GDP is retail and from a digital perspective, 40 petabytes of data is generated every hour in retail. “It’s not just any data, it’s the demand signal for the world. Post COVID-19 era, data signals from retail will provide vital clues on the shape of economic recovery,” he said.
07 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Plastic industry seeks govt. support to resume exports||The Indian plastics industry is looking at boosting exports after lifting of the lockdown in the country and has sought the support of the government to achieve its objectives. “India has every potential to bounce back from the adverse situation. Within the plastics export segment, global buyers have been looking favourably towards India as its sourcing hub, especially in the wake of rising hesitation in doing business with China,” said Ravish Kamath, chairman, PLEXCONCIL. “If due support is provided by the government to the plastics industry, which largely consists of MSMEs, reboot of business will become a reality and growth can certainly be achieved,” he said. Over the past weeks, PLEXCONCIL has been pursuing various issues and challenges faced by the industry with various government bodies since the lockdown. The council has since been reassured that concerns would be duly looked into and efforts would be directed to ease the numerous bottlenecks that exporters are currently facing, officials said. Sribash Dasmohapatra, executive director, PLEXCONCIL said, “Manufacturing and exports form the backbone of an economy and while measures to lift the lockdown in a phased manner is going on, it is important to resume exports as soon as possible.” “As per an analysis done by the commerce department, medical textiles, electronics, plastics and toys are some sectors whose exports can be promoted in the next three months,” he said. PLEXCONCIL has made certain suggestions which include revisions to the existing FTAs that exporters believe are largely skewered and favourable to imports, rather than promoting Indian exports and providing 15% incentives to exporters to boost exports.
07 May 2020||MUMBAI,||GSK Pte, Horlicks to sell 5.7% in HUL for $3.3 bn||GlaxoSmithKline Pte and Horlicks will sell 5.69% stake in Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) in a deal valued at Rs. 24,750 crore or nearly $3.3 billion. A total of 13.4 crore equity shares would be sold in bulk deals in a price band of Rs. 1,850 to Rs. 1,950 on Thursday. The base price is nearly 8% lower than Wednesday’s closing price of Rs. 2,009.85. Shares of HUL, which is the country’s largest pure play fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) company, fell 1.57% on Wednesday. In December 2018, HUL approved the merger of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare India with the company, in a deal worth Rs. 31,700 crore to acquire Horlicks and Boost, among other health food drinks. The all-equity merger transaction saw shareholders of GSK CH India getting 4.39 shares of HUL for every one share of GSK CH India. That, in turn, led to GSK Plc. holding 5.7% in HUL. While deal was announced in December 2018, all the requisite approvals were obtained only last month. Meanwhile, the share sale on Thursday will be managed by JP Morgan India, HSBC Securities (India) and Morgan Stanley India.
07 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Adani profit drops 78.44% to Rs. 61 crore||Adani Enterprises Limited (AEL) reported a 78.44% drop in net profit for the fourth quarter to Rs. 61 crore compared with the year-earlier period. The drop in profit came on a 2% increase in revenue to Rs. 13,698 crore. EBITDA for the quarter fell 31.38% to Rs. 647 crore. Gautam Adani, chairman, Adani Group, said, “COVID-19 has brought things to a halt. We aim to emerge stronger once the situation normalises. “The emphasis will be on continued incubation of future businesses and create value for our stakeholders in the long term,” the chairman added. The company has lined up capital expenditure worth Rs. 10,000 crore for FY21 of which Rs. 5,000 crore would be spent on the airports vertical alone.
07 May 2020||Mumbai,||ICRA downgrades Edelweiss debt||Rating agency ICRA has downgraded debt instruments of Edelweiss Housing Finance and Edelweiss Finance & Investments Limited and said the outlook remained negative.  “The rating downgrade action takes into account the increased stress in the wholesale portfolio, leading to a deterioration in the asset quality, and the consequent impact on the financial performance,” ICRA said. The group’s gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) increased to 2.76% of total advances as of December 31, 2019 from 1.87% as of March 31, 2019, according to the rating agency.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Olympic medal is top priority’||Ace Indian paddler G. Sathiyan has locked his eyes on three achievements he wishes to accomplish next: winning an Olympic medal, breaking into the world’s top-10 and beating a top Chinese player. “It’s a Herculean task [to win an Olympic medal in Tokyo]… It will be sensational if I can make the quarterfinals and it will put me in a really good position to go for a medal at the 2024 Olympics,” Sathiyan told Sportstar during an Instagram live session on Wednesday. The Chennai-born paddler added that beating a top player from China will create a big sensation in India. The first Indian player to break into the world’s top 25, Sathiyan credited his success to coach and former National champion S. Raman. “He turned me from a passive and a controlled player to an aggressive player. I used to believe that the more balls I played, the better it was. He told me it was more about the quality on the ball and the aggressiveness with which I played.” Taking the baton For a long time, Indian table tennis was synonymous with A. Sharath Kamal. Now, and as Sharath says, the baton has been passed to Sathiyan. Asked whether that’s added pressure or motivation, Sathiyan said: “It is definitely motivating. What is even better is that he [Sharath] is still playing with us. So, it’s great to receive such a compliment from him.”    Sathiyan is spending most of his time during the lockdown at his residence in Chennai and has found a new playing partner in the Butterfly Amicus Prime robot. “I have been playing with it so much that sometimes the machine heats up, it also needs a break. The robot is not able to take it and keeps getting tired,” Sathiyan concluded.  It will be sensational if I can make the quarterfinals in Tokyo. It will put me in a really good position to go for a medal at the 2024 Olympics
07 May 2020||Chennai,||TNPL set to be postponed||The fifth edition of the Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL), scheduled to begin on June 10, is all set to be postponed. With the lockdown extended to May 17, even if things go back to normal after that, there will be very little time to get the logistics in place to start the tournament on schedule. “Once we get clarity on how things will be after May 17, we will have a discussion with the franchises and broadcaster. We can then decide on how to go about it,” said TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy. Enough time For the moment, though, there is no talk of cancelling the event since there is enough time till the end of August to find a slot. The TNPL was scheduled to be held at four venues, including two new cities in Coimbatore and Salem, in addition to Dindigul and Tirunelveli. But the association is open to holding it behind closed doors, especially at a time when fans are starved of any live sport. The association is also adopting a wait-and-watch approach for the TNCA leagues in the city. Only the semifinals and finals need to be completed in the first division league and will take only a few weeks to finish. However, the other divisions will take at least two months to be completed. One likely scenario is that there will be no promotion or relegation this year. Bonus for staff Despite the tough economic climate and the financial beating the BCCI and its member associations are likely to suffer in case the IPL doesn’t happen this year, the TNCA gave away a month’s salary as bonus for its office staff last month, continuing its regular, annual practice.  Once we get clarity on how things will be after May 17, we will have a discussion with the franchises and broadcaster R.S. Ramasaamy TNCA secretary
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||International Tennis Federation Academy opens doors to its resources||Indian tennis coaches have capitalised on the time available due to the lockdown by enriching themselves with the resources available freely at the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Academy. In an attempt to help coaches around the world, the ITF has stepped up online content from its invaluable resources and made it free. The coaches have to only register, make use of the resources and get themselves certified, with about 30 courses available at the moment. “To accept and adapt is the way forward,” said Miguel Crespo, a pioneer in ITF’s coaching department, when he addressed Indian coaches during a webinar organised by the national federation and the Sports Authority of India (SAI). With 1,100 coaches registered with the ITF, India is already the world-leader, and Crespo had suggestions on how coaches could enhance their knowledge and guide others. Blended learning “It is all free and there is no excuse anymore,” said Crespo. “It is blended learning. We will continue to have face-to-face courses, as well as the online part. The online courses started two years ago. You can do several courses online and download certificates. The courses are free now, owing to COVID-19. It may not happen again,” said Crespo, sounding a friendly warning. “It is not just for coaches. Anyone can do them and improve their knowledge. There are courses for parents also. Many may know, but you can reinforce your knowledge,” he said. “The ITF is planning to have parents’ education, as a 20-minute online process and a two-hour face-to-face interaction,” he added. The content is in three parts — regular courses, a question-and-answer section and case studies. The ITF has also enhanced its library by putting videos, drills, interviews and articles in its I-coach centre, accessible to all registered coaches. “There are already more than 3,000 pieces of content,” said Crespo. The ITF Advanced Coaches Manual, which Crespo has co-authored with Dave Miley, is also free on the App. Speaking about the importance of using technology wisely, Crespo said that it was equally important for coaches to focus on regular participants in tennis. “Competitive players are only five per cent. The rest are normal players. We need to help them,” said Crespo.
07 May 2020||KOLKATA,||‘I bank on speed and endurance’||Satish Kumar, the first Indian boxer to qualify for the Olympics in the super heavyweight (+91kg) category, is banking on his speed and endurance to come good in the mega event next year. At about six-foot-one-inch, Satish — an Asian Games bronze medallist and a CWG silver medallist — may look taller than many, but he knows that he will have to face towering opponents in the Olympics. The 31-year-old Arjuna award winner is preparing himself for the challenge. “Some boxers have the advantage of height. I bank on my speed and endurance. In the super heavy category, the stress is on power. I want to counter that with speed and endurance,” Satish told The Hindu . “As per the coaches’ instruction, I am working on my overall game. But the focus is on building strength. The postponement of the Olympics is an advantage as I get more time to work on the areas of improvement.” Satish, weighing 95kg, is encouraged by the fact he is the first from India to qualify in super heavyweight. “I am very happy and proud … Getting a lot of motivation. Hope to win a medal for the country.” Back to the roots Satish, who got a taste of village life after 13 years, spoke about his plans for the lockdown period. “I stay in Noida. I knew we would not be able to get out of the room over there. “I thought I should spend some time with my parents. It is much better than staying in the city. In the village there is a lot of open space. I can do my running and get some fresh air. “My children’s online classes are on. I spend two-three hours with them. I play cards, ludo and carrom and devote some time for puja at the village temple. “I go to our fields and work there. When wheat cutting was going on, I did my bit. Happy to be involved in agriculture after so many years,” said Satish, with a sense of satisfaction.
07 May 2020||Chennai,||This is the time to give: Indrajith||Baba Indrajith’s motto in life is simple — “live in the present, be happy, be helpful, and make people around you happy.” Along with twin brother Aparajith, Inder comprehends the various shades of life and relishes the challenges that come with it. His figures in First Class cricket are laudable — Inder has 3392 runs in 53 matches at 50.62. Yet it is his level-headedness off the arena and his compassion for the less privileged that makes Inder special. Ask him about the present times and he responds to The Hindu , “I am, along with Apar, sending money to various charities. This is not the time to save, this is the time to give.” He is a great believer in the Isha Foundation and the work the organisation does, reads its books and contributes handsomely to its causes. Inder said, “Right now, we see people without food or shelter, who are struggling to get by in the prevailing circumstances. We have to reach out to them.” The twins’ father Dr. Baba owns a hospital in Ambattur. Inder said, “We have to take care of all the staff in these trying times. We cannot let them down.” Inder and Apar stay with their maternal grandparents at MRC Nagar. “Our parents come to visit us thrice a week and we are getting to spend precious time with them during the lockdown,” he said. The twins have a small gym set-up at home where they perform different drills. Among the finest young batsmen against spin in the country, Inder does routines to keep himself nimble-footed. Culinary interests Interestingly, he is into cooking these days. “I have a passion for cooking and am learning to make two dishes every week,” Inder revealed. He is now an expert in preparing dosas and omelettes! Meanwhile, like most during a lockdown, he watches movies. Inder also listens to music of his favourite, A.R. Rahman. And he takes out time for yoga and meditation. Ask Inder and he will tell you a lot can be done during a lockdown by opening up your mind.  I am, along with Apar, sending money to various charities
07 May 2020||MOSCOW,||Sharapova recalls fun dinner with Djokovic||Five-time Grand Slam champion Maria Sharapova has revealed that fellow tennis star and World No. 1 Novak Djokovic was once fanboying on her over dinner. During an Instagram Live chat with the Serbian ace, Sharapova, who called time on her illustrious career in February, said: “I remember we played this little exhibition. I was young, you were young, way before you had any Grand Slam titles. I don’t know if you’d even won a tournament at that point,” said Sharapova. This part of the chat was shared by ATP Tour on its official twitter handle. “You said that if you’d win (in a mixed doubles match), I would have to pay dinner. I was like, ‘Okay, whatever, who is this kid?’” Sharapova recalled. “You won and you were like, ‘We have dinner tonight. We’re going to the Japanese place!’ I was like, ‘Are you serious? You and me, going to dinner, tonight?’ So we did. We ended up going to dinner and it was so funny because you pulled out I think an old Kodak camera and you asked the waiter to take a photo of us... and here we are,” she further said. “It’s actually what happened. Maria is saying the truth,” Djokovic said, laughing. “I think you were fanboying,” Sharapova replied.  We ended up going to dinner and it was so funny because you pulled out I think it was an old Kodak camera and you asked the waiter to take a photo of us...— Sharapova
07 May 2020||Berlin,||Bundesliga to resume this month||Germany’s Bundesliga can restart games from the second half of May following the coronavirus stoppage, Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Wednesday. Merkel’s announcement had been widely expected as part of measures to begin easing the country’s lockdown aimed at halting the spread of the virus. Sources told Reuters that the government and federal states had also agreed that the second division, the 2. Bundesliga, could restart matches. Matches without fans All matches would have to be played without fans, sources familiar with the talks told Reuters, adding that the German soccer league (DFL) will decide on the exact dates for the resumption of the Bundesliga and the second-tier 2. Bundesliga. The league has been on hold since mid-March. Officials from the 16 states held a teleconference with Merkel on Wednesday to discuss easing the country’s lockdown measures. The DFL is due to hold an assembly with its 36 member clubs on Thursday followed by a news conference. The Bundesliga will be the first of Europe’s top five domestic leagues to restart following the outbreak, which has brought football to a standstill around the world. Its progress is likely to be closely watched by other leagues. Meanwhile in Spain, Barcelona and Real Madrid players started to undergo coronavirus tests on Wednesday as LaLiga clubs planned to return to restricted training ahead of the proposed resumption of the season next month. Barca captain Lionel Messi and France international Antoine Griezmann were among players pictured arriving at the club’s training centre early Wednesday morning. Results from the coronavirus tests are typically known within 48 hours. The testing is part of the league’s strict medical protocol with which teams must comply before a return to training.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India holds USA before losing to RoW||India’s joy of holding higher-ranked USA 2-2 ended with the narrow 1.5-2.5 loss to lowest-rated Rest of the World (RoW) on the first day of the $180,000 FIDE Chess.com Online Nations Cup chess championship on Tuesday. After Viswanathan Anand controlled the proceedings against Hikaru Nakamura and eventually drew, P. Harikrishna was better placed against Leinier Dominguez Perez. Hari also drew and Humpy pulled off an effective victory after Anna Zatonskih committed a late blunder. However, Fabiano Carauana overcame Vidit Gujrathi in 119 moves to deny India a famous win and help USA salvage a match-point In the second round, Anand played a solid draw against Teimour Radjabov, while Humpy and Hari were held by Mariya Muzychuk and teen-sensation Alireza Firouzja respectively. B. Adhiban faltered to lose to Jorge Cori. Easy for China Top seed China posted an identical 3-1 victories over Europe and RoW to take the lead  The results:   Second round: Rest of the World bt India 2.5-1.5 (Teimour Radjabov drew with Viswanathan Anand; Alireza Firouzja drew with P. Harikrishna; Jorge Cori bt B. Adhiban; Mariya Muzychuk drew with K. Humpy); China bt Europe 3-1; USA bt Russia 3-1.   First round: India drew with USA 2-2 (Anand drew with Hikaru Nakamura; Vidit Gujrathi lost to Fabiano Caruana; Harikrishna drew with Leinier Dominguez Perez; Humpy bt Anna Zatonskih); China bt Rest of the World 3-1; Europe drew with Russia 2-2.   Standings: 1. China (4 match-points). 2. USA (3), 3. Rest of the World (2); 4-6. India, Europe and Russia (1 each) .
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Real Kashmir coach and family to return home on Thursday||Stranded in Srinagar for more than a month due to the national lockdown, Real Kashmir FC head coach David Robertson and his family will finally return to Scotland on Thursday, ending an anxious wait to attend to his sick mother. Robertson, his wife Kim, son Mason, who plays for the club, and three support staff reached Jammu on Wednesday by an official bus of RKFC, which left Srinagar early in the morning. They will fly back home in a British Airways flight from Amritsar on Thursday. With his mother undergoing chemotherapy in Aberdeen, Robertson and his family became anxious after international flights were suspended due to the lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. They have been waiting for the state permit to travel to Amritsar and they got it on Tuesday. “The British High Commission gave them the permit yesterday and so they left Srinagar at 5 a.m. in our club bus which reached Jammu at 1pm today,” RKFC co-owner Sandeep Chattoo told PTI from Srinagar. Four other foreign players, all from Africa, including skipper Loveday Enyinnaya are still stuck in Chattoo’s hotel.
07 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Amalraj, Habib go down memory lane||Victor Amalraj wanted to relive the golden memories on the football field in the 1970s. It turned out to be a touching experience for the former India football captain when he called up his contemporary Mohd. Habib. The latter struggled to express his feelings and recall all those moments of glory during the course of the conversation as he was suffering from Parkinson’s disease. But he did recall the moment when the great Pele appreciated him in Kolkata. Feared striker “Habib was mentored and moulded in the latter half of his career by the great P.K. Banerjee,” said Amalraj, in a chat with The Hindu. "It was a touch sad to see such a gifted footballer and a feared striker ailing. But he is very eager to see some of his teammates of yesteryear." “I have seen fans mob Habib Bhai in Kolkata. A product of City College Old Boys (Hyderabad), he played for East Bengal and helped it win almost all major trophies in early 70s with his magical touch,” added Amalraj, who has the rare distinction of leading all three Kolkata giants — East Bengal, Mohun Bagan and Mohd. Sporting. Pat from Pele The 70-year-old Habib managed to recollect one of his greatest moments when he scored a goal for Bagan against Pele’s Cosmos Club in 1977 at the Eden Gardens. “It will remain one of my greatest moments, something that was appreciated by Pele himself at the end of the match. He hugged me and wished me best of luck,” Habib told Amalraj. Amalraj said that Habib was someone whom he and other players adored as a teammate and captain and someone who they picked up many tricks from. “We sincerely wish that Habib recovers well and leads a healthier life,” hoped a visibly moved Amalraj.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||NADA’s hearings to be done online||The National Anti-Doping Agency’s director-general Navin Agarwal on Wednesday said the body will conduct its disciplinary hearings online from Friday despite the many logistical challenges to ensure cases don’t pile up. NADA hearings have not been taking place due to the lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. “We will be starting with our online hearings from May 8. “Both Anti-Doping Disciplinary Panel (ADDP) and Anti-Doping Appeals Panel (ADAP) hearings will be conducted for the cases which are pending,” Agarwal said. Audio calls Listing inconsistent or unavailable internet as one of them, Agarwal said athletes will be allowed to participate via audio calls to ensure that things can be managed smoothly.
07 May 2020||LOS ANGELES,||Tennis relief fund raises $6 million||A relief fund set up by the international governing bodies of tennis to assist players hit by the coronavirus pandemic has raised more than $6 million, the ATP Tour said on Tuesday. The ATP, WTA, four Grand Slam tournaments and the International Tennis Federation had all joined forces to create the fund designed to players ranked outside of the top 200 in the world in singles. The funds will be distributed by the ATP and WTA and will target roughly 800 singles and doubles players from both tours. Eligibility for cash from the funds will be determined by ranking and previous prize money earnings, the ATP said. According to reports, each of the four Slam events chipped in $1 million each. The WTA and ATP Tours were also reported to have added $1 million each.
07 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KCA to conduct online course for coaches||The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) is set to conduct an online course for cricket coaches in the State. The course will be conducted under the aegis of KCA’s High Performance Centre, and all accredited coaches under KCA can attend it. Former Indian medium pacer Tinu Yohanan, who is the director of KCA’s High Performance Centre, will be in-charge of the course. Besides Yohanan, the other resource persons include Biju George, the former fielding coach of Indian women’s team, BCCI Umpire and former Ranji captain K.N. Ananthapadmanabhan, NCA coach Bijumon, former Kerala Ranji Trophy assistant coach Mazhar Moidu and Physio Ashley Tomy. Classes will cover all aspects of batting, bowling, wicket-keeping, fielding, spin bowling and injury management and rehabilitation.
07 May 2020||CHENNAI:,||Chess classes||Velammal Vidyalaya will organise live streaming chess classes, conducted by renowned coach and Grandmaster R.B. Ramesh from May 11. The virtual classes are exclusively for Velammal students. Registration is free. To enroll, Call 8056063519 or log on towww.velammalnexus.com.
07 May 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Brilliant Trophy to be played online||Brilliant Chess Academy will conduct the 168th Brilliant Trophy open chess tournament online on May 9 and 10 in view of the Covid-19, with a total prize money of Rs. 10,000. On behalf of the chess fraternity, funds will be raised and contributed towards the Telangana Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to combat the virus. For details, call J. Subrahmanyam on 92473 99717.
07 May 2020||Kolkata,||Calcutta University’s digital collection goes online||In what can be seen as a sign of the times to come, when social distancing may just become the new normal, the University of Calcutta has placed the entire digital collection of its library online so that physical visits are no longer necessitated and the world at large benefits from it. The decision of the University, set up in 1857, has placed in public domain countless articles, journals and dissertations, including issues of The Calcutta Review dating back to 1844 and Tagore Law Lectures dating back to 1870. Now anybody, anywhere in the world, can access them any time. “We are living through a time of great uncertainty, owing to the global coronavirus pandemic. To cope with regulations of social distancing and lockdown, our teachers have initiated online teaching. They have also been regularly uploading study materials on the university website. In this spirit of online education, the university has also decided to open up free access to its digital collections. These would be accessible through the university website, www.culibrary.ac.in,” Vice-Chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said in a circular. Two major reasons “There are two major reasons underlying our decision. The first is our responsibility to our students and our faculty, whose education and research have been obstructed by the prohibition on physical access to the library collections. “The second is our responsibility, as a public institution, to the citizenry as well as the world at large,” Ms. Chakravarti Banerjee said. “Education is a public good; and the necessity and value of academic research increases, more than ever, if our society is to recover from the crisis. “As a public university, we feel that it is our responsibility to make our digital collections part of a global academic commons, to facilitate the pursuit of knowledge beyond borders,” she said. Till now, the library facilities and resources, including digital collections, were primarily accessible to users within the university campus. Now, the digitised collection of full-text materials has been made accessible for free reading — from any part of the world. “The University of Calcutta feels honoured to contribute to the communing of cultural-educational resources; and thus to strengthen the global networks of cooperation and solidarity through which alone we shall be able to recover as a planetary community,” the Vice-Chancellor said.  According to a senior university official, this decision to make the library’s digital content public, even though prompted by the pandemic and subsequent lockdown, would, in all probability, continue to hold good even after the lockdown is lifted.
07 May 2020||Beijing,||Disneyland in Shanghai to open on May 11 with more safety measures||The Disneyland theme park in Shanghai will reopen on May 11 under enhanced health and safety measures, the company said. Only limited attendance will be allowed initially, and visitors will need to book tickets and make reservations in advance. Social distancing will be maintained in lines for amenities, in restaurants, on rides and other facilities and sanitisation and disinfection will be boosted, the company said in a release. Visitors will have to wear masks and temperature screening will be a standard procedure. With warmer weather and new virus cases and deaths falling to near-zero, China has been steadily reopening, parks, museums and tourist sites such as the Great Wall of China and the Forbidden City ancient palace complex in Beijing. Walt Disney Co. has suffered $1 billion in lost profits from the shutdown globally.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 07:33 IST,||Sudoku - May 7, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||This dream is no myth||Is it possible to draw a parallel between the Big Bang theory and creationist myths you may have read about in religious texts? It is easy to find such comparisons either preposterous or intriguing, depending on the nature and depth of one’s belief and faith. For G Jagadeesh Kanna, it presented an opportunity to introduce the concept of aeronautics to young children. The 30-year-old theatre artiste/actor-turned-filmmaker is also an entrepreneur, who, via his IIT-Madras-incubated start-up firm — Vaayusastra Aerospace — has been teaching aeronautics to children between the ages of five and 14. “A child’s brain is like a computer’s CPU. What I do is create a folder by telling them a story about how Ravana kidnapped Sita using his aircraft, the Pushpak Viman . The child may forget the technical terms but the story registers in their mind, and that is all that is needed to create the spark,” he says, adding, “For instance, Karna’s Vijay dhanush had all the properties of modern rocketry and radar technology and the Brahmastra in Mahabharata is nothing but a ballistic missile.” Entrepreneurial insight A few years ago, when Jagadeesh, a freshly-minted graduate with a Masters degree in Aeronautics, expressed his desire to pursue theatre, it was not an easy-to-come-to-terms-with decision. “Being a full-time actor is not easy as I come from a middle-class family. I could not ask my parents for money. When I was not shooting, I started conducting paper plane workshops and teaching aeronautics to children,” he says. During this time, Jagadeesh joined The Little Theatre and Theatre Y, promoted by actor Yog Japee, and even landed a lead role in a film titled Naalu Peruku Nalladhuna Edhuvum Thappilla . “By the time the movie released, one of my friends suggested that I approach IIT-Madras’ Rural Technology Business Incubator with a presentation (that was approved eight months later, after he developed an agreeable revenue model). Meantime, I worked as assistant director to Rajiv Menon in Sarvam Thaala Mayam and as an associate director to Anita Udeep in 90 ML ,” he says. After approval, Vaayusastra was given space inside IIT-M Research Park and a start-up capital of Rs. 10 lakh to hit the ground running. In the two years since being incorporated in April 2018, the firm has generated Rs. 50 lakh in revenue and taught close to 30,000 children, says Jagadeesh. Even as the hands-on workshops and summer camps were growing in popularity, the COVID-19 pandemic hit, and Jagadeesh acted swiftly to shift his classes online. “After that, I was able to reach more students, across the world.” However, he is not ready to let go of his dreams of turning a filmmaker just yet. Having met actor Oviya while filming 90 ML , Jagadeesh remarks that she has agreed to play the lead in a film he intends to direct. “Only the official confirmation remains,” he adds.  For more details, www.vaayusastra.com   Record breaker In 1986, the Rutan Model 76 Voyager became the first aircraft to fly around the world without stopping or refuelling.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||49 hours later||I had to spend 14 days in quarantine in Delhi after arriving from San Francisco, USA, on what was probably the last flight into India before the clamp down on international air-travel started on March 22. The lockdown followed on March 25, and I had to remain in Delhi for another 21 days. In this time, two friends and I decided to seek police permission to take a road trip by a private taxi to Chennai. We were informed that such permission would be granted only in the event of a medical emergency, or in the case of a death, which required us to travel, and we met neither of these conditions. But the fact that we had completed mandatory quarantine, and had tested negative for COVID-19, meant that we could travel home. We were issued a discharge certificate from quarantine, a negative test report from health authorities and a quarantine release pass by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate. The travel pass bore each of our names, its validity, the reason for travel, the registration number and make of the vehicle as well as the name of the driver. The pass also indicated that the vehicle was to return before the validity expired. However, finding a vehicle to drive us to Chennai from Delhi was no mean effort. Taxi-hiring companies were wary simply because there was no food, lodging and public convenience. Even a puncture repair shop was unlikely to be open. Finally, Umesh Singh, a small-time taxi operator in Delhi, who we got in touch with through a relative, was willing to offer his only taxi — an SUV — with two of his drivers, the amiable Bablu and Prem Kumar, to drive us to Chennai. When we contracted Umesh’s taxi, we were unaware that one driver would be asked to leave due to the physical distancing norm, but we realised it shortly thereafter and jettisoned Prem Kumar at Delhi itself. Neither the driver nor us were aware of the route, so we relied on Google Maps. Plotting the route The most convenient route would take us through Agra, Gwalior, Jhansi, Nagpur, Adilabad, Hyderabad, Ongole, Nellore and on to Chennai. Since only fuel bunks would be open, we were advised to carry enough food and liquids to last the entire journey. It was also suggested that we drive non-stop as halting enroute may expose us to COVID-19 infection, if we came into contact with others. We were to carry soap and an adequate number of bottles of hand sanitisers. The lodging, where we stayed in Delhi, was extremely kind and packed us food that included sandwiches, vegetable kati rolls, fruits, dozens of drinking water bottles and juices. As we were unsure of the availability of public conveniences, the hotel suggested that we eat light over the 37-hour trip (per Google Maps) to Chennai. What we found remarkable were the public conveniences at each fuel outlet, and the willingness to let us use it. We commenced our journey to Chennai at 7.30 am on April 27 from Delhi, passed into Uttar Pradesh through Faridabad in Haryana, and headed towards the Agra bypass. As there were no vehicles on the highway other than a few lorries, we hoped we could journey smoothly. At Agra, we were hailed down at a ‘check point’, temporarily created in each State and at district entry points to make sure vehicles have necessary travel permits, passengers travelling in vehicles adhere to physical distancing norms and, in some cases, to do a quick thermal test on the spot. As our pass specified the destination as Chennai, we were not allowed to enter a town and had to stick to journeying on the highway. We were stopped for similar checks in Gwalior, Jhansi and in Nagpur. Google Maps indicated 19 hours as the travel time between Delhi and Nagpur. Lost and found However, lack of proper road signs misled us, and we went off the highway between Jhansi and Nagpur. As we passed the town of Sagar while headed towards Nagpur, two different signboards — one diverting us off the highway and another indicating that we continue — caught us off guard. All this meant we had to drive non-stop for 20 hours to reach Nagpur. We were exhausted, as was our lone driver Bablu, and so we managed to request a hotel to give us two rooms to rest for a few hours because we had the requisite permissions. An associate of my friend, who met us near the highway in Nagpur as we set off towards Telangana, brought us food for the remainder of the trip. We headed towards Adilabad next, expecting the journey to take us four hours. At the Adilabad check point, however, the scrutiny was very thorough — our documents with photographs was sent to the Collectorate for approval, pending which we could not continue our journey. While some who had crossed the check point a few days earlier told us to expect a wait time of three to five hours, we seemed to have a bit of luck. Our documents were cleared in an hour, and we continued. We stopped at a closed dhaba enroute our next stop, Ongole. We asked a man, who seemed like its owner, if we could stand under the canopy and have our meal. He was considerate, and offered us a couple of chairs to sit and eat our meal. While there, we noticed several people, men, women and even young children, walking along the highway; we had spotted them in the morning too on our journey from Nagpur to Adilabad. A health inspector, who was sitting on one of the chairs at the dhaba , explained that these were migrant labourers returning to their villages in Uttar Pradesh from Andhra Pradesh on foot, travelling, in some cases, nearly 1,300 kilometres. It was a heart-wrenching sight. Some dhabas were cooking and offering them free food, the health inspector told us. Along the way, lorries were stopping to help them: even though they were laden with goods, the drivers were allowing people to climb onto the tarpaulin and travel some distance, if not the whole, without charging them any money. Welcome break We continued our journey towards Chennai, but entering Andhra Pradesh from Telangana was an unpleasant experience. We were detained at the check point, and it took almost two hours before we were permitted to continue. Thus the journey from Nagpur to Ongole took us another 20 hours, but we were fortunate to be lodged for a few hours by a benevolent mill owner, a friend of a friend, in his guest house on the Ongole highway. We left for Chennai early next morning, hoping to reach in six hours. However, we were once again stopped at a check point between Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu at Gummidipoondi, and were subjected to similar questions and document scrutiny. In spite of offering all requisite evidence of good health, we were asked to wait for clearance from health authorities that delayed our entry into Chennai by three hours. When we reached finally on April 29 at 7 pm, it had been 49 hours of travelling; we had travelled 2,200 kilometres, burnt 150 litres of fuel and spent Rs. 2,300 in toll fees.  The thin red line In Tamil Nadu, the State e-pass control room has been issuing permits since May 2 via the portal https://tnepass.tnega.org. Individuals wishing to travel into and out of Tamil Nadu have to make use of this portal; the permit is processed in 24 hours and a colour-coded pass with a QR embed is issued subject to criteria fulfilment. An e-pass for travel is issued to an individual only under four categories: death/funeral, wedding, medical emergencies (concerning a blood relative) or return of stranded people. Relevant documents like death certificate, wedding invitation, medical certificate issued by the district Medical Officer or Superintendent confirming the nature of emergency, and, if you have completed quarantine, a negative COVID-19 test report and a quarantine discharge certificate from the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, District Magistrate or the city Corporation Commissioner (in case of Chennai) is required. Besides, individuals entering Tamil Nadu from other States will be put in mandatory quarantine for 14 days. Only one application per individual is entertained. In Tamil Nadu, only two people plus a driver are allowed to travel in a car or jeep. No pillion rider if you wish to commute on a two-wheeler.   Somedhabaswere cooking and offering the migrant workers free food
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||For the vicarious traveller||As lockdown powers through to keep us safe, the mind is free to wander; either to the neighbouring State to see a loved one, or to a faraway destination that has long been lingering on your travel bucket list. One of the vehicles for this new breed of wanderlust is podcasts, in that we can mentally shut out our yet-to-be-completed household chores for just a few minutes and be as present as we can possibly be. We can expect high production value across these podcasts, but there are moments where audio can be affected by the environment which we consider the occupational hazards of being a traveller with a mobile office — adding a little ASMR to our own listening experience. While we are well aware there is a world of travel podcasts out there, here is a selection of five, each catering to various trip-taking personas out there.  All the podcasts are available on Google   Podcasts, Apple Podcasts and Spotify
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy on the ears||We may be relieved that masks are now compulsory for anyone stepping out, but what we don’t realise is that most of us have it easy as we need to wear them only when we are outdoors. On the other hand, doctors and medical practitioners — who wear them for hours at a stretch — have been dealing with nagging ear pain as the masks pull on their ears. Chennai-based Tejas Gopalan’s COVID-19 Ear Protector aims at doing away with this issue. He has sold his first 10,000 pieces to Kauvery Hospital in the city, and is now in talks with MIOT and Apollo Spectra. Flexi-solution The product design student at Ahmedabad’s National Institute of Design says the idea came about when his father developed an ear infection due to constantly wearing masks to his office, prior to the lockdown. Taking us through the process, he says he started off by sketching out simple ideas. “I did some research online and came across a Canadian who had designed clips to protect ears. However, they did not ease the pressure and weren’t working universally with all masks,” says Gopalan, who started ideating on April 20 and had his first prototype ready three days later. “I wanted to make a usable, more effective version of the clips. I started taking measurements of my family members and came up with a simple design that works for both, masks and face shields.” The device, which clips shut on the back of the head, does not come in contact with the ears and holds the mask firmly. Soon, with the help of a local 3D printer, he had a test run and then started working on the material to use. “I chose High-Density Poly-Ethylene (HDPE) — the material we see in milk cartons, and can be recycled. I started production using the injection molding process,” says the 19-year-old, who is marketing the product through his father’s IOT company. In addition to being adjustable, the ear shields are reusable and can be disinfected. “Once the first 10,000 pieces were delivered to Kauvery Hospitals, mass production began by the end of April. I am now manufacturing close to 20,000 pieces a day,” says Gopalan. While he is now working towards shipping orders received from hospitals in Bengaluru, Mumbai and Pune, he will soon make this an open-source design. “I have decided against a patent as it is important that design is made accessible to everyone at such times,” says Gopalan, who plans on working on similar COVID-related products, and aims at starting his own design studio in the future.  The COVID-19 Ear Protector is priced at Rs. 10 each. For details, mail tejas@hetrogenous.com
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||When our lakes heal||Twenty-five years ago, farmer AV Krishna Kumar would stop by Erode’s Kalingarayan Canal to wash his veshti in its pristine waters. He did not need soap. “The water was that clean,” remembers the 62-year-old. Today, for the first time since then, he finds his beloved canal, which irrigates 15,743 acres in the district, as clear as it was two decades ago. Textile and tannery processing industries, charged with discharging effluents into these waters, have been closed due to the lockdown. The story is similar in other parts of our country. In Chennai, when you finally get to leave home, you will see an empty trash barrier on the Cooum near Napier Bridge; a spotless Perumbakkam lake; ducks waddling happily on emerald green wetlands at the Thirumazhisai Satellite Township. Clearly, our waterbodies are heaving a sigh of relief since their chief polluters — us — have been staying away from them. J Ram Mohan, a civil engineer in Ambattur, stops to admire the clean ponds in his neighbourhood when he makes his grocery runs. “There are several where I live, these include the Pidari Ponniamman, Madhanakuppam, and Karuppan ponds,” says the 25-year-old who also volunteers to clean them. “Usually, they are filled with garbage; the Pidari Ponniamman pond, for instance, is inside the Ambattur Industrial Estate and industrial effluents mix with its waters — it is rarely clean.” Ram says that he is thrilled to see the bird life the waterbodies attract. “Some of these ponds were used as dumping grounds. People walked to them with their garbage bins every day. What is sad is that I actually thought they were meant for garbage and did not even realise they were ponds for the longest time,” he adds. “Thanks to the lockdown, there is very little human activity around them. They have also filled up due to the rains last week, it’s refreshing to be surrounded by clear waters.” The pandemic has clearly benefited our natural resources, bird, animal, and plant life. The endangered Ganges River Dolphin was seen frolicking in the now-pollution-free Ganges in Meerut; the quality of water in the Yamuna has improved. “Many waterways in the State are clean too,” says V Subramani of the Sabari Green Foundation, an NGO that has restored waterbodies across Tamil Nadu. According to Arun Krishnamurthy, founder of Chennai-based Environmentalist Foundation of India, “Water quality of still waterbodies has not improved much in the city since domestic sewage continues to flow into the Cooum and Adyar rivers and their tributaries.” (There were also reports that Korattur and Ambattur lakes were recently contaminated with sewage.) But he says that there are encouraging signs at the Mannivakkam and Karasangal lakes in Vandalur. “We saw a visible increase in bird population in them,” says the 33-year-old. “There are egrets, herons and kingfishers; but we were surprised to see painted storks too.” He also says that now, plastic waste in waterbodies has reduced drastically. “They are inching back to good condition and can improve further,” he adds. Arun says that bunds are free of poultry waste, construction debris, and barber shop waste, which is usually dumped along the edges surreptitiously. Low air pollution levels have also improved water quality. “There is less of pollutant particle deposition on water,” he points out. The smell of a river His team is also seeing a “growth spurt” in the trees they planted in Pallikaranai and along OMR in October 2019. This, he says, can be attributed to the “reduction of the average temperature in urbanised heat pockets that are created due to trapping of hot air from sources such as vehicular traffic”. He adds, “They survived on drip-irrigation the past months, but the recent rains have also helped them.” Dr S Venkatesh, a dentist who travels on the Adyar Bridge for work, is enjoying the smell of the river for the first time. “I always keep my car windows open now,” he says, adding, “Perhaps this is because pollution levels outside are low.” The best lesson that we can learn from the situation is that, “Nature can take care of herself,” Arun says. “We can now show our children what we have been showing them virtually all these years.”
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Heroes larger than life||A collage of different scenes, together forming a story in colours that exude the country’s relentless spirit, sprawls across a multi-layered wall. Upon a closer look, the characters of the story show themselves: real-life warriors who are fighting a global pandemic tooth and nail at the frontlines. Tambaram Railway Station, thus tells the story of their undying spirit, with a newly painted mural that adorns the facades that form its entrance. The facelift was initiated as a collaborative effort by a multinational corporation, Chennai-based Nalandaway Foundation and city-based artist Varshini Ramakrishnan. The facade is divided into three sections — a central wall , flanked by two narrower walls. On one side of the central wall are masked residents of the city, saluting the essential workers who are etched on the opposite end. Corporation officials, the police service, medical professionals, vegetable vendors; all feature in vivid, realistic depictions. The narrower walls on either side sport familiar scenes around the country, that characterise the lockdown, be it a cleaning official disinfecting the streets or the Coronavirus helmet used by the police that had recently gone viral. Varshini Ramakrishnan, is the artist behind the mural which has been in the works for a month since the lockdown started. “We had plans to do a mural at this station for quite some time. Then the lockdown began and the idea of paying tribute to essential workers came to mind,” says Varshini, “Then, I thought, let it be a memory wall. Even after all this is over, when people walk past it, these scenes will make them remember what we had seen.” The theme was given to her by the MNC (which wishes to remain unnamed) and Nalandaway Foundation, under which she could experiment as she pleased. Varshini did a few rough iPad sketches initially — and after a few discussions, the final idea was decided on. The next step was to zero in on the colours: “In most of my illustrations, colours play a major role. Here, it was more about spreading positivity. So, I went through a lot of photographs, the likes that people deem positive, and referred to the colours that they feature,” says Varshini of the process. By creating a few coloured collages, the final mural was decided on. Since the city had already been on lockdown, Varshini did not have a chance to get the dimensions of the wall before she started working. She had to make do with referring to photographs of the wall. Now, though the railway station wears a desolate look, its crowded walls stand as a testament to how the city is fighting the crisis everyday.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Pot of gold||Artist Joel Fertician has found light at the end of the lockdown tunnel. He has discovered it in a humble unused bulb lying in his KK Nagar home. Joel, a drawing teacher at Springfield School for the past 10 years, has used the lockdown to improvise on an area of art that he had already carved a niche in. Known for his pot paintings, Joel has now tried his hand at something unique: bulb paintings. “I’ve done it once before, but this was a golden time and opportunity to popularise it,” says Joel. So, he took out a few unused bulbs and bought a few at a nearby store and started doing what he was best at: drawing. A few days later, Joel had three bulbs — all shining and bright — with powerful COVID-19 messages that include ‘be home, be safe’ and ‘wear a mask’. He paired them with his speciality — pots — and has come out with about 25 pieces of art, all containing COVID-19 awareness messages. There is one in which the Taj Mahal monument is draped in a mask, and another in which a giant map of India featuring healthcare professionals joining hands to battle the pandemic. Closer home, keeping Tamil Nadu in mind, Joel has worked on a couple of pieces — a pot painting on the need to save water and another of a jallikattu bull chasing away the virus. While his current art project is primarily aimed at awareness among the public, Joel also deems the lockdown phase as one that could possibly open up new opportunities for art enthusiasts. “My art is done on everyday objects, ones that are usually available at most homes. This could be a time in which people with an interest in art could take to such small projects with whatever is available in their homes,” he says. Post his current project, the Tiruchi-born self-taught artist has already moved on to conceptualise his next assignment: egg painting. “I have a few concepts but I would need at least 50 eggs to implement them. I am waiting for the shops near my house to open in a full-fledged manner,” he smiles.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||When goldfish met greens||When Diya Vincent applied for the Big Bang UK Young Scientist of the Year 2020 with her project on microgreens grown in an aquarium indoors and fertilised with goldfish waste, little did she expect to bag the prize money of £2,000 (Rs. 1,87,813). “There were 1,000 applicants in the preliminary round and this was my first attempt. It made me nervous though I was excited to present my idea borrowed from what I have seen my grandfather do in Thiruvananthapuram,” says the 12-year-old in a phone interview from Birmingham, UK. “He has a small pond filled with colourful small fish in his garden outside and he grows spinach in it,” she says. Diya, however, tweaked the idea and grew microgreens in her home aquarium with some help from her pet goldfish. “I wanted to make it more challenging and also apply the sciences learnt in school,” she says. Of course, the fun part was she got to buy four more goldfish in the bargain. Diya tried three different methods to grow the microgreens indoors. In the first, she used unfertilised water with soluble micro-nutrients such as phosphorous, nitrate and potassium. In the second, she used naturally-fertilised water from an aquarium with tropical fish (guppies and mollies) in it. The plant roots absorbed the water with the help of wick cloth. In the third, she used the water from her goldfish tank and let the water age for a week with the fish waste to make it rich with nitrates. The water was kept in continuous circulation with the help of a small water pump powered by a solar panel, and Styrofoam pipes were used to grow the microgreens. The third method was the fastest and delivered a harvest of microgreens within 10 days. “The cress and wheatgrass went straight into our family bowl of salad and sandwiches,” she laughs. From the preliminary round, Diya was shortlisted for the finals with 300 students from all over the UK. But in the next five months, the world changed. The prelims were held in October and the finalists were supposed to meet and present their projects at the National Exhibition Centre in Solihull, England in March. With COVID-19, physical distancing and lockdown, the students were instead asked to make a five-minute video about their individual projects showcasing their motivation, methods and real-world applications. The results were notified through email on April 20 and recently declared in a YouTube video. Diya is one of the youngest top prize winners ever in the Big Bang UK Young Scientists competition, which is held annually for school students between 12 and 18 years of age. The national contest is designed to recognise and reward young people’s achievements in all areas of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) and help them build skills. Diya realises the importance of her project in these COVID-19-stricken days. “Microgreens are a simple way of including fresh ingredients into your daily cooking. And you can grow them in the comfort of your home too,” she says. Diya wants to grow lettuce and spinach next in her goldfish aquarium. She plans to donate her prize money to charities that promote and grow organic produce in the UK. Says the VII grader, “It is best to eat what you grow. This way, you are ready to face any difficult situation.”
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The short cut to fame||Shanmugam arrives at his salon in a cycle, as the song ‘Kanpona Pokkile’ gently surfaces in the background. There is a heavy downpour but nothing deters him from performing his regular chores: mop the place, arrange the grooming kit and wait for customers. It is a quarter past six in the morning and the absence of human presence is noticeable. The scene cuts to a close-up of a man saying, “Make it short.” This everyday-ness of Shanmugam’s life is what the director Karuppiah C Ram has captured in his 10-minute short-film début Shanmugam Saloon, which landed recently on YouTube. The idea for his short germinated when Karuppiah chanced upon an interview filmmaker Mysskin had given while promoting Savarakathi , a movie the latter wrote and starred in. “It was originally made as a three-minute short film for another platform. But the finished product looked a little weak. Shanmugam Saloon was actually part of an anthology I’d written, which later became a hyperlink cinema dealing with seven stories,” says Karuppiah C Ram, 21, who is currently pursuing Business Administration at SRM University. The short-film was wrapped in 2018 and was sent to multiple film festivals, while Karuppiah was testing the waters in OTT platforms. He eventually decided to release it on YouTube after nearly two years, given that people are eyeing interesting content during this lockdown. Starring actor Charlie, the short raises existential questions, like how a man’s basic need/desire is easily influenced by somebody else. Karuppiah seems to look at globalisation through the eyes of a barber, which, perhaps, explains why he describes his short film a “modern version of Kattradhu Thamizh and Thanga Meengal ” .  “I admire Ram [director] a lot. This is a very Ram take on globalisation,” says the filmmaker, an ardent fan of Rajinikanth, and describes his film as “a tribute to Kamal Haasan’s Varumayin Niram Sigappu and Mysskin” .   Shanmugam Saloon is mined from Karuppiah’s own life and is a reflection of the many stops to the salon near his house in Mayiladuthurai. “Those were the days when I used to watch the Top Ten Movies show on TV and look out for cinema posters in newspapers, while awaiting my turn,” he says. Shanmugam is modelled after the salon owner, who, he says, was impressed with his minimalist attempt. “He told me, ‘People don’t usually document our story but you did it. You’ll do well’.”
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Daniel Radcliffe, Stephen Fry, Eddie Redmayne and more to read chapters of first Harry Potter book via ‘Harry Potter At Home Readings’ on Spotify||Wizarding World, the official Harry Potter universe website, and author JK Rowling recently announced the latest addition to Harry Potter At Home, the collection of free initiatives designed to uplift the spirits of Harry Potter fans in lockdown. It will bring weekly recordings of the first Harry Potter book, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s/Philosopher’s Stone , to harrypotterathome.com, Spotify, and Spotify Kids. In fact, the first chapter, ‘The Boy Who Lived’, of the book will be narrated by actor Daniel Radcliffe. Starting May 5, all 17 chapters of the book will be released each week between now and the end of June. Eddie Redmayne (who plays Newt Scamander in the Fantastic Beasts movies), David Beckham, Dakota Fanning, Stephen Fry, Claudia Kim (who plays Nagini in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes Of Grindelwald ), Noma Dumezweni (who played Hermione Granger in the original West End and Broadway runs of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child ), and others will lend their voices to the reading of this book. On May 5, JK Rowling proudly quote-tweeted the Wizarding World trailer, in support of the new initiative, “Some very lovely people have done a very lovely thing. #HarryPotterAtHome.” The audio chapters will be available exclusively on Spotify, for both free and Premium users. So whether you are a Gryffindor, Slytherin, Hufflepuff or Ravenclaw; a pureblood, half-blood, muggle-born, or even a muggle; this experience could just be riddikulus-ly cool.  Numbers game In their Q1 2020 report, Spotify shared that total monthly active users grew 31% year over year to 286 million, of which 130 million monthly active users are Premium subscribers.
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||In touch with the times||Washing your hands has become the new cool. And an inspired team in Chennai just made it safer. With Sugadharam, a project by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)-Young Indians in association with RCC Diva Foundation and the Greater Chennai Corporation, the hope is to make washing your hands a safe practice even in public places. “We were brainstorming ideas to help out the public during the pandemic, when we realised that handwashing is soon going to be the new norm,” says Vishal Mehta, chair, Young Indians Chennai Chapter, “But installing a wash basin in a public place alone was not going to be enough.” And so, over the next few days, Vishal with his ideation team that also includes Krishna Nathani, Vikas Jain, Karthick Raghavendar and Divya Venkat, conceptualised what he describes as the ‘touch-free handwash project’. “We wanted people to wash their hands while accessing public places, but not touch the tap or sanitiser lever. We mulled over a sensor-based model but the cost it would incur was on the higher side.” After a few days of research and development, they came up with a mobile unit that works just like the pedal-driven dustbin at home. Currently installed in five places, including the Gummidipoondi market, Thiruvanmiyur market and a few police offices, the unit cost them about Rs. 30,000 each to assemble, an amount that the RCC Diva team, presided by Manisha Pramod Chordia, helped out with. The unit is simple to use: by using your left and right feet, you can generate soap solution and water respectively, and wash your hands without touching the wash basin even once. The soap solution and the water tank need to be replenished every day, a task in which the Government and local authorities are helping out. “It does weigh a lot (about 100 kilograms) but it can be moved, especially to different points at a single venue, if needed,” adds Vishal. More innovations on this front are on the cards, including sensor-driven solutions, but the ‘Sugadharam’ project unit is aimed only at “mass areas” that are bound to invite huge crowds. “We have a target of 50 units by the end of this month. These will be placed at various public places in the city, and we are looking at a large production of 150 units over the next few months,” concludes Vishal.  Units are currently installed in five places including Gummidipoondi market, Thiruvanmiyur market and a few police offices
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Painting in a pause||Priyanka Banerjee, a Delhi-based artist, has created a series of eight artworks putting the deer at the centre of her work, exploring subtle themes of its powerful antlers, athletic legs, and its friendly though timid disposition. Done in watercolours, acrylic on canvas, pen and pencil on paper – she was limited by what she had at home -- she looked at photographs taken in Gir National Park and Ranthambore, for inspiration. This Paschim Vihar resident, who has had 12 solo and 20 group shows in Delhi, Jaipur and Agra, isn’t formally trained in art. She did an arts appreciation course at the National Museum Institute, Janpath, about seven years ago, leading her into art writing. Deer, she says, first found artistic representation in palaeolithic cave paintings. For her though, there is a connect that goes deeper. “Like American Emily Dickinson’s poem ‘A wounded deer leaps highest’, I too admire the spirit of this creature,” says Banerjee. She feels deer mostly remain in the solitude of the wild and in the context of the current coronavirus lockdown situation, are symbolic of our existence today. “We are living in uncertain times. The sudden change from a fast-paced life to a quarantined existence can be stressful. Just like the jungles where there exists an absolute calm, cities today have become isolated. In late March a nilgai was seen on a stretch of road in Noida.  The antelope walked about freely till it was spotted by cops. A few decades ago, these antelopes were natural inhabitants of the land,” she says. She herself tries to destress by getting away to the forest, where “the greenery, the gurgling streams, the chirping of birds and crickets, fills my heart with delight.” Through these paintings, she hopes to try to highlight the deer’s role in ecological balance. “Despite several laws, many indulge in royal sports or poach their antlers for exorbitant prices. Some deer species like the black buck have been pushed to the verge of extinction and are counted as endangered species,” she says, hoping that the lockdown will help us reconnect with Nature. View her work on Instagram @priya_ban2003
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||49 hours later||I had to spend 14 days in quarantine in Delhi after arriving from San Francisco, USA, on what was probably the last flight into India before the clamp down on international air-travel started on March 22. The lockdown followed on March 25, and I had to remain in Delhi for another 21 days. In this time, two friends and I decided to seek police permission to take a road trip by a private taxi to Chennai. We were informed that such permission would be granted only in the event of a medical emergency, or in the case of a death, which required us to travel, and we met neither of these conditions. But the fact that we had completed mandatory quarantine, and had tested negative for COVID-19, meant that we could travel home. We were issued a discharge certificate from quarantine, a negative test report from health authorities and a quarantine release pass by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate. The travel pass bore each of our names, its validity, the reason for travel, the registration number and make of the vehicle as well as the name of the driver. The pass also indicated that the vehicle was to return before the validity expired. However, finding a vehicle to drive us to Chennai from Delhi was no mean effort. Taxi-hiring companies were wary simply because there was no food, lodging and public convenience. Even a puncture repair shop was unlikely to be open. Finally, Umesh Singh, a small-time taxi operator in Delhi, who we got in touch with through a relative, was willing to offer his only taxi — an SUV — with two of his drivers, the amiable Bablu and Prem Kumar, to drive us to Chennai. When we contracted Umesh’s taxi, we were unaware that one driver would be asked to leave due to the physical distancing norm, but we realised it shortly thereafter and jettisoned Prem Kumar at Delhi itself. Neither the driver nor us were aware of the route, so we relied on Google Maps. Plotting the route The most convenient route would take us through Agra, Gwalior, Jhansi, Nagpur, Adilabad, Hyderabad, Ongole, Nellore and on to Chennai. Since only fuel bunks would be open, we were advised to carry enough food and liquids to last the entire journey. It was also suggested that we drive non-stop as halting enroute may expose us to COVID-19 infection, if we came into contact with others. We were to carry soap and an adequate number of bottles of hand sanitisers. The lodging, where we stayed in Delhi, was extremely kind and packed us food that included sandwiches, vegetable kati rolls, fruits, dozens of drinking water bottles and juices. As we were unsure of the availability of public conveniences, the hotel suggested that we eat light over the 37-hour trip (per Google Maps) to Chennai. What we found remarkable were the public conveniences at each fuel outlet, and the willingness to let us use it. We commenced our journey to Chennai at 7.30 am on April 27 from Delhi, passed into Uttar Pradesh through Faridabad in Haryana, and headed towards the Agra bypass. As there were no vehicles on the highway other than a few lorries, we hoped we could journey smoothly. At Agra, we were hailed down at a ‘check point’, temporarily created in each State and at district entry points to make sure vehicles have necessary travel permits, passengers travelling in vehicles adhere to physical distancing norms and, in some cases, to do a quick thermal test on the spot. As our pass specified the destination as Chennai, we were not allowed to enter a town and had to stick to journeying on the highway. We were stopped for similar checks in Gwalior, Jhansi and in Nagpur. Google Maps indicated 19 hours as the travel time between Delhi and Nagpur. Lost and found However, lack of proper road signs misled us, and we went off the highway between Jhansi and Nagpur. As we passed the town of Sagar while headed towards Nagpur, two different signboards — one diverting us off the highway and another indicating that we continue — caught us off guard. All this meant we had to drive non-stop for 20 hours to reach Nagpur. We were exhausted, as was our lone driver Bablu, and so we managed to request a hotel to give us two rooms to rest for a few hours because we had the requisite permissions. An associate of my friend, who met us near the highway in Nagpur as we set off towards Telangana, brought us food for the remainder of the trip. We headed towards Adilabad next, expecting the journey to take us four hours. At the Adilabad check point, however, the scrutiny was very thorough — our documents with photographs was sent to the Collectorate for approval, pending which we could not continue our journey. While some who had crossed the check point a few days earlier told us to expect a wait time of three to five hours, we seemed to have a bit of luck. Our documents were cleared in an hour, and we continued. We stopped at a closed dhaba enroute our next stop, Ongole. We asked a man, who seemed like its owner, if we could stand under the canopy and have our meal. He was considerate, and offered us a couple of chairs to sit and eat our meal. While there, we noticed several people, men, women and even young children, walking along the highway; we had spotted them in the morning too on our journey from Nagpur to Adilabad. A health inspector, who was sitting on one of the chairs at the dhaba , explained that these were migrant labourers returning to their villages in Uttar Pradesh from Andhra Pradesh on foot, travelling, in some cases, nearly 1,300 kilometres. It was a heart-wrenching sight. Some dhabas were cooking and offering them free food, the health inspector told us. Along the way, lorries were stopping to help them: even though they were laden with goods, the drivers were allowing people to climb onto the tarpaulin and travel some distance, if not the whole, without charging them any money. Welcome break We continued our journey towards Chennai, but entering Andhra Pradesh from Telangana was an unpleasant experience. We were detained at the check point, and it took almost two hours before we were permitted to continue. Thus the journey from Nagpur to Ongole took us another 20 hours, but we were fortunate to be lodged for a few hours by a benevolent mill owner, a friend of a friend, in his guest house on the Ongole highway. We left for Chennai early next morning, hoping to reach in six hours. However, we were once again stopped at a check point between Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu at Gummidipoondi, and were subjected to similar questions and document scrutiny. In spite of offering all requisite evidence of good health, we were asked to wait for clearance from health authorities that delayed our entry into Chennai by three hours. When we reached finally on April 29 at 7 pm, it had been 49 hours of travelling; we had travelled 2,200 kilometres, burnt 150 litres of fuel and spent Rs. 2,300 in toll fees.  The thin red line In Tamil Nadu, the State e-pass control room has been issuing permits since May 2 via the portal https://tnepass.tnega.org. Individuals wishing to travel into and out of Tamil Nadu have to make use of this portal; the permit is processed in 24 hours and a colour-coded pass with a QR embed is issued subject to criteria fulfilment. An e-pass for travel is issued to an individual only under four categories: death/funeral, wedding, medical emergencies (concerning a blood relative) or return of stranded people. Relevant documents like death certificate, wedding invitation, medical certificate issued by the district Medical Officer or Superintendent confirming the nature of emergency, and, if you have completed quarantine, a negative COVID-19 test report and a quarantine discharge certificate from the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, District Magistrate or the city Corporation Commissioner (in case of Chennai) is required. Besides, individuals entering Tamil Nadu from other States will be put in mandatory quarantine for 14 days. Only one application per individual is entertained. In Tamil Nadu, only two people plus a driver are allowed to travel in a car or jeep. No pillion rider if you wish to commute on a two-wheeler.   Somedhabaswere cooking and offering the migrant workers free food
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||For the vicarious traveller||As lockdown powers through to keep us safe, the mind is free to wander; either to the neighbouring State to see a loved one, or to a faraway destination that has long been lingering on your travel bucket list. One of the vehicles for this new breed of wanderlust is podcasts, in that we can mentally shut out our yet-to-be-completed household chores for just a few minutes and be as present as we can possibly be. We can expect high production value across these podcasts, but there are moments where audio can be affected by the environment which we consider the occupational hazards of being a traveller with a mobile office — adding a little ASMR to our own listening experience. While we are well aware there is a world of travel podcasts out there, here is a selection of five, each catering to various trip-taking personas out there.  All the podcasts are available on Google   Podcasts, Apple Podcasts and Spotify
07 May 2020||May 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The bright spot on a locked-down Thursday||One of the most beautiful trees in the world, the Gulmohar ( Delonix regia) , also called the Royal Poinciana, or sometimes the flame tree or fire tree, has been an inspiration for poets, writers, and artists across the world. Its scarlet flowers bloom in April and May, and it is perhaps one of the oldest ornamental trees to have been planted with one of the earliest records of cultivation in India. This comes from Sewree, near Mumbai, from way back in 1840, says Pradip Krishen’s Trees of Delhi . In non-flowering time you’ve probably stood in its shade, not realising that you’re under a Gulmohar. It is abundant and familiar, which is why it is often referred to as the ‘street tree’. A middle-sized tree, Gulmohar likes a warm tropical climate and has disappeared from most of its ideal wild range in Madagascar (where the tree’s first lone specimen was found in 1828). Owing to its ornamental brilliance, it has been planted and colonised in several sub-tropical and tropical countries. Although the tree thrives in most soil conditions (though not in very dry or frosty conditions), it appears in most parts of Delhi-NCR, but it is not native to the land. Being a deciduous tree, the leaves start turning yellow and shedding in November. The tree remains bare until most of March. During this period, it functions on minimal nutrients and water. Towards the end of March, new leaves with about 10-20 pairs of side stalks, with each stalk bearing up to 30 pairs of small blunt leaflets start filling the tree. The flowers of the Gulmohar appear in loose clusters, each with five spoon-shaped petals that have wrinkly edges. Four are scarlet and one primarily white, with spatters of red and yellow on it. The tree blooms more when it gets an additional supply of water, apart from the ground water it has access to.  The tree has a shallow-root system, which makes it quite vulnerable to damage in storms. It doesn’t have much timber value; neither does it have too many medicinal uses. You’d be planting a Gulmohar for its shade and beauty. The light brown bark facilitates easy hole-excavations, making it a favourite among cavity-nesting birds like the Coppersmith Barbet, Brown-headed Barbet, Common Myna and more. The Gulmohar has a cultural significance in Kerala. A popular belief is that when Jesus was crucified, his blood was shed on the flowers of the Royal Poinciana tree in the vicinity, which gave its flowers that vivid scarlet colour. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Ensure medical aid to Safoora Zargar, panel tells DG (Prisons)||A high-powered committee headed by a Delhi High Court judge has directed DG (Prisons) here to ensure that adequate medical assistance is provided to Safoora Zargar, who was arrested in connection with riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February, and other pregnant prisoners currently lodged in jail. Ms. Zargar, who is three-months pregnant, was arrested in April. She is pursuing her masters degree from Jamia Millia Islamia. The panel headed by Justice Hima Kohli gave the direction after perusing a representation sent by Wazahat Habibullah, chairperson of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, for the healthcare needs of Ms. Zargar and other pregnant women prisoners. The DG (Prisons) has informed the panel that there are three pregnant prisoners and they are being provided adequate medical care as well as a special diet. Meanwhile, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Wednesday issued a notice to Delhi Police over social media trolls “slandering” Ms. Zargar. DCW notice In the notice, the commission said it had received several complaints regarding “abuse and character assassination” of the JMI scholar. “A vilification campaign is being run against her and her unborn child on social media, and misogynistic comments are being made. Several comments outraging her dignity and threatening her family have also been made,” read the notice. Demanding information on whether the accused have been identified and arrested, and whether measures have been taken to remove the offending posts, DCW Chairperson Swati Maliwal said: “Whether she is guilty or not will be decided by the court. But the way the trolls have outraged her modesty and vilified a pregnant woman’s character is shameful.” The DCW has asked Delhi Police to provide the relevant information by May 10.
07 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Suppliers to Maruti plant welcome reopening||Several hundred Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in and around Gurugram that supply components to Maruti Suzuki India Limited welcomed the country’s largest car manufacturer decision on Wednesday to resume production later this month. Manesar Industries Welfare Association vice-president Manmohan Gaind said, “It is great news. Maruti was the engine of manufacturing industry in Manesar. So, once the engine starts, a lot of things will also start. The resumption of the factory will give impetus to industrial activity in Faridabad, Bawal and Rewari, Mr. Gaind said, adding that around one-fourth of the 600-member companies of MIWA were automobile MSMEs supplying components to Maruti, Hero and Honda. “The three OEMs, Maruti, Hero and Honda, are the engines of automobile activity in the region. So, once these start production, their supply line also starts and a lot can change overnight,” Mr. Gaind added. He said that large-scale exodus of workers during the lockdown will affect units, which might face difficulties for several months. Deputy general manager of JTEKT India Limited V.N. Tiwari termed the resumption of production by Maruti “good sign” for the automobile sector. “It will also help address the issue of labour unrest and provide work to them. Over 500 ancillary units supplying components to the company will start production with it,” he added. JTEKT is the first-tier supplier to Maruti, manufactures steering systems. Bellsonica Autocomponents India Limited, another ancillary unit of Maruti, has also been granted permission to resume operations with 1,035 workers.
07 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Wedding industry in the doldrums as families postpone events due to lockdown||Preparations were on in full swing for the wedding of the Chauhan family’s eldest daughter. The e-cards had been designed and mailed. The traditional invitation cards were being distributed and the women of the family were on a shopping spree with less than a month to go for the function. But just four days before the ritual of peeli chitthi , a formal invitation to the groom’s family, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown. “We were hopeful that the situation would become normal before the wedding day but the lockdown was extended on April 14, just three days before the wedding,” said Satish Chauhan, a resident of Sector 4. Soon, it became evident that the wedding would not be possible any time soon. All relatives and friends were accordingly informed. “We had to send cancellation e-cards,” said Mr. Chauhan, a manager at Rohtak Sarv Haryana Gramin Bank. The wedding of his cousin’s daughter also had to be postponed. Mr. Chauhan has postponed the booking at a wedding palace on Old Delhi-Gurugram Road to December 10. His cousin has decided on November 26 as the new date. A manager of a wedding hall said they had three marriage bookings for April and May but they have all been postponed till the end of the year. “Usually we get a dozen bookings during the wedding season, but no bookings have been received for June and July. It is not clear how long the lockdown will last. People are confused, so there are no new bookings,” he said. The manager added that besides marriage hall owners, allied industries such as tent owners, photographers, flower sellers, and caterers were also suffering.  A lean year Vivah Party Lawns co-owner Dinesh Yadav said he is bracing for a lean year as the “current wedding season is lost... and there are few auspicious dates for weddings in November and December compared to previous years”. Haryana Party Lawns Association president Anil Rao, representing 72 wedding lawns, said a vast majority of their members had taken the lawns on lease and were hugely impacted by the lockdown. “Their business is not likely to revive for long,” Mr. Rao said, adding that the government should waived their income and local taxes, pay outstanding dues to tent owners and give financial help of Rs. 2 lakh each to small businessmen.
07 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram orders staggered opening of shops and restricts movement||The local administration on Wednesday ordered staggered opening of the shops, except the essential commodities establishments, dividing them into three different categories and reduced the operation hours, amid rising number of COVID-19 cases in the district. Besides, the movement of individuals and vehicles has also been curtailed. Meanwhile, 17 more samples have tested positive for COVID-19 in Gurugram taking the tally to 104. The results for 315 samples are awaited. The total number of active cases in the district is 53. As per the latest orders, the shops, besides grocery and animal feed stores, have been classified into three categories and two days in a week have been fixed for each category. While cycle stores, mobile recharge shops and electronics shops can open on Mondays and Thursdays, construction material, hardware, jewellery and furniture shops can operate on Wednesdays and Saturdays. Similarly, gift and toy shops and readymade garments shops can open on Tuesdays and Fridays. The essential commodities shops can remain open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The other categories, however, are allowed to operate only till 3 p.m.  The orders has restricted the movement of individuals and vehicles only to permitted activities and prohibited pillion riding on two-wheelers. Four-wheelers are allowed with a maximum of two passengers besides the driver.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks govt.’s reply on quarantine wards plea||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to reply to a petition alleging it was not providing doctors or maintaining hygiene and sanitisation at the DDA flats in Narela which have been turned into quarantine wards for COVID-19 patients. The court asked the government to submit its response in three days and listed the case for further hearing on May 14.  The plea alleged that the Delhi government is not taking adequate steps to control the spread of COVID-19 and implement quarantine facilities which include making doctors available, providing adequate hygiene in the flats, sufficient number of sanitation workers for carrying out sanitisation and disinfection of toilets and rooms, improving the quality of food and make provision of linen, soap, sanitisers and other essential items. The government’s counsel, however, stated that all facilities are available at the fourteen towers constructed by the DDA at Narela.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police try to interrogate DMC chief at his house||Delhi Police on Wednesday visited Delhi Minorities Commission chief Zafarul Islam Khan’s residence to interrogate him in connection with a FIR lodged against him on charges of sedition. A team led by an ACP-rank officer reached Mr. Khan’s house but had to face a public outcry as AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan and other local leaders along with their supporters gathered outside his residence. The police team left the location and said they will serve another notice to Mr. Khan and ask him to join the probe. Mr. Khan said that he suffers from old age-related physical illnesses that make him vulnerable to COVID-19 and therefore cannot leave his house but was available to answer questions. In a statement, Mr. Khan’s lawyer said, “Section 160 of the CrPC mandates that the police cannot compel attendance of a person above 65 years age at any place other than their residence for the purpose of investigation and interrogation.” An FIR has been lodged against Mr. Khan under Sections 124 A (Sedition) and 153 A, based on a complaint by a south Delhi resident. The complainant has alleged that Mr. Khan, on April 28, had shared a post on social media which was “provocative”. In the post, Mr. Khan thanked Kuwait for taking note of the persecution of Indian Muslims, in the context of the violence in north-east Delhi. On May 3, Mr. Khan said he had not deleted his post and stood by it, “It has been erroneously reported that I have apologised for the tweet and deleted it. I apologised not for the tweet but because it was ill-timed.”
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Delhi start-up comes out with washable mask||With face masks becoming mandatory to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, an IIT-Delhi start-up ‘Nanosafe Solutions’ has launched an antimicrobial and washable face mask ‘NSafe’. The said mask is reusable up to 50 launderings, thus greatly cutting down the cost of use. IIT-Delhi said that the ‘NSafe’ mask is a triple-layered product consisting of inner hydrophilic layer for comfort, middle layer having antimicrobial activity and outer most layer having water and oil repellent behaviour. “NSafe mask has 99.2% bacterial filtration efficiency [at 3 microns] along with breathability and splash resistance,” the institute said.
07 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||School summer vacation from May 11 to June 30||The Delhi government on Wednesday declared summer vacation for schools in the Capital from May 11 to June 30. The circular added that keeping in view the outbreak and spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, students shall not be called to schools for any activity during the summer vacation. All heads of schools were asked to ensure that students were informed about the decision through SMS, call or WhatsApp. Schools in the Capital have been shut since March 23 with the government conducting online classes for students.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Extension of interim bail of prisoners recommended||A high-powered committee has recommended further extension of the interim bails of 2,177 undertrial prisoners as, it said, it would be dangerous to put them back in jail during the COVID-19 pandemic. The committee, headed by Delhi High Court Justice Hima Kohli, was of the opinion that the interim bail of such prisoners needed to be extended by another 45 days from the date of expiry of the relief and a judicial order was required in this regard from the High Court. In the meeting held on Tuesday, it directed the Member Secretary of the Delhi State Legal Services Authority to place the committee’s recommendations before the Registrar General of the Delhi High Court for necessary action.
07 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi||A team of five students from Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, Delhi University, have won the Global Case Competition hosted by Harvard Graduate Business Club. Aanand Negi, Kunal Vats, Ojas Jhamb, Raghav Nath and Sparsh Sehgal won the event that saw participation of over 140 teams from across the globe.
