07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Support widens for Bharat Bandh call||Top Opposition leaders, in a joint statement on Sunday, extended their support for the December 8 Bharat Bandh, called by farmers’ organisations demanding a rollback of the three farm sector laws, and claimed that the new laws would “destroy Indian agriculture by mortgaging it to corporates”. The joint statement was signed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, DMK president M.K. Stalin, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav and CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, among others. Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha claimed that support for the bandh had poured in from transport unions, women’s and students’ organisations and federations of industry, apart from political parties. Separately, the Telangana Rashtra Samiti and the Shiv Sena too backed the call given by the farmers Asking the Centre to meet the “legitimate” demands of the kisan-annadatas , the Opposition statement said, ‘Withdraw laws’ “We the undersigned leaders of political parties extend our solidarity with the ongoing massive struggle by the Indian farmers organised by various kisan organisations from across the country and extend our support to their call for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 demanding the withdrawal of these retrograde Agri-laws and the Electricity Amendment Bill.” “These new Agri-Laws passed in Parliament in a brazen anti-democratic manner, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporates and domestic corporates,” added the joint statement that was released by the CPI (M). The Bharat Bandh would be “complete” as all businesses, shops and commercial establishments would remain shut from morning till evening, said All-India Kisan Sabha (Ajoy Bhavan) general secretary (Punjab) Baldev Singh Nihalgarh.
07 December 2020||MANGALURU,||24-km Charmadi Ghat road is getting a silent makeover||At a time when the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has been accused of carrying out only namesake highway restoration work between BC Road and Gundya on National Highway 75, the National Highways Division of the State Public Works Department has been silently restoring the battered Charmadi Ghat stretch of National Highway 73. The ghat section witnessed devastation during this as well as previous monsoon with the authorities concerned banning the movement of vehicles for some time. Boulders rolled down, landslips occurred and gorges caved in at multiple locations on the ghat road. A crucial link Charmadi Ghat is a crucial stretch connecting Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts with the rest of the State. It is also the gateway to popular pilgrim centre Dharmasthala. Meanwhile, the process of widening NH 73 from BC Road till the base of Charmadi Ghat is also being taken up in phases. Karthik Shenoy, a regular user of the stretch and member of WhatsApp forum “NH 75 Travellers”, said, “The entire Charmadi Ghat stretch is being paved with bitumen and the ghat section is very good now for travelling.” Mr. Shenoy further said that all the guard walls of the ghat road have been restored providing sufficient indication to drivers for a safe journey. MLA’s work Roshan Sequeira said, “This ghat stretch gets repaired without much noise.” And, forum convener Gopal Pai Mani said, “The MLA [Harish Poonja] has spearheaded the repairs of the ghat stretch that was battered two years ago.” Meanwhile, other members of the forum pointed out at the haphazard way in which pothole-filling on National Highway 75 was being carried out between BC Road and Gundya and between Maranahalli and Hassan. The members said that pothole-filling was being carried out for namesake by the NHAI and that the work would not stay for long. Stretches restored Executive Engineer of PWD’s NH Division, Mangaluru, Ganapathi Hegde said that the department first removed all the fallen boulders and thereafter widened culverts as far as possible on the stretch. Tender was awarded for paving the ghat stretch falling in Dakshina Kannada and Chikkamagaluru districts at a cost of Rs. 7.68 crore before COVID-19 and the works too started then. And, works have now resumed following different phases of Unlock and in about a fortnight, the entire stretch between Charmadi and Kottigehara would be paved, Mr. Hegde said.
07 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya village turns an oasis in coal mine desert||Rat-hole coal mining had sucked the life out of Moolamylliang less than a decade ago. The village in the East Jaintia Hills district of Meghalaya has now risen like the proverbial phoenix to become a clean, green dot in a vast black blot. But Apmon Pachiang, a schoolteacher and Moolamylliang’s waheh chnong, or headman, said the job of making the village of 960 people and its surroundings breathe freely again — “like the good old days” — is only 30% done. But the progress has been good enough for people in the mining-ravaged area to believe all is not lost amid abandoned pits and coal-blackened earth. The Jaintia Coal Miners and Dealers’ Association claims there are some 60,000 coal mines across 360 villages in East Jaintia Hills district. Moolamylliang used to be one such village until the National Green Tribunal banned rat-hole mining in April 2014. Rat-hole mining is a term used for a hazardous and arduous mining technique where miners crawl into winding underground tunnels that are just 4-5 feet in diameter to extract coal from the deep seams with a pickaxe. Crucial change Though the NGT ban did not stop illegal mining in the district, it helped Moolamylliang reform — in part because unregulated mining had contaminated its farmlands and turned the streams acidic, and also because the village dorbar , or traditional governing body, had a change of guard. “Soon after a younger set took over the village decision-making body, we banned mining in our area. By that time, the nearest mine was a kilometre away. Then we went about cleaning the coal-stained surroundings and planting saplings along the pathways connecting our village,” Mr. Pachiang told The Hindu .
07 December 2020||Mumbai,||MVA extends support to bandh||The Shiv Sena on Sunday said that it would support the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8 demanding rollback of three farm laws passed by the Central government. The announcement came after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to discuss the ongoing farmers’ agitation on the border of Delhi. In a statement issued on late night, Sena MP Sanjay Raut declared his party’s backing for the bandh. “Farmers have been fighting against the Central government for the last 11 days. But the government has failed to find a solution. The Sena hopes this bandh achieves success and farmers’ demands get accepted,” Mr. Raut said. He also said that if farmers were calling for a one-day bandh then people should participate in it and support their demands. SAD MP Prem Singh Chandumajra met Mr. Thackeray at the latter’s official residence Varsha along with a delegation. Later, Mr. Thackeray said, “Farmers are the backbone of the country. Discussing and solving problems faced by them should be our top priority.” The Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — the two other partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government — have already extended their support to the bandh. Balasaheb Thorat, Revenue Minister and State president of the Congress, on Sunday said that the Maharashtra Congress would be actively participating in the bandh. “This is a do or die battle and farmers have announced that they will not back down until all three laws are withdrawn. We support the farmers’ demands and we will be actively participating in the bandh on Tuesday,” he said. NCP president Sharad Pawar said that not recognising the protests of farmers was harmful for the country. “The government must take a wise stand and solve the issue at the earliest,” he said. Mumbai’s iconic dabbawalas too have extended their support to the farmers’ agitation.  Farmers are the backbone of the country. Discussing and solving problems faced by them should be our top priority Uddhav Thackeray Chief Minister
07 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Health guidelines for safe polling||The Health Department has issued guidelines for the safe conduct of the local body elections which is taking place in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic. It has appealed to the public to be mindful of all safety protocols despite the reduced threat perception of the disease. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said though the number of new cases being reported daily had come down, there were many surveillance indicators which showed that there could be a resurgence of the infection in some parts of the State. Public health experts were also of the opinion that the case graph could spike again post elections. Surge in infection However, if every individual were to take utmost care in maintaining all safety precautions, a surge in infections might be contained, she said. People should wear a proper fitting mask, covering the nose and mouth, and it should not be removed at any time while they are out of the house. Children should not be taken along by adults when going out to vote. Every voter should carry a pen for signing the register to avoid sharing. When talking to friends or others outside, mask should not be lowered. Anyone trying to converse without a mask should not be encouraged. Voters should use sanitisers and disinfect hands while entering as wellas exiting the polling booths. There should be no more than three voters at the same time in one polling booth. Doors and windows of polling booths should be kept open to ensure proper ventilation. Closed spaces can aid disease transmission and hence all election officials and polling agents should take extreme care to maintain physical distance. The mask may be removed only for identifying an individual, while maintaining proper distance. There should be no conversation when the mask is off. Voters should leave the polling booth premises as soon as they vote and ensure that they wash hands with soap and water as soon as they reach home. Political party workers in election committee offices should also maintain the health protocol. Postal vote Those who tested positive 10 days before the poll date till 3 p.m. on the previous day of the poll need not go to the polling booth to vote. They can do postal vote. The public may clarify all doubts by reaching out to the Health Department's helpline DISHA (1056).
07 December 2020||Belagavi,||Water sports facility to come up in Hubballi-Dharwad||A multi focus sport complex and a water sports promotion facility will be built in Hubballi-Dharwad under the Smart City project, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Sunday. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone for Smart City works valued at Rs. 130 crore in Hubballi. Apart from sports facilities, the works include a green mobility corridor and some roads in the twin cities. European Union and French Development Agency will give Rs. 80 crore for the facility and Smart City Limited will spend Rs. 50 crore. Plans for the sports complex and the water sports facility have been finalised. Apart from creating sports infrastructure, a sports school will also be built to make sure that trained coaches would mould young sports persons into national and international champions, the Minister said. A mega meeting facility to bring together all the major sporting personalities will also be built, he added. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said that Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited was in the top spot in the execution of works and in the 13th place at the all-India level, of the 100 cities where the scheme was under way. He said that various cities in the State would be developed comprehensively using the city’s challenge project. He also urged Smart City officers to complete all works in time. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Smart City Managing Director Shakeel Ahmed and others were present.
07 December 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru sees decline in test positivity rate and deaths||After emerging as a COVID-19 hotspot in the State during August and September, Mysuru witnessed a sharp decline in the test positivity rate and mortality during November. The decline, which began in October, fell steeply during November. The number of fatalities from COVID-19 during November was 41 compared to 219, 293, and 302 during October, September, and August respectively. Similiarly, the test positivity rate, which was 22.85% and 20.9% in September and August respectively, dipped to 2.11% during November. This is even as the number of tests remained more or less the same. During November, 1.41 lakh tests were conducted as against the 1.51 lakh during October and 72,000 during September. During November, less than 3,000 cases of COVID-19 were added to the caseload. A total of 2,996 cases were added during November against the 13,005 and 16,565 during October and September respectively. The number of active cases on November 30 [355] were the lowest since July. This is against the more than 8,200 active cases during the first week of October. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri claimed that Mysuru’s performance was the best or among the best in the State. “This has happened by a systematic approach and untiring efforts of all concerned,” she said. With about 6,000 daily tests, Ms. Sindhuri claimed Mysuru was conducting the most tests in the State after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). During the last week of November, Ms. Sindhuri said the case fatality rate was 1.2% in the two preceding weeks, which was close to the target of 1%. Also, she said 100% contact tracing had been completed in 26 hours at the rate of 12 contacts for every patient. Till the last week of November, 4,208 persons had been fined for not wearing masks and violating social distancing rules, she said. Meanwhile, Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of management firm Proxima, which is studying COVID-19 trends across India with technical support and guidance of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), said the decline in the number of active cases in Mysuru over the last couple of weeks speaks volumes about the resilience of the people of Mysuru and the district administration. “The key is sustaining this performance and ensuring that the active cases reduce further,” he added.
07 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Will Centre foot vaccine bill, asks Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking whether the vaccination against COVID-19 will be entirely financed by the Centre, including the cost of the doses and other supplies. In the letter, he sought priority allocation of vaccine to Punjab on account of its higher mortality rate resulting from the population age profile and high levels of co-morbidities. He said that despite its relatively low caseload, the fatality rate due to COVID-19 was higher in Punjab, which thus needed a special dispensation in the allocation of the vaccine. Pointing out that the vaccines currently under consideration would not perhaps reduce transmission so much as prevent serious disease, Capt. Singh said the best use of these vaccines would, therefore, be in preventing serious illness in the most susceptible groups, including elderly and persons with high morbidity. Seeking clarity on whether the COVID-19 vaccination would be entirely financed by the Centre, Capt. Singh also asked for clarity on the principles based on which the prioritised groups were to be identified for sequential immunisation phases, and leave the preparation of the list of prioritised groups to the State. Expansion of definition The CM also sought expansion of the definition of frontline workers for the purpose of immunisation to include administrative officials and others responsible for essential functions.  While the definition of healthcare worker was relatively precise and Punjab had compiled data based on it, the definition of frontline workers lacked clarity, he noted. Capt. SIngh added that as of now, it seemed to include only security forces (the police and armed forces) and municipal workers, with some mention of primary school teachers. Capt. Singh said while it appeared that private sector healthcare workers would be enumerated and that the Centre also intends to provide vaccines for them, apart from government sector healthcare workers, the question does arise if the vaccine woud be provided to other priority groups should they wish to get inoculated from government providers.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Central team assesses damage in Chennai||The Central government’s team visited various parts of the city on Sunday to assess the damage to civic infrastructure caused by flooding during the recent rain. The team visited roads such as Jothi Venkatachalam Road and Alagappa Road at Vepery near the Egmore railway station. Egmore MLA K.S. Ravichandran said the level of stagnant water increased on Alagappa Road because of the collapse of the storm-water drain. “Residents have requested the Chennai Corporation to build a new drain on the road. I had also given a petition to Corporation officials for a new drain. But they have not built one,” he said. “Residents were unable to come out of their homes on Alagappa Road for three days during the rain. It is the situation in a well-developed urban area. The plight of the residents in suburban areas may be worse,” he said. Mr. Ravichandran stressed the need for inviting local MLAs to meet Central government teams and said he was not given an opportunity to participate at a meeting with the team in the Egmore constituency. “More than 2,000 residents were affected in areas like Osankulam during the rain. The residents have demanded the reconstruction of the old tenements and the development of new drains,” Mr. Ravichandran said. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said officials identified the damage to the civic infrastructure, estimated at Rs. 86 crore. The team also visited Tondiarpet and areas near Ennore Creek. In the southern parts of the city, the team visited Pallikaranai marshland, Sholinganallur and Velachery. The infrastructure of at least 10 tanks was damaged. The damage in the neighbourhoods of Pallikaranai marshland was more because of the absence of a proper drainage system to take the storm-water to Muttukadu, officials said. The team assessed the damage to agricultural fields on the city outskirts, caused by water release from tanks.
07 December 2020||ELURU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),||Undiagnosed illness: one dies, cases rise to 315||Over 270 persons, including several women and children, were admitted to the Government General Hospital (GGH) at Eluru in Andhra Pradesh with an undiagnosed illness in the last couple of days. The number of in-patients, which was 55 on Saturday midnight and 170 by Sunday morning, rose to 270 by evening. About 120 were discharged from the hospital and the situation was under control, officials said. Unconfirmed reports said 50 more were undergoing treatment in various private hospitals. Patients developed dizziness, headache and epilepsy-like symptoms. Most of the cases reported were from Kobbari Thota, Kothapeta, Toorpu Veedhi and Arundhatipeta, doctors treating the patients said. Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had enquired about the situation in Eluru. House-to-house survey A house-to-house survey was being taken up and the situation was under control, the Minister said. Seventy-six women and 46 children were undergoing treatment and about 120 were discharged. There was no danger to lives, he said. Seven patients were rushed to Vijayawada for better treatment and their condition was stable, the Minister added. Medical teams from various hospitals in West Godavari and Krishna districts, staff of ward secretariats and officials of the Revenue and Police Departments rushed to the colonies and were attending to the patients in the camps arranged on the streets. “Water, food and blood samples have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory [FSL]. The reports are awaited. CT scans and X-ray reports of the patients are normal. COVID-19 tests were conducted for all the patients and the results were negative,” doctors said. Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla, senior civil judge D. Balakrishnaiah and other officials visited the government hospital and enquired about the condition of the patients. Helpline set up Mr. Shukla said call centres had been set up at the Eluru municipal office. Residents can call 9154565529 and 9154592617 in case of an emergency. “GGH superintendent A.V.R. Mohan and District Coordinator of Hospital Services Dr. Mohan Rao are monitoring the situation round the clock,” said Mr. Shukla. “Patients are complaining of giddiness and headache. The recovery rate is good and there is no need for panic”, said District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) Dr. Sunanda. Unguturu MLA Vasu Babu, RDO Panabaka Rachana and the Indian Red Cross Society chairman M. Jaya Prakash were among those monitoring the situation in the affected areas.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Volunteers testing positive during trial not unexpected’||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s Phase-3 clinical trial design for its candidate Covaxin expects 130 COVID-19 infections among trial participants, according to details shared by the company on the government’s clinical trial website. Thus instances such as Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij testing positive for COVID-19 two weeks after being vaccinated as a trial participant are expected. The company will also perform an “interim analysis” when a third or two-thirds of the number of such infections are reached. This is to determine whether more volunteers must be included in the trial or participants should be followed for longer, the company added. Following Mr. Vij’s disclosure on Twitter that he had tested positive after getting the first dose of the vaccine — based on an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 virus sourced from the National Institute of Virology — Bharat Biotech, in a statement on Saturday, said Covaxin followed a two-dose schedule administered 28 days apart and its efficacy would be determined two weeks after the second dose. International pharma companies testing COVID vaccines as part of their Phase-3 trials employ similar trial designs.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,||We will follow U.P., Gujarat laws: Chavan||The stringent provisions of the anti-cow slaughter laws in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh will be incorporated in the Bill that will be moved in the winter session of the State legislature starting on Monday, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan has said. The Minister, who visited the two States to study the laws, said that anti-cow slaughter legislation there had been studied along with the challenges the States were facing in implementation.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||On a sunny day||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||On a sunny day||
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||TRS to support Bharat Bandh call by farmers tomorrow||The ruling TRS has extended complete support to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations on December 8. Party president and CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced the decision and appealed to public to make the bandh success. He also said TRS cadre will actively participate in the agitation.
07 December 2020||MYSURU,||‘Restrict Talakad event to locals’||The COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)has recommended that the Panchalinga Darshana at Talakad in T. Narsipur taluk of Mysuru, should be restricted to the local populace and the people of the taluk. The Panchalinga Darshana will be held from December 10 to 19. The entry of devotees will be restricted owing to the pandemic and the imperatives of preventing a large gathering. Entry of a maximum of 1,000 people per day and 1,500 persons on the special day – December 14 – has been recommended by the TAC. The committee,which met recently to discuss the arrangements for the event, has recommended live proceedings of the main events. The TAC said the events should be held in a simple manner and broadcast virtually, apart from live telecast on TV because of the pandemic. The TAC noted that recently Mysuru conducted Dasara also in a simple manner and in a virtual mode and the same should be followed here. The committee stated that winter, as in December, was conducive to the spread of respiratory infections and and hence it was decided that all traditional and ritual ceremonies shall be duly telecast. The event shall be confined to the people of the taluk and local populace and visitors from outside should not be allowed, a practice that is commonly used to control the spread of COVID-19. All other measures to ensure compliance of COVID-19 precautions like thermal screening, checking for COVID-19 symptoms, physical distancing of two metres or six feet with markings on the floor, availability of liquid soap and sanitizers, compulsory wearing of face masks by all, effective crowd control by marshals and the police, facilities for isolation and testing, presence of ambulance for shifting those testing positive or with symptoms, have been recommended by the committee. Meanwhile, the detailed schedule of the event has been announced and it will be inaugurated on December 10 with a series of rituals. The event entails darshan of five temples dedicated to Lord Shiva – Sri Vaidyanatheshwara, Sri Maruleshwara, Mudukothore Sri Malliakarjunaswamy, Sri Pathaleshwara and Sri Arakeshwara – on the same day. It is not an annual event and is based on astrological calculations as per the Hindu almanac and the gap between the two events can be as much as 13 years. The last Panchalinga Darshana was held in 2013. The main event of Panchalinga Darshana will be on December 14 from 7.30 a.m. onwards, as per the schedule. There will be Brahmarathothsava on December 15 and Shanyanothsava and Ashwarohana on December 16, and Nandivahanothsava on December 19, as per the schedule.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||SII seeks nod for Covishield||The Serum Institute of India on Sunday became the first Indian company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield.page 10
07 December 2020||Lucknow,||Anti-conversion law: two held||The police in Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, arrested a Muslim man and his brother under the new anti-conversion law while he was in the process of registering his marriage to a Hindu girl from Bijnore whom he had “consensually married” a few months ago. The couple, who arrived at the registration office in Kanth, were handed over to the police by members of a right-wing outfit who prevented them from completing the registration process. The woman said she is an adult and married the man on July 24 in Dehradun of her free will. “I got married willingly. I am an adult, aged 22,” the woman told journalists, adding that they had been friends for two years. They had been staying in Kanth, from where the man hails, for the past four to five months. It was not clear if the woman or the man had changed their religion. Fifth case The man and his brother were booked under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. It is the fifth such case to be lodged in the State under the new law. After a 21-year-old man was arrested in Bareilly, seven persons were arrested and eight booked in Sitapur, while 14 persons were booked in Mau and two charged in Muzaffarnagar. While members of a right-wing outfit took credit for the Moradabad arrest, the police claimed that they acted on information provided by the family of the girl. The FIR was lodged under Sections 3 and 5 of the new ordinance.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,||'BBMP targeting us on mask issue'||The decision of the BBMP to hold the managements of spaces responsible for patrons failing to wear masks or follow social distancing rules has not gone down well with the proprietors.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Residents tense after rumours of leopard attack||Residents of Veerabhadra Nagar near Girinagar stayed indoors on Sunday after a flock of sheep and goats were mauled to death in a suspected leopard attack. Forest officials and the jurisdictional police are yet to ascertain exactly how the animals died.
07 December 2020||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||The trend of recoveries outpacing cases continued with 7,486 patients being discharged across Maharashtra on Sunday as opposed to 4,757 fresh COVID-19 cases. The total case tally now stands at 18,52,266, with the number of active cases dipping to 80,079. The cumulative recoveries have reached 17,23,370, with the recovery rate rising to 93.04%. Forty deaths were reported. “Of a total of 1,12,73,705 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,52,266 have returned positive, with over 68,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate.
07 December 2020||MANGALURU,||DKMUL posts 4.25% growth in 2019-20||Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Union Ltd. (DKMUL) posted a 4.25 % growth by registering a net profit of Rs. 7.07 crore during 2019-20, according to union president Raviraj Hegde.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI /COIMBATORE,||Hike in raw material price pinches MSME sector||The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector in Tamil Nadu is facing a new challenge — the rising raw material costs. Several owners said that those who place orders are not willing to shell out more and want the consignments at pre-pandemic rates.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,||Women voters will play decisive role: Kanimozhi||Stating that women voters will decide the outcome of the upcoming Assembly poll, DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi said: “The government has let down the women of the State, particularly those who are a part of self-help groups.”
07 December 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata nearby||Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya on Sunday said he is hopeful of the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act by January so that “refugees” who have come to West Bengal will get some rights. “ The government will most probably give citizenship from January to all the refugees who have come from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan because of religious persecution,” he said.
07 December 2020||Patna,||FIR lodged against Tejashwi for protest||A case was lodged on Sunday against Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav and 18 other leaders of the Grand Alliance for staging a protest without permission in Patna amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Opposition leaders had staged a protest at Gandhi Maidan here on Saturday in support of the agitating farmers in Delhi.
07 December 2020||Patna,||FIR lodged against Tejashwi for protest||A case was lodged on Sunday against Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav and 18 other leaders of the Grand Alliance for staging a protest without permission here amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Opposition leaders had staged a protest at Gandhi Maidan on Saturday in support of the agitating farmers in Delhi. Later, Mr. Yadav dared the Nitish Kumar-led government to arrest him.
07 December 2020||BELAGAVI,||BJP is strengthening the grassroots||BJP is organising Gram Swaraj meetings with the declared intention of strengthening its village level units. Senior leaders and Cabinet Ministers speak at these events of the achievements of the State government in the rural development sector.
07 December 2020||KALABURAGI,||Ambedkar remembered||Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna remembered the crucial role played by Bharat Ratna B.R. Ambedkar in nation-building and called upon people to follow in his footsteps and inculcate his values in their lives to achieve their aims and uplift society.
07 December 2020||MYSURU,||Public entry to fair inside Bandipur reserve banned||Taking cognizance of the prevailing pandemic and the imperatives of avoiding crowding, the authorities have banned public participation in the annual temple fair at Beladakuppe in Hediyala range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Will Cabinet expansion be pushed to new year?||The much-delayed exercise of reshuffle/expansion of the State Cabinet is likely to be pushed to new year, multiple sources in the BJP said. The upcoming Legislature session and the gram panchayat elections are now being cited as reasons for postponement.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||140 pleas against CAA hang fire||Over 140 petitions challenging the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) have been pending for nearly a year in the Supreme Court, leaving petitioners from various walks of life and across the political spectrum “deeply disappointed” over the delay. “I am deeply disappointed, and the case should be taken up for hearing at the earliest,” Jairam Ramesh, MP, one of the petitioners, told The Hindu on Sunday. The last time the CAA case came up in court was on March 3 when Mr. Ramesh’s lawyer, Kapil Sibal, made an urgent oral mention before the Chief Justice of India for a stay on the implementation of the law. He had said the case ran the risk of becoming infructuous. The CJI had indicated referring the case to a Constitution Bench, but said the court might first hear the review petitions pending in the Sabarimala case. The court had asked Mr. Sibal to press for interim orders after the Holi vacation. However, by March-end, the pandemic disrupted the physical functioning of the court. It was the third time the petitioners had sought a stay of the law. In December 2019, the court declined a stay while asking the Centre to make an all-out effort to disseminate the actual legislative intent of the citizenship law. In January 2020, the court, to another plea to stay the law, had said the CAA was “uppermost in everybody’s minds”. Communal riots and violence had rocked the national capital over the anti-CAA protests. “Since the CAA has been unprecedented in many ways — be it the nature of amendment which strikes at the root of the Basic Structure of the Constitution or the protests it has evoked across the nation or the panic among the people that they will be driven out of the country — it would be in the best interest of all that the Supreme Court hears the case at the earliest and put at rest these issues,” advocate Haris Beeran, who represents the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), said. Last December, the IUML filed the first petition in the Supreme Court against the CAA. Regional benches P. Wilson, senior advocate and MP, who represents the DMK, said the pendency of the CAA case made a strong argument for the establishment of regional Benches of the Supreme Court. “The Supreme Court can take up and hear constitutional matters like the challenge to the CAA on a priority basis, while its regional Benches could deal with the other cases... The Supreme Court’s own statistics shows 63,693 matters pending before it. There are a total 432 matters pending before its various Constitution Benches,” Mr. Wilson said. The CAA fast-tracks citizenship-by-naturalisation process for persons from six religious communities, other than Muslims, who have fled persecution from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The petitions against CAA have argued that a law that welcomes “illegal migrants” into India selectively on the basis of their religion, is against principles of secularism, right to equality and dignity of life enshrined in the Basic Structure of the Constitution. The Union Home Ministry, however, described the CAA as a “benign” law which does not lead to expulsion, deportation or refoulement of illegal migrants. It maintained that the CAA merely offers “amnesty” without hurting India’s secularism. It relaxes the settled principles of Indian citizenship for Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians persecuted in the “theocratic States” of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Navy wants to join IAF in jet shopping||The Navy is looking to combine its tender to buy multi-role carrier-based fighter jets along with the Indian Air Force tender for 114 fighters that is under way. The idea follows a decision to cut down the number of jets to be procured as the Defence Research and Development Organisation has proposed indigenous development of aircraft. “We have the MiG-29K operating from INS Vikramaditya and will operate from the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) I. To replace them, we have taken up a case for the multi-role carrier-borne fighters which we are trying to do along with the IAF,” Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said last week. ‘Awaiting response’ “The Navy has approached the IAF, and we are awaiting their response,” a Navy official said on condition of anonymity. On the Indian Navy’s fighter procurement plans, Admiral Singh said the new development had been the twin-engine carrier-based deck fighter (TBDRF) which the DRDO and the Aeronautical Development Agency had offered. He said they were working together to make sure that happens. It then “will have an indigenous deck-based fighter for the Navy”. Admiral Singh said many lessons had been learnt from the naval light combat aircraft-MK1 programme such as the arrestor hook and undercarriage, and more lessons were being learnt through the shore-based test facility in Goa. “My hope is that the TBDRF would be able to enter service sometime in the early 2030s,” he said Cutting down numbers In 2017, the Navy floated a Request for Information (RFI) to global fighter manufacturers, and the response is being evaluated. However, with the new jet under development and also factoring in budgetary constraints, the Navy is in the process of cutting down the number of fighters from 57 to 36. The final decision is awaited. To further optimise the process, it is now looking to combine it with the IAF. However, it has to be seen how this is taken forward as the IAF RFI was open to both single- and twin-engine fighters, while the Navy has a stated requirement for a twin-engine jet to operate off its carriers. The Navy has 45 Russian MiG-29Ks and it had said earlier there would not be enough aircraft to operate from both carriers. The response to the RFI from Boeing with its F-18 Super Hornet and from Dassault Aviation with its Rafale jets are being evaluated. Both companies have said their jets can operate off the ski-jump of Vikramaditya and in future the IAC-I Vikrant . U.S. visit In fact, a Navy team was to visit the US Naval Air Station in Maryland early this year to witness a demonstration from Boeing on the compatibility of its F-18 Super Hornet to take off and land from the decks of Indian carriers. However, the visit was deferred due to the pandemic.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Work in full swing to fill up lake||Merely a month-and-a-half after severely encroached lakes wreaked havoc on the city by causing destructive floods under the impact of torrential rains, work is on in full swing to fill up a lake in Kondapur area. Tractor loads of earth and debris are being brought under the cover of the darkness, to be dumped into Mazid Banda Cheruvu, which is a notified lake within the GHMC’s purview. Already work for construction of apartment complexes has started at the location. Residents of the nearby localities have said that the water body, earlier in diminutive size, has received good amount of water during the recent rains, and expanded in its extent. “We have been seeing this lake for the last five years. It has received fresh inflows during the rains, and is looking better. The attempts to fill it up have reached a feverish pitch during the last few weeks, probably due to the fear that the rising water spread could lead to loss of land. Tractors are plying continuously every night, carrying earth and debris,” said a resident under the condition of anonymity. A newly laid link road by the GHMC has added real estate premium, as the lake is now ensconced between two major thoroughfares -- one is Mazid Banda main road which connects to the major stretch of the Botanical Gardens, and another is the newly laid road connecting it to the Gachibowli-Miyapur main road. Heaps of sand, boulders and debris could be seen at the location, with pre-construction activity briskly proceeding, while Irrigation Department officials who ought to protect the lake, are looking away. Mazid Banda lake was notified in 2014. As per the Full Tank Level demarcated in the map, the lake’s extent is 12.52 acres, and cadastral map shows that the entire lake bed, divided into agricultural plots, is privately owned. As per the Irrigation records, the lake receives its inflows upstream from Kudi Kunta on one side, and Pochamma Kunta on the other, both within Kondapur village limits. Excess water from the lake flows into Gopi Cheruvu downstream. All its inflow and outflow channels have been heavily constructed and blocked. Google Earth images since 2003 show that the lake had been rarely ever filled to its FTL. Lake activist and Socialist Party (India)’s State General Secretary & Spokesperson Lubna Sarwath alleged that attempts to encroach the lake had the stamp of approval from GHMC authorities who had issued building permission within the lake. She wrote to the National Green Tribunal praying for restoration of the lake to its maximum water spread. However, GHMC Town Planning officials have informed that building permission was denied based on the remarks by the Irrigation department. Following this, a case has been filed in the High Court by the owners of the lake bed lands, challenging the notification by HMDA. Their contention is that there was no lake in the area as per the Revenue records.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Major drug seizures from 4 States||Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu accounted for the majority of drug seizures during 2019-20. The annual report of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence said 72 seizures of substances covered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act were made across India. In 2018-19, the majority of seizures was reported from Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Assam. The agency, in coordination with the Coast Guard, seized 217.8 kg of heroin off the Gujarat coast. The seizure involved a daring mid-sea operation and chase involving two high-speed boats and an aircraft of the Coast Guard. Six Pakistani nationals were arrested. Last financial year, an increase in the seizure of precursor chemicals was noticed. Compared to the previous year, the seizure amount of alprazolam/zolpidem increased from 40 kg to 130 kg; and about 143 kg of metamphetamine was seized as against close to 126 kg in 2018-19. There was a substantial increase, from a little above 12 kg to about 58 kg, in mephedrone seizures, while nearly 550 kg of ephedrine was intercepted. Owing to a crackdown on syndicates smuggling tramadol, there was a steep decline in its seizures from 2,766.74 kg to just 22.69 kg in 2019-20. The stuff, earlier being diverted and smuggled overseas, was finding its way for use by the the IS terrorists as pain suppressant and strength booster. “India also faces a huge problem of synthetic drugs like mephedrone, amphetamine type substances (ATS), new psychoactive substances (NPS). From the seizure data, it is observed that activities related to illicit manufacturing and trafficking of such psychotropic substances are mostly prevalent in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu,” the report said. These States have a large base of small and medium chemical and pharma industries “which can be easily used by drug cartels to manufacture such illicit drugs”. The northeastern States face the problem of synthetic drugs due to their borders with Myanmar, which is one of the major producers, especially methamphetamine. Based on a specific intelligence, the DRI officials in Chennai had intercepted a consignment of over 1.37 lakh tablets, including alprazolam, being exported to the U.S. in the guise of herbal/ayurvedic medicines. The agency also located an international call centre in Jaipur, being run by an accused, which had been set up to book orders of tablets like alprazolam and tramadol from buyers in the U.S.
07 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Will Centre foot vaccine bill, asks Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking whether the vaccination against COVID-19 will be entirely financed by the Centre, including the cost of the doses and other supplies. In the letter, he sought priority allocation of vaccine to Punjab on account of its higher mortality rate resulting from the population age profile and high levels of co-morbidities. He said that despite its relatively low case load, the fatality rate due to COVID-19 was higher in Punjab, which thus needed a special dispensation in the allocation of the vaccine. Pointing out that the vaccines currently under consideration would not perhaps reduce transmission so much as prevent serious disease, Capt. Singh said the best use of these vaccines would, therefore, be in preventing serious illness in the most susceptible groups, including elderly and persons with high morbidity. Seeking clarity on whether the COVID-19 vaccination would be entirely financed by the Centre, Capt. Singh also asked for clarity on the principles based on which the prioritised groups were to be identified for sequential immunisation phases, and leave the preparation of the list of prioritised groups to the State. The CM also sought expansion of the definition of frontline workers for the purpose of immunisation to include administrative officials and others responsible for essential functions. While the definition of healthcare worker was relatively precise and Punjab had compiled data based on it, the definition of frontline workers lacked clarity, he noted. Capt. SIngh added that as of now, it seemed to include only security forces (the police and armed forces) and municipal workers, with some mention of primary school teachers.
07 December 2020||Jammu,||Voting for fourth phase of DDC polls in J&K today||More than seven lakh voters will decide the fate of 249 candidates contesting in the fourth phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. The polling will be held between 7 a.m. and 2 p.m. in 34 constituencies — 17 each in Kashmir and Jammu divisions. Panchayat bypoll Besides DDC election, polling will be held for panchayat bypoll in 50 vacant sarpanch seats and 216 vacant panch seats falling within the DDC constituencies, an official spokesman said. So far, three phases of the maiden DDC elections, the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the reorganisation of the erstwhile State last year, were held on November 28, December 1 and December 4, registering a voter turnout of 51.76%, 48.62% and 50.53%, respectively. In the 17 DDC constituencies of Kashmir division, 138 candidates, including 48 women, are in the fray. In Jammu division, 111 candidates, including 34 women, are contesting in this phase. “There were 123 sarpanch vacancies notified in the 4th phase and out of these 45 have got filled unopposed. There shall be a contest in 50 constituencies and 137 candidates, including 47 women, are in the fray,” the spokesman said. Out of 1,207 panch vacancies notified in this phase, 416 have got filled unopposed. In the 4th phase, he said, 7,17,322 voters are eligible to cast their votes.
07 December 2020||SANGRUR/CHANDIGARH,||Groundswell of support for Punjab farmers||As farmers continue their protest against the three new agriculture laws, various sections of society — government employees, lawyers, social workers, students, political parties — have been extending support to the farmers’ cause. In Sangrur town, every evening a group of people, both young and old, take out a protest march from Bhagat Namdev Chowk to the Deputy Commissioner’s office. They say it will continue until the Centre accedes to the farmers’ demands. “We have started the protest in solidarity with farmers. Government employees, students, social workers and others gather here at the Bhagat Namdev chowk and march towards the Deputy Commissioner’s office,” Zora Singh, a retired State government employee, told The Hindu . “We are supporting the struggle of farmers aimed to revoke the three farm laws. It’s our duty that we should come forward in support of farmers, who feed the nation. We will continue to stage protest march every single day till the time the demands of farming community is not fulfilled.” Hundreds of insurance employees under the banner of the Northern Zone Insurance Employees’ Association, on Friday held a protest in Chandigarh to condemn the manner in which the Centre and the Haryana government allegedly tried to suppress the struggle of the farmers. “The Central government should accede to the demands of the protesting farmers for safeguarding Indian agriculture, our food security, to prevent artificial food shortages and rise in prices of essential commodities,” said Rajeev Sehgal, divisional president of the association. The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has also come forward to support farmers. Karanjit Singh, chairman of the council, on Sunday said the new agriculture Acts passed by the Central government were detrimental not only to the interests of farmers but also to the interest of lawyers. He said under the new Acts the disputes will be heard by the sub-divisional magistrates or the additional district magistrates who were not trained to hear the litigation involving civil consequences. Mr. Singh said the council also supported the call of ‘Bharat Bandh’ given by the farmers on December 8, and requested advocates from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to abstain from work.  Radical Sikh outfit Dal Khalsa has also appealed to the people to observe a complete shutdown. Party head Harpal Singh Cheema urged the people, including traders, shopkeepers and industrialists, to join the shutdown and deliver a stern message to the Centre.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Stage set for voting in Kerala local body polls||Open campaigning in the five districts in Kerala, which go to polls in the first phase of the local body polls on Tuesday, ended on Sunday evening. The customary ‘Kottikalasham’, which marks the end of the open campaigning, was given a miss this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Political parties and candidates organised vehicle rallies and road shows in many places to mark the end of the campaigning at 6 p.m. on Sunday. With this, electioneering has shifted to the silent mode. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki districts, which go to the polls on Tuesday, have 88,26,620 electors in all. Women voters number 46,68,209; men 41,58,341 and transgender voters 70. As many as 24,584 candidates are contesting in the five districts, according to the State Election Commission. The first phase has 11,225 polling stations. State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran appealed to political parties and candidates to cooperate with the Commission to organise free and fair elections. He urged voters to strictly observe the COVID-19 protocols in polling booths. Thiruvananthapuram has 28,38,077 voters including 15,07,550 women, 13,30,503 men and 24 transgender persons. The district has 6,465 candidates in the fray and 3,281 polling stations. Kollam has 22,22,770 voters including 11,81,236 women, 10,41,513 men and 21 transgender voters. The district has 5,723 candidates and 2,761 polling stations. Pathanamthitta has 10,78,550 voters of whom 5,75,832 are women and 5,02,712 are men. There are also six transgender voters. The district has 3,699 candidates. Polling stations number 1,459. Elections in the remaining districts will be held in the second and third phases on December 10 and December 14 respectively. Counting will be held on December 16.
07 December 2020||SAJIPA MUNNUR,||Memorial to Kadri Gopalnath dedicated at his birthplace||Eleven-year-old S. Tridhaat from Bengaluru, one of the youngest disciples of the late Kadri Gopalnath, saxophone maestro, was the first to pay a musical tribute to his ‘guru’ with the song Paavana guru in the raga ‘Hamsanandi’, as a memorial to the musician was thrown open at his birth place in Bantwal on Sunday. The memorial, with a statue of the artiste holding a saxophone, was dedicated on Gopalnath’s 71st birth anniversary about 35 km from Mangaluru. The memorial is spread over 2,000 sq. ft, and has a garden. A plaque in Kannada at the memorial reads: “Music is a language which knows no boundaries of nation and dharma. It is a language of the heart.” Family members of the late Padma Shri awardee have constructed the memorial in their own land in Bantwal, where he had been buried more than a year ago. The artiste, born on December 6, 1949, had passed away in Mangaluru on October 11, 2019. His son and music director Manikanth Kadri said the statue was made of ‘ Krishna Shile ’ (black granite). Tridhaat, playing on a saxophone given to him by his guru, rendered the two inaugural songs at the instrumental concert organised by the family during the dedication ceremony. Tridhaat’s father Sridhar Sagar, also a saxophone artiste and Asthana Vidwan (artiste in residence) of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham, said Gopalnath had brought the saxophone for his young disciple from the U.S. Tridhaat had learnt the basics of playing the saxophone from Gopalnath in 2014, when he was about seven-years-old, he told The Hindu . K.S. Babu Narayan, a professor of civil engineering at the National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal, played the guitar to pay his respects. “Mr. Gopalnath had fine-tuned my music skills,” he told The Hindu .  Porkodi Gopalakrishna Jogi, Gopalnath’s first saxophone teacher, was felicitated on the occasion. Sarojini Gopalnath, the wife of the late artiste, was also present. Mr. Manikant Kadri said there was a proposal to develop a cultural centre in Mangaluru in memory of the saxophone player. It will be similar to Kalamandalam in Kerala. The cultural centre should be a place for teaching and learning various fine arts, folk dances and music.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||SII seeks emergency use nod for Covishield in India||The Serum Institute of India (SII) on Sunday became the first indigenous company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine in the country, citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public at large, official sources said. The phase-3 clinical trial of the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, is being conducted by the Pune-based SII, co-sponsored by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in various parts of the country in addition to clinical studies being carried out by Oxford-AstraZeneca in the UK and Brazil. Based on phase 2 and 3 clinical trial results, the SII with the help of the ICMR, will pursue early availability of the vaccine for India, the country’s apex health research body had said last month. According to the ICMR, the SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling license it obtained from the DCGI. Official sources, citing the SII application, said the firm had stated that data from four clinical studies, two in the U.K. and one each in Brazil and India, showed that Covishield is highly efficacious against symptomatic and severe infections.
07 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Ahead of Assam polls, AGP holds a show of strength||A “new-look” Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) on Sunday put up a show of strength in the race to be the most bankable regional party in Assam. The AGP had been feeling the heat after the birth of at least four regional parties this year, primarily because of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act movement. The most potent of these is said to be the Assam Jatiya Parishad, formed by the same students’ organisations that had sired the AGP, a minor partner in the BJP-led government in Assam. But AGP president and Assam Agriculture Minister Atul Bora shrugged off the challenge, alluding to the “huge turnout” at its “national unity convention” at Bokakhat in eastern Assam, the headquarters of the Kaziranga National Park.Bokakhat is also a key Assembly constituency represented by Mr. Bora. “The upcoming election will show that the people’s sentiments are with AGP. Challenge from others for the space of regionalism will make us stronger," he told The Hindu . “The AGP, keeping in mind the people’s desire for change, has opened up to all communities who have made Assam their home and are Indians as defined by the Constitution,” Mr. Bora said. The AGP event, the largest in a series to position the party as regional with a national face, drew almost all top leaders including ministers Keshab Mahanta and Phani Bhushan Choudhury.
07 December 2020||Srinagar,||J&K administration seeks review of order on Roshni Act||In a U-turn, the J&K administration has sought modifications to the High Court judgment passed on October 9, which declared the 2001 Roshni Act null and void in the Union Territory (UT) and directed authorities to end the ownership rights of occupants of government land. In a review petition filed on December 4 by Nazir Ahmad Thakur, Special Secretary, Revenue Department, the J&K government has pleaded for “modifying the judgement”. The petition argued that a large number of common people would suffer unintentionally. “This includes landless cultivators and individuals who are themselves residing in dwellings on small areas. They are unfortunately clubbed along with rich and wealthy land grabbers, who have obtained a title over state land through the provisions of the now struck Act,” it said. The government underlined the need to “distinguish between these two classes of people; the fact of being either a landless cultivator or the house holder with one dwelling in personal use.” It, however, called for a CBI investigation to focus on the design of legal and policy framework, changes with malafide intention to encroach public land and get possessory rights. “This is submitted to allow the CBI to focus on influential and powerful people who defrauded the state,” it pleaded. The government’s U-turn comes months after it chose not to contest the judgement. In a number of lists made public, on the directions of the court, the government named senior politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen as “illegal occupants” of land, including lease land, and served them notices for eviction.   This includes landless cultivators and individuals who are themselves residing in dwellings on small areas Petition by J&K ADMINISTRATION
07 December 2020||Kolkata,||Two political homecomings in West Bengal ahead of election||West Bengal witnessed two homecomings on Sunday — one in south Bengal and one in north Bengal — of two prominent figures who had dominated the political landscape of the respective regions for several years. Bimal Gurung of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) who has been in hiding after the Mamata Banerjee government slapped a number of cases against him during the 2017 agitation, including sections under the UAPA, returned to Darjeeling after over three years. At the other end of the State, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and former MLA Sushanta Ghosh, who had been forbidden by the law to enter Paschim Medinipur district returned to the district after eight years. Fight against BJP Addressing a gathering at Siliguri, Mr. Gurung, who has shunned ties with the BJP, said that in the past 10 years, the party has done nothing for the people of the hills, and urged them to teach it a lesson in the 2021 Assembly election. Mr. Ghosh, who was arrested in 2011 after skeletons were recovered near his residence, was granted bail in February 2012, but was not allowed to visit the district. Speaking at a gathering in the presence of CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty, he accused the Trinamool Congress government of slapping false cases against him. “We have a vindictive government at the State which does not abide by any rule of law, and at the Centre, there is a terrible divisive force. We have to fight the 2021 Assembly polls and defeat both these forces,” Mr. Ghosh said.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to promote AYUSH exports||Citing the rise in exports of Ayurveda-related products since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, the government has decided to set up an export promotion council for AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) products. The Ministries of Finance, Commerce and Industry, and AYUSH will work together to facilitate more exports of such products, by standardising their HS (Harmonised System) codes for global trade. The decision to set up an export promotion council to boost AYUSH exports was taken at a joint review meeting of the sector by Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik, the Commerce Ministry said in a statement on Sunday. Mr. Naik said there was a growing global interest in AYUSH-based solutions for disease resistance and treatment amid the pandemic and players in the sector needed to upscale quickly in order to meet overseas and domestic demand. The recent spurt in exports of AYUSH products was a direct reflection of their growing popularity in many countries, Mr. Goyal said, urging the industry to spruce up their quality standards and cost-competitiveness. The Bureau of Indian Standards will be roped in to help develop international standards for AYUSH products and services.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Madhya Pradesh readies to treat 1 lakh malnourished children||The Madhya Pradesh government is preparing to deal with a likely surge in children suffering from Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM), by chalking out a strategy to cater to 1 lakh such children by emphasising on community-led efforts in order to overcome shortcomings in health infrastructure, a government official said. “Going by the prediction models, in the most optimistic scenario the State should be gearing to create supportive mechanisms for over 1 lakh SAM cases as just before the lockdown the number of SAM cases was hovering around 81,000. We have already identified 77,681 SAM children and 467 MAM (moderate acute malnutrition) children after our monitoring activities resumed once the lock down lifted,” wrote Swati Meena Nayak, Director, Women and Child Development for M.P., in an e-mail interview. She added that the government expects to identify the remaining approximately 22,000 children by the end of this month. Wasting due to COVID-19 According to a Lancet article published on July 27, “there could be a 14.3% increase in the prevalence of moderate or severe wasting among children younger than five years due to COVID-19-related losses”. It also forecasts a rise in child mortality by up to 10,000 deaths per month globally. “The State has a capacity of treating nearly 3,500 children through facility based management. With COVID-19 protocols in place, we were at 50% of operational capacity and were staring at a daunting task,” explains the official. The government then decided to launch a strategy focused on nutritional care and rehabilitation of vulnerable children on the basis of a pilot project run by UNICEF in a block in Hoshangabad district. This would involved identifying children suffering from anemia, low birth weight, deprivation of essential nutrients and micronutrients. The scheme is being implemented under a programme titled “Integrated Management of Acute Malnutrition” (IMAM). The community management treatment includes identification of vulnerable children, community supervised feeding and monitoring of the health status, and forming mothers’ groups as well as those of adolescent girls to assist frontline workers in spreading awareness within the community. Incentives are also planned for various stakeholders such as village and health sanitation committees, SHGs, frontline workers, and families of SAM children.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS govt. issues rules to deal with non-agri properties on Dharani||The government on Sunday issued a series of guidelines for registration and mutation of non-agricultural properties in the State through Dharani portal even as a stay order of the High Court in the matter is set to expire on December 8. The government released the Telangana Municipalities (Mutation of Property through Dharani Portal) Rules, 2020, applicable in all municipalities/municipal corporations except GHMC. The Record of Rights in respect of non-agricultural properties in the jurisdiction of all municipalities and municipal corporations (except GHMC) in the State should be prepared and maintained digitally in Dharani portal. The Record of Rights should accordingly contain the name of the owner as per the property register maintained by the municipalities/municipal corporations and the names of family members having right of succession of the said property. The document should also contain the details of the location, type, usage and extent of the property in addition to any such information pertaining to the owners as required to confirm the identity of the owners and their family members. Persons intending to transfer or obtain an interest in the property by way of sale, gift, mortgage or exchange of non-agricultural property should make an application after duly obtaining the ‘No Dues’ certificate from the respective municipality/municipal corporation and the power distribution company. The application should be made through Dharani portal to the sub-registrar concerned for allotting available date and time to present the document as per the convenience of the interested persons. The sub-registrar on his part should allot the date and time and intimate to the person besides maintaining these particulars in the register in a specified format. On the day of registration of the document, the sub-registrar should register the document and carry out the consequent amendment to the relevant entries in the record of rights instantly duly collecting mutation charges as prescribed. The change should involve deletion of the property covered by the document from the account of the transferor and adding the same to the account of the transferee if it involves sale, gift and exchange. In respect of mortgage, the charge created should be recorded in Dharani and the extract of the changes to the RoRs should be appended to and made part and parcel of the registered document. The municipalities/municipal corporations should also port to Dharani all instances of issue of building certificates, occupancy certificates and approval of plots or layouts. The guidelines would, however, not be applicable to non-agricultural properties belonging to State or Central governments or those under their control.
07 December 2020||Kalaburagi,||Hampi chariot can’t be touched||Tourists can no longer get too close to the iconic stone chariot in front of the Vijaya Vittala Temple at Hampi, a UNESCO World Heritage site. The architectural marvel, one of the most photographed monuments, has been cordoned off by a chain barricade by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The ASI on Saturday put up the barricade to prevent people from touching or climbing the monument and causing damage to it in any way. P. Kalimuthu, Deputy Superintendent of ASI, Hampi, said the stone chariot was one of the most visited monuments in Hampi and needed extra protection. “Every tourist visiting the site photographs the sensitive monument and touches it. Some even climb it to take their photos with the monument. The protected monument is facing the risk of being damaged by such objectionable behaviour of some of the tourists. Therefore, we had to put the barricade around it,” Mr. Kalimuthu said. Tourists can, henceforth, see and photograph the monument from a distance, he added. He clarified that there were no proposals presently before the ASI to barricade more monuments in the heritage site. The proposal to install the barricade was in the pipeline for a long time now. There was some opposition from civil society when the ASI came forward to implement it in February this year. The chariot inside the temple complex is a shrine dedicated to Garuda, but the sculpture of Garuda is now missing. The Hampi chariot is one among the three famous stone chariots in India, the other two being in Konark, Odisha, and Mahabalipuram, Tamil Nadu. The delicately carved chariot at Hampi, art historians say, reflects skill of temple architecture under the patronage of Vijayanagara rulers who reigned from 14th to 17th century CE.
07 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KUHS best teacher awards announced||The Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS), Thrissur, has announced the winners of the best teacher awards for 2020. In the Medicine category, K.G. Sajeeth Kumar, Professor of Medicine, Government Medical College, Kozhikode, has won the award. In the Dental category, Harsha Kumar K. of Government Dental College, Thiruvananthapuram, is the winner. The award in Nursing category goes to Shejila C.H., Professor, MIMS College of Nursing, Malappuram. In Homoeopathy, Beena Das T.R., Associate Professor, Government Homoeopathic Medical College, Kozhikode, is the winner and in the Allied Health Sciences category Subin Chungath, Professor of Physiotherapy, SME, CPAS, Angamaly, has won the award. S. Gopakumar, Associate Professor, Government Ayurveda College, Thiruvananthapuram, has bagged the award in the Ayurveda category, and Arun Rasheed, Professor, Al Shifa College of Pharmacy, Perinthalmanna, in the Pharmacy category. The awards will be presented online on Monday.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Animal adoption at a high in Bannerghatta||It may have been a surreal, depressing year the world over but that did not stop people from pitching in to help care for the animals in the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP). Despite job losses and pay cuts reported across many sectors, the park’s animal adoption programme received the highest-ever response this year, with four months to spare for the end of the financial year. BBP Executive Director Vanashri Vipin Singh told The Hindu that 179 people have adopted 211 animals so far this financial year, which is the highest ever. “The response that poured in during the pandemic has been overwhelming. Last year [FY2019-20], 80 animals were adopted by 64 people who donated Rs. 7,02,000. This year, so far, 211 animals have been adopted by 179 people who have donated Rs. 30,00,750. It is the highest so far, and response has come from people all over the country and abroad too,” she said. With the lockdown, revenue of the park was hit severely, and it mopped up 5% of the earlier revenue once it opened in June. But that has slowly climbed up to 30% now, though it is not enough to make up for the Rs. 2 crore per month expenditure on staff salaries and animal feed. “Our expenditure is five times more than the adoption donations. But the programme was never meant to be a revenue generation model. Rather, it is aimed at connecting with people. There was a crisis situation. Everyone was sitting at home and wanted to do something good. Adoption facility was available online. They could transfer online to us, and some of them also visited us. Media support also helped greatly,” she said. Different categories of animals have different rates for adoption, starting from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 1.75 lakh for the Asiatic elephant, which a veterinary doctor has adopted.   The donors are happy with their decision. Sameer Dhond from Bengaluru, senior vice-president of Human Resources and Corporate Communication at a private firm, who adopted four animals, said: “I am an animal lover. They are an integral part of our ecosystem. They contribute to maintaining ecological balance. I have adopted a nilgai, a macaque, a deer and a civet cat,” he said. For Ritu Cipy, an artist from the city, it was a natural choice. “My entire family is fond of animals. We can’t imagine life without them. One of my friends in the U.S. was gifted two orangutans who are in a reserve in Indonesia. So I thought I should start something similar too,” she added.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Support widens for Bharat Bandh call||Addressing a press briefing at Singhu (Delhi-Harayna border), he said the supply of vegetables, fruits and milk would be stopped during the bandh, but emergency services and wedding processions would be allowed. The chakka jam, or road blockade, would end at 3 p.m, he added. Mr. Singh said the farmers’ unions were forced to intensify their stir since the Centre did not appear to take their demands seriously. In a growing trend, Olympian boxer and Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna awardee Vijender Singh visited the Singhu border to extend support to the farmers and announced that he would return the award if the farmers’ demands were not met. Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav also announced that all mandis in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan would remain shut on December 8 and claimed that industry groups from Uttarakhand and Haryana had also pledged their support. Welcoming a statement from the Editors’ Guild of India, Mr. Yadav appealed to the media for “fair” reporting of the movement without attempts to defame it. “We make an appeal to all to shun their flags and take part in the protests as farmers,” said Mr. Yadav at the Singhu border and added that it has now become a “national movement”.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Volunteers testing positive not unexpected’||International pharma companies that are testing COVID vaccines in thousands of volunteers as part of their Phase-3 trials employ similar trial designs. Pfizer had an analysis at 170 cases of infection; Moderna announced interim results at 95 cases, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine analysed 131 cases in their interim analysis and Russia’s Sputnik V at 26 cases. All of these companies have reported a vaccine efficacy of over 92%, with only the Oxford vaccine — that is also being tested at Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII) — reporting an efficacy range of 62-90%, depending on the vaccine dose deployed. The number of expected COVID-19 cases among trial participants is part of the statistical design and determines the number of participants that are recruited across multiple trial sites. Thus, Bharat Biotech has recruited 25,800 persons across India — some who will get the actual vaccine in two doses over 28 days — while SII has 16,000 participants across the country. The latter hasn’t disclosed the number of COVID cases it expects as part of its interim analysis. However, based on results of AstraZeneca’s trials in the United Kingdom, Adar Poonawala, CEO, SII has said the company will approach the Drug Controller General of India for emergency use authorisation this month. “After reaching the target number (n=130) of symptomatic COVID-19 cases, the study will continue to assess safety until the completion of the study duration. It is planned to continue the Phase 3 trial until 130 study participants in the per-protocol population develop PCR-confirmed symptomatic COVID-19 disease during follow-up beginning 14 days after the second dose of vaccine or placebo,” says a summary by Bharat Biotech on the ICMR website.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Two held in U.P. under anti-conversion law||The FIR was lodged under Sections 3 and 5 of the new ordinance on the basis of a complaint filed by the mother of the woman, Kanth station house officer Ajay Gautam said. In her complaint, the mother alleged that the man induced her daughter into marriage and converted her on the pretext of getting her a job. When pointed out that the woman was consensually registering her marriage, Mr. Gautam said “all things will come out during the probe”.  Moradabad Assistant Superintendent of Police (Rural), Vidya Sagar Mishra, said so far no evidence had been presented before the police that the couple had registered a court marriage. Members of the right-wing group said they reached the Kanth tehsil office after receiving inputs that a Hindu woman from Dehradun had come to Kanth with a Muslim man for conversion and court marriage. “When I arrived with my workers, they (the couple) had left the tehsil premises. We chased them and caught hold of them them near a Ravidas temple,” a leader said.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Meghalaya village turns oasis in coal mine desert||“Soon after a younger set took over the village decision-making body, we banned mining in our area. By that time, the nearest mine was a kilometre away. Then we went about cleaning the coal-stained surroundings and planting saplings along the pathways connecting our village,” Mr. Pachiang told The Hindu . The encouragement for the younger members of the Moolamylliang dorbar came from one of their own — Meghalaya Police Service officer Chempang Syrti, who helped organise some saplings for the afforestation drive and bring government schemes to the village. “Today, every house has a toilet, the roads are decent and tree-lined and the young and the old ensure there is no littering. The district authorities have been helpful but we have a long way to go,” Mr. Pachiang said. The push for convergence of multi-sector government schemes at Moolamylliang began after Malthus Sangma took charge as the district’s Additional Deputy Commissioner in October. “To be honest, the villagers did things on their own. We are just facilitators for projects they deserve, encouraging them to become a model village for others to follow,” Mr. Sangma said at the East Jaintia Hills district headquarters Khliehriat, about 15 km from the village. “Some say Moolamylliang is like a green island in a coal-blackened sea. I prefer to call it an oasis in a coal mine desert,” Mr. Sangma said, adding that the administration was trying to make four coke factories and three cement plants in the vicinity contribute to “earth rejuvenation” programmes in the area under their CSR.
07 December 2020||Patna,||FIR lodged against Tejashwi for protest||A case was lodged on Sunday against Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav and 18 other leaders of the Grand Alliance for staging a protest without permission in Patna amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Opposition leaders had staged a protest at Gandhi Maidan here on Saturday in support of the agitating farmers in Delhi. Later, Mr. Yadav dared the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government to arrest him. “The coward and inefficient Bihar government led by weak and mortgaged Chief Minister has lodged an FIR against me for raising the voice in support of farmers. I dare you to arrest me, if you do not, then I’ll surrender myself. What is an FIR, I’m ready to be hanged for the cause of farmers,” he tweeted in Hindi. The district administration in Patna filed an FIR at the Gandhi Maidan police station against the RJD leader and 500 unidentified persons under Sections 188, 145, 269, 279 of the Indian Penal Code and under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The RJD leaders named in the FIR include Alok Mehta, Shyam Rajak, Shakti Singh Yadav, Mrityunjay Tiwari and state Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha. The official RJD handle also tweeted to criticise the NDA government in Bihar for the FIR. “The Bihar government has exposed its double character by using false and fabricated excuses to lodge an FIR against Tejashwi Yadav for standing in support of farmers and leading the protest. He takes this FIR as a medal and is not scared of even a thousand of such FIRs,” the party said. Support for bandh Earlier on Saturday, the party had tweeted a picture of a meeting held in the local BJP office where social distancing norms were not observed. The RJD-led mahagathbandhan has also announced support for the nationwide strike called by farmers’ organisations on December 8.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||Pfizer first firm to seek DCGI nod for vaccine||Pfizer India has become the first pharmaceutical firm to seek from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) an emergency use authorisation for its COVID-19 vaccine in the country, after its parent company secured such clearance in the U.K. and Bahrain. The firm, in its application submitted to the drug regulator, has sought permission to import the vaccine for sale and distribution in the country, besides waiver of clinical trials on Indian population in accordance with the special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, official sources said. “Pfizer India has submitted an application on December 4 to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorization (EUA) for its COVID-19 vaccine in India,” a source said. “The firm has submitted the EUA application in Form CT-18 for grant of permission to import and market Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 mRNA vaccine BNT162b2 in the country,” the source said, citing the application. The U.K. on Wednesday became the first country to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against COVID-19, with the UK regulator Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granting a temporary authorisation for its emergency use. The British regulator said the jab, which claims to offer up to 95% protection against COVID-19, is safe for a roll-out. Bahrain on Friday also announced that it has granted an EUA for the two-dose vaccine. Challenges ahead The extreme low temperature of minus-70 degrees Celsius required for storing the vaccine poses a big challenge for its delivery in a country like India, especially in its smaller towns and rural areas where maintaining cold chain facilities would be very difficult, top government officials have said. When contacted, Pfizer said it remains committed to engaging with the Government of India and explore opportunities to make this vaccine available for use in the country.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Preview of documentary on ‘three capitals’ held||As protests triggered by the ‘three capitals’ idea of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government continue, the issue has raised certain fundamental questions, said political economist and commentator Parakala Prabhakar. “Why is that people of this particular region suffer for decades for their capital? Moving from erstwhile Madras to Kurnool then to Hyderabad and to Amaravati? No other State has witnessed such a development,” said Mr. Prabhakar, an ex-communication adviser to former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu. Mr. Prabhakar was here on Sunday for the preview of the documentary, Capital Tragedy–Amaravati . The 60-minute documentary encapsulates aspects pertaining to decades of roaming by the people. The documentary examines questions like whether the decision to make Amaravati as capital was flawed or whether there were flaws in the land pooling process adopted by the government for the capital construction. Questions raised on the claim of decentralisation by the current government through its three-capital idea were also incorporated in the documentary in addition to opinions of intellectuals and others on the developments. “The government cites South Africa which has three capitals. I spoke to a few people over there for their experiences on the three capitals,” he said, adding the documentary would incorporate all these aspects raising some questions in the end. The next preview of the document would be held in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday followed by one in Vijayawada on Saturday. “I am planning to upload it on YouTube subsequently for common people to view,” he said.
07 December 2020||Kolkata,||Hoping for Act to be in force by Jan.: BJP general secretary||Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya on Sunday said he is hopeful of the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act by January so that “refugees” who have come to West Bengal will get some rights. “The BJP is a party which implements what it promises... The government will most probably give citizenship from January to all the refugees who have come from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan because of religious persecution,” he said.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Expansion of Cabinet may be delayed||The much-delayed reshuffle or expansion of the State Cabinet is likely to be pushed to the new year, according to multiple sources in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The upcoming legislature session from Monday and the gram panchayat elections, to be held in two phases on December 22 and 27, are now being cited as reasons for further delay of the exercise. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has been trying to reshuffle/expand his Cabinet since August. He has made two trips to Delhi — on September 17 and November 18 — and met party president J.P. Nadda both times. The Chief Minister recently said multiple times that he was expecting the green signal from the high command in a matter of days, but it never came. He also said he had raised the issue with Union Home Minister Amit Shah as well. However, Arun Singh, the new in-charge of BJP affairs in the State, carried no message from the party high command about Cabinet expansion during his three-day visit to the State, sources said. Speaking to presspersons in the city on Sunday, Mr. Singh said Cabinet expansion was the prerogative of the Chief Minister and he would take a call at the appropriate time. “There is a growing feeling that the decision on the Cabinet has become intrinsically linked to the question of leadership change. Unless the highcommand takes a decision on that, one way or another, Cabinet expansion is also not likely to be cleared,” a senior leader said. Singh’s message Mr. Singh, during his meeting with the Chief Minister, is said to have expressed concern over the “unilateral decisions” being taken by him. He has instructed Mr. Yediyurappa to adopt a more consultative approach, both with his Cabinet colleagues and the party, sources said. “The Chief Minister has been asked to discuss key decisions with political bearing in the core committee and the party unit. The party’s unhappiness over not being consulted over recent appointments to boards and corporations was also conveyed,” a senior leader said. Recent decisions over the formation of caste-based development corporations, nominations to several boards andcorporations, and a move to recommend the inclusion of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community to the central OBC reservation list came as surprises to both the party and the Cabinet, sources said.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Upgraded Akash missile successfully test-fired||The Indian Air Force successfully test-fired the Akash Missiles at Suryalanka test firing range in Andhra Pradesh during the Combat Guided Weapons Firing 2020 exercise to practise different engagement scenarios during conflicts to shoot down enemy planes. It has been recently upgraded with a seeker to neutralise targets with less effort than before, with the upgraded version capable of engaging with targets at very high altitude locations too. Manufactured by Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL), designed and developed by the DRDO, Akash is one of the most successful, indigenously made missiles inducted into the Indian Army and Air Force. The missile has the capability to engage aerial threats upto the maximum range of 25 km and up to an altitude of 18 km, operating at a speed range of 1.8 to 2.5 Mach. BDL, along with DRDO, is geared up for delivery of Akash Prime to Indian Army with seeker and high altitude capability. This capability to meet the user requirements has been achieved in a short span.
07 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Thanka Anki procession to set off on December 22||The procession carrying Thanka Anki, a golden attire, will set off to Sabarimala from the Sree Parthasarathy Temple at Aranmula on December 22. According to the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), the procession will reach Pampa on December 25. From there, it will be taken to the Sabarimala temple in a specially made wooden box by the Ayyappa Seva Sanghom volunteers. The presiding deity at Sabarimala will be adorned with the Thanka Anki prior to Deeparadhana to be held in the evening. In view of the COVID-19 induced restrictions, the receptions to be accorded to the procession at various points en route to Pampa have been cancelled. However, the receptions planned at the Sree Raktakanta Swami Temple at Omalloor, Muringamangalam Temple, near Konni, and Sastha Temple at Perinad will take place as usual. According to TDB president N. Vasu, directions have been issued to bring down the number of those escorting the procession this time. Those joining the procession should also obtain certificates testing negative for COVID-19 and would have to maintain physical distancing norms. The Mandala puja, marking the culmination of the 41-day Mandalam pilgrimage season, will be held on December 26.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Telugu actor Vijayashanti to join BJP||Telugu actor Vijayashanti on Sunday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi and is likely to join the BJP on Monday. Ms. Vijayashanti, who started her political career with the BJP in the 1990s, later joined the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and then the Congress. She resigned from the Congress after the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation results over the weekend. BJP Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and Minister of State for Home Affairs Kishen Reddy accompanied Ms. Vijayashanti to Mr. Shah’s residence.
07 December 2020||Srinagar,||Srinagar checkpoint attacked||A militant attack on a checkpoint in Srinagar left one policeman and one civilian injured on Sunday noon. The attack took place at 12:06 p.m. when militants opened fire at Sazgaripora in Hawal area of Srinagar. “One police personnel, identified as Farooq Ahmad Chopan, and a civilian, identified as Muneer Ahmad Misger, a resident of Safakadal, sustained bullet injuries. The injured have been shifted to a nearby hospital, a police spokesman said. A hospital official described the health condition of the two as “stable”. “Police are working to establish the circumstances that led to the terror crime,” said the spokesman.
07 December 2020||Kolkata,||Politicians took money: Saradha MD||Sudipta Sen, chairman and managing director of scam-tainted Saradha group of companies who is lodged in the Presidency Correctional Home, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleging that several political leaders had taken large sums of money from him. “It is painful to me to see that who are taking high money and actually cheat poor people are now joining BJP. I request the CBI and the State police for investigating the matter properly and necessary action may be kindly taken,” the letter dated December 1 said. The Superintendent of the Correctional Home had forwarded the letter to the authorities concerned.
07 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||I am with BJP and farmers: Sunny Deol||Sunny Deol, actor and the BJP’s Lok Sabha MP from Gurdaspur in Punjab, said on Sunday that he was with his party and farmers and would always continue to be with farmers. “Both [government and farmers] will find a solution following talks on issues,” he said, adding that no one else should interfere.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Winter crop||
07 December 2020||Legal Correspondent NEW DELHI,||Plea to declare emergency unlawful||The Supreme Court is scheduled on Monday to hear a 94-year-old widow who wants the Emergency proclaimed in 1975 to be “wholly unconstitutional”. Veera Sarin said she and her family were victims of the excesses of that “grave and dark period of our nation’s history”. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul will hear the petition represented by advocates Anannya Ghosh and Neela Gokhale. Their gold jewellery and diamond business based in Karol Bagh and Connaught Place in the National Capital were plundered by the government authorities during the Emergency, when civil rights and liberties were suspended. Her husband never recovered from the shock of the family business going under. He was slapped with cases, they were threatened by the police and their family properties were raided repeatedly. One of the cases foisted against her husband, H.K. Sarin, under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act of 1976 continued from 1975 to 2014 until the Delhi High Court declared it a “nullity”. Even then, it took another three years, on July 28 this year, to get a partial compensation for the government’s “illegal possession” of their properties.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Cong. leaders emphasise need for unity ahead of GP polls||In their preparation ahead of the gram panchayat polls, Congress leaders have emphasised the need for cohesion and unity, leaving aside personal ambition for power. The Congress will return to power if party leaders work with unity and cohesion, with the party’s interests in mind, All-India Congress Committee general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, who is in charge of Karnataka, said on Sunday at a consultative meeting ahead of the GP polls. “We will have to ensure that the personal interests of individual leaders is subservient to the larger interests of the Congress,” he said, addressing senior party leaders. The next three months, he pointed out, were crucial as the GP polls would be followed by elections to taluk panchayats and zilla panchayats, and that to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. These are crucial to empower the party at the grassroots, he said. Mr. Surjewala said these elections would also throw up young leaders, who would eventually take over the party in different areas. He said there was a need to give space to the young by allowing them to rub shoulders with senior leaders. “Leaders should shoulder responsibility and divide duties to fight elections. Legislators should put in sufficient effort to identify candidates committed to the Congress’ ideology. Treat this [GP polls] as the most important elections in the area though it is not fought on party symbols,” he said. He added that the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government did not have the mandate of people and had come to power with illegitimate money, he said. “The Delhi BJP leadership is also fed up with the current situation in the State. There are going to be rumblings very soon within this government. Once we win the zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat elections, the BJP government will crumble like a house of cards,” he said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar also said that every leader has to work for the victory of the party candidate and take up booth-level responsibility. “The focus should be to remain united and not to give statements and counter-statements in the media that could affect the party.”
07 December 2020||MYSURU,||Bengaluru-Chennai work to be flagged off by PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to flag off work on the much-awaited 263-km-long Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway, a greenfield project that seeks to reduce travel time between two major south Indian cities. Though the date for launch of the work has not yet been finalised, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha told The Hindu that senior officials from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had already visited Bengaluru for an inspection of the project. He said the works on the key road infrastructure project could be flagged off before the elections are held to the Assembly in Tamil Nadu, whose term is scheduled to end in May 2021. Mr. Modi had similarly launched the work on widening the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway in February 2018 ahead of the May 2018 Assembly elections in Karnataka. Meanwhile, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials said bids had been invited for one package of the expressway project that passes through three States – Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. While 72 km of the expressway will fall in Karnataka, about 85 km will be in Andhra Pradesh and 106 km in Tamil Nadu. The expressway project starts from Hoskote and passes through Malur and Bangarpet in Kolar district before entering Andhra Pradesh and eventually reaching Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu. Though initially it was conceived as an eight-lane expressway, the width of the road was reduced to six-lane and eventually four-lane due to budgetary constraints. However, officials said the land acquisition process for the project has been completed. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs. 17,000 crore and is scheduled for completion in two-and-a-half years.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||I-T Dept allows revision of declarations filed under ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ scheme||Entities filing declarations under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ can revise them till tax authorities issue certificate mentioning details of tax arrears and the amount payable, the I-T Department has said. Issuing a set of FAQs on ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ scheme, the Central Board of Direct Taxes also said the scheme cannot be availed when proceedings are pending before the Income Tax Settlement Commission.PTI
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||Former Unitech chief, sons booked for bank fraud||The CBI has registered a case against Unitech Limited, its then managing director Ramesh Chandra, and his sons, Sanjay and Ajay, for allegedly cheating the Canara Bank of Rs. 198 crore. Mr. Chandra’s sons were directors in the company, which had been dealing with the bank since 1971 and had availed itself of various credit limits under multiple-banking arrangement.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||Petrol price up 28 paise, diesel 29 paise a litre; rates touch 2-yr high||Petrol price on Sunday was hiked by 28 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, the fifth straight day of increase in rates due to firming international oil prices. Petrol price in Delhi rose to Rs. 83.41 per litre from Rs. 83.13. Diesel rates went up from Rs. 73.32 to Rs. 73.61 per litre, according to a price notification of oil marketing companies. Rates crossed Rs. 90-mark for petrol and Rs. 80 in case of diesel in Mumbai. This is the fifth straight day of price hike and the 14th increase in rates since November 20.PTI
07 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||In Gujarat, FIR against 4 journalists for ‘sting operation’ on police||Police have registered an FIR against four journalists of a Gujarati newspaper for allegedly entering a police station in Rajkot to carry out a ‘sting operation’ and obstructing police personnel from conducting their duties, an official said. The journalists, three reporters and a photographer, entered the Rajkot taluka police station on the night of December 1.PTI
07 December 2020||Mumbai,||Veteran actor Ravi Patwardhan dies of heart attack||Veteran actor Ravi Patwardhan, best known for starring in the Marathi show Aggabai Sasubai and 1980s Hindi films such as Tezaab and Ankush , died on Saturday following a massive heart attack, his elder son Niranjan Patwardhan said. He was 84. Ravi Patwardhan, was rushed to Jupiter Hospital in Thane after he complained of breathlessness.PTI
07 December 2020||Aloysius Xavier LopezCHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Back-to-back cyclones leave city roads battered||More than 10% of the bus route roads in the city have been rendered unmotorable because of damages caused during the recent rains from Cyclone Nivar and Cyclone Burevi that later weakened into a low-pressure area. The number of complaints received by the Greater Chennai Corporation from residents about bad roads had increased after the recent rains. Motorists complained that roads had become unmotorable on many stretches because of potholes caused by water stagnation. According to estimates released by the Corporation, 51 bus route roads have been damaged in the rains last week. The city has 471 bus route roads in the 15 zones covering 426 sq km of area. Residents said the risk of accident to motorists had increased in stretches such as Anna Main Road and Rajamangalam Main Road. Complaints were received from residents about Konnur High Road in Ayanavaram, Otteri Main Road, Arunachalam Road in Saligramam, Rajamannar Salai in K.K. Nagar and Ramasamy Salai. Former councillor S. Mangala Raj blamed the faulty design of roads and stormwater drains for the present situation. “The civic workers have also damaged many stretches to drain rainwater. For instance, the civic workers damaged the sixth street and seventh street of Kumaran Colony to drain rainwater from Vadapalani bus depot. Motorcyclists are not able to cross such stretches. There are frequent accidents,” he said. Choolai resident R. Saravanan said there had been a sudden increase in the number of potholes in roads. “Stagnant water has not been drained properly. Inadequate desilting of drains has worsened the condition of roads. Riding a motorcycle on such roads is very difficult. Motorcyclists are getting injured because of potholes that have developed in the past few days,” said Mr. Saravanan. Residents of K.K. Nagar said the stretch from K.K. Nagar Sivan Park towards Virugambakkam and the stretch towards Nesapakkam had been damaged. North Chennai residents said various civic agencies should coordinate properly to prevent damages to roads such as Cemetery Road in Royapuram. Many stretches designed under smart city mission had been damaged in the rains, primarily because of lack of coordination among various line agencies. More than 4,000 interior roads had been damaged during the rains. Many interior roads had been dug up by residents for getting services from line agencies. Some roads had been dug up to drain rainwater. Roads dug up Motorists using stretches in areas such as Anna Nagar have reported damage to roads in the past few days. Some of the concrete roads developed a few years ago have been damaged. Officials said many damages to concrete roads were caused by local residents to get unauthorised service connection. The Corporation has banned digging of roads during the monsoon to prevent accidents. The number of interior roads in the city was estimated to be 39,000. Unauthorised digging of roads had been found at over 3,000 locations during the lockdown, officials said. Corporation officials said the report on road damages had been submitted to the Central team of officials, who inspected flood damages in the city in areas such as Egmore and Sholinganallur. Restoration of damaged roads would begin after January, officials said.  Stagnant water has not been drained properly. Inadequate desilting of drains has worsened the condition of roads R. Saravanan Choolai
07 December 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||ITI spot admission||The Department of Employment and Training has announced spot admissions at its Industrial Training Institutes in Ariyalur and Andimadam till December 12. So far, admissions were carried out online in two rounds. For further information, aspiring candidates can contact 9442478574 (Ariyalur ITI) or/and 9442175043 (Andimadam), the Principal of Ariyalur ITI N. Nagarajan said in a press release.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,320 more test positive for COVID-19||As many as 1,320 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking Tamil Nadu’s case tally to 7,90,240. Among them were two persons who returned from Jharkhand and one each from Bihar, Maharashtra and Odisha. With the discharge of 1,398 persons after treatment, 7,67,659 persons have walked out of various health facilities all over the State thus far. The number of active cases, including those under isolation, is 10,788. Fatalities in State In the past 24 hours, the State recorded 16 deaths, including 11 at private hospitals and five at government facilities. So far, 11,793 persons have died of the infection. Perambalur district recorded no fresh infection. Seven districts reported cases in single digit. Chennai and Coimbatore reported the highest number of fresh cases. Chennai district recorded 346 cases and Coimbatore 139. Chennai recorded four deaths. With the discharge of 413 persons, 3,257 patients are under treatment or in isolation. So far, 2,17,542 positive cases have been identified in Chennai and 2,10,410 persons have been discharged. The district has recorded 3,875 deaths. All those who died in the last 24 hours were aged over 60 years, with pre-existing conditions. So far, 1,02,151 persons aged above 60 have been infected. The death of 11 persons at private hospitals and of four at government medical college hospitals were recorded as having occurred owing to the infection. A 67-year-old man from Coimbatore, who had Type 2 diabetes and hypertension, died of the infection at the Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital. He had been admitted on the afternoon of November 29 after testing positive for COVID-19. He died on Saturday. The hospital recorded COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure as the cause of death. Two nonagenarians, one aged 92 and the other 94, died of the infection. A 94-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital at Thoothukudi with complaints of fever, difficulty in breathing, loose stools and malaria. He tested positive on December 3. The hospital recorded that he was hypertensive. His death was owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia, the hospital authorities have said. Of the 19,34,775 persons who had entered the State through various routes till Saturday, 6,799 have tested positive, the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health said.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ASI explores ways to prevent flooding in Darasuram temple||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is exploring ways to find a permanent solution to prevent flooding in the Airavatesvara temple in Darasuram near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Perennial problem “This is not happening for the first time. Flooding is a perennial problem and we are planning a brainstorming session with experts in the field of civil engineering to find a permanent solution,” said T. Arun Raj, the Superintending Archaeologist of the newly-created Tiruchi circle of the ASI. The ASI is pumping out the water from the temple which was constructed by Chola king Rajaraja II. Additions were made by Kulotunga III also. It is a UNESCO World Heritage site. Mr. Arun Raj said the help of the district administration was vital in achieving a solution as there was a need to restore the channels which have been encroached upon. There is also a tank which will receive water through the channel from the temple. “When the town around the temple grew in size, construction activities increased. The development rendered the temple complex a low-lying area and it is inundated during monsoon,” he further explained. Encroachments Mr. Arun Raj said there was plenty of fish in the water and it was a clear indication of a link to waterbodies outside which were in bad shape because of encroachments. Collector N. Subbaiyan, who visited the temple on Saturday, said there was an outlet reaching up to a tank. “But it is not adequate. Moreover, the temple is in a low-lying area. We will work out a solution,” he said.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tankers carrying non-chlorinated water will be penalised: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Saturday said all health inspectors were advised to ensure proper chlorination of water at all pumping stations in the State, and private lorries that transport water without chlorination will face action from the Health Department. “In all places, we are taking up chlorination of water at the source and end points. At this time of rain, private lorries that transport water without chlorination will face stringent action. Chlorination is very important. We have formed special teams through the Food Safety Department to monitor the chlorination of water during rains and flooding especially in districts such as Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a meeting held with Vishvas Sarang, Medical Education Minister, Madhya Pradesh. The Minister said in the last one week, adequate precautionary measures had been taken throughout the State following Cyclones Nivar and Burevi. “A total of 8,456 medical camps were held till date. There were 435 teams of hospitals-on-wheels and they organised 3,657 camps. We also had 4,799 static camps at shelters. A total of 2,00,953 persons were screened in these camps,” he said. Bleaching powder and liquid chlorine were kept ready in addition to vehicle-mounted fogging machines. Vaccine guidelines To a question on the COVID-19 vaccine, he said the Centre had issued guidelines for the State, including on cold chain and storage points. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the medical camps would be intensified from Sunday. He urged people not to become complacent as COVID-19 cases were gradually declining. “We have lifted swabs from 31,000 persons through these medical camps,” he said. Mr. Sarang said this was a knowledge-sharing visit to Chennai.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile clinics deployed in cyclone-affected areas||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said the Tamil Nadu government has deployed mobile clinics in cyclone-affected areas as well as equipment to chlorinate and disinfect places from where rainwater has started draining. The Minister said 435 mobile clinics had been deployed. “We have mobilised vehicles from districts that have not been affected by the cyclone,” he said. Dr. Vijayabaskar said 9,573 mobile clinics had so far been conducted and 2,27,082 people had benefited from them. “The Health Department is equipped with 1,000 tonnes of bleaching powder and 3.8 lakh litres of liquid chlorine. We have taken all steps to ensure that treatment is provided to all people affected in the cyclone.” “Besides COVID-19, we are monitoring dengue outbreaks. Water stagnation, brought on by the rain, has remained a challenge for us. The rain has been widespread, adding to our concerns,” he said. The Health Department has readied 65 vehicle-mounted fogging machines, 15 chlorination teams and a team to lift samples for COVID-19 testing. The Minister said the Department had put in place 108 ambulances, first-responder teams and mobile food-inspection teams. “The Department has a responsibility. During a disaster, we have to plan for pre-impact, impact, post-impact and recovery. We will continue our surveillance to prevent outbreaks. So far, there has been no outbreak of dengue,” he said. As for the spread of COVID-19, he urged people to adhere to safety guidelines. “If everyone wears a mask for three weeks continuously, we will be able to control COVID-19,” he said.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police plan to crack down on ‘route thala’ clashes||With colleges all set to reopen for final year undergraduate students and medical students on Monday, the city police is gearing up to control the “route thala” (route leader) clashes in buses that often spill over to the roads, causing inconvenience to the public. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has asked his officers to identify sensitive routes and take action. Apart from deploying personnel on duty in buses, the police have collected a list of students who had such record and will be holding a meeting with them and their parents on Sunday to warn them. The “route thala” culture in city colleges has been identified as the chief cause of gang rivalries among students, which escalate into street fights and triggers fear among people. Public too affected “There have been instances when rival route groups have attacked each other with weapons. The public are affected due to the clash between student groups. Besides, the students bang hard on the buses and sing songs loudly causing inconvenience to commuters,” said a police officer. However, the police found that in most cases the “route thalas” were not students. They were either alumni of a particular college or some anti-social element. “We have now invited college students, who were earlier picked up by the police for being part of such gangs, for a meeting. We will be asking them not to indulge in such acts henceforth. Their parents have been asked to come so that they keep a tab on their children,” said V. Balakrishnan, Joint Commissioner of Police, North Zone. He said the colleges had been asked to keep track of their students. “We will be deploying uniformed personnel in sensitive bus routes to monitor the students,” Mr. Balakrishnan said. The police have advised students to focus on their studies instead of losing time and causing inconvenience to the public.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRL makes a big change in Phase II plan||In a big change in plan, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has decided to start operations on the elevated corridor from Poonamallee to Power House (Kodambakkam) in Phase II that will traverse through the densely populated areas of Porur, Alappakkam, Valasaravakkam and Saligramam, which now lack proper mass public transit. This 12-km stretch is likely to be the first one to get operational in the next five years. This is a significant change as the CMRL had earlier decided to start services between Madhavaram and Sholinganallur and Madhavaram and CMBT, covering nearly 52 km. This was referred to as the priority corridor. The Poonamallee-Power House stretch is a portion of one of the three corridors of the 118.9-km phase II project — Light House to Poonamallee. The other corridors are Madhavaram to Sholinganallur and Madhavaram to SIPCOT. This stretch is fully elevated, and stations will come up at Power House, Saligramam, Avichi School, Alwarthirunagar, Valasaravakkam, Karambakkam, Alapakkam Junction, Porur Junction, Chennai Bypass Crossing, Ramachandra Hospital, Iyyapanthangal Bus Depot, Kattupakkam, Kumananchavadi, Karayanchavadi, Mullai Thottam, Poonamallee Bus Terminus and Poonamallee Bypass. According to CMRL officials, the period of construction for the elevated stretch is nearly 36 months. Two tenders have been floated, splitting the construction work — one from Porur to Poonamallee and the other from Porur to Power House — and three bidders have been short-listed for these two stretches. “It is far more easier to finish the construction of an elevated stretch, and hence it may be put into operation first. It doesn’t mean the work on the priority corridor will be delayed. We have floated, and are processing tenders for the priority corridor as well,” an official said. “Since a majority of the priority corridor is underground, it will take a little more time to become operational. We want to finish the construction of the whole project in six years,” the official said. The contracts for the stretch will be awarded early next year. Though the construction from Poonamallee to Power House may be over in three years, time will be needed for installation of the systems required for inspection, officials said. “...since the detailed design component is ready, it is possible to finish the construction in three years without delay, provided the contractor adheres to deadlines. Also, the CMRL will ensure that the land for construction is handed over and traffic permissions are given on time,” another official said, adding that land acquisition was nearly complete for the stretch. “Since a majority of the priority corridor is underground, it will take a little more time to become operational. We want to finish the construction of the whole project in six years,” the official said. The contracts for the stretch will be awarded early next year. Though the construction from Poonamallee to Power House may be over in three years, time will be needed for installation of the systems required for inspection, officials said. “...since the detailed design component is ready, it is possible to finish the construction in three years without delay, provided the contractor adheres to deadlines. Also, the CMRL will ensure that the land for construction is handed over and traffic permissions are given on time,” another official said, adding that land acquisition was nearly complete for the stretch.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to supply free food in low-income neighbourhoods||Starting Sunday, the Greater Chennai Corporation will provide free cooked food on the doorstep of all 26 lakh residents in low-income neighbourhoods. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday asked officials to give cooked food to all slum-dwellers — 26 lakh individuals, comprising around 5.3 lakh families. The food will be supplied till December 13. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the food would be supplied to the poorest families to compensate for the loss of livelihood. “The Corporation machinery will work in full swing to undertake this great service,” he said. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Works) Meghanatha Reddy said 888 slums had been identified. “We will provide breakfast, lunch and dinner to all the residents. The assistant revenue officers and the zonal officers will finalise the locations. We will identify new workers to cook food at each locality. Amma Canteen staff workers will not be used. Amma Canteens will also be run during this period,” he said. Civic officials in each of the 200 wards have started assessing the economic condition of the poor residents after the COVID-19 pandemic and the rain brought on by Cyclone Nivar to design schemes to protect their livelihood. The Central government’s inspection team will visit the residents of rain-affected areas on Sunday at Ram Nagar in Velachery, the Pallikaranai marshland, and Tsunami Colony in Semmencherry in south Chennai. In north Chennai, it will visit Alagappa Road and Jothi Venkatachalam Road to assess damage to roads, storm-water drains and canals. The Central government is expected to fund the restoration of some civic infrastructure on the basis of the team’s report.  We will provide breakfast, lunch and dinner to all the residents Meghanatha Reddy Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Works)
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Carcasses of snakes, fish greet residents||Residents of Kavithendral Kalyanasundaram Nagar in Chinna Mathur near Manali found carcasses of snakes and fishes in the stagnant rainwater in their locality on Sunday morning. Over 50 families live in the locality. “Usually excess water from Puzhal lake goes into Periya Mathur and surrounding areas and from there flows into our locality and then goes across the bypass. But there was some obstruction in the pathway in our locality,” said J. Kalaiselvi, member of the residents’ welfare association. As rainwater was stagnant for several days, power supply to the street lights were cut. “Using this as an advantage, people started drinking in the open. Following our repeated requests, power supply was restored on Saturday. On Sunday morning, when we woke up, we found dead snakes and fishes floating in the water,” she said. On Sunday afternoon, civic body officials cleared the carcasses and sprayed disinfectant in the locality. A. Mahavishnu, another resident, said the locality was infested with snakes. “It is a perennial problem here. We always tread with fear,” he said. Dilli Babu, resident of a neighbouring locality, said he was shocked to receive a clip of dead snakes and fishes from a friend. “The civic officials should ensure the problem is sorted,” he said.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Artistes look back at their first competition||As The Hindu Classical Music Competition begins to receive entries for its first such competitive event (The last date is December 12), prominent artistes go back in time for a throwback on their first competition/performance, recalling tidbits of information on what they wore, what they sang, who applauded them, and who did not. Renowned vocalist Sudha Raghunathan recalls that she wore a particular blue silk pavadai set for all her competitions after she won the contest at the Thyagaraja Vidwath Samajam. “Stalwarts D. K. Jayaraman and M. S. Gopalakrishnan were judges and since it was crowded, they asked us to sing just the Pallavi and Charanam. I sang Sundaradhara Deham , a small composition and was not very sure of winning — the prize was a gold medal. Initially, I was not too particular to participate but my mother insisted and at the end of a long day I won. After that I would just agree to whatever she said. Competitions helped me build my repertoire, they made me shed my fears and build confidence,” she said. Ghatam vidwan Dr. Karthick narrated an happy anecdote of his being awarded the Percussion Special Mention Prize at Anna University's Techofest. “The boys who were to play mridangam and violin with me backed out when they saw that the judges were the great M. Balamuralikrishna, Chitravina N. Ravikiran and vocalist Charumathi Ramachandran. I played solo and won the prize. The icing on the cake was that Charumathi amma asked me if I would be interested in performing in a concert with her. The memory remains a very sweet one,” he said. Senior Nagaswaram vidwan S.R.G. Rajanna of Sembannarkoil Brothers fame recalled how judges at a competition in the city asked him not to perform since the prize-winner had been already decided. “My brother told them that since I had registered I would perform and that the prize did not matter. I too was of the same opinion. I played my grandfather Ramasamy Pillai's Rakthi Melam in Nattakurunji. The judges were very impressed and at the end of the competition apologised for not awarding me the prize,” he recalled. Open for entries Entries for The Hindu Margazhi Classical Music Competition can be sent by those learning and practising Hindustani and Carnatic vocal, instrument and percussion under the age of 40. The video entries (under 5 minutes) can be emailed as Google Drive or Dropbox links tothmargazhi @thehindu.co.in. For more details go tohttps://www. google.com/amp/s/www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/the-hindu-announces-margazhi-competition- for-young-indian-classical-musicians/ article33231111.ece/amp/  The boys who were to play mridangam and violin with me backed out when they saw the judges Dr. Karthick Ghatamvidwan
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Games portal challenges State’s ordinance banning online games played with stakes||A Haryana-based online games portal has filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court, challenging the constitutional validity of an ordinance promulgated by the State government on November 21, imposing a ban on any game, including rummy and poker, played with stakes on the cyberspace. The petition filed by Junglee Games India Private Limited, and its chief operating officer Rahul Nandkumar Bhardwaj, has been listed for admission before a third Division Bench of Justices R. Subbiah and C. Saravanan on Monday. The petitioners have urged the court to stay the operation of the ordinance till the disposal of their case. In its affidavit, the petitioner company stated that it was engaged in the business of developing and offering online games of skill and other free games, through its website and app. It employs 300 people from its office in Gurugram. The company has been offering competitive games of rummy in three popular formats — tournaments, points rummy and pool rummy. The players are free to compete in free practice games, promotional tournaments or in real money games and tournaments. The company only charges a service fee of 9%-15%, depending on the stake at the table. “It is pertinent to note that there is no betting, whatsoever, on the outcome of the online rummy games or other skilled games played between the customers,” the affidavit read. The petitioner company stated that the Supreme Court, as well as various High Courts across the country, had, in a series of judgments, consistently held that rummy was a game of skill and not a game of chance. The company also said that players’ information was stored in a secure environment and not shared with any third party.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands relief for farmers||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to extend financial assistance to people and farmers affected by Cyclone Burevi in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore and Tiruvarur districts, without waiting for the Union government’s aid. “When the Central government team visits the flood-affected areas, the State government should meticulously explain the damage and get adequate funds from the Centre. DMK MPs will support the government on this count,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin, who visited Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts, said that more than 50,000 houses and crops planted on three lakh acres had been submerged. “Roads have been damaged in the rain, and water has entered the Iravatheeswarar temple at Tarasuram. Help has not reached people, and farmers made a complaint to me,” Mr. Stalin said. Mr. Stalin said the suburban areas of Chennai had not recovered from the flood, and as the stormwater drainage scheme had not been implemented, rainwater was stagnating, posing health hazards to people. Mr. Stalin visited villages in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts, affected by the recent rain, and distributed relief materials among the people. Visits to villages Mr. Stalin, who arrived in Tiruvarur on Saturday night, commenced his visits to rain-affected areas in the district on Sunday morning. He visited Ammaiappan and Kaavanur villages, where paddy crops were inundated in the heavy rain. He distributed relief materials — 10 kg of rice, groceries, vegetables and bed sheets — among those at temporary relief centres, in Katchanam and Thazhakudi. Before leaving, the DMK chief, who stayed at his family house in Tiruvarur town, offered floral tributes to a portrait of Ambedkar, on the occasion of the leader’s death anniversary. Mr. Stalin was accompanied by former Minister and the party’s principal secretary, K.N. Nehru, and Tiruvarur district secretary and MLA Poondi K. Kalaivanan. The DMK leader, who entered Nagapattinam via Kolapadu village, was given a reception. He then went to his ancestral house in Thirukkuvalai, and garlanded the statues of his grandfather Muthuvelar, grandmother Anjugamammal, father and former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi and former Union Minister Murasoli Maran.  Damage to crops Later, he went to Melapidagai village, near Velankanni, and got down at an inundated paddy field. He ascertained from the farmers the extent of damage to their crops. He gave away relief material to 200 affected people in Melapidagai. He also visited Melanagore, where he distributed relief material to 250 persons.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaw driver ends life in Chennai||An autorickshaw driver, who attempted suicide in front of the Selaiyur police station as there was reportedly no progress in a police complaint filed to trace his daughter who had eloped recently, died in a hospital on Sunday. The police said Srinivasan had lodged a complaint with the police stating that his daughter had allegedly eloped with a 19-year-old boy. However, as there was no progress in the case, he attempted to end his life in front of the police station. He was rushed to the Kilpauk Government Medical College hospital for treatment, but died on Sunday. A case has been registered. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against woman for abusing traffic police, clip goes viral||A video of a 28-year-old woman who reportedly verbally abused traffic police personnel, allegedly under the influence of alcohol after her friend was booked for drunken driving in Thiruvanmiyur, went viral on Sunday. The police have registered a case under three sections of the IPC against the woman. The altercation took place around 8.30 p.m. at South Avenue, Kamarajar Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur, when the traffic police were checking vehicles. They intercepted a car and asked Todla Seshu Prasad, 27, of Indira Nagar, who was at the wheel, to blow into the breathalyser and the reading showed 209 mg alcohol content. The police seized the car and registered a case of drunken driving against Prasad. His friend, later identified as Kamini, 28, from Indira Nagar and an assistant director in the film industry, picked an argument with traffic inspector Mariappan and his team. Three videos, reportedly shot by the police, showed her abusing them. She also claimed to be from the media. Mr. Mariappan lodged a complaint at the Thiruvanmiyur police station and a case was registered under Sections 294(b) (obscene language), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC. Mr. Mariappan alleged that she kicked him. She has been remanded in judicial custody.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Simple tests needed to diagnose and treat blood disorders: experts||There are a wide variety of blood disorders that could affect children and adults. While many of them could be solved simply by supplementing the deficient nutrients, there are some disorders that may need intense evaluation and even therapy. At a webinar organised by The Hindu and Kauvery Hospital on Sunday, three expert haematologists explained the myriad disorders of the blood and how they are diagnosed and treated. The participants were R.M. Subbaiah, haematologist and bone marrow transplant physician; Vinod Gunasekaran, consultant paediatric haematologist, oncologist and BMT physician from Kauvery Hospital, Tiruchi; and Dolly Daniel, professor of transfusion medicine, Christian Medical College, Vellore. The experts explained the role of bone marrow in producing blood cells and how things go wrong in the blood system, either due to an acute infection or chronic ailment. “A child is not a miniature adult and its demands are different,” Dr. Vinod said. Iron deficiency can be present even before a child is born if the mother is iron-deficient. “Iron deficiency is the most common blood disorder in the world, especially in India where it is really a public health problem. The last three months of pregnancy are crucial as the iron requirement is transferred from the mother to the baby during this period. In case of premature birth, the baby becomes iron-deficient,” he added. Rigorous investigation Some of the more serious blood disorders require fairly simple tests to diagnose and treat, whereas others may require rigorous investigation followed by therapy, said Dr. Daniel. “A good diagnosis is a combo – every small detail is relevant – including a good clinical examination,” according to her. “There is a very fine balance between production and destruction of blood cells,” she said. To a question on the reason for high white blood cell count, Dr. Subbaiah said it could be physiological as in pregnancy or physical stress to the body or pathological.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tipsy driver rams car into student on campus||The police have registered a case against a man who drove his car under the influence of alcohol and hit a student inside a medical college at Thandalam on Saturday. The CCTV footage of the accident went viral. The CCTV footage from the campus shows a girl walking on the pavement and a car driven in zig-zag manner. The vehicle first hit a barricade and then hit the woman walking on the pavement. The woman is dragged for a short distance and then she became unconscious. Another pedestrian walking on the pavement escaped with minor injuries. The vehicle stopped after hitting a tree inside the campus. The name of the injured woman was given as Wahida, 23, a physiotherapy student of the college. Vadivel who ceme to the hospital for treatment also sustained injuries. The driver of the car was Gunasekaran and was found to be drunk. He had come to drop a student and was returning when the accident happened. A case has been registered against him.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for GST credit fraud||GST and Central Excise Department, Chennai, said it has arrested two persons for committing a massive GST fraud by issuing fake invoices to the extent of Rs. 776 crore and passing on illegal and unlawful Input Tax Credit to the extent of Rs. 118 crore. According to an official statement, one person aged about 34 from Tondiarpet and another aged 46 from Villivakkam were arrested, after carrying out detailed investigations and conducting searches at several premises, to gather incriminating evidence. The arrested duo, along with some accomplices, had taken GST registration in the name of other persons using fabricated/forged KYC documents and one of the arrested persons was acting as a consultant to prepare all the documentation, including invoices for the fictitious firms. Such fictitious companies were floated to commit GST credit frauds and they issued tax invoices to various business entities without supplying any goods or services for a commission and facilitated fraudulent claim of GST credit, the statement issued by Additional Commissioner Manasa Gangotri Kata said. The investigation is focused on whether any tax practitioner had guided the arrested persons in committing these frauds. The said persons were arrested on December 4 and produced before the Economical Offences Judge I, Egmore, Chennai and investigations are on, the statement added.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Appeal to donate liberally towards Flag Day fund||Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday appealed to the people to come forward to donate liberally towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund. In his message, the Governor said contributions to the Flag Day Fund were the evidence of the active support of the people to the brave veterans. The collections were spent on the resettlement and rehabilitation of ex-servicemen and their dependants. “I convey my warm greetings and best wishes to all ranks in the armed forces, ex-servicemen and their families on this occasion. I appeal to the people of Tamil Nadu to come forward to donate liberally towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund,” Mr. Purohit appealed. Mr. Palaniswami also appealed to the people to contribute generously.  The collections are spent on the resettlement and rehabilitation of ex-servicemen and their dependants
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schoolboy among two electrocuted||Two persons, including a school student, were electrocuted in the city on Friday night. According to the police, Santosh, 13, of Sai Balaji Nagar in Pallikaranai and student of a private school, was electrocuted when he touched the switch board in his house on Friday. The Pallikaranai police have registered a case. Nalini Rani, 56, of Anna Nagar, was electrocuted when she was ironing her clothes in her house. She was rushed to the hospital, where she was declared dead upon arrival. The police have registered a case.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why art is greater than the artiste||Art transcends artistes and will continue to exist while artistes are mortal, violinist Shreya Devnath said. She was speaking at a debate on ‘Should we separate the art from the artiste?’ organised by Prajnya Trust, a Chennai-based non-profit organisation. “It is possible to like a song and not like the rendition of an artiste and also, love the version of one artiste and dislike that of another. Artistes change the way they sing the same song and it is not constant. Artistes can be separated from the art and art is greater than the artistes,” she said. Vocalist K. S. Vishnu said there should be zero tolerance to harassment and a person must continue learning the art form from another guru . Carnatic vocalist Sikkil Gurucharan said there is a responsibility on the part of the student’s family to create a safe bubble so that she or he can safely feel comfortable to discuss any issue. Artistes have a lot to contribute to art and the world; there is immense scope to present music that is gender neutral, he said. “We have to be responsible enough to create the right kind of art which is socially correct and relevant in the current social context in which we are practising the art form. The artist who is also a guru must realise what he brings to the classroom is not art alone but also his behaviour and other aspects and everything gets imbibed by the student,” he said. Mridangam exponent Akshay Anantpadmanabhan, musicians Vidya Kalyanaraman and Roopa Mahadevan also spoke at the event.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conference on telehealth from Dec. 18||The 16th International Conference of the Telemedicine Society of India will be held virtually from December 18 to 20. The theme of the conference will be ‘Telehealth - From the Fringes to the Mainstream.’ According to a press release, telehealth has grown exponentially in India after the notification of the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines. The pandemic has allowed the virtual health tech ecosystem get established in a very short period. The discussions will focus on the growth and impact of telehealth. For details visit www.telemedicon2020.com and www.tsi.org.in.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold hidden in bandage, jeans seized||Passengers, who concealed 289 g of gold worth Rs. 14.7 lakh, underneath bandage and jeans, were caught at the airport. On Sunday, Ahamed Anas, who arrived from Dubai, was detained as officials found an unusual bulge on his back. When examined, they found he had hidden 147 g of gold in the form of a paste under a bandage. On Saturday, Jumma Khan and Mohamed Rafi, who arrived from Dubai, were held for concealing 142 g of gold in the form of a paste stitched to their jeans.
07 December 2020||CHENNAI/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hike in raw material price pinches MSME sector hit hard by pandemic||Paralysed during the pandemic, the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector in Tamil Nadu is facing a new challenge — the rising raw material costs. Several MSME unit owners have said that those who place orders are not willing to shell out more and want the consignments at pre-pandemic rates. For instance, one of the units in Coimbatore had supplied machinery to a textile unit last year. It got a repeat order, recently, at the same price. When the MSME unit owner asked for a price revision, the textile unit was not willing to pay a higher amount. “With the steep hike in raw material prices, how will MSME units supply machinery or components at the earlier prices? This is a difficult situation,” said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of the Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association. “Those who get government orders take three to six months to execute them. If they are unable to honour the commitment, they face the risk of being black-listed. But the units will suffer a loss if they execute the orders at the agreed price,” he noted. According to various trade associations, in the last five months, the price of stainless steel increased by 32%, to Rs. 200 a kg, aluminium by 26%, to Rs. 210 a kg, and natural rubber by 52%, to Rs. 156 a kg. Copper, a key component for many in the MSME sector, has touched Rs. 600 a kg, an increase of nearly 77%. R.G. Chakrapani, secretary of the Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate, said there was a shortage of raw material. Though the prices of certain raw materials have gone up, industries giving orders are not able to match the prices, said K. Baskaran, secretary of the Kakkalur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association. “We are forced to shrink our margins to stay afloat,” he said. While many MSMEs argue that increasing the product price will not help, pumpset and wet grinder manufacturing industries in the Coimbatore region have already revised the product price. “We [pump manufacturers] went in for a 5% revision last month. However, to survive, pump manufacturers will have to increase the end product price by at least 10%,” said K.V. Karthik, president of the Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association. “The price of electrical steel, the main raw material used by pump makers, was increased by Rs. 12,000 a tonne on Saturday. If there are such huge spikes in raw material prices, units will slow down or even stop production,” he rued. K.E. Raghunathan, convener of the Consortium of Indian Associations, explained that companies will not be able meet their overhead costs, which will result in defaults and non-payment of benefits and salaries to employees. “Consumers will have to bear the higher price, if passed on, and that will shrink the demand further. Both situations are dangerous now,” he said. Call for help R. Selvam, secretary of the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, wanted the government to help by forming separate MSME clusters or a special-purpose vehicle to consolidate their requirements and negotiate with raw material suppliers for better pricing. He also wanted the government to reduce import duty, and, immediately, ban the export of certain commodities, based on inland demand.  The price of electrical steel was increased by Rs. 12,000 a tonne on Saturday. If there are such huge spikes in raw material prices, units will slow down or even stop production K.V. Karthik President, Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association
07 December 2020||COIMABATORE,TAMIL NADU||KPR Mill to expand garment production capacity||Coimbatore-based KPR Mill will invest Rs. 250 crore this financial year to create a new garment production facility. P. Nataraj, Managing Director of KPR, told The Hindu that the plant will have a capacity to produce 42 million pieces of garments a year and will take the total garment production capacity of the company to 157 million pieces a year. The additional capacity will be only for exports, for both, new and existing customers. The plan is to commission the production facility in the first quarter of next financial year. “The company was planning to expand its garment production capacity. It was looking at India and Ethiopia, where too it had a production facility. Finally, it decided to invest in India,” he said. The capacity utilisation at the new plant will be ramped up gradually. There was a lot of panic and fear in the market in March-April because of the spread of COVID-19. The market started picking up in August and the demand was good. “We do not know the reason and how long this will last. But the demand is good now,” he said.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘This election will be decided by women’||Women voters would decide the outcome of the coming Assembly election, DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi said in an interview to The Hindu here on Sunday. “The government has let down the women of the State, particularly those who are a part of self-help groups (SHGs). The number of SHGs has come down as the government has not given them the importance that the DMK government did. These women, being politically well informed, will vote the DMK to power,” she said. The AIADMK government, by failing to empower the SHG members, had pushed them into the hands of usurious moneylenders and, by not enforcing the laws, had failed to protect them, too. “Crimes against women are increasing. The conviction rate is poor. And the Pollachi incident is an example of the lack of protection for women under this government.” This would help the DMK consider putting up more women in the election, she said in response to a question. “Definitely, there will be more chances for women to contest. But the only way out is the passage of the Women’s Reservation Bill, which the BJP government at the Centre is not passing, though it is in the BJP’s election manifesto, and several parties are supporting it.” There are several other issues like unemployment that are contributing to the anti-incumbency. “I am able to see discontentment [with the government] among people at my interactions. The farmers are upset about the gas and oil pipeline. The weavers, too, are unhappy. Particularly, in western Tamil Nadu, all of them have issues, and the government is not ready to even engage with those who are opposing the schemes.” Industry, too, was equally unhappy with this government and the one at the Centre, for it had been unable to come out of the impact of the GST and demonetisation, she said. In response to a question whether the DMK would repeal the contract farming law passed by the AIADMK government, Ms. Kanimozhi said the DMK would study the law. If it felt that the measure was anti-farmer, the leadership would take a call. “The DMK is opposed to the Centre’s three farm laws because they are anti-farmer and infringe upon the States’ rights because agriculture is a State subject,” she said. Rajini’s political plunge On actor Rajinikanth’s entry into politics, Ms. Kanimozhi said the DMK was not worried about his entry. “The DMK is not at all ruffled. The actor has announced the launch of his party for January 2021. Therefore, it will only be fair if I comment thereafter. But I can say that it will not impact the DMK’s victory and you can be sure that M.K. Stalin will be the next Chief Minister.” On former DMK leader M.K. Alagiri’s statement that he would play a role in the 2021 Assembly election, Ms. Kanimozhi said that as an individual, he had every right to start a party or make political moves. And, as far as his return to the DMK was concerned, it was for the leadership to decide. Reacting to a State Minister raising the 2G spectrum case and the question whether it would be an issue in the election, she said, “Today, it has become clear that nothing [none of the allegations against me] is proved. The allegations were only assumptions. I don’t think it will come back as an issue. The AIADMK Ministers are raising the issue because they are in panic. And those trying to raise the issue have cases against them like the ghutka scam.” It was only under this government that the office of the Chief Secretary was raided, she said.  Crimes against women are increasing. The conviction rate is poor. The Pollachi incident is an example of the lack of protection for women
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Consumer body asks Corpn. not to pay higher power tariff for traffic signals||Do not pay power consumption charge for traffic signals under Tariff VI (lavish illumination) to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), Coimbatore Consumer Cause has asked the Coimbatore Corporation. The Corporation should ask Tangedco to levy charge for power consumed under Tariff V (commercial), if it is not accounting for the signal under Tariff 2A (public lighting), the consumer body’s secretary K. Kathirmathiyon has told the Corporation Commissioner. The Tangedco that had earlier classified traffic signals under Tariff V had changed it to Tariff VI as there were advertisements on the poles holding the signal. The change in classification meant that the Corporation that was paying Rs. 8.05 a unit under Tariff V had to pay Rs. 12 a unit. This was aside from the fixed charge. But after the Madras High Court ordered removal of advertisements from traffic signals, there was no lavish illumination on the advertisement boards and therefore, the Tangedco ought to have reclassified the traffic signals under Tariff V, Mr. Kathirmathiyon said. The Tangedco had not reclassified the traffic signals and continued to charge a higher sum, which the Corporation was not liable to pay, he said and wanted the civic body to take up the issue with the power utility.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Protests mark Babri Masjid demolition anniversary||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) staged protests in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts to observe the anniversary of Babri Masjid demolition. Hundreds of SDPI members gathered at Athupalam in Coimbatore on Sunday morning and raised slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Pary-led Central Government. The protesters wanted the Government to return the place where Babri Masjid was situated to Muslims. K.K.S.M. Dhehlan Baqavi, national vice-president of SDPI, led the protest which also saw the participation of K. Ramakrishnan of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK), Kovai Syed from TMMK, and Sattai Durai Murugan from Naam Tamilar Katchi. Members of SDPI staged a similar protest in front of Tiruppur railway station. The TMMK's protest at Athupalam in the evening was led by the organisation's State general secretary J. Haja Kani. Organisers said that the protest, which saw the participation of hundreds of people, mainly condemned the Supreme Court ruling in Babri Masjid demolition. Mr. Ramakrishnan from TPDK, Susi Kalaiyarasan from Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, and district leaders of TMMK namely K.U. Mujeeb Rahman, E. Ahammed Kabir, A. Abbas and M.I. Ashik Ahammed spoke. In the protest held in Tiruppur, TMMK members beat photos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah with chappals before burning them. Coimbatore City and Rural Police together deployed 2,200 personnel in view of the protests.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 12,000 to be trained under literacy programme||The Samagra Shiksha recently began training over 12,000 non-literate persons in Coimbatore district under the Central government’s Padhna Likhna Abhiyan (PLA) literacy programme. Officials said that 12,188 persons will undergo training at 610 centres across the district. The PLA training programme will continue till the last week of February 2021. There will be one volunteer per centre from Samagra Shiksha who will conduct the sessions for the trainees, the officials said. Based on the 2011 Census data, the Samagra Shiksha identified around 4.8 lakh non-literates in Coimbatore district in the age group of 15 years and above. The first phase of the PLA literacy drive will cover 12,188 out of them in this three-month programme, with two-hour classes on week days. The individual centres will fix the timings as per the convenience of the trainees as most of them are senior citizens. There will be around 20 trainees in each of the 610 centres located in government schools. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha recently visited one of the centres in Perur and addressed the trainees. Study materials on basic literacy prepared by the Samagra Shiksha have been distributed in these centres, according to the officials. The Central government launched the Padhna Likhna Abhiyan (read and write campaign) on September 8 with the goal of achieving total literacy in India by 2030.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Self-financing colleges demand professorship for faculty||Self-financing colleges have urged the Bharathiar University to immediately consider granting professorship to faculty and obey a Madras High Court order in this regard. In a memorandum to Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj a few days ago the Association of Self Financing Arts, Science and Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu secretary T. Setupathi said though the Madras High Court in an order of January 23, 2020 had directed the University Registrar to consider within eight weeks the Association’s demand, it had been 11 months and there was no response yet. The association’s demand is that the University grant professorship to faculty in self-financing college who had the statutory eligibility – 27 years’ teaching experience with doctorate and paper publication in recognised journals. Thus far, the University had approved of promotions from only assistant professorship to associate professorship and that too was only a year-old development after the association had taken up the issue with the Higher Education Department, said the Association member Ajeet Kumar Lal Mohan. The secretary Mr. Setupathi said the association was forced to move the court only after its representations in 2018 and 2019 had not yielded the desired result and the situation continued even after it had obtained a favourable order from the court. The denial of professorship to faculty in self financing colleges tantamount to denial of right and biased in favour of faculty in the University, he added. Mr. Mohan added that there was no logic to denying the professorship to faculty of private colleges because there would be no financial burden on either the University or the State government. The self-financing colleges would continue to pay the professorship salary to the promoted faculty and therefore there was nothing that stopped the University or Government in approving the association’s representation, he said.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Beautification of Monkey Falls under way||Monkey Falls, the popular tourism spot at Aliyar on Pollachi - Valparai road, is currently undergoing a makeover. In a novel initiative, the Forest Department is beautifying the premises of the waterfalls with installations related to monkeys, depicting their mentions in Sangam literature. Erode-based artist Eswaramoorthy has already completed one cement installation. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), said the Department has planned a total of six installations which depict monkeys in different natural settings as per songs selected from Sangam literature works namely Agananooru, Nattrinai and Ainkurunuru , which are part of the eight anthologies of Sangam literature. One of the installations is based on the 82nd poem of Agananooru which describes how a group of monkeys watched the dance of a peacock in the forest in awe. “The idea behind the installations based on Sangam literature is to connect culture with conservation,” he said. Butterfly park He said that a butterfly park will also come up on the premises of the waterfall where an interpretation centre is already functional. For the butterfly park, the Department will procure host plants that attract different types of butterflies. Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR and District Forest Officer of Pollachi Forest Division, said the works are expected to be completed before an official announcement is made on the opening of tourism spots managed by the Forest Department across the State. Monkey Falls and other tourism spots managed by the Forest Department are remaining closed for visitors from March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As Monkey Falls is situated on the side of Pollachi - Valparai road at Anamalai foothills, it used to attract hundreds of visitors per day before the pandemic.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||UGD scheme: Corpn. to conduct meetings on December 15||Coimbatore Corporation will hold three public hearings on December 15 at as many places to take suggestions, objections from residents for the underground drainage scheme it proposes to implement in a part of the old city and a few added areas. A release from the Corporation said the first meeting would be held between 10 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. at the S.S. Kamalesh Wedding Hall in Thudiyalur for the UGD work to be executed in Saravanampatty and Thudiyalur. The second meeting between noon and 1 p.m. at K.C. Wedding Hall in Kalveerampalayam would be for the work to be executed in Vadavalli and Veerakeralam and the third meeting between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. at Mani Mahal, near Manis Theatre on ESI Hospital Road, would be for the work to be executed in Singanallur, Ondipudur and Peelamedu. The release said Corporation and Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board officials would be present at the meetings to explain the salient features of the work.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco asked to clear dues to wind energy generators||The Indian Wind Power Association has appealed to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to clear the dues to the wind energy generators for the energy supplied. In a memorandum to the Tangedco, the Association said the dues to the wind sector in the State for the electricity supplied, both under the Sale to Board category and also the payment towards the unutilised banked units, “have reached worrisome levels.” Members of the Association have been raising the issue of dues not being paid for close to three years by Tangedco for the electricity supplied. Further, the tariff rate of supply by wind generators is the lowest when compared to all other categories of renewable energy. A substantial capacity is also in the form of Renewable Energy Certificate windmills and the generators in that category are paid at the average power purchase cost rates which is only Rs. 2.14 a unit for the relevant period. The Association claimed that several of its members say that the officials of Tangedco are directing them to provide an undertaking of waiver of all interest that has accumulated and, in some cases, letters in stamp paper for have also sought for waiver of 24 % of principal sums due. The members have been informed that unless such letters of undertaking are furnished, the dues will not be released, it alleged. Some of the industries that have wind mills are in a precarious financial position. Hence, the Tangedco should release the dues without any conditions on the energy producers, the Association said.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NIB-CID on the lookout for two men in meth smuggling attempt||Sleuths of the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) of the police in Coimbatore are on the lookout for two men in connection with the attempt to smuggle 1.2 kg of methamphetamine to Sharjah via Coimbatore International Airport on Saturday. Sources in the know of the investigation said that two men, namely Arul and Alibhai, were involved in the smuggling attempt. The contraband was found in an empty briefcase carried by a Tiruchi native who had come to board the early morning flight to Sharjah on Saturday. The man told the Central Industrial Security (CISF) personnel, who were on security duty at the airport, that a friend of his handed over the briefcase to him outside the airport with a request to carry it to Sharjah. CISF personnel checked the suitcase and found the narcotic which was concealed below a panel. The NIB-CID has registered a case against the two accused under three Sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for possessing the contraband in commercial quantity, attempting to export the contraband to another country and also for abetment and criminal conspiracy. As per a Central Government gazette, 50g is the commercial quantity of methamphetamine. Section 37 of the NDPS Act states that possession of a narcotic in commercial quantity is a non-bailable offence. M. Manoharan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, NIB-CID, Salem, (in-charge of Coimbatore) is heading the investigation.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AEPC seeks simplification of rules in export promotion schemes||The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has sought simplification of rules and changes in the Special Advance Authorisation Scheme for garment exporters. The Scheme is specifically meant for the apparel sector. The Council has suggested issuance of Special Advance Authorisations to the apparel sector on self-declaration and self-ratification basis,” according to A. Sakthivel, chairman of AEPC. At a meeting of the Board of Trade held to seek suggestions on a new Foreign Trade Policy, Mr. Sakthivel said, “At present, the facility of self-certification and self-ratification, available under the Advance Authorisation scheme to other sectors, is not available to the apparel sector. In cases where Standard Input-Output Norms (SION) are not there, exporters in the apparel sector have to wait for a longer period for getting SION fixed in the norms committee. “So, for faster clearances of these cases, facilities of self-certification and self-ratification must be made available to the apparel sector as well,” he said. As the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme has also been extended to the apparel sector which requires huge capital investment, the Council has suggested changes in the Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) scheme to take care of the growing need of capital investment in the sector, he said in a press release. Further, for overall export promotion, he stressed on the need to address the issues of duty disadvantage in the overseas market through free trade agreements. “India is facing duty disadvantages against competitors in major overseas destinations like the UK, EU and Canada. Indian apparels face a 9.6% tariff disadvantage in the UK and EU, and 17.5% in Canada against countries like Bangladesh and Cambodia due to the Generalised Scheme of Preferences,” he said. Free Trade Agreements between India and these countries will make exports competitive, he said.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||More than 450 snakes rescued in six months||The snake rescue team of the Western Ghats Wildlife Conservation Trust (WGWCT) has so far saved more than 450 snakes in the last six months. According to the snake rescue team, they get maximum calls for the rescue of rat snake and cobra. Rescue calls for Indian rock python were also high from places close to Aliyar near Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR). “The snake rescue team has been doing systematic work. They handover the snake to the Forest Department after rescue that are later released in natural habitats. Snake handlers of the team also gave training to the Forest Department staff,” said Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR and District Forest Officer of Pollachi Forest Division. WGWCT coordinator Sathish R. said that six persons are currently engaged in the rescue of snakes in ATR limits which include places such as Pollachi, Sethumadai, Aliyar and Valparai. Among the six rescuers, four persons are experienced in handling venomous snakes. WGWCT president N. Parthiparajan and its members have also provided safety gears, including boots and gloves for the rescuers. “The rescuers mark the GPS location of the place of rescue. They also get a form filled and signed by the caller who called for the rescue. This can be shown as a proof of the rescue service even if the police or other agencies find the snake during transit. The GPS location of the place of release is also recorded,” said R. Ranjith Kumar, coordinator of the snake rescue team.  For snake rescuers, contact WGWCT volunteers at 79046-68126 (Coimbatore), 85262-53945 (Pollachi), 63693-34974 (Valparai).
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi accuses govt. of making tall promises||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam women’s wing secretary and MP M.K. Kanimozhi accused the AIADMK government of making tall promises but not implementing those. In her address in Kangeyam in Tiruppur district, organised as a part of the Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural programme, she said the AIADMK government had promised COVID-19 financial relief for weavers but had not disbursed it. The government had also not concentrated on continuing free power supply for weavers, which the DMK government had provided. The DMK, when in power, had also constructed 1,010 houses for weavers. The government had similarly treated with disdain the self-help groups, which had fallen into the trap of usurious money lenders during COVID-19 pandemic period. The women had lost their respect under this government.  The respect that women had lost was also true of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the circumstances of whose death remained a mystery. The government had appointed a commission to look into it but nobody knew what happened to it. The people would have to bear the misrule of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami only for five more months as the DMK would return to power, she added.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Case registered||The Sultanpet police have registered a case in connection with a theft attempt reported at a temple in Jallipatti last week. The police said that unknown persons attempted to steal valuables from Kariperumal temple at Jallipatti on the night of December 4. As per the complaint lodged by the temple administrator, the priest locked the temple at 8 p.m. on December 4. He found a side door of the temple broken open the next morning. According to the police, the thieves could not open a steel shelf and nothing was reported missing from the temple.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fill vacancies in Ministry of Education: MDMK||MDMK youth wing secretary V. Eswaran has urged the Central government to fill vacancies in the Ministry of Education as there are over 300 vacancies as per an Right To Information (RTI) Act reply. In a statement, he said that he received a reply from the Ministry to his application under the RTI Act on November 27. As per the reply, the total number of staff working in the Ministry of Education is 754 and there were 326 vacancies. Mr. Eswaran alleged that such a large number of vacancies in the Ministry of Education would hamper its functioning, especially with policies such as the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 being rolled out. “If there are so many vacancies in the office of the Ministry of Education, how many vacancies must be present in the educational institutions run by the Central government?” he asked, urging the Central government to fill in all the vacancies at the earliest. Caste-wise breakup The RTI Act reply also contained a caste-wise breakup of the staff working in the Ministry of Education, according to which there are 195 staff members from the Scheduled Castes (SC), 50 from the Scheduled Tribes (ST) and 111 from the Other Backward Classes (OBC) working in the Ministry, he said.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Garment exporters urged to tap potential in Canada||Canadian companies are increasingly looking at sourcing readymade garments from India and Indian apparel manufacturers have huge potential to increase the country’s share in the Canadian market, according to Indian High Commissioner in Canada Ajay Bisaria. Speaking at India-Canada virtual business-to-business meeting conducted recently by Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), with the support of Indian Embassy, he said, “Looking at the India-Canada corridor, there is a great deal of faith among Canadian companies in the medium and long-term prospects of India, apart from conversations on immediate issues. Today, we have a strategic partnership with Canada which is propelled and fuelled by the economic partnership.” The High Commissioner said that Canada’s market size for readymade garments is about $10 billion and imports from India of readymade garments is just about $ 318 million, just 3.1% in 2019. “I think this number can go up tremendously given the huge opportunity. We know that many top quality brands are already sourcing from India,” he said. The meeting had representatives of new buyers too. Mr. Bisaria said that while investments from Canada have so far gone into infrastructure, energy and logistics. A lot will come in multiple other areas, including the huge opportunities in the textile sector. “There are already 600 active Canadian companies in India. There are 1,000 Canadian companies doing business with India. Even in pandemic times, the overall engagement is about $100 billion if you count trade, investment, remittances and tourism spend. We see this number consistently increasing in the next few years,” he added. AEPC chairman A. Sakthivel said that Canada is a thrust market for India and continuous efforts have been made by the Council to participate in Apparel Textile Sourcing Fair, Canada regularly. The AEPC has developed a virtual exhibition platform for online virtual showrooms and exhibitions, which is available for on all days of the year, 24X7.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Install Ambedkar statue’||A statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar should be installed in one of the main areas of Coimbatore city, said MP P.R. Natarajan. Members of nearly 20 organisations, including Communist Part of India (Marxist), staged a protest here on Sunday demanding installation of a statue of Dr. Ambedkar. Mr. Natarajan said the Corporation had passed a resolution in 2007 to install a statue on the court premises. However, the police had refused permission. While there are statues of several leaders across the city, there is none of Dr. Ambedkar, he said. Members of Communist Party of India and Movement for Right of the Oppressed to Live took a pledge at the CPI office here to mark the death anniversary of Dr. Ambedkar.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Work towards making wards garbage-free’||Ahead of the Central Government’s annual Swachh Survekshan ranking, which is due in the next couple of months, Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian has urged Swachh Bharat ambassadors to work towards making wards garbage-free and bin-free. He sought their cooperation at a meeting the Corporation held with the ambassadors and activists in the city on Saturday, said a release. Only if the ambassadors worked with residents in their respective wards, there would be better compliance with segregation of waste. That would lead to more organic waste going to the micro compost centres that the Corporation had established and was setting up in different parts of the city and consequentially reduction in waste going to Vellalore. Home composting As a part of the strategy to reduce transportation of waste, the ambassadors should also encourage residents to do home composting, the Commissioner said and reiterated that it was necessary to reduce the waste going to Vellalore because the Corporation had begun processing the waste that had accumulated there over the years. Sources said the Commissioner held the meeting because the civic body had a lot of ground to be covered when it came to improving solid waste management in the city, which the Central Government had placed down in the list of cities that had performed well in solid waste management. Besides, the Corporation had not improved on segregated waste collection as only less than 50% of the 100 wards were covered under the segregated waste collection system and that too only in a few areas, the sources added.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TEA to train workers||Tiruppur Exporters Association (TEA) will train 16,508 persons under the Scheme for Capacity Building in Textile Sector for employment in the garment export units. According to Raja M. Shanmugham, president of the Association, the plan is to start the 45-day training for new workers in January at 75 units that are recognised for this project. The workers will be absorbed in the units after the training. They will get a stipend during the training period under the scheme. The training will be for five activities, such as sewing and quality check. With good orders, the industry is in need for more workers. The Association has sought time till March 2022 to complete training for all the 16,508 workers as it is difficult to get new workers now because of the spread of COVID-19. It has also submitted a proposal to the Central and State governments seeking a project to upskill the existing workers in the entire workers for a year. “If we get approval for this, it will be a pilot project in Tiruppur,” he said.
07 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Onion prices drop in city||Wholesale prices of big onions have dropped drastically in Coimbatore markets. According to traders, the price of big onion on Sunday was Rs. 20 to Rs. 25 a kg. This is mainly because of fresh arrivals from States such as Rajasthan and Maharashtra. Further, those who had stocked onions expecting shortage in the market are releasing huge quantities now. Supply to Coimbatore markets is also up with nearly 800 tonnes arriving on Sunday. The prices are expected to reduce from the current levels too as fresh arrivals pick up in the coming weeks. In the case of small onion, the price (wholesale) hovered around Rs. 40 to Rs. 50 a kg on Sunday. Most of the arrivals were from different parts of Tamil Nadu. Arrivals from Karnataka will commence shortly and that will reduce the prices, the traders say. Wholesale prices of vegetables have dropped considerably in the last few days in markets, they add.
07 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Donation to skill development centre||Dharani Ranghanathen of Dharani Pumps and Motors and RR Vidhyaadharan of Perfect Exhale Universal contributed Rs. 5 lakh to Ladies Circle India Area 7 for its skill development centre. The Ladies Circle has set up a skill development centre to train those in need, including the differently abled and transgenders, in areas such as tailoring, computer operation and spoken English. The aim is to help them get a job or set up their own venture. Nearly 1,200 people are getting trained at the centre here.
07 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone-hit farmers urge CM to realise full relief from Centre||The Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Federation has called upon Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to ensure that the Central Government which deputes teams ‘conventionally’ to rain-ravaged areas in the State earmarks full quantum of relief to mitigate the sufferings of farmers in areas that faced the fury of a cyclone and torrential rains this northeast monsoon. K.V. Elangeeran, president of the federation, said it had been the conventional practice on the part of the Centre to send a team to the rain-hit State to make a survey. “What has been seen and experienced all along was that the quantum of relief the Centre earmarks is far less than what the State government seeks. The woes of farmers are sidelined and the Centre goes by the rule book framed several years ago instead of taking a practical assessment of the damages,” he said. Mr. Elangeeran said the rains had caused extensive damage to the agricultural sector in Cuddalore district as standing crops raised on more than 2 lakh hectares had been submerged. “The rains have shattered the efforts of the farmers and hence a complete assessment and full relief should be available to them,” he said. The visit by the Central team should not be a mere formality. The team should have representatives of farmers’ outfits, including those from other States, so that a practical assessment could be made, he said.
07 December 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Two lakh hectares of agricultural land affected’||Minister for Higher Education and Agriculture K.P. Anbalagan said surveys to identify damage caused by the two cyclones to agricultural lands were progressing, and, till Saturday, two lakh hectares of land were estimated to be affected. “The State government is surveying the affected areas through the Revenue and Agriculture departments. Till Saturday, two lakh hectares of agricultural land were identified. The Horticulture Department has identified 3,500 hectares of affected land. Work to provide necessary compensation to the affected persons is progressing,” he told reporters. Responding to Opposition Leader M.K. Stalin’s charges on relief measures, Mr. Anbalagan asked how the leader would know about relief measures when he had not even stepped out of his house. On actor-politician Kamal Hassan’s allegations regarding the inquiry ordered against Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa, Mr. Anbalagan said Mr. Hassan was giving out statements as elections were nearing. On the reopening of colleges, he said classes would resume for final-year students as they needed laboratories to do practicals.
07 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to re-lay forest road, establish PHC in Gundri panchayat||The Erode District Congress Committee (South) has urged the district administration to establish a primary health centre (PHC) in the Gundri panchayat and to re-lay the forest road from Kadambur to Gundri. In a petition submitted to Collector C. Kathiravan here, the party’s district president Makkal G. Rajan said that over 7,500 people resided in the 18 hamlets in the Gundri panchayat, which is located about 22 km from Kadambur Hills in Sathyamangalam block. With no healthcare facility in the panchayat, people have to travel over 20 km to reach the nearest PHC in Kadambur. There is no mobile network or landline for communication and the only BSNL tower, established many years ago, remains non-functional. During emergencies, people cannot even call ‘108’ ambulance services and have to travel through the forest road for three km to get a mobile signal. The worst hit are the women in labour. The road from Kadambur to Gundri passes through a forest area and is damaged due to rains. Even daily commute through this road is a daunting task, the petition said. There are two government schools and a government-aided school in the panchayat, where students study till Class 10. After that they have to go to Kadambur for higher secondary classes and transportation is a major problem for the students. TNSTC operates a single bus to the hamlets and the timing of the bus is not convenient for the students. Even school teachers from Sathyamangalam cannot reach the schools in the panchayat on time and have to depend on private transportation, the petition said.
07 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Community well ensures drinking water for Kathirimalai tribal hamlet||For the 200-odd people living at Kathirimalai tribal hamlet without basic amenities all these years, digging a well has ensured protected drinking for them throughout the year. The hamlet, located at Bargur Panchayat in Anthiyur Taluk, is 82 km from Erode and can be reached only on foot by passing through the rough terrain for nine km from Malayalathan Colony at the foothills at Kolathur near Mettur in Salem district. A total of 76 families comprising 267 people have been living in the hamlet without electricity and they depend on farming in the small holdings at the hilltop. Solar panels were installed in 2018 while donkeys were used to ferry poll materials to the polling station in the past two elections. It takes over five hours from the foothills to reach the hamlet located at an altitude of 1,052 metre and during emergencies, patients are carried in cloth cradles to the hospitals at Kolathur. Two open wells served the water needs of people, but they faced difficulty when the wells went dry during summer. Hence, under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), a 12.5-metre deep well was dug at the hamlet at Rs. 9.97 lakh. Work that began three months ago was completed recently. M. Balaganesan, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, told The Hindu the well would ensure water availability for people throughout the year and added that local people carried out the digging and construction work and were paid wages under the scheme.
07 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes many places in southern T.N.||Many places in southern districts, including Rameswaram, Thangachimadam, Kodaikanal and Thoothukudi, experienced heavy rain on Sunday. Inundation of low-lying areas and power cuts affected normal life in several areas. The depression over the Gulf of Mannar remained close to Ramanathapuram coast and turned into a well-marked low pressure area on Saturday. According to IMD forecast, heavy to very heavy rain, accompanied by wind with a velocity of 40-50 kmph, gusting up to 60 kmph, was predicted in the region in the next 48 hours. Ramanathapuram Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, accompanied by Sub-Collector N.O. Sukhaputra, visited Amirthapuram Colony, Natarajapuram Fishermen Colony and a relief centre in South Karayar, on Sunday. A majority of the people at the relief centre wanted to go home. However, the officials appealed to them to stay in the centre for one or two more days. The officials at the control room in Ramanathapuram said they received calls about flooding in Aranmanai Salai, Vandikara Theru and Chinnakadai. Sewage flowed on roads in some places. Many parts of Kodaikanal town and interior hills experienced intermittent rain. Saturday night was very cold and people remained indoors on Sunday too. The market area had a thin attendance. Many shopping centres wore a deserted look. Officials have appealed to tourists to avoid visiting the hill station at least for another three days due to slippery stretches on the ghat section. On Friday, vehicles were stranded in Palani-Kodaikanal ghat section for at least four hours after trees were uprooted. Palani and peripheries experienced heavy rainfall during the day. There was no electricity in Rameswaram, Pamban and Thangachimadam since Friday. Tangedco officials told the residents that power supply was snapped as a precaution. Members of Left parties, however, staged demonstrations, demanding immediate resumption of power supply. In Thoothukudi, Bryant Nagar, Chidambaram Nagar and other areas were inundated following continuous rains. The officials were pumping out rain water with the aid of over 100 motors and through tankers. In Dindigul district, Palani witnessed heavy rainfall. A few pockets in Tenkasi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts experienced scattered rainfall during the day. The rain in the Western Gats and interior forests resulted in a steady inflow into reservoirs. The average annual rainfall deficit had narrowed down considerably in many southern districts, PWD officials said. Drizzle continues Virudhunagar district recorded an average rainfall of 10.46 mm on Saturday. Watrap registered the highest rainfall of 30 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday. This was followed by Rajapalayam (28 mm) and Srivilliputtur (12.6mm). Rainfall reported in other places was (in mm): Tiruchuli 11.8, Aruppukottai 9, Kariyapatti 7.8, Kovilankulam 6.6, Pilavakkal 5.8, Virudhunagar 5, Sattur 3.4, Sivakasi 3 and Vembakottai 2.5.
07 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water from Vaigai fills Teppakulam in Madurai to brim||Mariamman Teppakulam, one of the biggest temple tanks in the city, is a sight to behold these days as it is fast filling up to its brim after Public Works Department started to release water to the tank from the Vaigai through Panaiyur channel. A Public Works Department official said that water was being released into the tank since November 27. “Water stored through the check dam constructed across the Vaigai near Albert Victor bridge is being diverted to the tank. In addition, the recent spell of rains has also helped in improving the level in the tank,” he said. The tank has a storage capacity of nine million cubic feet, he said. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said last year the civic body built a link channel from the sluice of the check dam to lift water from the Vaigai to Panaiyur channel. Culverts were also built at several places along the channel which helped in successfully diverting water into the tank from the Vaigai after several years. “Recently, we also constructed a sluice along the Panaiyur channel to ensure smooth flow of water through it to the tank,” he said. This year, Corporation workers rigorously cleared mounds of waste from the Panaiyur channel before water was diverted to the temple tank, Mr. Visakan said. A nagging problem Those residing along the Panaiyur channel indiscriminately dump garbage into it and discharge sewage from their residences into the tank, said Vedamani, a resident. “This practice must be put to an end,” he said. A Corporation official said several inlets of the tank, which were earlier filled with garbage, were cleared to ensure that rainwater near the Mariamman Teppakulam drained into the tank. Joint Commissioner of Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple K. Chellathurai said temple staff had been clearing waste from the tank for the past couple of days. Temple tanks are known to be best suited for rainwater harvesting and recharging groundwater table. M. Ganesan, a resident of Ganesh Nagar near Mariamman Teppakulam, said groundwater was now available at 20 feet in his area following storage of water in the tank. “The groundwater level should increase in areas within a two-km radius of the tank,” he said. In addition, the brimming Mariamman Teppakulam is a perfect spot for evening outing, he said. “There is a dearth of relaxation spots in the city. But a stroll along the water-filled Mariamman Teppakulam provides a refreshing experience,” Mr. Ganesan said. But the public must avoid dumping plastic and food waste near the tank, he said.  Good groundwork  A link channel was built from sluice of check dam to lift water from the Vaigai Several inlets cleared of garbage to facilitate draining of rainwater into the tank  Groundwater level is expected to increase in areas within a two-km radius of the tank
07 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||SDPI cadre stage demo on Babri Masjid demolition anniversary||Hundreds of members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged a demonstration in Chinnakadai Street in South Gate here on Sunday, the anniversary of Babri Masjid demolition, urging the Central government to implement the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, in letter and spirit. SDPI district president A. Mujipur Rahman led the protesters, who included district secretary M. Kamal Batcha. Mr. Rahman said that the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992 by kar sevaks “shattered secularism, pluralism and democracy of the nation”. The judgement of the Supreme Court which was in favour of building a temple at the site drew criticism from several world leaders and organisations, he added. The protesters said, “Legal action must be taken against all those who were involved in the demolition of the masjid.” Members of the Popular Front of India and the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi also participated in the demonstration.
07 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ambedkar remembered||Leaders of several political parties and outfits paid their respects to the statue of B.R. Ambedkar, the chief architect of Indian constitution, on his death anniversary near Tallakulam outpost here on Sunday. As a symbolic gesture, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi cadre wore black shirts and garlanded the statue. Members of Tamil Nadu Untouchability Forum, led by its State president T. Chellakannu, also paid homage.
07 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Students’ initiative to increase green cover||Members of Green Club and SLP Vaigai Ecology of The American College celebrated World Soil Day on Saturday by throwing seed balls on the bank of Kadachanendal tank. A press release said the students prepared the balls using seeds of banyan tree, tamarind tree and neem tree. Red soil and alluvial soil were mixed with water to make a mud ball and the seeds were kept inside it. Principal M. Davamani Christober said it was an effective and affordable method to increase green cover. Green Club convenor M. Rajesh coordinated the programme.
07 December 2020||Madurai/Coimbatore/Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Protests mark Babri Masjid demolition anniversary||Protests were held in some parts of the State on Sunday to mark the 28th anniversary of the demolition of the Babri Masjid. In Madurai, hundreds of members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged a demonstration at Chinnakadai Street in South Gate. They urged the Central government to abide by the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act of 1991. SDPI district president A. Mujipur Rahman led the protest. Mr. Rahman noted that the Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992 by kar sevaks. "This shattered the secularism, pluralism and democracy of the nation," he added. Members of the Popular Front of India and the VCK also participated in the demonstration. Similar protests were held by the SDPI and the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts. In Coimbatore, hundreds of SDPI members gathered at Athupalam and raised slogans against the BJP-led Central government. The protesters wanted the government to return the place where the Babri Masjid was situated to Muslims. The SDPI also staged a protest in front of the Tiruppur railway station. The TMMK's protest at Athupalam was led by the organisation's State general secretary, J. Haja Kani. In Tiruchi, about 600 members of the SDPI staged a demonstration near the Palakkarai roundabout. The agitation was led by the organisation's district president, R. Hassan.
07 December 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Paddy fields damaged in Nagapattinam||Paddy crop in 54,635 hectares have been affected by the latest spell of rainfall, said Additional Director of Agriculture Sankaralingam, after making an inspection of the damaged fields in the district on Sunday. A major portion of the crop raised in about one lakh hectares in the district had been submerged in water due to the week-long rainfall. Accompanied by District Collector Praveen P. Nair, Additional Director of Agriculture Kalyanasundaram and other senior officials, Mr. Sankaralingam inspected the submerged fields where farmers showed the damaged crop. Officials said it will take up to a week for the water to drain off from the submerged fields. Meanwhile, residents of Puragramam near Thittacheri were accommodated in relief camps after over 50 residences were inundated with rainwater overflowing in the storm water drainages. In Keelaiyur panchayat, about 500 acres of paddy fields were submerged. The farmers have appealed to the State Government for suitable compensation for the damaged crops. Three deaths Three deaths have been reported due to heavy rainfall - two in Sirkazhi block and one in Nagapattinam. The district administration was in the process of securing compensation for the affected families. So far, 19 heads of cattle, 24 calves and 177 goats have perished due to heavy rainfall. Suitable compensation will be provided to farmers who have lost cattle and livestock, Collector Praveen P. Nair said. District Monitoring Officer C. Munianathan also conducted field-level inspection in several villages to assess damage to crops.
07 December 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Medical aspirants honoured||Medical aspirants who were provided seats under the 7.5% reservation for government school students were honoured here recently. Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani and Minister for Social Welfare V.Saroja honoured 10 students who gained seats under the quota at the District Collectorate. The Ministers gave away books and cash prize to the students, a release said.
07 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry’s daily count drops to 35||Fresh infections in the Union Territory dropped to 35 on Sunday. No death due to COVID-19 was reported in the last 24 hours. Following the discharge of 62 patients after treatment, the number of active cases in the U.T. slipped below the 400-mark, and stood at 392. While 190 patients are still under treatment in hospitals, 202 are under home isolation. For a second day this week, Mahe recorded the highest number of new cases, with 18 persons testing positive for COVID-19, followed by Puducherry that saw 13 cases, Karaikal three and Yanam one. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said with Mahe reporting a spike in cases in the recent days, medical shops had been directed to inform the Health Department about patients turning up with fever, Influenza-Like Illness or severe/acute respiratory infections. This would improve surveillance and help in the early detection of cases, she said. IEC activities have also been strengthened in Mahe through pamphlets, posters, awareness videos and songs. In the absence of a regional administrator, special secretary Pankaj Kumar Jha has been camping in Mahe to oversee COVID-19 management works and to help stabilise the situation. Expertise of the ICMR too is being used, Ms. Bedi said. The U.T.’s toll touched 614, active cases 392, case tally 37,244 and the total number of discharged persons 36,238. The test positivity rate stood at 1.66%, case fatality rate at 1.65% and recovery rate at 97.3%. So far, 4.19 lakh tests have been carried out, and of this, the results of an estimated 3.77 lakh have returned negative.
07 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Major tanks in U.T. brimming with water||The major tanks here are brimming following incessant rain in catchment areas in the Puducherry and Tamil Nadu over the last few days. Puducherry has 84 irrigation tanks and more than 500 ponds which are the lifeline for ground water recharging systems, drinking water and agriculture. Officials said that the water had reached the full levels in 51 tanks so far. The level in the Oussudu Lake, the most important fresh-water lake, reached nearly three metres out of its total capacity of 3.5 metres. The lake has a capacity of 540 million cubic feet. The lake covers an area of about 800 hectares spread across both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Public Welfare Department sources said that surplus water released from the Veedur dam in Villupuram district has been flowing into the Oussudu Lake. Similarly, the level in Bahour, the second largest lake in Puducherry, reached 3.60 metre. The Tamil Nadu government has taken steps on a war footing to bail out water from inundated areas in Cuddalore district and the extent of crop loss would be known only after water is drained, Industries Minister M.C. Sampath said on Sunday. Minister’s visit The Minister, accompanied by Principal Secretary to Government Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri, inspected rain affected areas in Kizhpoovanikuppam, Alapakkam and Sirupalayur in Kurunjipadi. They also inspected the Perumal Eri and rainwater overflowing on the Cuddalore-Chidambaram Road at Alapakkam. According to an official release, crops cultivated on over 45,000 hectares were submerged. About 210 livestock were killed while 1,951 houses were damaged in the rains. Meanwhile, the district administration has organised medical camps in all the 13 blocks in Cuddalore district following the heavy rainfall and subsequent flooding.
07 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Closure of mills by Bedi an exercise devoid of humanism, says Ramadass||The closure order served by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Swadeshi and Bharathi Mills without public consultations and eliciting suggestions for restructuring or revamping the legacy institutions is “an abrupt and high-handed bureaucratic exercise devoid of humanism”, former MP M. Ramadass has said. In a statement, Mr. Ramadass said the AFT, Swadeshi and Bharathi Mills are not merely physical production units but are the symbols of a 100-year heritage of Puducherry, built brick by brick by the sweat and labour of forebears. These mills constituted the backbone and commanding heights of the development of Puducherry during the five decades following the post-merger period. “The L-G has no ethical right to lock these firms as neither the people nor the Union Territory Act, 1963, empowered her to do so. She should have adopted a proper and transparent procedure in the closure of these mills after exhausting all alternative options,” he said. Fluctuating fortunes It was true that these establishments have been experiencing fluctuating fortunes, but a competent committee should have probed the real causes of losses: inefficient management, aimless price policies, financial indiscipline, imprudent marketing practices, plundering of public property, he said. Ideally, a committee of experts drawn from the Ministry of Textiles, Government of India, should have examined the present financial and physical performance and offered a package of measures to rejuvenate or modernise them. With its report, the L-G should have approached the Ministry for a rehabilitation assistance. Instead, she relied on the report of a retired bureaucrat who concluded that it was not the duty of the government to run these mills without imbibing the philosophy of the public sector, Mr. Ramadass said. “A tutored document based merely on the audited statements seems to have been prepared and it is a tragedy that such an inappropriate report seems to have guided the marooning of these mills,” he said. Merger option He suggested the merging of five textile-related mills (AFT, Swadeshi, Bharathi, Spinco in Puducherry and Jayaprakash spinning mill in Karaikal) into a Puducherry Textile Corporation. This integration will easily establish forward and backward linkages in their operations and produce large-scale economies which will facilitate least cost production of cloth.
07 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer test for DM, M.Ch courses held||A total of 1,632 candidates across India took the Jipmer online entrance examination for admission to DM./M.Ch. courses for the January 2021 session on Sunday. The number of seats available for the courses is 52. According to a press release from the Jipmer director, 71.39% of the 2,286 registered candidates appeared for the examination held in a single 9 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. shift. This year, the entrance test was held in 14 centres across 11 cities, including two in Puducherry. Considering the farmers’ agitation in and around Delhi, an additional examination centre was provided in Chandigarh to also accommodate candidates from Haryana and Punjab. Held under the shadow of COVID-19, the test was coordinated from a command centre set up in Jipmer with live streaming from all examination centres. Iris scanners were used to capture biometric information of all the candidates and the entire examination process was video recorded. Candidates’ requests for change of examination centres were also accepted before the examination. The examination results will be declared on or before December 11 on the Jipmer website (www.jipmer.edu.in) and will also be posted on the notice board at the Jipmer Academic Centre.
07 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Team from Centre arrives to assess crop damage||The Central team on a visit to the Union Territory and neighbouring districts of Cuddalore and Villupuram to assess damages to crops arrived in Puducherry on Sunday. Development Commissioner-cum-Secretary to Government A. Anbarasu received the team led by Ashutosh Agnihotri, Joint Secretary. Other members in the team comprise Dr. Manoharan, Directorate of Oilseed Development, Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Paul Pandian, Fisheries Development Commissioner, and Rananjay Singh, Regional Officer, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. On Monday, the team is planning to visit Cuddalore and Villupuram districts after inspecting in and around the Union Territory to assess the damage to crops.
07 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Birders, children hone birdwatching skills||A ‘bird and butterfly walk’, organised by the Salem Nature Society (SNS) at the foothills of Yercaud on Sunday, gave a breath of fresh air to children and birding enthusiasts. The team spotted close to 30 species of birds and butterflies.  SNS volunteers guided the participants on the methodologies for bird watching and explained the role of the species in afforestation. G. Dharshan, a Class XI student said, “The session was very refreshing and this was my first experience in bird watching. We were guided on ways to spot birds and butterflies, elements that should be looked into to identify a bird or butterfly to understand the species.” Migratory birds M. Harini, a Class XII student, said that she spotted some interesting species as part of the walk and would like to be part of more such sessions in the future. She added that they learnt about migratory birds that visit Salem. V. Gokul from the Salem Nature Society said, “ This is the first session we organised after relaxation in COVID-19 restriction. Since it was cloudy, we could not spot more species on the day. However we sighted interesting species such as Common Banded Peacock butterfly. The participants were introduced to bird watching techniques and were provided with booklets on birds recorded in Salem.”
07 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Union Minister visits Salem Steel Plant||The Union Minister of State for Steel, Faggan Singh Kulaste, visited the Salem Steel Plant on Sunday and held discussions with officials. Mr. Kulaste, along with members of the Bharatiya Janata Party, garlanded the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at Sundar Lodge junction. Later, the Minister visited the Salem Steel Plant and inspected the plant premises. Members of the Salem Steel Plant Employees’ Union presented a memorandum to the Minister and requested the Centre to reconsider privatising the plant. The Union requested the Minister to initiate measures to waive of the interest burden on the plant that emerged due to commercial borrowings towards project expansion and modernisation in 2010. The Union requested setting up of a solar plant of 50MW to tap renewable energy. It also demanded revival of plan to set up Special Economic Zone for Stainless Steel Industries to promote wider application of the metal. The Union also appealed to the Minister to grant permission for new recruitment at the plant, extension of Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover to Steel Plant workers who succumbed to COVID-19 and job on compassionate grounds for kin of workers who died of the viral disease.
07 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids Mettur RTO||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the premises of the Regional Transport Office (RTO) in Mettur on Saturday and seized unaccounted cash. According to officials, the raid started on Saturday afternoon. Unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 1,89,200 was seized from the premises. A case has been registered against the regional transport officer, motor vehicle inspector and two middlemen, the officials said.
07 December 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Rajenthra Bhalaji dares DMK leaders for debate||Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji joined issue with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader A. Raja and dared DMK president M.K. Stalin or Mr. Raja to debate with him on corruption. Talking to reporters here on Sunday, he condemned Mr. Raja in hard-hitting words for making “derogatory” remarks against the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and former Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa. Mr. Raja had challenged Mr. Palaniswami to debate with him on corruption recently. The DMK is the most corrupt party indicted by Sarkaria Commission. “DMK Government was dissolved for corruption,” he alleged. Neither DMK nor Mr. Stalin has no moral right to talk about the Chief Minister and AIADMK leaders. The people of Tamil Nadu will give a befitting lesson to the DMK in the ensuing election. The present government has been working for the overall development of the State and 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical admission is one example, he said. While DMK has been losing its stablility after the death of its leader, M. Karunanidhi, the AIADMK has become stronger like a ‘horse’ even after the demise of Jayalalitha, he said.
07 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body struggles to pump out rainwater from wards||The continuous drizzle and sharp showers in many areas in Pearl City over the last 48 hours has exposed the poor upkeep of civic authorities. Though civic staff are engaged in pumping out rainwater with the aid of giant size motor pumps in residential areas, including Bryant Nagar, Chidambaram Nagar, Thapal Thanthi Colony and Rajiv Nagar by deploying 143 motors and 12 tanker lorries, people have been put to untold sufferings. On Sunday, many residents could not go to shops due to water logging in their colonies and streets. According to a senior citizen, the civic authorities should have inspected the low-lying areas at least a week ago and planned to tackle the situation. “The weather forecast had informed us about the rainfall post-cyclone. The slackness shows that the authorities are unconcerned about the hardships faced by the common man,” he said. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jeyaseelan and teams from engineering and health wings monitored rescue operations across the wards. “We have deployed not only machines, but also additional hands to ensure that the inconvenience was minimum to residents”" a senior officer at Chidambaram Nagar said. The rainfall, which continued on Sunday evening, delayed the operations, he added. In the peripheries and municipalities, many channels were overflowing. The roads had developed potholes reflecting the poor work of contractors, a resident in Kovilpatti Municipality said. A Public Works Department official said that during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Sunday, Kayathar recorded 15 mm rainfall, Kadambur 8, Vaipa: 4, Vilathikulam 2, Surankudi 1, Koilpatti 5, Ettayapuram 1 and Kadalgudi 4.
07 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||No force can stop Stalin from becoming CM: Raja Kannappan||No force can stop DMK president M.K. Stalin from becoming the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu in 2021, said senior party leader Raja Kannappan here on Sunday. He was here to preside over the party's election campaign, Vidiyalai Nokki. MLA Geetha Jeevan and others addressed the gathering. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Kannappan said the DMK alone could regain the lost glory and sheen of the State. The AIADMK government had ruined the lives of the people and there were charges of corruption and maladministration in every department. Time had come to revamp the administration and bring back the lost glory. The DMK was the only solution, he underlined and dismissed the notion that the DMK was under threat after actor Rajnikanth announcement of entry into politics. “I repeat. No force can stop the DMK from coming to power...Mr. Stalin will lead the State from Fort. St. George after the elections are over in May next year.” Taking a dig at the AIADMK government, the DMK leader said that even in COVID-19 management, some ministers indulged in corruption. The mismanagement of Cyclone Burevi resulted in thousands of people being rendered homeless. The ministers lacked any understanding about administration. Knowing that they would not come back to power, they were ‘emptying' the coffers’, he added.
07 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Resilience has placed them on the path to success||Resilience is what put the top-notch performers among government school students on the trajectory of realising their dreams to become doctors by way of cracking NEET and making the most of the 7.5% quota for admission to government medical colleges. They are profoundly grateful to the government for creating equal opportunities through the quota, for pursuing the otherwise an unaffordable career in medicine. Suganthinima V, a student of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Manachanallur, says that while she dreamed of being a doctor from a very young age, many would discourage her saying that it was not feasible. “The more they said I could not, the higher was my determination to prove them wrong,” she told The Hindu . While her parents, a housewife and a daily-wage labourer could not afford expensive education, they never discouraged her aspirations, she said. “In Class 8, I decided that I wanted to be a doctor. Since then, I focused more on studies, and taught myself how to believe in myself,” she said. The 7.5% quota came as a blessing for her and students like her, said Suganthinima. “Many students work hard these days, but still do not get the opportunity. With the introduction of the quota, government school students like me with big dreams can achieve them and not hold back due to reasons such as finance,” she said. While she was offered seats in private colleges, she chose Coimbatore Medical College, where she had aspired to study since she saw the college when she was younger. Suganthinima studied on her own for the examination, with the help of the free coaching provided through online video lectures, practice and mock tests. “Towards the end, I attended a weekend class where they coached me on how to write the examination,” she said. Meanwhile, Satya P., also a student of Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Manachanallur, secured a seat at the Thanjavur Medical College though the quota. She attempted the examination for the third time this year. “I was forced to go to college after I could not clear the examination in my second attempt. However, I dropped out after a year with the conviction that I would pursue only medicine and nothing else,” she recalled. After months of persuasion, Satya’s parents agreed to allow her to attempt the examination for the third time. To help her prepare, her father, a security guard, borrowed money to admit her to a private coaching institute. “I am happy that she has got a seat. As a doctor, she will ensure bright a future of my family,” the father said with a sense of elation.
07 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Current spell of rain leaves roads battered||Several roads in the city have suffered extensive damage during the current spell of rain in the current monsoon season. Until a week ago, except a few, most of the roads were relatively in a motorable condition. The city has been receiving intermittent rain since Tuesday. But, the incessant rain was sufficient enough to damage the roads. Except for a few roads in Cantonment areas, most of other roads have been battered. The recently-laid smart road between Shastri Road-Fort Station Road junction, which was opened for traffic less than two months back, is among the damaged ones. Important thoroughfares such as Karur Road, Madurai Road, Shastri Road, West Boulevard Road, and Sivaprakasam Salai, which connects Shastri Road and the Anna Nagar Link Road were among those badly hit. Several interior roads have also taken a severe beating. While top layer of many roads have been washed off at most places, deep potholes have sprung up at various spots, causing trouble to vehicle users. They complain that they have to endure back breaking ride on the city roads. The link road at Chathiram Bus Stand resembles a field being prepared for paddy transplantation. Though the road is closed for traffic in view of the rebuilding of a terminal at Chathiram Bus Stand, several buses use the road. Similarly, two wheelers riders too use the road extensively. Several roads in Srirangam, Thiruvanaikoil, Woraiyur, Sangiliandapuram, Varaganeri, Palpannai have also been battered. “It is appalling to see the bad condition of the roads in the city. Though it is quite understandable to see bad roads during rainy season, the roads, which were promoted as smart roads, too have suffered damage in the rain,” says Ghouse Baig, a consumer activist. He added that several roads had become unmotorable after the rain. Motorists and residents have been experiencing untold sufferings. “It is high time roads were relaid and made motorable. Temporary restoration works should be carried out immediately”, he said, emphasising that the Corporation should quickly carry out patch works so as to fill up at least the potholes across the city roads.  Roads, which were promoted as smart roads, too have suffered damage in the rain Ghouse Baig Consumer activist
07 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Retired teacher turns vegetable vendor||As the afternoon traffic roars past Uzhavar Sandhai at Anna Nagar in the city, A. Surya Catherine is busy keeping a very determined goat and cow away from nosing into her crates of oranges and guavas that form part of her stall on the median. “They are very clever, and love to sneak away with fruits,” Ms. Surya laughingly tells The Hindu . Ms. Surya has been vending fruits and vegetables from the concrete platform outside the farmers’ market in Anna Nagar since 2013. But the doughty 66-year-old had an earlier career too, as a school teacher in Thanjavur. “I finished my Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) in 1974, and joined the teacher’s training diploma course in Thanjavur. I worked at an elementary school in a nearby village for three years, and then as a Class 3 Tamil teacher in Thanjavur from the 1980s until retirement in 2013,” said Ms. Surya. Ms. Surya said both she and her husband Arogyasamy, who worked in the security department at Simco Meter Factory in Mannarpuram, devoted themselves to educating their three children in the best institutions that they could afford. “We faced a lot of challenges along the way, but thankfully, many kind people helped us to achieve our goals. By God’s grace, my children studied hard, earned post-graduate degrees and have settled down well in their lives. They have made it worth all the hard work,” she said. As a teacher, Ms. Surya commuted daily to her job in Thanjavur by train from Tiruchi, returning in time to attend to her family’s needs by early evening. “I continued to teach after my husband passed away in 2007, but after retirement, I realised that I would need to make myself financially independent in old age. Though my children were willing to take care of me, I didn’t want to burden them,” she said. Ms. Surya started out with a capital of Rs. 600 as a coconut seller, procuring the nuts from Gandhi Market and reselling them in the city for a small mark-up. “When I managed to save around Rs. 2,000, I decided to reinvest it into fruits and vegetables, and set up this [rent-free] stall in Anna Nagar,” she said. Her day starts at 4 a.m., when she sets off from her modest dwelling in Milagu Paarai area to Gandhi Market in an auto-rickshaw and selects her stock. She is at the stall from 6 a.m. until early afternoon, and on most days, tries to clear the day’s stock before she returns home at 8 p.m. On a good day, she earns up to Rs. 2,500 she said. With a simple lifestyle devoid of a mobile phone and TV, Ms. Surya looks in on her children when she is free, and manages to subsist on her earnings. “God has been very kind to me, even during lockdown, when many people lost their livelihood suddenly. One must work hard, irrespective of one’s age,” she said.
07 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Opening of campuses is ridden with practical difficulties’||Though the State Government has permitted re-opening of final year undergraduate classes in higher educational institutions from December 7, following relaxation of lockdown restrictions, there are some practical difficulties that college heads say are difficult to overcome when the classroom sessions begin. To start with, the classes for final year students has to be conducted in compliance with social distancing which means that not even half the student strength could be accommodated in a classroom. Since the classes are being held only for final year students, it is possible to accommodate them in more than one classroom. But, college heads are wondering how the students in different classrooms could be engaged simultaneously. It is difficult to have separate time tables for each group, since most teachers in the department will be pre-occupied with engaging students of first and intermediate years in online classes, a principal said. As per the latest advisory of UGC, colleges could be opened in a graded manner by the State Governments in adherence to the Standard Operating Procedure. The colleges have no problems in marking sitting places in classes, computer labs, and libraries for following physical distancing norms or in enforcing wearing of face masks, but the main challenge is in running the hostels, a principal said. According to the UGC advisory, residential students, before being allowed to attend classes, are required to remain in quarantine and self-monitor their health for a period of 14 days, and produce a negative test report. And there should be no crowding in hostel areas. The Higher Education Department of the State Government, on its part, has gone a step further with its emphasis that there should be only one student per room in the hostel. "This is simply not practical. It is not possible at all to keep students in isolation in hostels. The possibility for allotting one room for each student does not exist at all," another principal said. Heads of autonomous colleges say they would rather prefer to wait and watch since the online exams that are in progress were planned much earlier. The announcement of opening of colleges has come at a time when all the portions have been completed online and the students have also adapted to the new normal. Opening of colleges from January for the even semester would have been a better idea, they opine. Teachers of government colleges find favour with start of regular classes, since the online teaching-learning experimentation has not been a smooth sail for them. “There are enough signs of slowdown in infection rate. Moreover, when normal life has resumed in all aspects, it makes no sense to keep educational institutions closed indefinitely,” a senior teacher of a government college said.
07 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rising steel cost deals devastating blow to BHEL’s ancillary units in Tiruchi region||The rapid rise in cost of steel is turning out to be the final death blow for ancillary units of BHEL in Tiruchi region that have already been battered by the economic slump caused by COVID-19 lockdown. The much reduced number of ancillaries that have managed to weather the COVID crisis by making use of incentives by the Central government to reactivate MSME sector are finding the going rather tough and most of the units are staring at complete closure. “The abrupt increase in the cost of steel from Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 47,000 per tonne has crippled the ancillary industries that take orders from BHEL for meagre margins just to remain operational in order to provide jobs for workers. The increase effected in the cost of the raw material at such a critical juncture is unethical,” president of BHEL Small Industries Association Rajappa Rajkumar said. “We have made a representation to BHEL Corporation to cancel and refloat tenders in the context of the sudden rise in the cost of steel,” Mr. Rajkumar said, adding that the consequences will be disastrous otherwise for the surviving units. For the first time in two years since BHEL cancelled the annual rate contract system, which had a Price Variation Clause, the ancillary units have been pushed into a state of desperation. “In the past, we could absorb the impact when the cost of raw material was increased in the range of Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000. The current extent of escalation in cost of steel is bound to cause complete closure of the ancillary units,” he said. In a letter to Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, district unit president of BJP’s Economic Cell V. Kannan says the huge rise in cost of steel has dealt a death blow to the surviving units that managed to function by utilising the financial incentives provided by the Central government to activate the MSME sector. The manufacturing activities in the ancillary units that have been executing pending orders for BHEL have now come to a standstill. The Centre must intervene for restoration of the annual rate contract system with price escalation clause to uphold the spirit of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.
07 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Over 30,000 persons accommodated in temporary shelters||Food Minister R. Kamaraj on Sunday said that a total number of 30,375 persons who were staying in low-lying areas in Tiruvarur district have been accommodated in 168 temporary relief centres in the wake of heavy rains and provided with basic facilities including food. A total number of 1,111 houses has been damaged in Tiruvarur district due to heavy rains and 72 livestock have also died. Paddy crops raised on 54,627 hectares were inundated and a survey was being done by the officials. Mr. Kamaraj said the Chief Minister had issued instructions for distribution of relief to people in the affected areas and initiate steps to provide compensation through insurance companies. The extent of damages was being surveyed by the officials and due relief would be provided, he further said. The Minister inspected crops submerged by rainwater and low-lying areas in Anakudi, Kalyanamahadevi, Ammaiappan and Enkan villages and heard the grievances of the farmers and the general public. Tiruvarur Collector V. Santha and government officials accompanied the Minister, an official release said.
07 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mofussil buses skip Chathram bus stand||Commuters travelling between Karur and Tiruchi Central Bus Stand suffer as mofussil buses skip Chathram bus tand, forcing them to alight at the Karur Bypass Road-Tiruchi-Karur Highway intersection and walk to the bus terminus. Buses stopping in a haphazard manner, crowded roads, the lack of a bus shelter coupled with the recent rains add to their woes. While a temporary halt for mofussil buses was set up for buses plying from Tiruchi to Karur at the descent of the Karur Bypass Road overbridge after the Chathram bus stand was closed for the redevelopment project, no provision has been made for the bus halt on the other direction. Passengers alight in front of a marriage hall after which the bus takes a right towards the Karur-Bypass Road to reach Central bus stand via Anna Nagar Link Road. Passengers who alight near the intersection must walk to the Chathram bus stand to get on another bus to their destination. "I travel from Karur to Tiruchi for work every morning. Over the last few days, I reach my office drenched as I have to walk till Chathram bus stand and take another bus. The walk is along a highway, which is risky," said Krishnaveni, a regular commuter. Another traveller, with a baby in hand did not even have an umbrella and had to take shelter at the community hall, where a wedding celebration was ongoing. "My husband said he would pick us up from here. There is no place to take shelter from the rain," the woman rued. M. Sekaran, Chairman, Citizen's Forum said that the civic body must take urgent steps to set up a bus shelter for citizens. "This has been a long standing demand by travellers. Women, children and senior citizens struggle to cross the crowded roads, especially in the pouring rain. The civic body must act swiftly," he said.
07 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||People use WhatsApp to file police complaints||The COVID-19 pandemic period has seen a slew of complaints sent by aggrieved petitioners to the Tiruchi city police through WhatsApp to air their grievances and seeking action from the law enforcers. Many complainants sent through the messaging App have been disposed of by the respective jurisdictional police officers after holding due inquiry into them. Police sources say in the last five months since July, the city police had received 246 complainants from the general public through the dedicated WhatsApp number created by the police to enable petitioners make use of this technological facility instead of visiting the nearest police station to avoid venturing out during the pandemic period. The social media cell of the city police which keeps track of the complainants received through the dedicated WhatsApp number forwards them to the respective jurisdictional police station for appropriate action. “The complaints received from the general public have been varied in nature: from family dispute to those pertaining to dispute over financial transactions, vehicle theft, property dispute and hurt case,” said the Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan. The complainants write the petition containing the issue and scan them before sending through WhatsApp to the City Police seeking remedial action. Some complainants also send photographs along with their complaint. Upon receipt of such complaints, field-level police personnel deal with them either by making an on the spot inquiry or try to redress them through the mass petition redressal mechanism. The City Police had so far disposed of 175 complaints received through WhatsApp since July with the remaining ones under inquiry. In one such complaint preferred by a petitioner pertaining to theft of his two-wheeler attaching a photograph of the vehicle, the City Police was quick in seizing the vehicle going by the identity given in the photograph while conducting vehicle checks, Mr. Loganathan said. The complainants get a communication from the City Police and feedback to their mobile number regarding their complaint sent through WhatsApp. The response from the public in respect of sending complaints through WhatsAapp was encouraging, Mr. Loganathan further said. The Police register a First Information Report if a cognizable offence was made out from the complaint in which case the petitioner concerned is called to the police station to obtain a written complaint. Although a host of relaxations have been announced now by the State government and public beginning to approach police station, the city police continued to receive complaints through WhatsApp especially from the elders, he said.
07 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rail roko against CM’s statement||A group of 52 members of the Vellalar Munnetra Kazhagam staged a rail roko stir at Tiruchi Junction on Sunday in protest against the recent statement by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that the State government would recommend to the Centre inclusion of seven Scheduled Caste sub-sects — Pallar, Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaaladi, Kadayar, Devendrakulathar and Vadhiriyar — in the Devendrakula Velalar community. Holding the outfit flags, the members led by the Kazhagam's State general secretary Hariharan staged the agitation on the railway track blocking the Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdhi express leading to the detention of the train for about 10 minutes at Tiruchi Junction. Some of the agitators climbed on the electric locomotive of the train during the stir. The agitators were arrested, said police sources.
07 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||100 new cases and no death||The central districts on Sunday continued to record a low number of COVID-19 cases with only 100 people testing positive for the viral infection. No COVID death was reported in the region for another consecutive day, according to the health bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Tiruchi registered a slight increase in the number of patients who tested positive with 36 new cases reported. Patients who tested positive were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of eight patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. All other districts in the region reported less than 20 new cases, reflecting a sharp decline over the last few days. In Tiruvarur, 14 new cases were reported while in Nagapattinam, 14 patients tested positive. Among them were local index cases with no travel or contact history, or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their immediate contacts. In Thanjavur, 13 patients tested positive, signifying a significant decline, while in Karur, 12 new cases were recorded. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents from Kulithalai, Thanthonrimalai and Puliyur. Inter-district travellers, too, tested positive. Meanwhile, nine patients were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Pudukottai reported a further drop in COVID-19 cases with only seven cases testing positive for the viral infection. Among them were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. Three patients tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, no new case was reported for the third consecutive day.
07 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||World Soil Day observed||A rally was taken out by scientists and students on the premises of Anbil Dharmalingam Agriculture College and Research Institute to commemorate the World Soil Day on Saturday. They highlighted the importance of creating awareness about keeping the soil at its optimum condition for favouring the growth, multiplication and stabilisation of microorganisms, insects, animals and bird nesting and other biota of the ecosystem habituating in the soil. To mark the event that was organised jointly with the Horticulture College and Research Institute, saplings were planted by the scientists and Deans. During the deliberations on the theme 'keep soil active, protect soil diversity' P. Balasubramanium, Professor and Head, Department of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, shared that a considerable area in Tamil Nadu has been affected by soil salinity and sodicity. K. Arulmozhiselvan, Project Director, Centre of Excellence in sustaining Soil Health, spoke on the biological activity in soils, and the role of Soil microorganisms in biological activity for regulating availability of nutrients to the plant biota. Presiding over, P. Paramaguru, Dean (Horticulture), explained that soil serves as the major platform for trees and that nearly 2,00,000 different animal species are involved in the pollination of plants. Among them, around 1000 are mammals and birds. Insects like honeybees are the most important groups making pollination. Prof. Masilamani elaborated on how the fertile forest soil nourishes variable tree species and shrubs.
07 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||In Brief||Drinking water supply in some areas in Srirangam zone will remain suspended on Monday, December 7, in view of repair work at the Kambarasampetti pumping station. The areas comprise V. N. Nagar, Venis Street, Kaliamman Koil Street, Vanapattarai Street, Nandi Kovil Street, Sankaran Pillai Street, Butterworth Road, Pujari Street, Mela Devadanam, Bharathiyar Street, N.S.B Road, areas located around Rockfort- Chinnakadai Street, E.B. Road, Babu Road and John Thoppu. Water supply would resume on Tuesday after rectification of the pipeline leak along the Karur Bypass Road, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said in a press release.     Honouring winners of competitions conducted during the Productivity Week celebration at BHEL marked the valedictory function on Saturday. T. S. Murali, General Manager and Head, BHEL Tiruchi Complex, handed over the prizes and said in his address that a culture of high productivity was vital to ensure timely and sequential delivery of products and services and to maintain the highest product quality. Mr. Murali also presented rolling trophies to the departments that had implemented the highest number of Improvement Projects Rewards Scheme (IMPRESS) projects and generated the highest number of suggestions from employees.
07 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 102.94 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 6,227 cusecs and the discharge was 500 cusecs.
07 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Suicide rate rises among adivasi communities in the Nilgiris, says study||Suicide rate among the adivasi communities in Gudalur and Pandalur is eight times the national average, an analysis by the Gudalur-based Association for Health Welfare in the Nilgiris (ASHWINI) has found. An analysis of the number of deaths and the leading causes for premature death in four adivasi communities – the Paniya, Kattunayakan, Betta Kurumba and Mullu Kurumba, has revealed that suicide is prevalent among the communities. It has revealed that the number of suicides has increased from around eight reported suicides a decade ago, to between 25 and 30 in 2019, meaning that the number of suicides has tripled over the last decade. “Among the four communities in the Gudalur and Pandalur regions, the suicide rate is far higher among the Paniyas, especially men aged between 20 and 40,” said Shylaja Devi, founder-member of ASHWINI – Gudalur adivasi hospital. Dr. Shylaja said that a common thread that was noticed by the doctors and researchers at ASHWINI was the prevalence of alcoholism in the community, including among those who had died by suicide over the last decade. “Suicides are always multi-factorial and cannot be attributed to a single cause, but the easy availability of alcohol to the community members is definitely a contributing factor,” said Dr. Shylaja. Displacement from their traditional lands and loss of livelihoods, as well as a sense of alienation from being moved closer to towns could also be the other contributing factors, says Jiji Elamana, Community Program Coordinator for ASHWINI. “For instance, the members of the Kattunayakan community in Bennai in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, who are used to living in wide, open expanses have been moved to more structured housing near bigger towns. These kinds of changes could definitely have an impact on their long-term mental health,” said Ms. Elamana. In an effort to bring down the number of suicides among the community members, ASHWINI is partnering with the Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives in intervention programmes to prevent suicides among members residing in the 300 adivasi hamlets. “The 300 hamlets have been divided into eight areas, with health volunteers in each village communicating with a health animator, who when informed about a person with problems related to alcoholism or mental health issues, intervenes with the help of counselors,” said Ms. Elamana. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)
07 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourist spots in the Nilgiris get ready to reopen after 8 months||Tourism spots that are set to reopen on Monday in the Nilgiris are being cleaned and readied for the arrival of visitors. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya announced on Friday that all tourist spots run by the Tourism Department and the Eco-Development Committees (EDCs), managed by the Forest Department and local communities, will begin functioning from Monday following the directions of the State government. While the parks and recreational spaces run by the Horticulture Department, such as the Government Botanical Garden, Sims Park, Rose Garden and Kattery Park, have been opened since last month, other tourist spots, such as the Ooty Lake and Boat House, Pykara Lake, Ninth Mile, Doddabetta Peak and Kodanad View Point have remained closed since March of this year. Northey Kuttan, a member of the indigenous Toda community, and the president of the Pagalkodu Mund EDC which is in-charge of maintaining the Ninth Mile Shooting Spot, said that preparations to safely open the area for the public have been completed. “Based on the instructions of the government, we have provided hand-sanitisers, gloves and masks to all the staff working in the EDC. We will also disinfect the area such as ticket stalls and sitting areas every two hours,” said Mr. Kuttan. Microphone and speaker systems have also been installed to make announcements to tourists to maintain personal distancing at all times and to wear the masks while they are visiting, he added. In the Boat House, boatmen spent the weekend repairing their boats and completed other maintenance works. “The boats have been unused since March, so some of them needed to be repaired,” said one of the boatmen working at the Ooty Boat House. Shopkeepers around the area too said that they would reopen, after many of them remained closed due to the lack of tourists over the last few months.
07 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Railways clarify on special charter train services||The Salem Division of Southern Railways has clarified that a private entity has not taken over operations of the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR). Following reports in sections of the media that a “private party is operating NMR services on Saturday and Sunday with a change in the name,” the Salem Division of Southern Railways stated that the services were charter services specially run for tourists by a private party. “It is clarified that there is not any change in the name of the NMR services between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam,” a release said. The statement added that services were run on Saturday and Sunday, as special charter trains that had been run earlier as well. “But these services are charter special trains and they do not have any bearing on the regular NMR services,” the statement added. The railways said the date of resumption of the services would be communicated to the public.
07 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Crop insurance target exceeded||The crop insurance target under the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme has been exceeded in this district in the wake of fall armyworm attack on maize crop and threat of cyclone Burevi. Farmers have paid the premium for 41,734 hectares (ha) as against the target of 37,180 hectares (ha) of crops. “Though there is more awareness of benefits of crop insurance scheme, the fall armyworm attack on maize has helped a lot,” said a senior official of the Agriculture Department. As against 13,828 ha of maize to be covered, 19,804.50 ha has been brought under the purview of the insurance scheme. Similarly, achievement of insurance for other crops (other than maize and paddy) too has exceeded the target; while the target was 19,852 ha, the coverage till date stands at 12,251.34 ha. But the coverage under the scheme for paddy was 9,768.76 ha as against the target of 12,500 ha till date. This increased coverage has happened though the notification for crop insurance was releaased towards the end of October as against the normal practice of releasing it at around September 15. The delay was attributed to identifying the insurance company, an official said. If a crop is insured, the farmers would get compensation based on loss of yield. “The rules have been changed and the yield loss is now calculated at village level,” the official said. The maximum insured amount would be credited into the accounts of farmers in case of total loss. Though farmers are entitled to get compensation over and above the insured amount in case of crop loss due to natural calamity like rain or storm, officials want the farmers to play it safe and go for registration under insurance scheme. “Officially, there is no loss of crop till date due to natural calamity in Virudhunagar district. Farmers can be compensated only through crop insurance scheme in case of loss due to other factors,” he added. The district administration has made arrangements to pay crop insurance premium at common service centres, cooperative societies and banks. Revenue officials have been asked to help farmers get all documents required for registration at the earliest. Deadline December 21 is the last date to pay premium for maize, sorghum, cumbu, ragi, toor dhal and cotton; January 20, 2021 for sunflower and groundnut; January 31 for sesame and March 16, 2021 for paddy .
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 139 new cases, two deaths||Sixty-two persons tested positive in Salem district on Sunday. According to health officials, 34 were indigenous cases, including 22 in Salem Corporation limits. Twenty-eight patients had returned from Erode, Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Chennai and Namakkal. As per the bulletin, a 65-year-old man from Namakkal died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. In Namakkal, 28 cases were reported. According to officials, eight patients had returned from Coimbatore, Karur, Erode, Perambalur, Salem and Rajasthan. While Dharmapuri saw 23 indigenous cases, Krishnagiri reported 24 indigenous cases. Erode district reported 57 new cases, taking the tally to 12,709. While 78 persons were discharged, 399 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 17 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 7,578. The death toll in the district stood at 42 on Sunday, while the district administration said that 210 people are undergoing treatment. Coimbatore district on Sunday reported 139 new cases, taking the number of active cases to 899. According to the Health Department, 171 persons from the district recovered from the disease and got discharged from different treatment centres in the district on Sunday. Coimbatore district’s toll increased to 619 after two COVID-19 patients aged 71 and 67 died at two different hospitals on December 3 and 5. Tiruppur district reported 72 new cases. Sixty-six persons returned to their homes after recovering from the disease. The district did not report any death due to COVID-19 on Sunday.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Vetrivel Yatra will conclude at Tiruchendur temple as planned’||The BJP’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ will conclude at Sri Subramania Swamy Temple in Tiruchendur on Monday (December 7) as planned, the party’s State president, L. Murugan, said here on Sunday. Addressing the media, Mr. Murugan said the yatra, which began at Tiruttani on November 6, had been planned for 30 days, covering all the important abodes of Lord Muruga. This, he said, was necessitated after “some forces ill-treated the Hindus and the deities”. Barring the BJP, no other outfit or institution objected to the remarks made by a group of people about Kanda Sashti. Only after the BJP's representations did the Tamil Nadu government arrest four persons, including Senthil Vasan, who claimed to be a functionary in the DMK’s IT Wing. As the DMK had not denied this, the people of the State were capable of understanding the forces behind the ill-treatment of the Hindu deities and places of worship, he said. The BJP had planned to cover many districts, but due to COVID-19 and the recent cyclones, it confined the yatra to the abodes of Lord Muruga. MP CM to take part Mr. Murugan said Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan would participate in Monday’s event. Elaborate arrangements have been made for a public meeting at Krishna Nagar, on the Tiruchendur-Tirunelveli Road. “Cadre from various districts would be here, and kalyana mandapams have been booked for their stay,” he added. Police presence A large posse of police personnel, led by DIG (Tirunelveli Range) Praveen Kumar Abinapu and SP Jeyakumar, were present here on Sunday. A police officer said permission had not been given to the BJP for its yatra. The kalyana mandapams had been instructed not to accommodate party cadre. The police have installed check-posts at all entry points.  The BJP had planned to cover many districts, but due to COVID-19 and the recent cyclones, it confined the yatra to the abodes of Lord Muruga
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SDPI stages demonstration in support of demands||About 600 members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged a demonstration on the Babri Masjid demolition anniversary day in support of their demands here on Sunday. The demonstration organised near the Palakkarai roundabout was led by the organisation's district president R. Hassan. The demonstrators urged the Central government and the judiciary to return the Babri Masjid land to the Muslims. They also wanted punishment for those who had demolished the Babri Masjid in December 1992. The demonstration in which several Muslim women took part was held for over one-and-half hours, said the police.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Braving the chill||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||On a sunny day||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New beginning||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CMRL changes Phase II plan||“Since a majority of the priority corridor is underground, it will take a little more time to become operational. We want to finish the construction of the whole project in six years,” the official said. The contracts for the stretch will be awarded early next year. Though the construction from Poonamallee to Power House may be over in three years, time will be needed for installation of the systems required for inspection, officials said. “...since the detailed design component is ready, it is possible to finish the construction in three years without delay, provided the contractor adheres to deadlines. Also, the CMRL will ensure that the land for construction is handed over and traffic permissions are given on time,” another official said and added that land acquisition was nearly complete.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Welfare assistance distributed||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani on Sunday visited Kumarapalayam Municipality here and received petitions from the public. He also distributed welfare assistance to beneficiaries.  Talking to presspersons on damages due to Cyclones Burevi and Nivar, Mr.Thangamani said, “the State Government has requested for Rs. 3,700 crore in the first phase. The Central team is surveying cyclone- affected areas and it would meet the Chief Minister on Tuesday.” He said that power supply has been restored in 90% areas in Cuddalore district. The remaining areas will receive power supply once the water has been cleared, he added.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Garbage and other clinical waste are being dumped near the entrance to Mappillai Vinayagar Nagar under Acthampathu panchayat. The stench from the waste is nauseating. Moreover, it poses a health hazard to the residents. The authorities concerned should take immediate action to stop this practice.  D. Ravichandran,   Madurai    Madurai airport handles international flights every day. But the amenities at the airport are inadequate. There is only one baggage carousel and passengers are forced to wait for long to pick up their belongings. It takes more than two hours for the simple process of identifying baggage and to come out after immigration formalities. It is high time the authorities concerned looked into this and improve the amenities at the airport.  Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The main street in Karattampatti that connects Meenakshipuram, Manparai, Adhanaur and Veliyanur with Musiri town is replete with potholes created due to the rainfall. Pedestrians and motorcycle riders struggle to move on this stretch of road which is also vital for farmers to transport their agricultural produce. The public expect the local body to relay road at once. M. Periyamaliyan, Karattampatti.    The combined efforts of the district administration, Health Department, Revenue Department and City Corporation, and the cooperation of the public are the reason for prevention of COVID-19 spread after Deepavali festival. The fall in the number of average COVID positive cases to 25 per day in the district is a good sign depicting control of the spread of the pandemic. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi.    COVID-19 safety protocol must be enforced with more vigour in public places in Tiruchi city since more number of people seem to have done away with the habit of wearing face masks or maintaining social distancing in temples and shops, particularly along the NSB road. The onus is on the district administration to keep emphasising that the safety protocol must be scrupulously followed. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.    While household waste is collected by the City Corporation in Tiruchi on alternate days, the fallen foliage and tree branches chopped to prevent contact with electricity lines remain on the roadsides for weeks, making the roads look dirty. The City Corporation has to engage workers to clear the roadside wastes along the main thoroughfares and branch roads as well. Only then can Tiruchi occupy a good position in the grading of cleaner cities. Kanagaraj Arthur, Ramalinga Nagar South.    Devotees visiting major temples in Tiruchi look to the HR and CE Department to make sure that the contact numbers of the Executive Officer and the priests are displayed prominently. Only a few famous temples display pooja timings, festivals and information on the historic significance of the ancient structures.  Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal||Muthayammal College of Engineering: AICTE ATAL Academy sponsored five-day online faculty development programme on ‘Quantum Computing’, 10 a.m.  Sengunthar Engineering College: Six-day online short-term training programme on ‘AI- based Novel Power Distribution and Correction Technology, 10 a.m.
07 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Why Belagavi district is difficult to divide||The State Cabinet’s approval for the creation of Vijayanagara district by dividing Ballari has led to demands to divide Belagavi, the biggest district in the State. While the argument for division is that it would help improve administration, the issue in the border district is linked to other concerns, especially linguistic ones. Leaders’ concerns about how it would affect their political careers are also a big factor at play. There are many who feel Belagavi is a case fit for division, given the vastness of the district. It has 506 gram panchayats, the most in Karnataka. The 55 lakh people of the district reside in 18 Assembly segments in 14 taluks. People from some villages in Chikkodi have to travel 200 km to reach the district headquarters. Other big towns such as Chikkodi, Gokak, Bailhongal, Hukkeri, Athani, and Khanapur are deprived of agencies or facilities such as the district central cooperative bank, KMF dairies, consumer dispute reddressal forums, zilla panchayats, NABARD offices, and HESCOM distribution centres. They also have fewer higher educational institutions. However, for linguistic reasons, Kannada organisations have strongly opposed the plan to divide Belagavi district since 1997. The then Chief Minister J.H. Patel’s announcement on the formation of Chikkodi district by dividing Belagavi had sparked off angry protests in Belagavi and surrounding towns. Kannada leaders were apprehensive that Kannada speakers would be reduced to a minority in the district if it were to be divided. Activists protested for 29 days before the State government relented. Patel issued orders withholding the division and said Belagavi would remain undivided till the border dispute with Maharashtra was settled. Political play Satish Jarkiholi, Congress leader and patriarch of the Gokak-based Jarkiholi clan, has now renewed the debate with a demand that Belagavi be, in fact, trifurcated on the lines of Dharwad. “Why can’t Gokak and Chikkodi be separate districts?” he asked. He has argued that the threat of Marathi assertion and the demand for merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra has lost steam. He also claimed that fears of Marathi speakers gaining the upper hand in the zilla panchayat or the district central cooperative bank were “unfounded”. Leaders such as Prabhakar Kore and Mahantesh Kavatagimath have opposed the creation of Chikkodi district, fearing that former Minister and Congress leader Prakash Hukkeri would come to dominate it. However,B.R. Sangappagol, president of Chikkodi Zilla Horata Samiti, has welcomed it, calling it a long-pending demand. Kannada activists, however, are against the idea. “If the Jarkiholi brothers are speaking of carving out Gokak district, it is because they want their fiefdoms. They don’t have the people’s welfare in mind,” said Ashok Chandaragi, convener of the action committee of Kannada associations.  Jarkiholi's argument Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi has demanded that Belagavi be trifurcated. He wants Gokak and Chikkodi to be carved out of Belagavi. He has argued that the threat of Marathi assertion and the demand for merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra has lost steam.
07 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Gram Swaraj — strengthening the grassroots||BJP is organising Gram Swaraj meetings with the declared intention of strengthening its village level units. Senior leaders and Cabinet Ministers speak at these events that are held at hoblis or village clusters. They speak of the achievements of the State government in the rural development sector. They also ask party cadre to prepare for the gram panchayat elections scheduled later this month. The Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act of 1993 mandates that gram panchayat polls are not held on party lines. But the BJP leadership is pro-actively campaigning in the polls for the “party’s candidates”. District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who spoke at a recent event in Gokak, declared that party workers had to work towards electing BJP-supported nominees in 70 %-80 % of the seats in the rural local bodies across the district. Party sources say that the Gram Swaraj meetings are being organised to scout for candidates for the gram panchayat polls. “He who gets actively involved in organising the meetings, raising funds or making speeches at such meetings would be picked for the polls. We have some sitting members in the outgoing gram panchayats but we would also try to field new faces,” said a leader. Gram Panchayat elections would also be used to observe the pulse of village residents and their response towards the administration of the Union or State governments, say leaders. “Public rallies are not feasible for village level polls and we will rely on door-to-door campaign. That is when our cadre will get talking to the people, especially farmers, about governance,’’ said another leader who is part of the team involved in the party’s gram panchayat poll preparations. The party does not think that the opposition to farm law amendments and the delay in distribution of flood-loss relief would affect its chances. “Farmers and village residents are happy with the performance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Centre and B.S. Yediyurappa in the State. We are not worried about other issues that are being politicised by the Opposition,” district unit president Sanjay Patil said. Meanwhile, the district administration has started preparations for the elections. Preliminary work to finalise electoral rolls and verification of electoral photo identity card have been completed. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has planned a series of meetings with officers this week. Notice for the first round will be issued on December 7 and the second round on December 11. Revenue and Excise officers have set up control rooms across the district to ensure smooth conduct of polls. Any person who has information about electoral malpractice or illegal activities regarding sale, trade, transport of alcohol can call the following numbers — Ph: 0831-2475192, 08288-233717, 9241767667, 0831-2475193, 9740770414, 0831-2475193, 8277365833, 08338-274765 and 9902021934.
07 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Blind belief opposition day organised in Gokak||Members of Manava Bandhutva Vedike organised the death anniversary of Ambedkar as blind belief opposition day in Gokak on Sunday. Vedike founder and KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi said that the future of India was in removing blind belief from society. He said that blind belief was the root of all social and economic problems in the country. “The vedike is guided by the principles of Lord Buddha, Basaveshwara and Ambedkar. It is against blind belief. It is not against the common belief systems in society. We are working hard to eradicate irrational belief systems and the forces that tend to enforce them on the unsuspecting people and the poor,” he said. Sri Sharana Basava Devaru of Charanteshwar Mutt spoke of the contribution of Basaveshwara and other Sharanas in promoting scientific thinking and the spirit of inquiry. Other leaders Jeevan Manjrekar, Jyotba Subunji, Rahul Jarkiholi and others were present.  Blind belief is the root of all social and economic problems in the country, says Manava Bandhutva Vedike
07 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Protest staged in Terdal, Mahalingpur||Congress leaders staged a protest in Mahalingpur and Terdal in Bagalkot district on Saturday and Sunday, against Siddu Savadi, MLA and other BJP leaders, for their alleged assault on women members of the Town Municipal Council in Mahalingpur last month. They took out a rally in Terdal on Saturday and demanded action against the BJP members. A rally was held in Mahalingpur on Sunday. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said that the BJP leaders were driven only by their desire to win elections and were using unethical means for that purpose. “BJP leaders were openly anti-women and were defending their violent acts. This should be a pointer to women to understand the real intentions of the BJP leaders who were driven by their anti-women ideology,” he said. Police failure The former Minister Umashree, who addressed the protestors, said that the State police had failed to protect the women members from being assaulted. She said that the BJP had influenced the police to see that the names of the MLA and his supporters were not included in the police complaint and that cases were registered against unidentified miscreants. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar demanded serious action and said that the Congress would protest across the State, against the Mahalingpur incident.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most districts fail to achieve COVID-19 testing targets||Though the number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka has been steadily declining over the last few weeks, health experts have warned the government not to get complacent when it comes to testing. Despite this, around 25 of the 30 districts in the State have not met the testing targets that they were given over the last week. The State, on an average, has met 98.9% of its testing targets but this is due to five districts that have exceeded their targets. Chikkamagaluru and Bengaluru Urban are among the districts that have conducted tests over and above their targets. Both these districts have achieved a testing percentage of 132%. Meanwhile, Bidar district is lagging behind in this area and has met only 46.5% of its testing targets. Ramachandra R., Deputy Commissioner, Bidar, said that they will soon ramp up testing. “Now, we have been given the go ahead to conduct around 2,500 tests per day. Earlier, our target was around 600 tests per day. We are now able to conduct around 1,600 tests per day and plan to soon meet the target given by the Department of Health and Family Welfare,” he said. He added that they have received instructions to focus on college students and enrol them for tests. This comes in the wake of colleges reopening on November 17. On an average, the State government has been attempting to conduct 1 lakh tests each day. So far as many as 1.1 crore tests have been conducted in the State since March. With the administration gearing up for a possible ‘second wave’ at the end of the year, doctors say that there is a need for all districts to conduct rigorous testing so that cases are detected early and primary and secondary contacts of patients are immediately quarantined and the spread is curtailed.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bangalore Literature Festival on Dec. 12, 13||The ninth edition of Bangalore Literature Festival (BLF) is to be held on December 12-13, but unlike previous editions, it will be a low-key affair in keeping with the restrictions in force owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. It will be a hybrid event with a small gathering at the Bangalore International Centre in Domlur while the sessions will be streamed live. “We were keen on keeping the BLF alive without a break,” said V. Ravichandar, one of the key organisers of BLF. “Several authors are not yet comfortable travelling to the city. So this year, the focus is on Bengaluru-based authors while a few others will join the sessions virtually.” BLF began accepting registrations on Sunday. People wanting to attend the festival in person have to intimate the organisers in advance. “We do not want to host a large crowd at BIC in view of the pandemic,” said Mr. Ravichandar, also honorary director of BIC, that has partnered with BLF. List of authors BLF has announced the list of authors who will be part of the festival this year. The list includes marquee names like Jeffrey Archer, Chetan Bhagat and Alexander McCall Smith. Other writers are city-based Vivek Shanbhag, Vasudhendra, Jahnvi Barua, Anuja Chauhan, Usha K.R., Sudha Murthy, Amandeep Sandhu, Mamata Sagar and Pratibha Nandakumar. Those who will join the event virtually include Siddhartha Vaidyanathan, Tanuj Solanki, former RAW chief A.S. Dulat and former ISI chief Assad Durrani.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Significant decline in ICU cases||There has been a significant decline in the number of critical COVID-19 patients being monitored in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) of various hospitals in November and early December. As on December 6, while four districts had zero ICU cases, Bengaluru Urban had the highest with 143. The next highest was Tumakuru at 23. Uttara Kannada, Koppal, Chitradurga, and Haveri had one case each. After seeing above 900 critical cases till the end of October, the State witnessed a decline in the number of critical patients since November 6 when cases fell in the under 900 bracket. Following this, there was a further reduction and cases hovered around 800 till November 12. Subsequently, the number of ICU cases fell to below 800 and then below 700 from November 17 and in another two days the number further dropped to below 600. From then onwards critical cases started declining by nearly 100 every five days. Since the last two days, critical cases have fallen in the under 300 bracket. As on Sunday, the number of ICU patients remained at 280.  Overall cases Doctors said the fall in ICU cases is proportionate to the reduction in the overall positive cases. “It is scientifically difficult to determine if the fall in critical cases actually indicates that the virus is less virulent now,” said C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force. Early detection Anoop Amarnath, member, Karnataka’s COVID-19 critical care support unit (CCSU), who also heads the department of Geriatric Medicine at Manipal Hospitals, said most people now report early to hospitals due to increased awareness. “Early detection and early intervention always help in early recovery. The decline in the number of patients turning critical is mainly because of this. Also, the stigma that was associated with COVID-19 in the initial months has decreased and most people are now not averse to getting tested and treated,” he said. Standardisation Dr. Anoop said standardisation of treatment across the board for asymptomatic, mild, moderate and severe cases and also in management of SARI and ILI cases has also contributed to the decline in the number of critical cases. On Bengaluru having the highest number of critical cases, the doctor said this was because the city sees a lot of complex cases. “As a tertiary/quaternary referral centre, it is expected to see this kind of number vis-à-vis the population,” he added.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka farmers plan six-hour bandh, protests on Tuesday||A series of protests have been planned across the State on Tuesday to express solidarity with the Bharat Bandh called by farmers protesting in Delhi demanding that the Union government repeal the three farm laws. There has been an overwhelming support for the cause among farmer organisations in the State. Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmer, labour and Dalit groups, will start an indefinite sit-in protest in Bengaluru on Monday. Some farmers from the State have also reached Delhi and joined the agitation. Karnataka’s own amendment to farm laws have further strengthened their resolve to fight, say farmers’ groups. Six hours The Karnataka Chapter of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee (AIKSCC), a coalition of several farmer organisations, has called for a six-hour bandh on Tuesday. “We request all citizens of the State to voluntarily cease all businesses and operations from 6 a.m. till noon on Tuesday in solidarity with farmers,” a statement from AIKSCC said. “Unlike in North India, this is the season for agricultural work. So we have called for a six-hour bandh,” G.C. Bayyareddy, State convener, AIKSCC, said. The lack of response by businesses already reeling under losses owing to the pandemic to the recent Karnataka bandh call, was also a factor that made organisations rethink the idea of a day-long bandh, sources said. While a section of taxi drivers has supported the bandh, others are unlikely to do so, sources said. Meanwhile, farmer organisations have planned a series of decentralised protests in all taluks of the State to take the message to the grassroots. All-India Kisan Khet Mazdoor Sanghatan and Raitha Krishi Karmika Sanghatane held a series of simultaneous protests at taluk offices in several districts, including Belagavi, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Davangere, and Gadag among others. More such protests are planned. Beyond agriculture Farmers’ leader and former Union Minister Babagouda Patil said the three farm laws have the potential to destroy India, not just agriculture. “If we do not wake up now, we will regret it,” he said. He argued the laws will only open up the country’s food market for manipulation by international grain trading MNCs, who would resort to hoarding and artificially driving up prices, affecting consumers, but leaving farmers in the lurch. “It is now a question of survival and hence every farmer in every village will participate in the agitation,” said farmers’ leader Kurabur Shanthakumar. He accused the Centre of not being sincere in listening to farmers who are agitating in Delhi since the last few days and was instead engaged in prolonging the discussion to wear out farmers and break the agitation.
07 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Deadline extended||The deadline for submitting online applications for the All-India Sainik School Entrance Examination (AISSEE) has been extended up to 5 p.m of December 18. According to an official release, candidates who want to make corrections to any of the details submitted in their exam application form may do so through the correction window over on https://aissee.nta.nic.in. AISSEE 2021-22 has been rescheduled and will now be held on February 7, 2021, the release stated.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. to push for White Paper on State’s finances||The Congress will urge the BJP government to bring out a White Paper on the State’s finances during the winter session, which gets under way on Monday. Congress Legislature Party leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said various districts in the State have been affected by floods thrice this year and victims have not been compensated yet. “We believe that there are irregularities in power purchase. All these issues will be discussed in the session,” he told presspersons on Sunday after holding discussions with Congress leaders at his residence to strategise the party’s stand on the floor of the House. He also said that the State’s finances were in bad shape and that the government did not have money to pay employees their salaries, old age pension, and widow pension, among other things. On proposed Bills At a time when the model code of conduct will be in place for the gram panchayat elections, the introduction of an anti-cow slaughter Bill and a “love jihad” law will have an impact on the elections and will be in violation of the poll code, he added. ‘Test for JD(S)’ Mr. Siddaramaiah also said the no-confidence motion that the ruling BJP is set to move against Council chairman Pratap Chandra Shetty would be “a test for the secular credentials” of the Janata Dal (S). “I have asked Mr. Shetty not to resign yet. Let us see whether the JD(S) will vote for secularism or will side with communal forces,” he said.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,321 new cases, 10 deaths||As many as 1,321 new COVID 19 cases were reported in the State on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases touched 8.93 lakh. The number of discharges on Sunday stood at 889, taking the total to 8.55 lakh. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 10 COVID-19 deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total toll to 11,856. Meanwhile, of the 25,381 active cases in the State, 280 patients were admitted in ICUs across the State. As many as 99,320 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Saturday. The positivity rate of the day was 1.33%, while the case fatality rate for the day stood at 0.75%.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Awards for translated works announced||The Kuvempu Bhasha Bharati Authority has announced awards for translated works published in the year 2019-20.  Indira Bai , the translation of the first modern Kannada novel into English, by Prof. Vanamala Viswanatha and Dr. Shivarama Padikkal, has bagged the award for best translated work from Kannada into English. Prof. V. Krishnamurthy Rao’s translation of 70 poems of W.B. Yeats has bagged the award for best translated work from English into Kannada. B. Narasinga Rao’s translation of former ASI official K.K. Muhammed’s autobiography in Malayalam Nyan Enna Bharatiyan and Ajay Verma Alluri’s translation of Telugu writer Volga’s Vimukte have been awarded for translation of works from other Indian languages into Kannada. Ranganatha Ramachandra Rao’s translation of a Kum. Veerabhadrappa’s work as Kurrodu Trishoolam Pattina Katha has bagged the award for best translated work from Kannada into other Indian languages. M. Narasimha Bhat, Kasaragodu, D.N. Srinath, Shivamogga, Dr. M. Shivakumara Swamy, Dr. C. Shivakumaraswamy and Lakshmikanth S. Hegde, all three from Bengaluru, have been awarded the annual honorary award for the year 2020-21.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Raising Day||Home Guards and Civil Defence celebrated the 58th Raising Day function in their quarters at Ulsoor in Bengaluru on Sunday. Amar Kumar Pandey, IPS, Inaugurated and the function and felicitated ‘Corona Warriors’ and ‘Hunger Warriors’ at the event. Medical and blood donation camps were also organised. A total of 132 members underwent health check up and 62 units of blood were donated on the occasion. A route march was held to create awareness about Home Guards and Civil Defence.
07 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||65-year-old falls to death while taking off film poster||A 65-year-old security guard, died on the spot after falling from a 30-feet-high billboard at Triveni theatre in Majestic on Sunday morning. The incident occurred while the victim, Chandrappa, was removing a poster allegedly at the behest of the theatre manager. No safety precautions “Our preliminary investigations revealed that the theatre manager offered Chandrappa Rs. 600 to do the job. Chandrappa lost his balance and fell to the ground. He died on the spot,” said a police officer, adding that there were no safety precautions in place when the deceased was made to remove the poster. The Upparpet police registered an FIR against the manager of the theatre charging him for death due to negligence, and have summoned the management for questioning. According to the police, Chandrappa is a resident of R.T. Nagar. He was hired from a security agency in Sultanpalya. “He had been working at the theatre for 10 years. His job was to not only guard the premises but also remove posters,” the police officer added.
07 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minor girl raped in Shivamogga||A minor girl, who was taking care of her mother at the COVID-19 ward at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga, was raped by a hospital staff member and three of his friends on Saturday. Manoj, the prime accused working in the hospital on contract, befriended the 16-year-old, who had been taking care of her mother. As the district administration had clamped prohibitory orders in the city since Thursday owing to clashes, she had difficulty in procuring food. Manoj promised her to get food from a hotel. Believing him, she got into his car, where three of his friends were already there. They allegedly took her to a distant place and raped her. The girl, who was in trauma, was dropped back to the hospital late in the night. She narrated the incident to her mother, who in turn brought the issue to the notice of the hospital staff. The Doddapete police have registered a case. The police are said to have taken two accused into custody.
07 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ambedkar’s contribution remembered||Former Minister and JD(S) State president H.K. Kumaraswamy wept in public recalling the contribution of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar in a programme organised to pay homage to the architect of the Constitution on his death anniversary here on Sunday. “He passed away when he was 65 years old, an early age. If he was with us for a few more years, he would have fought against the social evils effectively. It is sad, even decades after India got independence, that we have not realised the objectives of our Constitution. Dalits and backward people have not grown economically and socially,” he said. Hassan ZP president Shwetha Devaraj said Dr. Ambedkar fought for the emancipation of Dalits, women and all backward sections of society. “People have to ensure women are provided with education and that would be one of the ways to pay homage to Dr. Ambedkar,” she said.
07 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man hacked to death over personal enmity||A person was hacked to death at a canteen near Sanskrit Bhavan here on Saturday evening. Raghu, 23, a resident of Rangolihalla, was attacked by four people with lethal weapons. The police said Raghu had personal enmity with Bhavith and Tejas, residents of Rangolihalla, who are among the accused in the incident.
07 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man falls from coconut tree, dies||A person died after falling from a coconut tree in Sakleshpur on Saturday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Chandru of Uchchangi village in Sakleshpur taluk.
07 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman dies; family alleges murder for dowry||A woman was allegedly murdered by her husband over dowry at Dodderi Kaval in Channarayapatna taluk on Saturday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Akhila, a native of Bengaluru, who was married to Santhosh four years ago. Akhila’s father Eshwaraiah told the police that his son-in-law had harassed his daughter for two years demanding dowry.
07 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ambedkar’s role in nation-building remembered||Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna remembered the crucial role played by Bharat Ratna B.R. Ambedkar in nation-building and called upon people to follow in his footsteps and inculcate his values in their lives to achieve their aims and uplift society. She was addressing a gathering after paying floral tributes to the architect of the Constitution Dr. Ambedkar on his 64th death anniversary, which is also observed as Mahaparinirvan Divas, here on Sunday. Framing the Constitution is the greatest contribution of Dr. Ambedkar to society, which would play an important role in the democratic system. Dr. Ambedkar has strived to improve the condition of the backward castes and uplift the downtrodden, Ms. Jyothsna said. Ms. Jyothsna unfurled the Panchsheela flag, while Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer P. Raja hoisted the Asoka Chakra flag. Police Commissioner N Satish Kumar, Superintendent of Police Simi Miriam George and Sanganand Banthe of Siddarth Vihar Trust were present.
07 December 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||A ‘gift’ to leader or people?||Despite repeated claims to the contrary by the government, the bifurcation of Ballari district seems to be motivated by political compulsions and not administrative convenience, going by the way it is being implemented. One of the reasons cited for the division is that Ballari town, the district headquarters of undivided Ballari, is far away from some taluks and this causes inconvenience to residents in some corners. However, the choice of Hosapete, situated at the northern end of the new district, as headquarters goes against this logic. While there was a demand to make Harapanahalli the headquarters, that too is located is at the southern end of the district. Many see the bifurcation and choice of headquarters more as a “gift” by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to Forest Minister Anand Singh, the MLA for Hosapete, rather than to the people who have been inconvenienced by distance issues. He was among the MLAs who migrated to the BJP and helped topple the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. He is also a strategic counterweight to the Reddy brothers. This was evident in the opposition from G. Somashekhar Reddy and B. Sriramulu to the bifurcation, though it was short-lived. Now, with political leaders going quiet, the voices against bifurcation too have died down after a symbolic protest last week.
07 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Scholarship||Dr. P.S. Shankar Prathisthan has invited applications from poor and meritorious medical students who joined MBBS course this academic year for monthly scholarships till the end of their course [from 2020 to 2024]. Secretary of the prathisthan Narendra Badasheshi in a release on Sunday said students pursuing first year MBBS are eligible for applying for the scholarship. Candidates can download applications from www.psshankarprathisthan.in and submit them with details, including photocopies of PU and CET mark sheets, to Narendra Badasheshi, secretary, P.S. Shankar Prathisthan, # 1-11-21-E, Khuba Plot, Kalaburagi 585102, before December 20. For further details, call Ph: 9448813514.
07 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||DKMUL posts 4.25% growth in 2019-20||Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Union Ltd. (DKMUL) posted a 4.25 % growth by registering a net profit of Rs. 7.07 crore during 2019-20, according to union president Raviraj Hegde. Speaking at the annual general body meeting of the cooperative conducted in the virtual mode on Saturday, he said that the cooperative collected 4,36,936 kg of milk from 729 milk cooperative societies at an average 602 kg of milk from each cooperative during the period, he said. He thanked the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) for releasing Rs. 2.50 crore during 2019-20 for building a milk dairy in Manipal. The amount was due to DKMUL from a total of Rs. 10 crore sanctioned for the construction of the dairy. Various awards, prizes and certificates were distributed on the occasion. Koyyur Milk Producers Society in Belthangady taluk in Dakshina Kannada was chosen the best cooperative society of DKMUL. Shivapura Milk Producers Cooperative Society in Karkala taluk was adjudged the best society in Udupi district. While Tannirupantha Milk Producers Cooperative Society was the best society in Dakshina Kannada. The taluk-wise best milk cooperative society awards were presented to 16 societies.
07 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cow shelters to get grants as they agree to host 41 head of unwanted cattle||With 13 Gou Shalas (shelter for cattle) in Dakshina Kannada agreeing to accommodate unwanted cattle from among the 41 stationed at the State Livestock Breeding and Training Centre in Koila, Puttur, the State government has initiated the process to release grants to them for 2020-21. In October 2020, the State Animal Welfare Board issued a notification stating that the government will accept proposals seeking grants from only those registered Gou Shalas that agree to take care of unwanted, sick and other cattle to be handed over to them by government-controlled agencies. During a meeting of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Dakshina Kannada, on November 9, which was chaired by Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, Deputy Director of Livestock Breeding and Training Centre Henry Lasrado said that the centre had 41 head of unwanted cattle, including 22 Malanadu Gidda (male) and 12 Murra breeds. With lack of staff and unavailability of funds, Dr. Lasrado said, it had become difficult to take care of the 41 head of cattle at the over 700-hectare livestock centre. Representatives of Gou Shalas said that with grants of Rs. 17 per head of cattle and restricting such grants to 200 head of cattle, it was difficult for Gou Shalas to take care of such unwanted cattle, with their limited funds. To this, Dr. Rajendra said that he will take a decision on the issue after getting a report about the prevailing conditions at the livestock centre. According to Dr. Lasrado, Dr. Rajendra visited the livestock centre and was convinced of the need for Gou Shalas to take care of the 41 head of cattle. Dr. Lasrado said that the notification from the State Welfare Board is based on the order of the High Court of Karnataka. Meanwhile, Dr. Lasrado said that 28 head of unwanted cattle have been taken in by the 13 registered Gou Shalas in Dakshina Kannada. “The remaining 13 head of cattle will be taken in by a Gou Shala in Dharwad district shortly,” he said and added that giving away unwanted cattle was an annual exercise. Deputy Director of Department of Animal Husbandry P.G. Prasanna Kumar said a proposal has been sent to release grants to five Gou Shalas. Proposals for the remaining eight Gou Shalas will be sent shortly. The total grants sought for by the 13 Gou Shalas for 2020-11 comes to nearly Rs. 1 crore. As per the direction of the High Court, the State government has released Rs. 16.89 lakh for this year to eight Gou Shalas to meet exigencies in view of the COVID-19 situation.
07 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Plastic-free village movement launched||A movement to make Madappady village in Sullia taluk plastic-free was launched on Saturday. Probationary IAS officer Mona Roth inaugurated the programme at Madappady Gram Panchayat Auditorium. She launched the initiative by distributing rice in lieu of collected plastic to general public and said that everyone should develop the habit of reducing plastic use. The programme was organised by Dakshina Kannada Working Journalists Association and Sullia Taluk Working Journalists Association that had arranged the Grama Vastavya in the village. Speaking on the occasion, Sullia Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer N. Bhavanishankar complimented journalists associations for joining hands with the administration to address civic problems. He said that a 100 toilets had been built in Madappady village so far. Though plastic could not be completely eradicated, one has to reduce its use as far as possible. He asked officials to curtail the use of plastic banners, buntings, flexes. Mr. Bhavanishankar also told officials to spread the message that 10 kg rice would be provided in lieu of one kilogram of plastic among villagers. Dakshina Kannada Journalists Association president Srinivas Nayak Indaje said that after the Grama Vastavya, the initiative could not be taken forward much because of COVID-19 lockdown. The plastic-free movement would be continued every month by the gram panchayat, he said and added that the rice to be given in exchange of plastic would be provided by the association. Madappady Panchayat Administrator Suresh, Panchayat Development Officer Dhanapathi, Sullia Journalists Association president Krishna Betta and others were present.
07 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Accelerate implementation of govt. schemes, Udupi district admn. officials told||Udupi district in-charge secretary M.T. Reju on Saturday asked officials to take up full-fledged implementation of government schemes and programmes during December and January as there was a complete lag in their implementation due to COVID-19. Presiding over a district review meeting in Udupi, Mr. Reju said that the government had announced many schemes and formulated programmes for the welfare of the people during the budget. However, they could not be implemented up to the expected level due to the pandemic. After gathering details about the loss of property and agricultural crops due to heavy rain in the district, Mr. Reju asked officials to extend necessary assistance to people to come out of the trauma and help rebuild their houses. Sufficient attention should also be given to arrange for drinking water facilities to people in rural as well as urban areas. The administration should draw up permanent development plans besides providing employment to people under the employment guarantee scheme, he said. Taking note of unscientific marine fishing activities in the district, Mr. Reju said that he had been getting complaints about them. The Fisheries Department should take necessary action to curb such activities, he told the Deputy Director of the department. He noted that only Rs. 31 crore out of the Rs. 38 crore released for loan waiver for fisherwomen was released to 11,000 beneficiaries in the last two years. Officials should set right bank account details of the remaining 4,050 beneficiaries and disburse the amount, he said. The budget proposals are planned on the feedback on needs from the district-level, Mr. Reju said and asked officials from every department to submit the list of demands well ahead of the deadline. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha, Zilla Panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat, Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan, Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu and others were present.
07 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana artiste dead||Senior Yakshagana artiste Krishnaiah Manjaiah Shetty who was popularly called Bannada Kusta for his Bannada Vesha, passed away at a private hospital in Honnavar, Uttara Kannada, on Sunday. Manjaiah Shetty, who was also called Kusta Ganiga, was 89. He is survived by his wife and five daughters. Condoling his death, president and secretary of Udupi Yakshagana Kalaranga M. Gangadhar Rao and Murali Kadekar, respectively, said that the late artiste had toured in Yakshagana melas of Karki, Gundabala, Idagunji and Amruteshwari for five decades. Manjaiah Shetty, from Badagu Thittu school of Yakshagana, was noted for his roles of Kirata and various Bannada Vesha.
07 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Add names of eligible youngsters to voter list’||Secretary in-charge of Udupi district M.T. Reju has asked Udupi district administration to include eligible youngsters who have not yet registered their names in the voter list during the on-going revision of the list. Addressing a meeting related to revision of voter list in Udupi on Saturday, he said that the revision exercise should be carried out in a transparent manner without giving scope for any lapses. The names of those voters who have died and who have registered their names in more than one constituency should be dropped during the revision. Such voters should be identified by taking the help of political parties. Applications related to the change of names and transfers should be carefully reviewed. Tahsildars should approve of the revised list with due care, he said. Mr. Reju asked representatives of political parties to bring to the notice of the district administration lapses in the voter list, if any. They should get the draft of the revised voter list, study them properly and file objections, if any. They should also create awareness among people on including the names of eligible youngsters in the list. Mr. Reju asked Tahsildars not to delay processing the applications related to inclusion, deletion, correction and transfer. The revised draft should be prepared with utmost care, he said.
07 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Public entry to temple fair inside Bandipur Tiger Reserve banned||Taking cognizance of the prevailing pandemic and the imperatives of avoiding crowding, the authorities have banned public participation in the annual temple fair at Beladakuppe in Hediyala range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve. The Forest Department had made a strong case for ban on public participation in the Beladakuppe Mahadeshwara temple jathra, which is scheduled to be held between December 13 and 16 in view of COVID-19 and to minimise disturbance to wildlife. After assessing the prevailing conditions, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri passed a directive banning the entry of people to the temple located inside the core area of the tiger reserve. However, the temple priests and the temple committee members have been permitted to conduct rituals within the inner precincts of the temple, the Deputy Commissioner’s directive said. The department had argued that the pandemic and the imperatives of maintaining social distancing were reason enough to ban the entry of public to the temple. They also pointed out that even the Mysuru Dasara celebrations had been reduced to a symbolic affair while there are stringent restrictions in place even for the Panchalinga Darshana to be held from December 10 to 19 at Talakadu. The temple fair inside the core area of a tiger reserve is fraught with danger for both humans and wildlife and Hediyala is already an epicentre for human-animal conflicts. Activists have argued that allowing the temple fair without reducing its scope will only aggravate the conflict. The jathra was not a major event till a few years ago but has gained in popularity over the years. So much so that despite restriction on the movement of private vehicles, scores of buses were pressed into service to transport the local villagers while stage events and use of loudspeaker became the norm. Besides, make-shift kitchen was used to prepare food to cater to the visiting devotees. The leftovers would draw the animals and the change in dietary pattern and loss of fear of humans would only draw them closer to villages aggravating the conflict situation besides rendering the animals susceptible to be poached. Assistant Conservator of Forests of Hediyala range Ravi Kumar said earlier the congregation used to be confined to the annual jathra but in recent years the temple is beginning to draw people on all days considered auspicious as per the almanac. Though efforts were made to secure the consent of all stakeholders to relocate the temple, it has not yielded any results so far. But activists are relieved that there is a reprieve for the wildlife this year and hope to find a permanent solution before the next year’s event.
07 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Save Constitution’ campaign launched||Kannada littérateur Devanur Mahadeva said here on Sunday that all political parties should come together to “save the Constitution” as people ill-disposed to it are at the helm of affairs in the country. Speaking at the 64th Mahaparinirvana Day of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at the Institution of Engineers, organised by Federation of Dalit Organisations, Mr. Mahadeva also launched the mass awareness campaign by releasing a pamphlet calling for “saving the Constitution”. Mr. Mahadeva said the thoughts and views of Dr. Ambedkar were relevant in contemporary times and the concerns aired by him had begun to come true. There are personalities in history who continue to live through their thoughts and views and remain relevant to the contemporary world long past after their demise and Dr. Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi were among them. Expressing concern over the developments in the country, Mr. Mahadeva said the BJP and the Centre’s attitude towards thousands of farmers who have gathered in Delhi to protest against the farm laws, indicate that it lacked a humane approach. The BJP was opposed to reservation for those who have been exploited in society for thousands of years and this underlined its opposition to the concept of social justice, he said. The campaign will be held throughout the State till April 14.
07 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kumaraswamy’s remark on Congress sparks reactions||Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy’s regret over aligning with the Congress to form a coalition government after the 2018 Assembly polls has sparked reactions from across the political spectrum. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, a former Congressman, who was among the 17 coalition MLAs crossing over to the BJP, clarified that he was not among the followers of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. When his attention was drawn to Mr. Kumaraswamy’s accusation against Mr. Siddaramaiah and “his group” for destroying the goodwill he enjoyed among the people, Mr. Somashekar said he was already in the Congress before Mr. Siddaramaiah joined the party. Claiming that he was a disciplined soldier of the party as long as he was in the party, Mr. Somashekar sought to make it clear that he was not part of “Mr. Siddaramaiah’s group”.  Mahadevappa reacts Mr. Kumaraswamy’s statement, however, invited much criticism from former Minister H.C. Mahadevappa. In a tweet, Mr. Mahadevappa criticised the former Chief Minister’s statement that he was ruined by joining hands with the Congress because of his father H.D. Deve Gowda’s penchant for secularism. He said Mr. Kumaraswamy’s statement was a blemish on the party’s name - Janata Dal (Secular). The JD(S), which was at one point of time strongly proclaiming that it would be equidistant from both the Congress and BJP, had ended up striking an understanding with both the parties for the sake of power, he said. By blurring the difference between “secularism” and “communalism”, Mr. Kumaraswamy had shown that he can make any kind of statement for the sake of power, Mr. Mahadevappa said. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha claimed Mr. Kumaraswamy had become a household name when he joined hands with the BJP and formed government. The BJP leader recalled Mr. Kumaraswamy’s village stays among other initiatives. Finally, the JD(S) leader has realised the mistake he had committed by forming a government with Congress, he added.
07 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Gram panchayat elections: BJP ahead of Congress, JD(S) in Yadgir||As the elections for the gram panchayats have been announced, all major political parties — the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) — have started choosing candidates indirectly and extending support to them to make for themselves a strong political bastion in the rural areas and at the same time, prepare and be ready to face the upcoming zilla and taluk panchayat elections. Elections to 119 gram panchayats in Yadgir district will be held in two phases, on December 22 and 27. There are 123 gram panchayats in the district but elections will be held to 119, as Hunsagi Gram Panchayat has been upgraded as a town panchayat, two gram panchayats are not voting as cases are pending before courts and the tenure of one gram panchayat will end by next year. The BJP is ahead of the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) as it has already started a campaign in the name of Gram Swaraj. A programme was held in Shahapur recently to give a boost to party workers in creating awareness among voters about government schemes and get more number of seats in the elections and make a strong base for the taluk and zilla panchayat elections probably scheduled in April next year. ‘PM, CM doing well’ “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa have been doing well for the people with the implementation of new projects and schemes. And, empowerment of villages is the prime focus of the two governments. Thus, we organised Gram Swaraj programmes in the district and conveyed the message to the people as we will register victory in more than 80 % of gram panchayat seats,” district president of the BJP Sharanabhupal Reddy told The Hindu . The government’s move to release Rs. 1.50 crore for each gram panchayats to implement schemes under MGNREGA will definitely take villages to a different level, he added. ‘Anti-incumbency’ Meanwhile, the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) believe that the “anti-incumbency” factor will help them in the elections as the common people and farmers are fed up with the bad governance of the both Union and State governments. “The State government has not only failed to take up development works but also to handle COVID-19. Rampant corruption at all levels has affected administration. Vijayendra, son of the Chief Minister, has been interfering in the administration which has prevented officers in taking up development works in the rural areas. All these factors will help us in the gram panchayat elections,” Nagangowda Kandkur, MLA and district president of the Janata Dal(S), said. The Congress also planned to convince the voters to support it, while highlighting the failure of the governments and other issues, including ongoing farmers protest, and try to convert public anger into votes. “This time, we will send a strong message to both the Union and State governments by helping more number of candidates supported by the party win the elections and make a ground for the taluk and zilla panchayat elections,” Marigowda Patil Hulkal, president of the District Congress Committee, said. Out of the 119 gram panchayats, 63 (24 in Shahapur, 21 in Surpur and 18 in Hunsagi) will face elections in the first phase on December 22. The remaining 56 gram panchayats (22 in Yadgir, 17 each in Wadagera and Gurmitkal) will go to the polls in the second phase on December 27. As many as 9,96,446 voters, who are eligible to exercise their franchise, will decide the fate of 2,291 candidates in the district.
07 December 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Services of private doctors lauded||State president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Karnataka, Venkatachalapathy, has said that private doctors serving in government hospitals during COVID-19 is laudable. He was addressing a programme organised by the district unit of the IMA in Yadgir. Dr. Venkatachalapathy said that COVID-19 had made life miserable. Several thousands of people faced hardship. Patients started rushing to government-run health care centres and designated hospitals. And, private doctors, who extended support to the district administration, served patients in government hospitals, putting their lives at risk. Veeresh Jaka, secretary of IMA in Yadgir, was feted.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘BBMP passing the buck by targeting us for patrons not wearing masks’||The decision of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to hold the managements of spaces, such as malls and marriage halls, responsible for patrons failing to wear masks or follow social distancing rules has not gone down well with the proprietors. In an attempt to curb the spread of COVID-19 in ‘super-spreader’ events, the BBMP had on Saturday announced that owners could be fined from anywhere between Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 1 lakh if guests are found flouting the rules. Hotels, small shops, restaurants, hotels, party halls, department stores, malls, cinema halls, multiplexes, marriage halls and community halls will also be fined. Owners, however, are up in arms against the imposition of fines and accused the civic body of passing the buck. Uday B. Garudachar, Chikpete MLA and head of Garuda Group that has three shopping malls, termed the move as “frivolous”. He said malls have been following the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the government. “Beyond this, it is difficult to enforce the rules. It is not right to penalise the mall owner, who may not even be present in the mall,” he said and added that he would raise the issue with BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. An owner of a marriage hall in Seshadripuram said, “We were struggling following the lockdown and the restrictions. The marriage season is coming to an end now and booking will start only in February.” Vaishak S., owner of The Royal Hall near Dr. M.C. Modi Eye Hospital, said the civic body might as well impose a complete lockdown. “It is the responsibility of individual citizens to wear masks, maintain social distance, etc. We are taking all precautions. How right is it for penalties to be levied against us if patrons are not wearing masks?” Manisha Porwal, founder of Color Palette Productions, an event management company, said they could hardly police their customers. “While we insist that patrons wear masks, even going to the extent of giving away colour coordinated and customised masks, we can’t really go behind them and force them to wear them,” she said. Meanwhile, hotel associations and restaurateurs said the rules cannot be applicable to them given that they offer dining facilities. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president of Karnataka Regional Hotel and Restaurants’ Federation, said that people go to various eateries. “How can owners insist that their customers wear masks? This is impractical and cannot be implemented,” he said, and added that if the BBMP insists on levying penalties, the Association would be forced to protest. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad maintained that if eateries follow the SOP, fines may not be levied. “We are more concerned about public events where a large number of people gather. This could result in an explosion of positive cases,” he said. With regard to marriage and convention halls, he said conditional permission is given to event organisers and owners. “When that is given, it becomes their responsibility to ensure that everybody in attendance wears masks, uses sanitisers and maintains social distance,” he added.  While we insist that patrons wear masks, even going to the extent of giving away colour coordinated and customised masks, we can’t really go behind them and force them to wear them Manisha Porwal, founder, Color Palette Productions   Malls have been following the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the government. Beyond this, it is difficult to enforce the rules Uday B. Garudachar, Chikpete MLA and head of Garuda Group
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CCB arrests owner of illegal loan and finance company||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police, on Sunday, arrested a 42-year-old man for allegedly running an illegal financial services business offering personal loans at exorbitant rates of interest . According to officials, the accused, Nagaraj Shetty, is a resident of Vyalikaval. He opened Balaji Finance without the necessary permissions and targeted small-time businessmen in and around Vyalikaval and Malleswaram. A CCB team raided his house and seized Rs. 22 lakh in cash, 164 cheques, 84 on-demand promissory notes, and multiple sets of property documents that he had taken from borrowers as collateral. ‘Client’ files complaint Preliminary investigation revealed that Nagaraj had been running the business for many years. One of his ‘clients’, Sunil Kumar, a cloth merchant from Malleswaram, told the police that he had taken a Rs. 5 lakh loan from Nagaraj in 2017 and was paying instalments regularly. But the accused allegedly started demanding more money citing an increase in the interest on the principal amount. Unable to bear the harassment, Sunil approached the Vyalikaval police and filed a complaint. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant transferred the case to the CCB. “Clients of the accused, who wish to lodge complaints, can approach the CCB head office in Chamarajpet,” said a senior CCB official.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Residents tense following rumours of leopard attack||Residents of Veerabhadra Nagar near Girinagar stayed indoors on Sunday after a flock of sheep and goats were mauled to death in a suspected leopard attack. Forest officials and the jurisdictional police visited the spot, but are yet to ascertain exactly how the animals died. Ravishankar S.S., Deputy Conservator of Forests, who along with his team set up camp in the area, said they are yet to trace the animal responsible for the carnage. As many as 17 goats and sheep, including 11 lambs, that were housed in a shed were mauled to death, sparking panic in the area. The farm is located around 700 metres from NICE Road. Mr. Ravishankar said, “Though there are strong rumours that it was a leopard, there were no direct signs like pug marks where the attack happened nor any sightings. We have collected samples from the dead animals for a further probe while the forest staff are combing the area,” he said. As a precautionary measure, forest officials made a public announcement warning residents not to venture out till the area is combed and declared safe. Vehicles fitted with loudspeakers were used to spread the word while teams comprising the local police, forest officials, and a few locals started combing operations. ‘Invested Rs. 3 lakh in the flock’ The owner of the flock, Manu P.B. who hails from Channapatna, told The Hindu that he had borrowed the land and invested in a sheep farm with 11 lambs, six sheep and goats. “I had left the farm to attend a function and returned the next morning. A worker informed me of the incident. I had invested close to Rs. 3 lakh in the flock. It is a huge loss for me. The farm is not isolated. It is just a few kilometres from Nayandahalli junction,” he said. The police are questioning a group of daily wage workers who live near Manu’s farm, who said they did not hear anything through the night.  Though there are strong rumours that it was a leopard, there were no direct signs like pug marks where the attack happened nor any sightings Ravishankar S.S., Deputy Conservator of Forests
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Even as the Central Administrative Tribunal keeps adjourning the petition filed by IAS officer B. Sharat questioning his transfer from the post of Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru less than a month after his posting, his successor Rohini Sindhuri(in picture)is finding herself at the receiving end of the ire of one MLA after another in the district. Weeks after former Minister and JD(S) MLA S.R. Mahesh raised questions over her alleged role in an Endowment Department project at Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh, Ms. Sindhuri incurred the wrath of some more MLAs, particularly ones belonging to the Congress and the JD(S), over her plans to hold Spandana, a grievance redressal programme. Though Spandana was aimed at taking the district administration closer to the people by holding programmes in different taluks, it rubbed the MLAs the wrong way, as the programmes were planned to be held without invitations to the MLAs. Sensing the rage of the Opposition MLAs, Minister for Revenue R. Ashok jumped into the arena to play a fire-fighting role. He asked the DC to cancel the programme even as MP for Mysuru Pratap Simha lashed out at the MLAs for their attitude towards a “pro-people programme”. Ms. Sindhuri eventually cancelled the scheduled programmes. In the official announcement of cancellation, the reason was not attributed to either her spat with the MLAs or the direction by the Revenue Minister, but to the gram panchayat election code of conduct.     The BBMP recently launched an awareness campaign to check the spread of COVID-19, with focus on three Ws — wearing mask, washing hands, and watching your distance. At the end of the launch, as usual, several presspersons approached BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad and administrator Gaurav Gupta for their quotes/bytes. Before speaking about the event, Mr. Prasad pointed to a reporter present and noted that he was not wearing a mask. “This is not the first time. I have noticed you without your mask several times now,” he said. He went on to give him a mask and said, “Here, this is on behalf of the BBMP. Wear it well.” The reporter was left searching for words.    What happens when politics gains the upper hand over sound economics? It leads to unwarranted appointments and fiscal burden. This is what is happening with the creation of new boards and corporations and a slew of appointments. Recently, the North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), which has cumulative losses running into crores of rupees and is finding it hard to even pay salaries, got a new political appointment to appease a section of rebels. A post of vice-chairman has been created and the corporation will have to cough up about Rs. 1 lakh extra a month.  Laiqh A. Khan   Chitra V. Ramani   Girish Pattanashetti
07 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||UDF confident of retaining Haripad||Haripad is the youngest among the six municipalities in the district. In the first-ever election to the civic body in 2015, the United Democratic Front (UDF) registered a big victory by winning 22 out of the 29 wards. Five years after it is facing the local body polls brimming with confidence. The UDF is banking on the development works undertaken in the municipality. It believes that the various projects implemented in the municipal area by local MLA and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will make the electorate support UDF candidates. “From constructing a new municipal office, providing assistance to people to construct houses, improving facilities at the taluk hospital, installation of aerobic compost units, setting up a plastic shredding unit to road development, among other initiatives, the municipality has witnessed development in all spheres in the last five years. We are seeking votes to continue the development work. The UDF will emerge victorious in this election. We will do so by winning at least one more seat than we did in 2015,” says, K.M. Raju, vice-chairman of the outgoing Haripad municipal council. Even as the UDF is hoping to retain the municipality, it is facing a rebel threat in at least four seats. The LDF, on the other hand, is eyeing an upset win in Haripad. It has gained confidence from the fact that the victory margin of UDF candidates in a number of seats was fewer than 50 votes last time. The LDF, which had to settle for five seats in 2015, is engaged in a spirited campaign. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which won one seat in the last election, is hoping to improve its tally considerably.
07 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||The slow turning around of Mavelikara muncipality||The Mavelikara municipality have had a history of siding with the Congress party but the situation began to show a turning around since the past few years. In 2014, the Congress-led United Democratic front (UDF) was ousted from power through a no-confidence motion and CPI (M)’s Leela Abhilash became the chairperson. A year later in the 2015 elections, the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) emerged top by winning 12 out of the 28 seats and retained the civic body. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) became the principal opposition in the council by winning nine wards. The UDF, which was in power until a year ago, had to settle for six seats. Now, when it comes to the 2020 local body elections, the civic body is witnessing a three-cornered battle with LDF, UDF and NDA exuding confidence of a victory. The LDF is banking on the development work carried out in the last five years. The NDA is leaving no stone unturned in its bid to wrest the civic body. They detail the failures of the LDF rule while highlighting the development agenda of the NDA government at the Centre. The UDF, on the other hand, is making an all-out effort to turn the tide in its favour.
07 December 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Parties wrap up campaigning||The open campaigning for the December 8 local body in the district ended on Sunday. Unlike in the previous elections, jamboree (kottikalasham), which traditionally marks the end of the open campaigning, was abandoned in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the pandemic-induced restrictions, the district witnessed a spirited poll campaign with Left Democratic Front, United Democratic Front and National Democratic Alliance being engaged in a pitched electoral battle. As many as 5,462 candidates are in the fray in the district. These include 82 candidates for district panchayat, 789 for six municipalities, 508 for 12 block panchayats, and 4,083 for 72 grama panchayats. Officials say all arrangements have been made for the free, fair and smooth conduct of the bypoll on Tuesday. A total of 2,271 polling booths including 1,989 in grama panchayats and 282 in municipalities were arranged in the district. As many as 11,355 officials will be deployed for the election duty. A total of 17,82,587 voters including 9,43,588 females and 8,38,988 males are eligible to exercise their franchise in the local body polls in the district.
07 December 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Three-cornered fight marks local body polls in Kayamkulam||With only a day to go for the local body polls, the stage is set for a three-cornered fight in the Kayamkulam municipality. The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which came to power after the 2015 elections despite failing to win a majority, is hoping to retain the civic body by improving its tally. It believes the various development initiatives undertaken in the last five years will help register a thumping victory in the 2020 elections. The LDF is also highlighting the development initiatives and welfare schemes of the State government to garner votes. Meanwhile, the UDF, which had ruled the municipality in the past, is trying to wrest the civic body at all costs. It alleges corruption charges against the LDF and a lack of development in the last five years in the municipality in its bid to win the elections. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which won seven seats in the last election, is hoping to improve its tally and make life hard for the LDF and the UDF. The presence of rebels and Independents is expected to influence the outcome in a number of seats.
07 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||272 cases in Alappuzha||The district registered 272 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths. Of the fresh cases, as many as 256 patients contracted the virus through local contact, while the source of infection of another 16 people remains unidentified. Meanwhile, 468 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,241.
07 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Controversies not to affect front’s prospects: LDF||Allegations against the State government will have no bearing on the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) chances in the local body polls in the district, Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] district secretary R. Nazar has said. The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which bagged the district panchayat, a majority of block panchayats, grama panchayats, and two municipalities in 2015, is aiming to improve its tally even further. “The controversies are not going to have an impact on the LDF’s electoral prospects. People know the truth. We are not bothered about it,” Mr. Nazar told The Hindu . He says the LDF will sweep the local body polls in Alappuzha by retaining district panchayat, winning a high number of block and grama panchayats, and at least five municipalities. “We are highlighting the good works of the LDF government and local bodies, where we were in power. The LDF is seeking people’s mandate to continue the development work. We are hopeful the voters will respond positively and give its mandate to the LDF,” the CPI (M) district secretary said. Mr. Nazar says the United Democratic Front (UDF) joining forces, with the Social Democratic Party of India, Welfare Party of India, and so on, will help LDF increase its vote share. “The UDF’s stance has once again bolstered the LDF’s credential as a secular front. People will respond to the UDF’s alliance with these parties in the local body polls. The LDF is set to gain,” he says.
07 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Probe on against child welfare panel chief||The police have started an investigation into a complaint in which Child Welfare Committee (CWC) Kannur district chairman E.D. Joseph has been accused of misbehaving and speaking improperly to a complainant in a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) case in Kannur. The CWC is the district-level authority that considers child abuse cases and proposes solutions. The 17-year-old girl told the magistrate in a confidential statement that Joseph questioned her and spoke to her in an indecent and derogatory language when she was brought in for counselling to the office of the CWC in Eranholi, Thalassery, on October 21. The Thalassery police have registered a case against Joseph on the basis of the girl’s statement. They will record the girl’s statement on Monday. The girl came for counselling in connection with the POCSO case registered within the limits of Kudiyanmala police station, Kannur. However, Joseph denied the charges. He said that he had counselled the girl in the presence of a woman councillor. “I asked if there was any sexual intercourse to know what happened and there is a deliberate effort to implicate me in the case,” he said. Such complaints would affect the working of CWC itself, he added. Panel seeks report The Child Rights Commission, which has registered a case in connection with the incident, has sought a report from the police and the CWC. The full bench of the commission will also consider further action, said chairman Manoj Kumar.  Allegation of misbehaviour and speaking improperly to POCSO case complainant.
07 December 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Election to Thillankeri cancelled||Following the death of Kerala Congress (Joseph) candidate George Kutty Irumbukuzhi, who is contesting from Thillankeri division of the district panchayat, District Collector T.V. Subhash cancelled the election there. The Collector passed the order as per Section 68 of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, which says that if a candidate dies before the polls after the date of withdrawal of nomination papers, the election in the constituency shall be cancelled and a new election process shall be commenced there. The District Collector said that the election would be conducted later as per the directions of the Election Commission subject to the provisions of the Act.
07 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||RGCB campus: Union Minister defends decision on name||The controversy surrounding the naming of the second campus of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) campus after right wing ideologue M.S. Golwalkar has intensified with Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan strongly defending the decision. Talking to the media in Kasaragod on Sunday, the Minister questioned the reason for naming the Nehru Trophy boat race after former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and also many institutions after Indira Gandhi. “Golwalkar was a professor of Zoology at the Banaras Hindu University. It was during his time as a research student of Marine Biology that he returned to active RSS activity. So it is not clear on what basis his name is not being allowed to be used,” he said. Mr. Muraleedharan said that communist party leaders had been imprisoned for treason and that there were many institutions in Kerala named after them. He asked what was wrong with naming an institution after a patriot like Golwalkar. If that was not allowed, he said, no institution in the State should be named after any of the Communists imprisoned for sedition. He argued that when India gained Independence in 1947, the Communists, who had campaigned all over the country claiming that the Independence was not real, were imprisoned in independent India. The Communists of that time were the people who supported the Pakistani cause, he added. Mr. Muraleedharan further said that the name of the government college at Perinthalmanna was Pookoya Thangal Memorial College. His only description was that he was the president of the Muslim League. Congressmen had no difficulty in setting up a government college in the name of the Muslim League president. He reiterated that the name was decided by the governing body of the RGCB. The Chief Minister and the Leader of the Opposition had written to the Prime Minister against the naming of the new campus of the RGCB after Golwalkar. About the accusation that the Centre was trying to use Central agencies against the State government, he said that the Centre was initiating action against money launderers in Kerala.
07 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New KSEB facilities for city power to go on stream soon||The Kerala State Electricity Board’s completion of the 200-kV gas-insulated substation at Kaloor, the Brahmapuram-Thuthiyoor 220/110-kV multi-circuit-multi-voltage line, the Thuthiyoor-Kaloor 220 kV underground cable and the two 220-kV line bays at the 220-kV Brahmapuram substation is expected to ensure adequate and quality power supply for the city of Kochi over the next 30 to 40 years. The gas-insulated substation and the 7-km Thuthiyoor-Kaloor underground cable link are the first such projects in Kerala, according to KSEB sources. The projects are expected to go on stream as soon as they are tested as scheduled on Monday. Since the State is in the midst of elections to local bodies, there will be no official inauguration of the projects. The projects had been taken up under the Transgrid 2.0 programme, considering the rapidly increasing power requirements of the city. The KSEB sources said the 110-kV Kaloor substation was inaugurated in 1993. At that time, the power requirement was about 40 MW. However, with the growth of the city, the power requirement has increased to about 100 MW. Though the requirement is currently being met, the entire system is overloaded and needs substantial upgrading. One of the major challenges in completing the Rs. 150-crore project was linking the Brahmapuram and Kaloor facilities. With high density of population, overhead cables proved quite an impossible proposal. The solution was found in having a four-km overhead cable link up to Thuthiyoor and then linking Thuthiyoor and Kaloor through an underground cable system over a 7-km segment. The work was completed at a cost of around Rs. 70 crore.
07 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||10 former councillors back in the fray||After being in the limelight and amidst the public as councillors of the Kochi Corporation, they had quietly left the scene. Now, after a hiatus of a few years, they are on the comeback trail and are contesting the civic body elections. As many as 10 former councillors of the Corporation are returning to electoral politics after spending five years out of power. ‘Active in politics’ N. Venugopal and M. Anilkumar, the mayoral candidates of the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) respectively, are among the former councillors returning to the electoral politics of the Corporation. However, both Mr. Venugopal and Mr. Anilkumar have remained active in politics. While Mr. Venugopal had served as chairman of the Greater Cochin Development Authority when the Oommen Chandy-led UDF government was in power, Mr. Anilkumar was the CPI(M) candidate for the Ernakulam Assembly seat during the 2016 election. This time, Mr. Venugopal is contesting from his home turf of Island North and Mr. Anilkumar, the district committee member of the party, from Elamakkara North division, which has always stood with the Left front. Political and organisational compulsions and the reservation of seats for women had resulted in some male candidates leaving the electoral scene. Sojan Antony, the CPI(M) representative, is a former councillor who never had continuous term in the council. After being elected to the council in 2000 from Gandhi Nagar, he won the Elamkulam seat for the party in 2010. This time, the party has chosen him to contest from the Kathrikadavu division. Former councillors Joji Kureekkad (Palarivattom) and C.A. Shakkeer of the CPI, Congress councillors A.C. Clarence (Manassery), Antony Kureethara (Fort Kochi), Seena Gokulan (Puthukkalavattom), Shyla Thadevus (Moolankuzhi), and Mini Dileep (Ayyappankavu) are also in the fray this time. Mr. Joji, who won the last election by a margin of 52 votes, is contesting as an Independent candidate from Palarivattom. The Congress has deputed Joshy Pallan, who unsuccessfully contested the last civic polls, to win the division back for the party. Both Mr. Joji and Mr. Pallan have been active in politics during the past five years.
07 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Polling officials anxious about voting of COVID-19 patients||The one-hour window dedicated for COVID-19 patients to cast votes on the polling day has emerged as a major concern for polling officials. While those testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 till 3 p.m. on the eve of polling are allowed to cast votes in special postal ballot papers, those found infected after that are allowed to drop in at polling booths clad in Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. on the polling day. Polling officials remain jittery about the prospect and seem to have many questions that remain unanswered. “All five polling officials in the booth are supposed to wear PPE kit when such a voter turns up and we are supposed to dispose it at the nearest health centre afterwards. This raises many practical questions besides the security of the polling materials we are supposed to safeguard,” said a college lecturer drafted in as a polling official. “Officials should at least have been spared of the hardship of having to turn up at booths the previous night in view of the pandemic. Steps being taken to avoid crowding at the centres for the distribution of polling materials also remain to be seen,” said another official. A senior health official said that while multiple special polling officers with vehicles had been assigned to each local body to distribute special ballot papers at the doorstep of the infected till the eve of the polling, instructions about the voting protocol for the infected and whether they would be accompanied by health officials were yet to be issued. Officials said they hoped that the majority of the infected would choose to avoid the hardship of turning up in PPE kit to vote. Another official who attended a recent training at a city college said that too little time, just 10 minutes of a three-hour session, was assigned to a health official to take officials through the COVID protocol associated with the election process. “A demo on wearing the PPE kit was done in a jiffy and there was no time to ask for clarifications,” he said. However, the allocation of an addition polling official, an anganwadi worker, in every booth to sanitise voters and ensure physical distancing has been appreciated.
07 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Passengers seek restoration of short-distance trains||Railway passengers have sought the speedy restoration of short-distance train services, citing inadequate number of trains and bus and flight services being increased in keeping with the demand. With special trains in operation, passengers have to pay higher than the ‘special fare’ for reserving tickets online, since they are levied IRCTC fee, agent fee, and gateway fee, apart from reservation fee. This is in contrast with the KSRTC rolling back the temporarily hiked bus fare, said Friends of Railway, a collective of commuters. There are other constraints like a cap of 12 tickets that can be taken even by those who adduce Aadhaar for ID verification. The worst hit are regular commuters, most of whom are daily wage earners and those facing the heat due to the economic slowdown induced by the pandemic. There is also shortage of trains for office-goers. “It is tough to get a seat in Jan Shatabdi trains, despite their convenient timings. Many are thus forced to opt for accommodation in lodges and hotels,” the organisation said. Passengers are slowly getting organised in major railway stations across the State, in order to hold protests to draw the attention of Railway officials. Thrissur Railway Passengers Association general secretary P. Krishnakumar spoke of the hassles associated with reservation such as provision of address, including for short-distance / inter-district passengers and restricted hours of counters operating in many stations. “We have been demanding resumption of short-distance trains and those that operated for regular commuters, to prevent passengers from having to board express trains,” he said. Early restoration of adequate number of train services is crucial, since congestion on highways will worsen if more train passengers opt to commute by cars and two-wheelers. The impending partial reopening of educational institutions will further increase congestion, he added. Revised guidelines Railway sources said that they hoped to augment train services, since the Railway Board was scheduled to announce the revised guidelines in mid-December. On its part, Railways have permitted passengers in proportion to the number of seats in each train. The sole restriction is on standing and travelling, the sources said.
07 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC allows panchayat to repair PWD roads||The Kerala High Court has directed the PWD to allow Kizhakkambalam grama panchayat to complete tarring work on the five roads owned by the PWD. The court issued the directive while allowing a petition filed by Jincy Aji, president of the panchayat. The local body is governed by the Twenty20 Association. According to the petitioner, the panchayat had resolved that all by-roads and main roads should be maintained with high quality work with public-private participation and sought financial assistance from the Twenty-20 Association and the public. The Twenty-20 Association as well as the people of the panchayat surrendered their land and provided funds in support of the decision. However, the PWD ordered the contractor to stop the work. The PWD and the State government contended that the petitioner had no right to undertake any work on a PWD road, going by the provisions of the Kerala Panchayat Raj (Execution of Public Works) Rules, 1997, Kerala Panchayat Raj Act, and the PWD Manual. The court observed that on examination of relevant rules, it was found that the roads were not vested in the panchayat, and that any work could be undertaken by inviting tenders. Protecting work However, the court added that the work done so far had to be protected. The court ordered that the work be completed under the supervision of PWD engineers in two weeks.
07 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Heritage buildings at Fort Kochi demolished||A row of three heritage buildings beside the Chinese fishing nets on the Fort Kochi beachfront, which were relied upon by yesteryear mariners for purposes including storing of coal to power their ships, were demolished on Sunday to make way for building the Water Metro’s boat jetty. While officials of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), which is executing the project, termed it an inevitable move, to make room for a prominent boat jetty of the pioneering project, critics led by writer N.S. Madhavan compared it with the Babri Masjid demolition on another December 6, three decades ago. “Another demolition on Babri day. Same subtext, wipe clean history. Centuries-old port office and karipura [coal shed] were demolished by Water Metro people. They aim to break the row [of] historic Chinese fishing nets at Fort Kochi, by inserting an ugly jetty. The Metro people will tell you that nothing will happen to Chinese nets. Yes, they are only destroying the view. Imagine putting a JCB in the middle of [a] row of elephants at Thrissur Pooram,” read his tweet. Heritage enthusiast and former Mayor K.J. Sohan compared the demolition of the three heritage buildings with the Taliban extremists blowing up Buddha statues in the Bamiyan valley. “The first building housed the then port office, another a gear shed where ships’ accessories were stored, and the third a coal shed [hence called Karippura] used to store coal meant to power ships that sailed from the Suez Canal to South East Asia. It was after this that an adjacent Chinese net was named ‘Karippura vala’. The Water Metro jetty will also affect a few historic Chinese nets nearby,” he said. ‘Dilapidated condition’ Meanwhile, KMRL Managing Director Alkesh Kumar Sharma said that the agency had taken the land, including where the buildings stood, on lease from the Cochin Port Trust for a 60-year lease. “None of the buildings were notified as protected ones. Rather, they were in a dilapidated condition and were a hub for anti-social elements. We are under pressure from different quarters to complete the Water Metro project in a time-bound manner, and there was undue delay in acquiring land for the Fort Kochi terminal. The Water Metro’s Ernakulam-Fort Kochi route will be commissioned after the Vyttila-Kakkanad route. The dilapidated buildings had to be demolished for the larger purpose of housing a boat jetty,” he clarified. Mr. Sharma said that care had been taken to lessen the area of berthing space for ferries, and the jetty’s design was revised, to cause least disturbance to Chinese nets. A study conducted by IIT-Madras says that the functioning of the nets will not be affected in any way, since a sleeker design has been adopted. Former corporation town planning standing committee chairperson Shiny Mathew, who represented the division, said that there was no other alternative land in Fort Kochi to locate the jetty. “The region would have missed Water Metro connectivity had we opposed the location of the jetty building. We have insisted that the proposed building be similar to the heritage buildings that were pulled down,” she said.
07 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||For this teacher, a new chapter in life||When Anil Babu takes to the screen for the ‘First Bell’ geography class for Class IX students on Monday, it will be a major victory in life for the visually challenged teacher and an inspiration for thousands of students. He was born with an eye defect and gradually began to lose sight, said Mr. Babu on Sunday. He took his SSLC examinations on his own, but soon his eyesight deteriorated further. However, that did not dissuade or discourage him and he continued his studies. He completed his high school studies at the Pazhamthottam Higher Secondary School, where he teaches now. Mr. Babu secured the highest marks in the 1994 SSLC examinations from among the students of the Pazhamthottam school. He went on to join the St. Peter’s School, Kolencherry, for further studies and later completed his degree course. He did a diploma course in special education and computer application, and did his B.Ed. in social studies. With about 80% visual problem, Mr. Babu said he prepared notes hearing recorded lessons and through Braille. He is married and has a daughter studying in Class 2 and lives in Pangode, near Kolencherry.
07 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||ED probe sought against CPI(M) ex-area secretary||Gireesh Babu, an anti-corruption campaigner, has moved the Enforcement Directorate seeking an investigation against Zakkir Hussain, former Kalamassery area committee secretary of the CPI(M). Highlighting the findings of a party investigation against Mr. Hussain, Mr. Babu said the former party leader had amassed wealth beyond his means of income. The party suspended him from its primary membership for six months after accepting the investigation report. The report had said that Mr. Hussain had undertaken foreign trips and purchased several landed properties, pointed out Mr. Gireesh in his complaint. ‘Baseless charges’ Describing the allegations in the complaint as baseless, Mr. Hussain said he did not own any land or building. “My wife owns land and a house and she has the legitimate source of income for it. She is also willing to prove her source of income and assets before any agency,” he said. He said the complainant, who was not a member of the CPI(M), had no business with the findings or report of the party, which was an internal affair of the organisation.
07 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Navy outreach programme||As part of the Navy Week Celebrations of the Southern Naval Command, an outreach programme for services to various orphanages was organised by INS Venduruthy with the objective of reaching out to the underprivileged sections of society. Officers from the unit visited various orphanages in the vicinity of the Naval Base and sought their immediate requirements. A plantation drive was undertaken to educate children on the importance of keeping the environment pollution-free, according to a release.
07 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||474 COVID cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam on Sunday recorded 474 COVID-19 cases while 685 people recovered, according to a communication from the district administration. While 360 people contracted the disease through local contact, the sources of infection was unknown in 107 cases. As many as 121 persons were discharged from various hospitals and first-line treatment centres. A total of 7,554 people are undergoing COVID-19 treatment in the district. On Sunday, 5,392 samples were sent for tests.
07 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Encroached roads a major poll issue||The fast-developing eastern side of the four-km-long Palarivattom-Vyttila NH Bypass is choking under the pressure of narrow and heavily encroached upon roads being not able to handle the ever-increasing number of private, public transport, commercial and goods vehicles that criss-cross the city. Subsequently, candidates in the fray for the local body polls are facing a barrage of questions from residents and others who are at the receiving end owing to inadequate roads and allied infrastructure. Intense waterlogging caused by the narrowing down of the Kareethodu canal due to encroachments is yet another concern. The waterbody that runs parallel to the NH Bypass stretch and empties into the Kaniampuzha river, passes through four divisions under the Kochi Corporation. “We are often at a loss for words to assuage concerns raised by voters, since the corporation, during both LDF and UDF rule, failed to remove encroachers from roads and the canal,” said a candidate. Over time, this emboldened encroachers, both residents and owners of commercial buildings, who audaciously encroached upon even the bellmouths of bottlenecked junctions. Over the years, a few councillors aided or turned a blind eye to such encroachers, while others fear erosion of voter base, if they take a stern stand against those who usurp public space, he added. The recent proliferation of godowns made matters worse, since many of them do not have adequate space to park goods carriers. They often end up occupying scarce space on narrow roads. Such encroachments abound on Chakkaraparambu Road, Puthiya Road (which runs parallel to Civil Line Road), Vennala High School Road, and a whole lot of other roads maintained by the Kochi Corporation that take off from the NH Bypass and merge into the Alinchuvadu-Thripunithura Road which runs parallel to the NH Bypass. Ernakulam District Residents Association Apex Council (EDRAAC) president P. Rangadasa Prabhu said encroachments could easily be removed now, since the District Collector was heading the corporation till the next regime assumes charge. Thrikkakara MLA P.T. Thomas said the corporation did not have funds to acquire land to widen roads. “Obstructions on roads can be overcome, if the PWD takes over a few roads and develops them to cater for the increasing traffic,” he added.
07 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Drop move, demands KSSP||The Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) has demanded that the Centre drop the move to name the second campus of RGCB after the late RSS ideologue M.S. Golwalkar. The KSSP in a statement termed the move reprehensible and said Golwalkar had played a major role in dividing society by sowing the seeds of hatred and communalism. The move went against the values of promoting scientific temper as well secularism and equality guaranteed by the Constitution.
07 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||We will emerge strong: BJP||Though the party couldn’t make any major electoral inroads in Kollam during the last local body polls, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will now emerge as a major political force, says B.B. Gopakumar, BJP district president. “The political wind has changed in favour of BJP and there will be a massive surge. We will win Kollam Corporation with simple majority.” He adds that this time the real battle is between LDF and NDA, as UDF hardly has any chance. “In Kollam, UDF is not definitely part of the picture.” Mr. Gopakumar observes that corruption charges faced by both the fronts and the aggrieved cashew labourers and fishers in Kollam will be major decisive factors in this election. “The district has over 3 lakh cashew labourers. Right now, we see how the LDF government is trying to protect a Congress leader accused of high-level corruption. The fishers are also struggling with the newly imposed regulations. Since both the fronts have failed in supporting the people, the voters will opt for NDA.”
07 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||380 new cases, 336 recoveries in Kollam||The district reported 380 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths, and 336 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 378 contact cases and two persons without known source. The Health Department confirmed that the deaths of a 49-year-old Perumannur resident, and 55-year-old Thirumullavaram resident are due to COVID-19. Patients with no known source include an 53-year-old Aryankavu resident and another 64-year-old person from Kollam. The district has 14,910 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,87,920. While 1,140 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 1,15,741 primary and 9,935 secondary contacts. 387 cases in Kottayam As many as 387 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, all patients contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 48 children and 70 persons aged above 60 years. With 38 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changanassery with 22 cases. Erumeli and Vellavur panchayats reported 20 and 15 cases respectively. With 613 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,729 active cases while 11,434 persons are under observation. The district has reported 38,472 cases so far and of this, 33,640 have recovered. 197 in Pathanamthitta As many as 197 tested positive for SARS- CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta. Of the fresh cases, 183 persons contracted the virus through local contact and of this, the contact source of 49 persons were yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Adoor reported 18 cases , followed by Pandalam-Thekkekara with 14 cases.
07 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Hopes of victory in LDF Kollam camp||The landslide victory in last elections, more allies entering its fold, and a strong strategy in place to claim lost seats—the LDF camp in Kollam seems all buoyant and confident about the electoral verdict. “Among the 85 local bodies, we lost only eight in 2015. In the bypolls held in 24 wards during last five years, LDF won 18 seats. This time the front has more allies including Revolutionary Socialist Party (Leninist), KC (M), and Loktantric Janata Dal. LDF has fielded candidates in all seats,” CPI(M) district secretary S. Sudevan said. He adds a host of factors have reinforced the voter’s faith in the Left. He observes Hill Highway, completion of Kollam Bypass, LIFE project, and the establishment of Sree Narayana Guru Open University among the achievements of the government.
07 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for vacant seats||Colleges of Applied Science, Elimullumplackal, under IHRD has invited application the vacant seats in BSc Computer Science and BCom with Computer Applications courses. Last date for accepting applications is December 15 and contact the office for form and prospects. For more details, contact 0468-2382280, 8547005074, 9645127298.
07 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Settler farmers’ issues turn key poll plank in upland areas||Offering unconditional support to the ongoing agitation of farmers in New Delhi, a number of local farmers’ organisations and groups are now conducting local protests and campaigns in the upland areas of Kozhikode, testing the response of various political parties and their candidates towards agricultural crisis and price fall of commodities. Noticing the changing scenario, United Democratic Front (UDF) and Left Democratic Front (LDF)) campaigners in the agriculture belts have reworked their campaign strategy in such a way to suit settler farmers’ demands. They are also planning to strengthen their campaign against the Bharatiya Janata Party for its alleged silence over the Union government’s stance on the issue. Good turnout The first rounds of torch-bearing protests and hunger strikes led by farmer organisation leaders are over in many villages. Though COVID-19 regulations are in place, good turnout of farmers in small groups is visible everywhere expressing solidarity with the Delhi agitation. District-level and State-level protests are also under the consideration of farm movements for keeping the issue alive. “A delegation of rural farmers representing Kozhikode district will soon leave for Delhi to join the farmers’ agitation and express our solidarity with them,” says Joy Kannanchira, State coordinator of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh. According to him, many State-level leaders of farm movements are expected to join the protest as it may last long because of the unfavourable stance of the Union government. The Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh and We Farm, an upland farmers’ collective, are now in the forefront of rural protests. Many of those who suffered crop loss in the recent wild animal attacks are now active participants of such demonstrations. Some of them have even erected boards near their houses discouraging visits of local body candidates who are not concerned about their issues. Black day Apart from outdoor protests, a number of farmers’ social media groups are active with an online campaign to share updates related to the national-level agitation with the members. Short videos prepared for supporting the needs of agitators have also been readied for sharing and to draw the attention of more youngsters to the fight. A black day will be observed across the State on Tuesday as part of the proposed Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers.
07 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police, excise step up drive against ganja smugglers||Surprise checks by the police and the newly constituted strike forces of the excise department have been intensified in the district in the wake of the recent seizure of huge quantities of smuggled ganja and other narcotic substances. The vigil was stepped up in view of the upcoming festival season and the rush subsequent to the latest relaxations in COVID-19 regulations. Though the number of trains in service is less now, the Government Railway Police (GRP) squads are staying alert to track the movement of suspicious consignments and carriers. The parcel booking area is now constantly under the checking of the shadow squad. Railway Protection Force (RPF) sources said their Crime Prevention and Detection Squad would resume full-fledged operations in a few days following the decision of the Railways to operate more special trains. Within a week, two or more special trains were likely to start service and it would naturally demand the strengthening of surprise inspections along with other special squads, they said. Apart from the local strike forces, a State-level squad of the excise department is out on the field to coordinate surprise raids. It was such a team that seized a packet of smuggled ganja extract worth Rs. 25, 000 from a Kozhikode native on Friday. According to excise department sources, some of the frequent offenders have already been put under the surveillance list. In Kozhikode rural area, the national highway stretch between Kunnamangalam and the Wayanad Ghat Road will be brought under the surveillance of mobile patrol squads. According to police sources, the route has been witnessing a number of drug trafficking cases involving carriers who are reportedly connected to the large-scale suppliers from Bengaluru and Mysuru. The priority here is to check the load in various inter-State trucks and goods carriers, they said. The support of the Thamarassery Ghat Road Protection Committee will also be sought to monitor suspicious vehicles and those misusing the isolated stretches of the road for drug consumption. Closed circuit cameras set up by the committee will be closely monitored during the Christmas and New Year season. Apart from the State and National highways, traffic on some of the rural roads connecting Kozhikode with its neighbourhood districts will be monitored with the support of motorcycle squads. Plainclothesmen have also been deployed in some of the interior areas to track the late night movement of suspicious vehicles.
07 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corpn. to roll out post-COVID mobile clinics today||The Kozhikode Corporation will launch mobile post-COVID clinics on Monday. According to Corporation Secretary Binu Francis, the camp will be held at Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Payyanakkal, Kappakkal (Ward 54) on Monday. It will be held at Government Fisheries UP School, Vellayil (Ward 66), on Tuesday, and at PK Steels, Cheruvannur (Ward 42), on Wednesday. The mobile camp will be stationed at the amphi theatre on Konad beach at Thoppayil (Ward 67) on Thursday, at Noorul Huda Madrasa, Kundungal in Mukhadar (Ward 57), on Friday, and at fish merchants’ association hall, central market (Ward 61), on Saturday. Doctors and other health workers will examine recovered persons at the camps. Mr. Francis pointed out that there had been 21,823 infected persons within the corporation limits so far, and there were 1,312 active cases now. Many people are found to have post-COVID issues such as breathing problems, chest pain, headache, sore throat, mild cough, anxiety syndrome, sleeplessness, and fatigue. Some people aged above 55 were found to have been severely affected by these conditions. The official said that the corporation would hold camps in areas where a large number of infections were reported in the first phase. The number of people recovered till November 3 at Kappakkal is 1,103, Vellayil 796, Cheruvannur 428, Thoppayil 604, Mukhadar 607, and central market 292. Mr. Francis said that though some hospitals had set up kiosks to treat patients, the response had been poor.
07 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||561 fresh cases recorded||As many as 561 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday when the results of 4,202 samples were made available. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 540 locally acquired infections and the source of 10 others was not known. There were 599 recoveries and the active caseload stands at 6,549. As many as 4,400 are under home isolation. Kozhikode Corporation had the highest number of locally acquired infections at 118, followed by Kodanchery (36), Puthuppady and Vadakara (26), Koduvally (24), Villiappally (21) and Unnikulam (20). In Malappuram As many as 852 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Malappuram district on Sunday. While 623 of them contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, the source of infection could not be identified in 12 cases. District officials said that 664 people recovered from the disease on Sunday. There were 7,395 people currently under treatment in the district. Most of them were under observation at their respective homes. As many as 87,438 people were quarantined across the district. In Wayanad As many as 213 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Sunday. Of the new cases, 313 patients were infected through local contact and one person returned from Karnataka. The district has so far reported 12,060 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 10,126 have recovered from the disease, including 80 persons on the day. The total number of active cases is 1,853 in the district. As many as 10,198 persons are under observation.
07 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Woman secures Rs. 1.69 cr. pawning fake gold||The Town police on Sunday arrested a 43-year-old woman who allegedly pawned huge quantities of fake gold ornaments in a nationalised bank and secured Rs. 1.69 crore as loan. K.K. Bindu, a native of Wayanad district, was nabbed soon after the trickery was exposed during an internal audit of the bank. Circle Inspector A. Umesh who investigated the case said the woman used over five-and-a-half kilogram of fake gold ornaments to secure the loan. “She asked her own staff members to pawn the ornaments at different times and secure the amount. The bank approached the District Police Chief seeking legal action,” he said. Various businesses In the investigation, it was found that the woman was running various businesses such as hotel, beauty parlour, tailoring unit and readymade shops in different parts of the city. She made her women employees apply for gold loan using their personal bank accounts and give over the money. The majority of these women are from poor financial background. Mr. Umesh said she had established and maintained a good rapport with the bank employees and that they did not suspect her at the time of securing the loan. “We were surprised to see many such fake ornaments during raids conducted at her flat and shops. The investigation is still on to check the whereabouts of her close aides. The appraiser of the bank and seven staff members of the accused will also be quizzed soon,” he said. The Town police said it was the biggest such fraud reported within the city police district limit and the accused would be taken into custody again for further evidence collection. The investigation team had also found out her involvement in a major financial fraud involving a chit fund. She had been booked thrice in connection with the chit fraud.
07 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||UDF and LDF allies of anti-national forces: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party national executive council member P.K. Krishna Das warned here on Sunday that each vote polled for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) would be equal to voting for anti-national forces. “Both the LDF and the UDF have entered into dangerous alliances with anti-national forces. When the LDF has sought the support of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the UDF has allied with the Jamat-e-Islami. This dangerous hobnobbing with anti-national forces will cost both the fronts dearly,” said Mr. Krishna Das.  Corruption charges The BJP leader said that both Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala were incriminated in corruption and criminal charges. “For the first time in history, both are facing charges. Some leaders of the UDF and the LDF will have to seek the ballot from jail,” he said. Mr. Krishna Das said that the Chief Minister and his party had distanced from the people, and the LDF was facing the election without a commander. “The Chief Minister is remaining at home. He is afraid of both coronavirus and people. He is not projected anywhere in the election. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has proscribed him from campaigning. Many CPI(M) candidates have abandoned the party symbol fearing backlash. And the CPI(M) headquarters in the capital wears a funeral face,” he said. “The Chief Minister must be afraid of getting arrested if he comes out for election campaign,” he said.  ‘Reveal names’ Mr. Krishna Das demanded that the Chief Minister reveal the names of the Ministers allegedly involved in the gold smuggling and reverse hawala racket. “The people of Kerala are eagerly waiting to hear their names. The Chief Minister knows them. He should reveal their names and expel them from the Cabinet.” The BJP leader said the civic body election would set off a cleansing process in Kerala politics, and it would conclude with the Assembly election. He predicted that the BJP would make historic achievements in the election. “Our aim is to create a Narendra Modi in each civic body ward.”
07 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Poll campaiging ends in Pathanamthitta||The curtain came down on Sunday over the campaigning for a closely fought election to the three-tier local bodies in Pathanamthitta, to be held on December 8. Though the aggressive blitzkrieg was missing due to the COVID-19 restrictions, the coalitions led by the Congress, CPI(M) and the BJP made the final push to woo the voters. With the rally being held virtually, the roads in most part of the district on Sunday were occupied by the road shows of candidates. While the UDF strives hard to retain its tag of ‘traditional favourite’ in the district, the LDF looks to improve on its previous tally of 25 panchayats and two municipalities. The NDA, which regards Pathanamthitta as one of its high-growth areas, too left no stone unturned to make the contest triangular in several places. Among the factors that is expected to influence the final outcome, the most significant is a clash between the splinter groups of the Kerala Congress(M), which are also facing off in two divisions of the District panchayat and several wards across the municipalities and panchayats. The UDF, which had spent the early phase of campaign to fend off the rebel menace, retained much of its lost ground during the later phases. The LDF, on the other hand, had been charged-up right from the beginning and hit the ground running the moment election date was announced. A resurgent NDA, meanwhile, could use the trend of rising vote shares as witnessed during the previous Parliament election and Assembly by polls to good effect. Meanwhile, the early inroads made by the rebels and independents in certain wards presented a headache for the major contestants. The distribution of polling materials will be held at the distribution centres on Monday.
07 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||All arrangements done in Pathanamthitta||The district administration has completed the arrangements for the local body elections in Pathanamthitta, which is slated to be held on December 8. According to District Collector P.B. Noohu, as many as 1,459 polling stations have been set up across the district, which has 16 district panchayat divisions, 106 block panchayat divisions , 788 grama panchayat wards and 132 municipal wards. As many as 1,611 control units and 4,769 ballot units have been distributed in the block panchayats while the municipalities have been given 184 control units and 184 ballot units. As many as 1,459 presiding officers, 1,459 polling assistants and 20% reserve officers have been appointed.
07 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||NDA hopes to win in 10 panchayats, one municipality||The share of votes it captured during the previous Lok Sabha election as well in the Assembly bypolls a few months later is the basis on which the NDA is building its election campaign in Pathanamthitta. “The NDA will come to power in 10 to 15 panchayats and the Pandalam municipality, besides winning 20 block divisions and some district panchayat divisions,”, says Ashokan Kulanada, BJP district president. The number of elected representatives here is expected to cross the 300-mark, he said.
07 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||UDF hopes to improve 2015 tally in Pathanamthitta||With just three days left for the local body polls in Pathanamthitta, the United Democratic Front (UDF) counts on repeating the performance it staged in the 2015 elections, says Babu George, president of the District Congress Committee (DCC). “The coalition is getting an immense response, similar to what we got in 2015 local body elections,” he said, attributing the current momentum on the growing public ire against the administrative lapses of the Union government and the scam-hit State government. The coalition, according to him, is all set to maintain its lead in the 16-member district panchayat and improve on its previous tally of 22 panchayats and two municipalities. There had been certain issues with regard to the selection of candidates though the menace posed by rebel candidate was rather insignificant. The coalition has focused its campaign primarily on the scams in the cover of development projects and reduction of plan funds to the three-tier bodies, among other things. As to whether the UDF was gradually losing its feet in the district, Mr. George responded by pointing out the thumping victory of the coalition in Pathanamthitta during the Parliament election last year. “The LDF managed to win all the Assembly seats here including the by-election through a series of misinformation campaigns against the previous UDF government,” he added.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Campaigning for polls ends||Open campaigning for the December 8 local body polls in the district came to a close at 6 p.m. on Sunday. The State Election Commission had prohibited political parties from organising the ‘Kottikalasham’ in view of the COVID-19 scenario. To mark the end of their open campaign, many of the LDF, UDF and NDA candidates instead organised small roadshows across the district. Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran attended a road show of the LDF candidate in Kuravankonam ward. BJP State president K. Surendran and district president V. V. Rajesh, a candidate in the Poojappura ward also concluded his campaign with a similar event. Police vigil The police maintained vigil at major junctions in the corporation and the municipalities of Neyyattinkara, Attingal, Nedumangad and Varkala to prevent large gatherings. The final arrangements in the 3,281 polling booths in the district will be completed on Monday, the district administration said. The distribution of polling materials will begin at 8 a.m. on Monday from 16 centres to polling booths in 1,727 local bodies where the elections are due. All polling stations would be disinfected on Monday ahead of the polls. Polling officials will be issued COVID-19 safety kits along with the polling materials. Polling officials have been directed to use face shield, mask, gloves and sanitiser during the elections. Polling agents also should use masks and sanitiser. Voters should clean their hands with sanitiser when entering and exiting the booths. If needed, they should remove the mask for identification purposes. Three voters will be allowed inside the booth at a time by ensuring proper physical distance. ID documents Any of the following documents can be produced for establishing the identity: The Electors Photo Identity Cards (EPIC) issued by the Election Commission of India, passport, driving licence, PAN card, Aadhaar card, photo-affixed SSLC book and photo-affixed passbooks issued by nationalised banks within six months prior to the election. New voters can use identity cards issued by the State Election Commission.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Security arrangements for polls ready||Elaborate arrangements have been made for providing security and maintaining law and order for the phase I elections to local bodies in five districts in the State on December 8. The 16,159 police personnel posted for duty in the five districts will assume charge at 6 a.m. on Monday at respective places, State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera said. The SPC said among the posted officials, 66 are in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police, 292 inspectors 292, 1,338 sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors, and 15,272 civil police officers. In addition, 1,404 home guards and 3,718 special police officers have also been posted. 29 striking force teams Nodal Officer for Election P. Vijayan said eight company of Striking Force teams are ready under the SPC to meet any emergency situation. Seven teams will be in place under the Zonal IGP, DIGs and District Police Chiefs. All the five districts have been divided into separate regions for the deployment of police and effective monitoring.  Hyper-sensitive booths Mr. Vijayan said surveillance and additional police patrolling would be undertaken in the 1,722 booths that had been identified as hyper-sensitive. Group patrols (716), for a maximum of 13 polling booths, had been set up. To maintain law and order, two additional police patrols (354) will be in place in every police station in the five districts. An election cell is functioning under Mr. Vijayan at the Police Headquarters in the capital to monitor the police personnel and to give necessary instructions to those on the field.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tough fight in district panchayat||Reaching every nook and corner of their vast divisions, each of which is spread over an area covering more than 50 wards, is a daunting task for candidates in the district panchayat, but there is hardly a corner left untouched by the candidates. On Saturday morning, Geetha Nazeer, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in the Chemmaruthy division of the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat, was busy with house visits at Decent Mukku near Edava, along with the LDF’s panchayat and block panchayat candidates. Daughter of N.E. Balaram, one of the pioneers of the Communist movement in Kerala, she made it a point to visit old party workers of the area, such as Sharafudeen. “Earlier, I used to go out and canvas for votes. Now I hardly move out of the house, but I will surely come out to vote,” Mr. Sharafudeen tells her. Ms. Nazeer feels that the voting public will think only about the developmental initiatives of the State government and the district panchayat over the past five years, when they reach the polling booth. “All these manufactured controversies are not going to sway them. They can see the good roads, the street lights and the other infrastructure. The Opposition parties are banking on controversies, and have not even put forward an alternative model of development,” she says. Kudumbashree Further away, in the Navaikulam division, the United Democratic Front (UDF) has fielded Sunitha Begum, a local committee member of its ally Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP). A member of the RSP’s women’s wing Aikya Mahila Sangham, she is also a Kudumbashree worker. On Saturday, she was focussing her campaign on houses at 28th Mile. “The LDF had won in this division last time. When we go on house visits, we hear that the member was hardly ever seen in these parts. The lack of development in this region is there for everyone to see. We are also raising the various issues that the State government is currently embroiled in,” she says. At Madavoor in Navaikulam division, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate, Deepa Navaikulam, is leading a road show through a path adjacent to lush paddy fields. Children wearing face masks with the BJP flag welcome her at the junction. A sitting member of the Navaikulam grama panchayat, she feels her performance is good campaign material as she tries to wrest the division.“In the campaign, I highlight the things that I have achieved during my tenure in the panchayat. During the campaign trail, I have realised that there are a lot of regions facing severe water scarcity. There is also a paucity of good roads,” she says. The LDF has won consistently in the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat except in 2010, when the UDF had a narrow win. The LDF currently holds 19 out of the 26 divisions in the district panchayat. The BJP, which made its presence felt for the first time in 2015 with a win in the Venganoor division, is taking the fight more seriously this time by fielding its former district president S. Suresh in Venganoor in an attempt to retain the division, and create a wave to win a few others. But Mr. Suresh could have a tough fight on his hands against the UDF’s Bhagath Rufus, son of former district panchayat vice president Rufus Daniel. The UDF’s confidence is in retaining its strongholds, including Maryapuram and Pallichal, and wresting control in a few more divisions. For the LDF, there are divisions such as Manamboor, Kunnathukal, Chirayinkeezh, and Balaramapuram, where it has never lost. One of the most prestigious battles for the LDF will be to retain Palode, from where the current district panchayat president, V.K. Madhu, won in 2015. In the end, divisions like Kaniyapuram, Poovachal, and Parassala, which have swayed between the LDF and the UDF in successive elections, will prove to be the crucial ones in deciding the winners.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special ballot papers being sent by post||Election officials on Sunday began sending special postal ballot papers by post to COVID-19 positive and quarantined voters who have not yet received them to avoid delays in distribution. Since special voters who are named in the certified lists till 3 p.m. on Monday (December 7) have to be issued special postal ballot papers, the State Election Commission (SEC) had issued fresh guidelines on Saturday permitting returning officers to send the ballots by post. In Thiruvananthapuram district alone, as many as 135 teams headed by Special Polling Officers (SPOs) have been delivering the ballot papers by hand since December 2. However, the teams faced practical difficulties given the large number of special voters or even locating them in some cases. In the district, 8,500 registered voters had been identified from 18,000 names in the certified lists. SPOs have so far distributed, by hand, 5,500 special postal ballots, Thiruvananthapuram District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Special voters need not apply for receiving the postal ballots by mail. The voters will receive the application form (Form 19 B), declaration (Form 16), the ballot paper and covers for enclosing the ballots and the documents. Get attested The voter should fill in the application form and get the declaration form attested by a gazetted officer of health officers (junior health officer of PHCs) who have been designated as special polling officers. Once the preference is marked on the ballot paper, it should be enclosed in the smaller of the covers and sealed. The application form and declaration in the bigger cover. The covers should either be mailed or despatched through a messenger to the returning officer concerned. Only those postal ballots that are received by 8 a.m. on December 16, counting day, will be counted.
07 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Misinformation campaign against party: CPI(M)||State secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] A. Vijayaraghavan has said the government and the party have faced seemingly endless waves of misinformation and patently anti-left news narratives in the election year. Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday about campaign challenges, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the election-era lies spread by the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had tested the limit of usual political hyperbole. The libellous insinuations bordered on character assassination. The smear campaign targeted those at the helm of the party and government. The CPI(M) had faced worser trials than this and surmounted the odds. The BJP had attempted a coup against democracy. It had enlisted Central law enforcement agencies to unleash an insidious cascade of slanders against the LDF government. The BJP wanted to unsettle the administration. It aspired to cast LDF leaders under a cloud of suspicion till the 2021 Assembly polls. The Congress and the corporate media played second fiddle to the BJP. The CPI(M) has strived to the bridge the chasm of deceptions to sent its message of good governance, limitations of Central authority and rights of States to voters. The government was seeking a second term in local bodies on the merit of its accomplishments in health, education, agriculture, infrastructure development and social security. The Opposition parties had no comparable programme or policy to offer as an alternative to the people. The connective tissue of lies propped up their floundering political narrative. The voters were unconvinced. They saw no incentive in voting for the United Democratic Front (UDF) or National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Both the UDF and NDA had signed a mutual assistance treaty. The Congress has sought votes from the Sangh Parivar. At the same time, it was in alliance with Islamist outfits.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||345 test positive in capital||As many as 345 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday from among 5,024 people who were subjected to COVID-19 tests. While the test positivity rate stood at 6.8, the number of active cases fell to 3,948 as 377 recovered from the illness. Almost all of the fresh cases, except three imported cases, have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. The sources of infection in 132 were unknown. Six health workers are among those who tested positive. The death toll rose to 568 after an 80-year old woman who hailed from Koithurkonam succumbed to the disease. The district administration placed 2,166 people under quarantine on the day, taking the total number of people being monitored in the district to 31,935 in houses and 111 in various institutions. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal action against 19 people for flouting COVID-19 norms. As many as eight people among them were charged under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 5,000 was charged from the violators.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tight security in district for local body polls||The district has come under a thick security blanket with around 5,700 police personnel being stationed in various parts to ensure the smooth conduct of the local body elections on Tuesday. Besides ensuring sizeable deployment, the district authorities are arranging webcasting facilities in as many as 180 polling booths that have been deemed hyper-sensitive. Police officials have also adopted steps to videograph the proceedings in other polling stations in anticipation of untoward incidents. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police has deployed 3,200 police personnel, including nine Deputy Superintendents of Police (DySPs), in the 2,521 polling booths within its limits. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) B. Asokan, the entire region which comprised the Attingal, Nedumangad and Neyyattinkara police sub-divisions has been divided into seven election sub-divisions for better coordination and surveillance. Under a Dy.SP These include Attingal, Pothencode, Venjaramoodu, Nedumangad, Kattakada, Neyyattinkara and Parassala that will each come under the supervision of a Dy.SP. They will be assisted by 48 Circle Inspectors and 320 Sub Inspectors. Besides, the police have also formed surveillance of 160 patrolling groups that will each monitor 15 polling booths constantly. Another 76 law and order (L&O) patrolling teams will be on the move to thwart any offence. While the District Police Chief will supervise the activities of eight striking force teams, each comprising 50 personnel, that will attend to exigencies, another 20 teams will report to the Dy.SPs. 94 sensitive booths While 94 sensitive booths will come under tight security, the live feed of election proceedings from as many as 120 booths will be relayed to the District Collectorate as well as the office of the District Police Chief. In Thiruvananthapuram City, a total of 2,496 police officials including 12 Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACPs) will be stationed across the 760 polling booths. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the ACPs who have been designated election sub-divisional officers will supervise the activities of two police stations each. The Fort ACP alone will oversee the functioning of three stations under his jurisdiction. Each station house officer will coordinate patrolling under his station limits. In all, there will be 46 group and 42 L&O patrol teams. Police picketing will be set up in the sensitive areas. Sub-divisional investigation teams will be tasked with case investigations in the interim period. 47 striking teams As many as 47 striking force teams have also been readied up by the City police.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Electors feature in multiple voters’ list: TVM||The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM) has complained to the State Election Commission that the names of hundreds of electors in Thiruvananthapuram feature in multiple voters' lists. The situation sets the ground for vote fraud by political parties in the upcoming elections, TVM said in a statement issued here on Sunday. According to the organisation, more than 3,000 instances in this regard have been detected in the 14 wards in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation where the organisation has fielded candidates. A complete list of the 'double votes' has been handed over to the Commission, TVM president S. N. Raguchandran Nair and general secretary M. S. Venugopal said. TVM would approach the presiding officers to make sure that voters do not cast multiple votes, they said. It is a serious matter that even State-level leaders of political parties also have their names in multiple lists, the TVM office-bearers alleged. The organisation would seek legal recourse in this matter, it said
07 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP alleges fraud||BJP State president K. Surendran on Sunday questioned the integrity of postal ballots allowed for COVID-19 patients. He said State Election Commission (SEC) officials worked in tandem with workers of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] to identify patients eligible for postal ballot voting. The flipside of the arrangement was that SEC officials and CPI(M) workers deliberately overlooked BJP voters entitled to mail-in ballots. Mr. Surendan said the SEC should ensure that postal ballots were delivered in the presence of candidates or their representatives. If the “electoral fraud” continued, BJP workers would be forced to intervene, he said. CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan accused the BJP of attempting to create law and order issues on the eve of the local body polls. He said the BJP propaganda was a lie. The SEC was a constitutional body that functioned independently of the government. The BJP, fearing failure, was challenging the credibility of the polling process. It was a pre-emptive political move, he said.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Six-member gang arrested for dacoity||The City police on Sunday arrested six Tamil Nadu natives for armed dacoity of cash and valuables from a house near East Fort. The Fort police identified the accused as Parthipan, 28, of Dharmapuri, Prasad, 27, Suresh Kumar, 37, Ravi Chandran, 40, Karthi, 32, and Satheesh Kumar, 26, all of who hailed from Salem. The gang has been accused of breaking into complainant Hariharan’s house in 2nd Puthen Street a day ago and fleeing away with several valuables. The crime was purportedly orchestrated by Parthipan and Prasad who roped in a quotation gang comprising the other accused apparently to recover losses they incurred at the share market. After arriving in a luxury car that flew the flag of a political party, the gang allegedly broke into the house and wielded weapons to coerce the family into surrendering their valuables. In addition to cash, mobile phone and passports, the gang also purportedly stole signed cheques and stamp papers. Having been alerted of the crime, the Fort police intercepted the vehicle and overpowered the gang.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for burglary||A West Bengal native was allegedly caught red-handed by the Fort police while burgling a silver jewellery outlet in Chala during the wee hours of Sunday. The police identified the accused as Meghlal Mandal, 29, of Malda in West Bengal. He was caught by beat officers attached to the Fort police station allegedly while fleeing with a sack comprising valuables that were stolen from the store. After forcing his way into the store through its roof, the accused allegedly stole several silver jewellery including 26 pairs of anklets and three gold chain links, cash amounting to Rs. 7000, a CCTV camera and a video recorder from the outlet.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for stealing construction materials||The Peroorkada police arrested a 32-year old habitual offender for allegedly stealing iron sheets worth Rs. 3 lakh from a construction site and selling them. The police identified the accused as Sunil Kumar of Sreekaryam. He allegedly smuggled 248 iron sheets weighing around 3,000 kg from a work site of the Kerala Water Authority in Kowdiar after pretending to be a contractor. He allegedly roped in the services of four migrant workers to smuggle the sheets. The stolen goods were subsequently recovered from a scrap dealer. The accused, who is known to steal construction materials, has been involved in similar cases under the Cantonment and Museum police station limits.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP has accepted defeat: V. Sivankutty||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has claimed that the BJP has virtually accepted defeat in the polls to Thiruvananthapuram Corporation by accusing the CPI (M)-led coalition of entering into a pact with the United Democratic Front (UDF) as a last gasp electoral strategy. In a statement, CPI (M) leader V. Sivankutty, who is secretary of the LDF’s election committee for the Corporation polls, accused BJP district president V.V. Rajesh of making outlandish claims in a bid to confuse voters. Lashing out at Mr. Rajesh’s allegations that the LDF has also sided with extremist organisations, Mr. Sivankutty said that the coalition held a tradition of keeping such forces at bay, unmindful of electoral gains. He also challenged the BJP to back its claim by pinpointing any ward that has been witnessing the electoral understanding as alleged. “On the other hand, the BJP has fielded either weak candidates or no one in several wards, including Mudavanmugal,” he alleged.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Extended||The University of Kerala has extended deadline for applying for its UG and PG distance education programmes, offered through School of Distance Education (SDE), to December 31. The applicants must produce their original certificates by post or directly at the SDE in Karyavattom campus within January 5. Online applications can be submitted throughwww.sde.kerala university.ac.in.
07 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,777 new cases, 5,217 recoveries||Kerala reported 4,777 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 51,893 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate remained steady below 10 at 9.21%. The State also reported more recoveries than new cases on Sunday with 5,217 patients getting discharged from hospitals. The active case pool dropped to 60,924 cases. 28 more deaths On Sunday, the Health Department added 28 more deaths to the official COVID-19 death list, taking the State’s cumulative COVID toll to 2,418. Kozhikode reported six of these deaths, Alappuzha four, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kannur three each, Kollam and Kasaragod two each and Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam, one each. Among districts, Malappuram reported 664 cases, Kozhikode 561, Thrissur 476, Ernakulam 474, Kottayam 387, Kollam 380, Thiruvananthapuram, 345, Palakkad 341, Alapuzha 272, Kannur 223, Wayanad 213, Pathanamthitta 197, Idukki 169 and Kasaragod, 75 cases.
07 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Flag Day Fund mobilisation begins||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan inaugurated the sale of Armed Forces Flags by purchasing flags from NCC cadets who called on him at the Raj Bhavan. The Flag Day Fund mobilisation is done by Kendriya Sainik Board and Directorate of Sainik Welfare Kerala.
07 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||476 new cases, 270 recoveries in Thrissur||There were 476 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Sunday while 270 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,617 active cases in the district and 93 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far, 62,554 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 55,487 people have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 461 people, including 4 health works, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. Of them, 65 patients are above the age of 60 and 27 are below the age of 10. Home observation In all, 4,373 patients are in home observation. In all, 167 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Sunday. As many as 4,923 samples were collected for tests on Sunday.  397 recover in Palakkad As many as 341 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Sunday. However, there were 397 recoveries. When 178 people contracted the virus through direct contact the source of infection could not be traced in 149 cases. Among the new cases were two health workers and 12 persons who came from across the borders.
07 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Pannian flays RGCB campus naming||People in the country will never accept the move to name the second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideologue M.S. Golwalkar, Communist Party of India national executive member Pannian Raveendran has said. Addressing the programme ‘Thaddeshaporu’, an election debate programme organised by the Thrissur Press Club here on Sunday, Mr. Raveendran said the effort of the Bharatiya Janata Party government was to rewrite the history of the country and bring somebody into fame in an easy way. “The continuing farmers’ strike has caused concern for the entire population. The BJP government is handling the agitators like the army of an enemy country. The farmers have been protesting for their existence for 11 days. The country has never witnessed such a situation,” he said. ‘Easy win for LDF’ The Left Democratic Front (LDF) will have an easy win in the local body elections, he said. People are looking at the left parties for a solution for their problems. The LDF government intervenes in each issue of the common man and finds a solution for it, he added. The LDF government had brought up Rs. 20,000-crore COVID-19 package for people while the Opposition parties were trying to create hurdles in the name of politics. The LDF-led local body institutions were functioning effectively in the State. Those who did not have the courage to face the Left front were trying to win votes in the name of religion, he said. The LDF was a strengthened front while the UDF was on the verge of destruction, he added.
07 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Govt. thwarted hopes of youth’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), which was known as a party of poor people and workers, has become a haven for gold smugglers and drug mafia, All India Congress Committee general secretary K.C. Venugopal has said. He was addressing election campaign meetings in the district on Sunday. Even die-hard Communists were not supporting left candidates. The Pinarayi government had thwarted the hopes of educated youth, he said. District Congress Committee president M.P. Vincent, T.N. Prathapan, MP, KPCC vice president Padmaja Venugopal, and KPCC secretary Abdurahiman Kutty participated in the campaign meetings.
07 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KUHS foundation day to be celebrated today||Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) will celebrate its 11th foundation day on Monday. B. Ekbal, chairman, expert committee on COVID-19 management, will deliver a talk ‘COVID-Common, Uncommon and new Common’. KUHS Vice Chancellor Mohanan Kunnummel will present best teacher awards in various fields of medicine, Ayurveda, Homoeopathy, Dental, Nursing, Pharmaceutical Science, Para Medical, and Allied Health Sciences. Pro Vice Chancellor C.P. Vijayan, Registrar A.K. Manoj Kumar, and Examination Controller S. Anilkumar will participate. The foundation day programmes can be watched onhttp://www.yotube.com/c/kuhsthrissur.
07 December 2020||VARKALA,KERALA||Close contest likely in Varkala||Loudspeakers blaring, flags stiffly beating in the wind, a campaign vehicle - a decked-up, three-wheeler pickup - races past. It turns a corner and soon vanishes from sight, and silence reigns briefly at the small junction, one of many, seemingly-identical ones dotting the Varkala municipality. It has become increasingly evident that the battle for Varkala will be a closely-fought one. This impression is not wholly lost on the candidates for the main fronts, who, disregarding the slight drizzle and the leaden skies, were out in strength on Saturday morning touring the wards. Trudging up a steep, deserted country lane, Bindhu Haridas, the CPI(M) candidate, explains that Pullannikode is the biggest of the 33 wards in the civic body. Ms. Haridas, who was municipal chairperson in the 2015-2020 council, is on her fifth tour of the neighbourhood. “This ward is spread over a very large area. There are 1,328 voters, 605 men and 723 women. We are very confident. The voters appear to be very cooperative,” Ms. Haridas explains, as she pauses to let her party colleagues to catch up. Soon, she is calling at the homes of a number of Tamil families who are registered electors in the ward, handing out election slips and campaign leaflets. The CPI(M)-led LDF, which won in 2015 with 18 seats, hopes to retain its hold over the 33-seat council. If it does, it would create history as the municipality has never gifted the LDF or the UDF consecutive terms. The Congress-led UDF also exudes confidence about winning, but it has a pesky problem on hand in seven wards where candidates of both Congress and front partner IUML are in the fray. Scoffs BJP’s chances Both fronts are unanimous in scoffing at the BJP’s prospects. Nonetheless, the saffron party draws inspiration from having stood first in 19 wards when senior leader Sobha Surendran contested from Attingal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. All these factors along with the irksome presence of rebels have ensured stiff triangular battles in most of the wards. In the Maithanam ward, the official UDF candidate A. Salim steps up to an elderly couple seated outside their home. “'Don't forget the 'hand' symbol, okay? All votes for the UDF,” he pleads his case with a smile. Mr. Salim gets smiles in return. “'Last time, Maithanam was held by the LDF. But before that, it was a UDF ward. So we are confident of winning it back,” he says. The fact that he also has to contend with an IUML candidate in the ward doesn't seem to alarm him. “The IUML doesn't have much influence here They're sure to end up fourth or fifth. Here the fight is between UDF and LDF,” he says. Varkala municipality has 134 candidates in the fray this time. In the LDF, the CPI(M) has fielded candidates in 28 seats and the CPI, in five. The UDF has officially divided the 33 seats between the Congress (32) and RSP (1), but front partner IUML has fielded its own candidates in seven. In the NDA, the BJP is contesting in 31 seats and ally BDJS, in two. Among the rest, the PDP has four candidates and the Shiv Sena, three. There are also 21 independents in the fray. Four tours By Saturday morning, G. Sunil Kumar, the BJP candidate in Jawahar Park, had completed four tours of the ward. “'We'll go one more round after this,” says Mr. Sunil Kumar, who was the BJP parliamentary party leader in the last council. “'In 2015 we won three seats. But in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, we stood first in 19 wards here. Also, the people are aware that the LDF did little to develop the municipality during the past five years. This gives us confidence,” he adds.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Despite dry weather, shoddy roads remain unrepaired||The Kochi Corporation and, to a lesser extent, the PWD have invited flak for the shoddy condition of roads that they maintain, despite contractors withdrawing their strike two months ago and local body polls just a few days away. The poor state of roads is causing traffic hold-ups and accidents, especially so since the number of private vehicles has considerably gone up owing to the fall in demand for public transport. Interestingly, Kochi Corporation Contractors Association has blamed representatives of rival political parties in the fray for the “inability” to do patch work or fully resurface many roads, despite the dry weather. “Once the strike against non-payment of dues got over, contractors were willing to resume road maintenance work, for which agreements were inked with the civic agency. But there was opposition from several quarters, mainly party workers and those who did not want sitting councillors to claim credit for the work. Thus many contractors had to reschedule their work,” said K. Chandran Pillai, patron of the association and president of All Kerala Local Body Contractors Association. Pending deals Agreements are pending for several other road work contracts. “It is sad that contractors are not able to carry out work, although the District Collector, who is in charge of the corporation, issued directions to speed up road work,” Mr. Pillai said. On corporation officials often citing “inadequate width” as an excuse for not sanctioning BMBC resurfacing, which has a five-year guarantee, he said width was never a criterion. “It all depends on the will power and commitment of the division councillors concerned,” he said, pointing to narrow roads like Narayanan Asan Road at Ponnurunni, which was recently upgraded and resurfaced using the BMBC method. Meanwhile, sources in the corporation said that road repair work suffered delay due to the strike by contractors. Incidentally, the election manifesto of a prominent political front says that a permanent maintenance team will be readied, to repair potholes and undulations at the earliest. It also speaks of paving roads using the BMBC method, concrete or concrete paver blocks, to ensure durability. The PWD is under fire for potholed arterial roads including Civil Line Road.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Setting a record||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll hues||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sprucing up||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll mode||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Close monitoring||
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Starting final countdown with low-key road shows||
07 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements apace for distribution of house sites||The Anantapur district administration will hand over all the house-site pattas to beneficiaries in the layouts developed and none would be left wanting in any aspect. Assessment  Making an assessment of the ground-level situation on the readiness of the house-site pattas in the layouts to be distributed on December 25, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that the beneficiaries selected in the phase for construction of houses in the sites allotted to them would be provided with 92 bags of cement at subsidised price and 20 metric tonnes of sand free of cost.  Road-laying In the layouts, 509 km of internal roads 58 km of approach roads have been laid to provide proper access to the layouts. In Anantapur district, 2.03 lakh persons would be provided house sites, and 1,11,099 persons from among the house site holders would be chosen for providing house construction sanction orders. While the house site would be of 340 sq. ft. houses measuring 272 sq.ft. would be built in them, he said. The unit cost of houses would be Rs. 1.80 lakh and all layouts will have street lights, power, water supply and bore wells would be dug for the water supply, he added. Saplings planted In all 1.20 lakh saplings had been planted in the layouts and tree-guards provided.
07 December 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shortage of smart cards delays issuance of driving licences, RCs||A doctor, who applied for the renewal of his driving licence (DL) a few months ago, is yet to get his smart card. This is not the lone case, there are hundreds of applicants for DL, registration of new vehicles and renewal, who are waiting to receive their cards. G. Hanumantha Rao of Sector V, MVP Colony, had applied online for renewal of his licence, and the online status indicated that his licence was generated. He has been waiting for the last couple of months to receive the smart card. The Transport Department has extended the validity of DLs and RCs, which expired during the course of this year, till the end of this year. This was done to avoid rush at the RTA offices for renewals in view of the pandemic threat. Later, the motorists were asked to apply online for renewals. The Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Visakhapatnam, issues around 100 new and 100 renewal cards on an average every day. This apart, the Transport Offices at Gajuwaka and Anakapalle together issue around 300 cards a day. The shortage in supply of smart cards is attributed to delay in the appointment of a new contractor for supply of cards. “We are facing a shortage of cards for printing since August this year. The highest number of DL s in the State are issued by Visakhapatnam RTA. It may take another six months for the supply of new smart cards. In the meantime, applicants can download the details of their licence or Registration Certificate (RC) on their mobile phones or take a printout and carry it with them till the new cards are issued,” says Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam. The government has allowed motorists to carry digital records of their vehicle like RC-Book, licence and insurance on their mobile phones. The digital documents can be shown, whenever the police or RTA officials demand their production.
07 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two YSRCP groups clash over garlanding of statue at Kuppam||Uneasy moments prevailed for a brief while when two groups of the ruling YSR Congress Party resorted to an ugly spat over the garlanding of Ambedkar statue at the bus stand junction in Kuppam, the constituency represented by TDP supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu, on Sunday marking the death anniversary of the national leader. According to information, two groups, led by local YSRCP leaders Kannan and Munaswamy with their followers, had reached the Ambedkar statue venue in a procession. Soon, the two sides reportedly took to fisticuffs as to who should first garland the statue. The skirmish had reportedly continued for several minutes, with members of both sides running and chasing each other all over the locality. On information, the Kuppam police rushed to the spot and quelled the two sides. Constituency’s party in-charge Bharat had later sought the two sides to come to the office to hammer out a rapport between them. ‘Long history’ YSRCP cadres said Kannan and Munaswamy, both formerly with the Telugu Desam Party, had been at loggerheads for the last several years, claiming upper hand in the locality and party affairs as well. At a time when the issue of local body elections has turned a hot topic in the State, the element of groupism in the TDP bastion is viewed as a big embarrassment to the party leaders Chittoor district. The party cadres further observed that this development would be brought to the notice of Panchayat Raj Minister and Chittoor strongman P. Ramachandra Reddy. No complaint filed Meanwhile, circle-inspector (Kuppam) Sridhar said that as and when information about the spat reached the station, the personnel had rushed there and pacified both groups. “No side has given any complaint so far,” the police officer said.
07 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco Board will maximise exports, says Executive Director||After shrugging off a sluggish trading season due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the Tobacco Board is all set to turn a new leaf in the year 2021 by giving top priority to exports. Executive Director, Tobacco Board, Addanki Sridhar Babu said that his priority would be to boost exports and maximise the potential of premium filler FCV Tobacco grown on light soils of Karnataka and semi flavoured tobacco grown on northern light soils of A.P., which continue to be in demand in many European and West Asian countries. Yet another factor that could boost the fortunes of farmers is the prospect of foreign direct investment (FDI). It is learnt that a parliamentary panel had pitched for FDI in tobacco industry, ending the monopoly of a few companies. “FCV Tobacco is an export-oriented crop and our job will be to use the potential for maximising foreign exchange earnings. We are closely working with the Central Tobacco Research Institute to minimise crop pesticide residues and improve the quality of tobacco, and we will continue to pitch for exports to China, which is the largest producer and exporter of tobacco,” Mr. Sridhar Babu told The Hindu on Saturday. Crop size The board has pegged the crop size in 2021 at 115 million kg keeping in view the experiences in 2020, when nearly 12 million kg of low grade tobacco was procured by the AP Markfed, as leading companies had shied away from the market. The prolonged lockdown also resulted in lower prices. The authorised crop size for the year 2020 was 126 million kg in A.P. The low grade varieties were purchased at Rs. 75 per kg, while the bright grades fetched Rs. 130, but it is the uncertainty in exports due to the pandemic, that had hit the farmers hard. However, the board ensured that the auctions were completed on time as tobacco is a weather sensitive crop. More than 170 staff had tested positive for COVID-19 and recovered.
07 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chain-snatching gang busted in E. Godavari||The East Godavari police on Sunday busted a chain-snatching gang and arrested four persons. The four were accused in 26 chain-snatching cases in East and West Godavari districts in Andhra Pradesh and some places in Telangana State. Addressing the media here, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that gold chains worth Rs. 28 lakh were recovered from the gang. The four arrested persons, Penkey Prasad, Yanamadala Siva, Gudala Raju and Gubbala Suresh, all from East Godavari district, target women in major towns and snatch chains from them. “The gang was also involved in the motorbike lifting and two bikes were recovered from them,” said Mr. Nayeem Asmi. Amalapuram DSP and investigation officer Y. Madhav Reddy said that cases were registered against the gang members and produced them before in court.
07 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to make Bharat bandh a success||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) central committee member M.A. Gafoor has criticised the Central government for bringing three farm laws, which according to him, will help the corporate entities. At a press conference here on Sunday, the CPI(M) leader called upon the people, particularly farmers, to extend support to the Bharat Bandh on Monday so that the agitation by the farmers from Punjab would get a shot in the arm and Centre would bow down and repeal the three laws. Mr. Gafoor took objection to the Centre ignoring the farmers’ cause by saying the laws were meant for them. “When the farmers themselves do not want the regulated markets abolished, do not want the food security to go in the long-run, why can’t Prime Minister Narendra Modi listen to them,” he questioned. All the Left parties and trade unions affiliated to them would support the Bharat Bandh at their places. All the trade unions, which organised two-day strike on November 26 and 27, resolved to support the farmers’ agitation by participating in the Bharat Bandh, he added.
07 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||V-C discusses Rayalaseema University plans with Minister||Rayalaseema University Vice-Chancellor A. Ananda Rao met Education Minister A. Suresh, APSCHE chairman K. Hema Chandra Reddy, and Higher Education Special Chief Secretary Sathish Chandra on Saturday. Mr. Ananda Rao said he had discussed his plans to take the university forward. He said academics and research were his first priority and stressed on the need for establishing a Rayalaseema University College in Kurnool. Construction of new buildings for an engineering college with RUSA funds will begin on the varsity’s 192-acre land at Dinnedevarapadu, adjacent to the IIITDM, he said.
07 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector lauds media for ‘key role’ in Pushkarams||Print and electronic media played a key role in communicating with the large number of devotees coming to the Tungabhadra Pushkarams in Kurnool district, and it also played the role of a catalyst by ensuring better coordination between officials and people coming to the ghats to offer prayers, Collector G. Veerapandian said. Some of the 23 Pushkaram Ghats constructed at a cost of Rs. 230 crore were now being converted into Dhobi ghats, which the media personnel and officials suggested must be stopped and the ghats kept free for tourists and other visitors, at least in the urban locations along the river.
07 December 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare of home guards is top priority, says Kurnool SP||The 58th Raising Day celebrations saw the Police Department affirming its commitment towards the welfare of home guards, on Sunday. Attending the celebrations at the Police Parade Grounds in Kurnool, Superintendent of Police Fakeerappa Kaginelli praised the home guards for rising to the occasion during the COVID-19 pandemic and released pamphlets on the special Retirement Benefit Scheme for them through Life Insurance Corporation and Axis Bank. Those aged between 18 and 50 will be covered under this scheme. In the event of a natural death or an accident, the insurance amount will be paid to the next of kin. No stone will be left unturned in ensuring the welfare and safety of the home guards and their family members, the SP said. Special appreciation letters were handed over to those who excelled in the line of duty and gave away prizes as part of some competitions organised for them. In Anantapur, the home guards took out a rally on the main streets near Clock Tower before reaching the Parade Ground for a march past in the presence of Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu and other senior police officers. The services rendered by the home guards are no less inferior to those of police personnel, said Additional SP E. Nagendrudu, who lauded their efforts during the pandemic and the conduct of elections. The discipline shown by the home guards makes them a key component in maintaining law and order and as part of our responsibility, we provided them with the best possible implements and essential protection gear, he said.
07 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Skills of home guards to be honed, says Prakasam SP||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal on Sunday assured the home guards that they will be given the best opportunities to hone their skills, and said that their working conditions would also be improved. Speaking after receiving the Guard of Honour at the Police Parade Grounds here on the occasion of the 58th Home Guard Foundation Day, he said becoming an integral part of the police force, they had proved their mettle working on par with constables in law and order, crime control and traffic regulation. The SP lauded them for serving as frontline warriors during the COVID-19 pandemic as well as during the landfall of Cyclone Nivar. Through the first-ever Home Guard Cooperative Credit Society floated in the district, 50 home guards were advanced a loan of Rs. 50,000 each. Efforts were on to provide more financial support in collaboration with Axis Bank, he added. The SP directed Deputy Superintendents of Police to hold the parade once a week to redress their grievances.
07 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaders vow to realise dreams of Ambedkar||Floral tributes were paid to Constitution architect B.R.Ambedkar on his 64th death anniversary here on Sunday. Leaders cutting across partylines vowed to realise the dreams of the Dalit icon for a prosperous and inclusive India. Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar garlanded the statue of the late leader near the Collectorate and outlined the welfare and development schemes of the Union and State Governments to ameliorate the living condition of the weaker sections of people. “The life history of Dr. Ambedkar will be a source of inspiration for millions of people. We are fully committed to realise the ideals to achieve an egalitiarian society,” said Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president Sripathy Prakasam after garlanding the statue of Ambedkar. Madiga Reservation Porata Samiti State general secretary Usuripatti Brahmaiah Madiga said socio-economic justice for Dalits could be achieved only through micro-classification of Scheduled Castes for the purpose of reservation. Seventy years after the Constitution came into being, justice to SCs, STs, OBCs still not had been achieved in full, said Organisation for Protection of Democracy State vice-president Ch. Sudhakar.
07 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Truck driver killed in mishap||A driver was killed and another person injured when the truck they were travelling in collided with an unidentified vehicle on the Chennai-Kolkata highway at Medermetla in Prakasam district on Sunday. One taken to hospital Police, who rushed to the site on receiving information, said the injured, hailing from Machilipatnam, was admitted to the Government General Hospital(GGH) for treatment. The deceased was identified as Shankar(45) from Vellaturu village in G. Konduru mandal in Krishna district.
07 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more dies of COVID in Nellore||One more person succumbed to COVID-19 in SPSR Nellore district, taking the toll to 1,077 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning. No death was reported in Prakasam district. So far, 578 patients died in Prakasam district and 499 in SPSR Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The number of fresh cases was more by one patient when compared to the number of recoveries in the region during the period. With 60 persons testing positive for the disease, the overall coronavirus case count in the two districts increased to 1,24,805. The caseload remained at 974 as 66 patients got cured during the period. Recovery rate in the region stood at 98.75% much better than the national average of 94.37% as 1,23,253 patients won the battle against the viral disease so far .
07 December 2020||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram site for installation of YSR statue inspected||The officials of the Andhra Pradesh Green and Beautification Corporation and Polavaram Project Authorities on Sunday visited G. Hill in connection with the proposed installation a statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekara Reddy at the project site. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, during the winter session of the Assembly announced that a 100-foot tall statue of Dr. Rajashekara Reddy would be installed and it would be unveiled during the inaugural function of the Polavaram project. A.P. Green and Beautification Corporation Managing Director N. Chandrashekar Reddy, A.P. Architecture (Technical) General Manager D. Balaram Reddy, Divisional Engineer (Irrigation) Balakrishna, and technical staff visited G. Hill area.
07 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP opposes distribution of house sites on Dec. 25||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has taken strong exception to the government’s plan of distribution of house sites to the poor on Christmas day. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is promoting a particular religion and the date chosen for the programme is a clear pointer to it,” BJP in-charge of Etcherla Assembly constituency N. Eswara Rao told the media here on Sunday. “Our party has no objection to the distribution of house sites to about 26 lakh people. But the date chosen is objectionable,” Mr. Eswara Rao said.
07 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Assault’ on woman at police station sparks controversy||The alleged assault on a woman by a police officer at Muthyala Reddy Palle police station here triggered a row. In view of the gravity of the situation after the incident went viral on social media, Tirupati Urban Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy ordered a probe and appointed Additional Superintendent of Police E. Supraja as the inquiry officer. It all started with two women— Sakunthala and Vanitha Rani, both residents of Ullipatteda—complaining against each other and approaching the police seeking justice. Even as the police promptly registered a case acting on their complaints, the women were allegedly treated shabbily and Vanitha Rani was allegedly manhandled by a cop. She staged a dharna in front of the police station. “The case will be thoroughly investigated and the erring persons will be brought to book,” said Mr. Ramesh Reddy and assured the complainant that the probe would be completed within 24 hours.  Justice sought Meanwhile, the women’s wing of the TDP staged a demonstration and sought justice for the woman. Telugu Mahila State president Vangalapudi Anitha and former MLA M. Sugunamma visited the police station, but they were turned back by the police, claiming that no ill-treatment had been meted out. “When women muster courage to go to a police station seeking justice, such incidents sap their morale,” said Ms. Anitha. Ms. Sugunamma said the police should not have manhandled the woman whatever was the provocation.
07 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Marxist Leninist group backs bandh call||Unity Centre of Communist Revolutionaries of India – Marxist Leninist (UCCRI M-L) has extended support to the call for ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 given by various farmers’ organisations, expressing protest to the new farm policies. The Marxist Leninist group has opined that the farm laws were meant to favour big business houses to enter the business of production and distribution of agricultural commodities in a big way and control their prices, with an eye on making ‘super profits’ at the cost of the various strata of farmers and consumers. ‘Repeal laws’ “The demand for the repeal of these laws is justified and we support the same,” said its secretary Vinod in a press release. However, he also felt that the present laws on agricultural markets, MSP and essential commodities had neither helped the peasantry to secure a just price nor helped the produce reach the people at a fair price, but only benefited the middlemen belonging to the ruling parties.
07 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,534 take test for police recruitment||As many as 1,534 candidates took the police recruitment test conducted on Sunday for the post of Assistant in Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). The test was conducted in five centres in Tirupati, viz., SVU College of Arts, SVU College of Commerce, SVU College of Engineering and Sri Padmavathi Polytechnic. Of the 1,783 candidates who had registered for the test, 1534 attended and 249 abstained. The two-hour test was conducted from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Additional SP E. Supraja ensured tight security and proper arrangements at the test centres. Policemen from the Tirupati Sub-Division were drafted for duty at the examination centres.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||House resolution on local polls unconstitutional: Yanamala||Asking the State Election Commission (SEC) to obtain the consent of the government to kick-start the election process would tantamount to contempt of court, TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said in a statement on Sunday. Adopting a resolution in the Assembly that the government’s consent should be taken for conducting the elections was unconstitutional, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said, and added that the Governor too could not issue an Ordinance as the President’s approval was necessary. Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the Supreme Court had merely stated that the government should be consulted for conducting the elections. It did not say that the government’s consent should be taken. As per Article 243(k) of the Constitution, “The superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of electoral rolls for and conduct of all elections to the panchayats shall be vested in a State Election Commission consisting of a State Election Commissioner.” The government should not interfere in the process once election notification was issued. “Now, as the election process has already begun, the sole responsibility rested with the SEC,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishnudu asserted that the State government had no right to interfere with the SEC’s duties in the middle of the election process. No institution should be seen as a competitor with another in a democracy. The State Election Commission should not be brought in conflict with the legislature, the TDP leader said.
07 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor wants sanitation drive in affected areas||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Sunday enquired with the officials about the health condition of the patients undergoing treatment for an unknown illness at various hospitals in Eluru in West Godavari district. Expressing concern over the incident in which over 270 persons fell sick, Mr. Harichandan directed the officials to take up sanitation drive in the affected colonies and provide better medical facilities to the patients. Meanwhile, it is learnt that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be visiting the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Eluru on Monday and interact with the patients. Later, he will review the situation with the officials. Earlier in the day, TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh, Palakollu MLA Nimmala Ramanaidu and other party leaders visited the GGH and interacted with the patients who were admitted with complaints of epilepsy, dizziness and headache. ‘Contaminated water’ Mr. Lokesh, who visited the Vangayagudem area in the town, said poor sanitation and supply of contaminated water could be the reasons behind the outbreak of the mysterious disease. He demanded that the government declare health emergency in the town. The opposition leaders also blamed the government for poor sanitation in Eluru being represented in the Assembly by Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, and alleged that the government was trying to suppress the facts. Leaders of the CPI, the CPI (M) and other parties interacted with the residents in Dakshina Veedhi and Tapimastry Colony, where many were admitted to hospital with complaints of headache and epilepsy. CPI(M) leader Ch. Babu Rao said patients from 15 wards were hospitalised in the last 48 hours. “Sanitary conditions are alarming in many areas in Eluru. Contaminated water is being supplied to colonies. The government has failed to diagnose the disease so far,” Mr. Babu said, and sought more medical teams.
07 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Operation Nigha’ to check smuggling of sand, liquor||As part of ‘Operation Nigha’, the officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the police have been conducting raids since Saturday night on sand, liquor and ganja smuggling, and arrack manufacturing units, besides checking the vehicles at the borders. Until Sunday evening, the teams registered 54 cases, arrested 180 persons, and seized 80 vehicles, said SEB Commissioner Vineej Brijlal. “About 100 teams of the SEB and police personnel of the districts concerned, and other officers are participating in the drive. They have seized liquor, ganja and sand worth lakhs of rupees,” said Mr. Brijlal. Raids to continue The raids were being conducted under the supervision of DGP D. Gautam Sawang, who is also the Ex Officio Principal Secretary of SEB, to check illegal liquor, sand, gutkha, ganja and the banned online games, said SEB Director P.H.D. Ramakrishna. As part of the operation, vehicles coming from other States were checked. The police conducted raids in villages, mangrove forests, island villages and some lodges. The raids would continue, he said. “We are verifying the movements of habitual offenders. Vigil has been mounted on online gambling, cricket betting and other banned games,” Mr. Ramakrishna said. SEB ex officio additional directors and their staff were participating in the raids, he added.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP lauds home guards’ role||The 58th Home Guards Raising Day was celebrated in the City Armed Reserve Police Parade Grounds in the city on Sunday. Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang conveyed wishes to home guards and appreciated them for helping the police in discharging their duties. Mr. Sawang said the government, besides increasing their salaries, is providing health insurance, education for their children and insurance facility. Besides, housing, Arogyasri, maternity leave for women home guards were being provided, the DGP said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Vikrant Patil and DCP (administration) D. Mary Prasanthi and other officers participated in the Home Guards Raising Day celebrations in Vijayawada. Parade Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu received the guard of honour from the home guards at Machilipatnam. Additional SP, DSPs and other officers attended the celebrations.  In Eluru, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik reviewed the home guards parade at Police Kalyana Mandapam. The officers presented merit certificates to the seniors and those who performed extraordinary duties.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Power consumers spared of tariff hike despite financial crunch’||In spite of the huge revenue deficit caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the severe financial crisis faced by the power distribution companies (Discoms), the government has refrained from increasing the tariff for the second consecutive year, Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has said. Accordingly, the Discoms had filed their Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) before the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC), the Minister said while launching the new logo of the AP State Energy Conservation Mission (AP-SECM) on Sunday. The Minister said the government was taking all steps to improve the financial and operational performance of the power utilities. As part of it, the government had already released Rs. 17,904 crore for clearing the subsidy arrears of the Discoms pending as on March 31, 2019. Nine-hour supply to farmers The government was successfully implementing the nine-hour free power scheme to the agriculture sector, and it was providing subsidy for the domestic consumers as well, he said. The government had also allocated Rs. 8,354 crore for the free power scheme, he said. “It is providing Rs. 717 crore for supplying power to the aqua farmers at a subsidy and Rs. 1,707 crore towards domestic subsidy,” the Minister said. Energy Secretary N. Srikant said the power utilities laid special focus on delivering outstanding consumer services and exploring ways to improve the existing systems. He said the SECM would be organising various activities as part of the Energy Conservation Week from December 14 to create awareness among people on efficient use of energy. The SECM would be conducting energy efficiency awards competition to encourage government and private institutions to implement energy efficiency activities on a large scale.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||An idea to inspire youth||“Celebrities dishing out random acts of kindness is indeed appreciable. But what actor Sonu Sood has been doing is just surreal. He has institutionalised the practice of good work from every possible platform,” says Sarat Chandra, one of the directors of Sarat Chandra IAS Academy in Vijayawada, which has named its Department of Arts and Humanities after the actor who is now also popular as the ‘Messaiah of Migrants’. “In the Arts and Humanities wing, most of the subjects we teach to the aspiring civil servants are about social work, the role of the government, society and individuals among other topics. We thought naming the department after Sonu Sood was the best way to raise social consciousness among the young aspirants,” he said while speaking to The Hindu . Pleasant surprise The academy, at its board meeting, discussed the idea of naming the departments after people who inspire the youth of the day. The coaching institution is considering names like economist and philosopher Amartya Sen and sociologist M.N. Srinivas for its other departments as well. Mr. Sarat Chandra was in for a pleasant surprise when he received a phone call from none other than Sonu Sood himelf after a decision was made and it was officially announced by the academy. “The actor came to know about it through a youngster, Karimullah, who was admitted in the academy on the recommendation of a member of his team,” says Mr. Chandra, stating that the actor also made a video call last Sunday when the new name was formally announced and a board of ‘Sonu Sood Department of Arts and Humanities’ was put up on the campus. Mr. Chandra said the actor had informed him that he now plans to include scholarships for IAS aspirants from economically weaker sections in his list of issues he is dealing with. Ever since the outbreak of the coronavirus, the actor has lent a helping hand to thousands of migrant workers, students and farmers through his acts of generosity. Not stopping at it, he has now expanded the good work to the health and education sectors.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases plummet further to 5,910 in State||The State witnessed nine more COVID-19 deaths and 667 new infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. With this, the cumulative tally increased to 8,71,972 and the toll reached 7,033. As many as 914 patients recovered in the past day, leaving a total of  5,910 patients under treatment. The total number of recoveries increased to 8,59,029 and the recovery rate also went up to 98.52%. In the past day, 60,329 samples were tested, registering a positivity rate of 1.11%. The overall positivity rate of the 1.041 crore samples tested so far was put at 8.38% and the tests per million ratio increased to 1.94 lakh. Chittoor and Krishna districts reported two more deaths each, the highest in the past day, while Anantapur, Guntur, Kadapa, Nellore and Visakhapatnam reported one each. The remaining districts saw no deaths. Krishna again topped the districts in new infections as it reported 129 cases. It was followed by Guntur (114), Chittoor (105), West Godavari (86), East Godavari (38), Anantapur (37), Prakasam (36), Srikakulam (33), Kadapa (24), Nellore (24), Vizianagaram (18), Visakhapatnam (15) and Kurnool (8). Of the total 5,910 active cases, 1,138 are in Krishna, the only district with more than a thousand cases. Guntur has 913 active cases while four districts including Srikakulam, Kadapa, Vizianagaram and Kurnool have less than 200 active cases each. Kurnool has 109 active cases.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan bent on killing coop. dairy sector’||TDP leader D. Narendra Kumar has alleged that the YSRCP government is bent on “killing the cooperative dairy sector” in the State by promoting Amul with public money. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should have turned the brand ambassador for the government-owned Vijaya Dairy, but he chose to become the ambassador for Amul, a Gujarat-based dairy, Mr. Narendra Kumar said. The government, if it were sincere, should revive the State dairies. Instead, it was all set to spend Rs. 3,000 crore on creating infrastructure to Amul by availing of a loan, he said.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan pays tributes to Ambedkar||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid rich tributes to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Father of the Constitution, on his death anniversary on Sunday. “Dr. Ambedkar continues to live through his lofty ideals and inspiring thoughts. His efforts to uplift and develop the downtrodden people are immeasurable,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a message on Twitter, adding that the Constitution drafted by Dr. Ambedkar made India a vibrant democracy. At the YSRCP’s central office at Tadepalli, the party leaders paid floral tributes to Dr. Ambedkar. The government was empowering the weaker sections of the society like never before, they said. Vemuru MLA Merugu Nagarjuna said the State government had been doing its best to fulfil the dream of Dr. Ambedkar.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transfers: teachers’ union opposes web counselling||The State committee of the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) has urged the Department of Education to do away with web counselling with regard to teacher transfers and instead conduct physical counselling. At a meeting on Sunday, K. Bhanu Murthy and P. Panduranga Varaprasad Rao, president and general secretary of the federation, said teachers were not comfortable with web counselling and the online mode also adversely affected their interests. They said department officials had promised to demonstrate the web counselling process to representatives of the teachers associations but had not done it so far. They reiterated their demand that counselling be conducted in ‘manual’ mode. The APTF committee decided to field its candidates for Krishna, Guntur and East and West Godavari teachers' constituency elections.
07 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIIMS doctors will help treat patients, says GVL||Expressing concern over the large number of people falling sick in Eluru, BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao on Sunday said that doctors from AIIMS-Mangalagiri would help in treating the patients and finding out the possible cause. In a press release, the BJP leader said that he had spoken to AIIMS-Delhi Director Dr. Randeep Guleria as soon as had come to know about the incident and discussed the remedial action. Mr. Rao said that the doctors he had consulted opined that the sickness could be due to some toxins, and it might not be an episode of mass hysteria.
07 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roundtable vows to make Bharat bandh a success||The speakers, who represented various trade unions, appealed to all sections of people to make the proposed Bharat bandh on December 8 a success, at a roundtable organised at the CITU office here on Sunday. The Joint Action Committee of all trade unions has given the call for the nationwide bandh to exert pressure on the Union government to withdraw the three farm reform laws and the power sector reforms, which, the unions say would put the farmers at the mercy of the corporate companies. They alleged that the farm laws would enable corporates like Adani and Reliance to gain control over the agriculture sector. Trade unions alleged that the power sector reforms would deprive the farmers of free power for agriculture. The farmers and general public would have to suffer as the private players would take the power sector into their hands. Govt. action deplored The meeting demanded that the Centre consider the 10-day agitation of the farmers in the biting cold in Delhi and withdraw the laws. The speakers also deplored the action of the government for its repressive measures like use of water cannons and tear gas against the farmers. Saying it was the responsibility of all citizens to support the bandh, they appealed to sections of people in the city to participate and make it a success. CITU city president R.K.S.V. Kumar, secretary M. Jaggu Naidu, AITUC district president Padala Ramana, INTUC district general secretary N. Ramachandra Rao, IFTU vice president M. Venkateswarlu, CFTUI national president Kanaka Rao, AITUC district president K. Sankara Rao, HMS leader D. Appa Rao, AP Rythu Sangham district president Gandi Nayanababu, Public Sector Coordination Committee leaders S. Jyothiswara Rao and Kumara Mangalam and Shramik Mahila Coordination Committee leader P. Mani were among those who attended.
07 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 15 new COVID cases, one death||The district recorded 15 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours (from Saturday to Sunday morning), taking the cumulative tally to 58,950 according to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Sunday. The death toll rose to 513 after one more person succumbed to the coronavirus, according to the bulletin. As many as 73 persons, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19, have recovered from the virus. With the new discharges, the number of recoveries stands at 58,075, which is 98.5%. Active cases came down below the 400-mark, for the first time since June, and stand at 362.
07 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No active cases among city police, says DCP||Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order – I) Aishwarya Rastogi has said that the city police turned COVID-19-free, with zero active cases as on December 4. He said that as many as 698 police personnel were affected by the pandemic and four personnel, including two head constables, have succumbed to the coronavirus in discharge of their duties. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, Mr. Rastogi recalled the efforts of the police personnel during the COVID-19 crisis. The city police with the strength of 3,811, including 2,936 police personnel and 875 Home Guards strove relentlessly round the clock in controlling the unnecessary movement of public on the roads and also in containment zones, Mr. Rastogi said. Mr. Rastogi said that the city police could achieve zero cases due to the adoption of various safety measures. He said that a dedicated COVID-19 cell was being continuously monitored by the control room. The required drugs were given free of cost to all the needy police personnel. He said that separate wards were allotted to the police personnel and their family members in various hospitals. Health camps “Senior officials were in touch with the doctors treating the victims. A team consisting of a doctor and inspectors have been conducting health awareness camps at all the police stations and police quarters on measures to check the spread of virus. Special teams created awareness regarding good practices to battle the virus,” Mr. Rastogi said. Rapid tests He said that rapid tests were conducted for the police personnel from time to time and glass shields were erected at all the police stations. COVID-19-affected personnel were provided masks, sanitiser, vitamin supplements and dry fruits, Mr. Rastogi added.
07 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga classes begin for railway employees||The authorities of Waltair Railway Division initiated yoga classes for its employees and their family members to keep them fit. The classes are being organised at Raghava Kalamandapam in the DRM’s Office complex from 6 a.m. for an hour every day. Interested employees and family members can join these classes and improve their health in the battle against COVID-19. Speaking on the occasion, Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said that Yoga and Pranayam help to get rid of stress and anxiety apart from keeping the body healthy. It helps relieve backpain, strengthens bones and muscles and sharpens the mind. Senior Divisional Personnel Officer K.S.N. Raju said that railway personnel and family members could utilise the opportunity. On the inaugural day, a large number of officers, railway employees and their family members took part in the yoga class, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi.
07 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Margasira Masotsavam: ‘darshan’ tickets to be sold from today||Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi Temple Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi has said that the advance slot slips which are mandatory to have ‘darshan’ of the main deity during the ‘Margasira Masotsavam’ can be obtained from two places from December 7. In a release on Sunday, Ms. Madhavi said that the ‘darshan’ tickets could be taken from Sri Sitarama Chandra Swamy temple, Ambika Bagh, Jagadamba Junction, and Sri Jagannadha Swamy Temple, Town Kotha Road. She informed that to get these advance slot slips, people need to submit their Aadhaar card details. For more details, people can contact on landline nos 0891-2566514, 2566515. Officials are making arrangements for ‘Margasira Masotsavam’ at the temple scheduled to be held from December 15. Steps being taken for hassle-free ‘darshan’ amid the pandemic, by taking safety measures. Radha yatra, cultural programmes and ‘annadanam’ have been cancelled as part of the precautionary measures.
07 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entries invited for Telugu essay competition||An essay writing competition in Telugu for final year degree students is being organised by the BV Foundation for Peace and Harmony, a member group of the International Association for Religious Freedom in connection with World Human Rights Day to be held on December 10. The essays can be written on topics like equality, freedom, peace, dignity, prosperity and justice. The essay should not exceed 1,000 words and should be certified by the Principal of the college. The entries should reach the secretary Narava Prakasa Rao at LIG-10, APHB Colony, Seethammadhara by December 10.
07 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp organised||A blood donation camp, organised by Rotaractors of Rotaract Clubs, was inaugurated by Rotary Blood Bank chairman G .S. Raju near the YMCA on Beach Road here on Sunday. B. Sumidaa Devi, Additional Director, National Academy of Customs, Indirect Taxes and Narcotics, P.L.K. Murthy, Rotary Pulse Polio District Chairman, Rotary Club representatives Raja, Jagan Mohan and Rotaractors donated blood.
07 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Specialised children’s hospital inaugurated||A 200-bed Rainbow Children’s Hospital was inaugurated by the Rainbow Group MD Ramesh Kancharla and Director of Intensive Care Services Dinesh Kumar Chirla, at Arilova here on Sunday. Dr. Ramesh said hospital was equipped with two suites for deliveries and two operation theatres, 40 beds for NICU and 16 beds for PICU.
07 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Artisans try their luck at handloom exhibition||Artisans from Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh are trying their luck at the handloom and handicraft mela which is under way at the Lion’s Club Hall here. Saris from Gadwal, Pochamapally, Siddipet, Mangalagiri, Uppada, Kanchi, Dharmavaram, Warangal towels, Banjara embroidery material, Warangal leathers, Hyderabad pearls and bangles are on display at the exhibition which began on December 2 and will continue until February 25, 2021. Slowdown effect “The artisans have incurred huge losses with the drop in business activities due to lockdown and economic slowdown induced by the coronavirus pandemic. We hope this exhibition will help them recoup some loss,” said R. Prasada Rao at Sri Kalabharati handloom and handicraft mela. Mr. Prasada Rao, who hails from Hyderabad, said that the previous editions of the exhibitions held in Telangana could not fetch good business to the artisans due to heavy rain and other reasons. “We had got a good support from the customers in the last edition of the exhibition here last year. We anticipate a similar response this time. The customers are being offered the saris and other items for 20 % less than the market prices,” said Mudasir Ahmed, an artisan of Kashmir. G. Malleswari from Chittoor district expressed happiness over the good sales in first three days. “Compared to big shops, we offer fresh and new varieties of saris. Customers are interested to buy saris as the prices range between Rs. 200 and Rs. 5,000,” she added. YSRCP leader Kolagatla Sravani, after visiting the exhibition, said sell of saris and other material would help the artisans who were striving hard to make their ends meet owing to the impact of the pandemic.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Undiagnosed illness: one dies, cases rise to 315||Seven patients were rushed to Vijayawada for better treatment and their condition was stable, he said. Teams of health officials from various hospitals in West Godavari and Krishna districts, the staff of ward secretariats and officials of the revenue and police departments rushed to the affected colonies and were attending on the patients in the camps arranged on the streets. Negative for COVID-19 “Water, food and blood samples have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). The reports are awaited. CT scan and X-ray reports of the parents are normal. COVID-19 tests were conducted for all the patients and the results were negative,” doctors said. West Godavari Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla, senior civil judge D. Balakrishnaiah and other officials visited the government hospital and enquired about the health condition of the patients. Helpline Mr. Shukla said that call centres had been set up at the Eluru municipal office. Residents may call over phone numbers 9154565529 and 9154592617 in case of an emergency. “GGH superintendent A.V.R. Mohan and district coordinator of hospital services Dr. Mohan Rao are monitoring the situation round the clock,” said Mr. Shukla. “Patients are complaining of giddiness and headache. The recovery rate is good and there is no need for panic,” said District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) Dr. Sunanda. Unguturu legislator Vasu Babu, RDO Panabaka Rachana and Indian Red Cross Society chairman M. Jaya Prakash were among those monitoring the situation in the affected areas, the DMHO added.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In a jolly mood||
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases declining despite increased testing||Notwithstanding a comparatively higher number of tests, fewer COVID-19 cases have been detected in Telangana since December 1. On Saturday, 57,308 samples were put to test and only 622 were found to be positive for coronavirus while results of 848 people were awaited. In terms of daily testing from March 2, when the first case emerged in the State, till December 5, the highest number of tests were conducted only for a few weeks spread between August and September, leading to detection of maximum cases. In July first week, the daily tests conducted were between 4,200 and 6400, and positive cases were around 1,000 to 1,900. The tests gradually increased thereafter. On a few days in the first week of August, when a little over 20,000 people were examined, over 2,000-2,300 coronavirus cases were found. Till that point of the year, people worryingly consumed information related to COVID-19. The tests spiked after August third week. From August 25 to September 11, over 59,000 people were examined in a day, leading to detection of 2,500 to 3,000 COVID-positive persons. It was during this time period that the highest number of cases in a day were recorded in nine months of the pandemic. On August 25, a total of 61,040 samples were tested and 3,018 cases were detected. Testing and positivity rate started to show a gradual decline from September 12. In October first week, when 49,000 to 55,000 people were examined, 1,850 to 2,200 persons were found to be positive. By end of the October, the tests further decreased to a maximum of 44,000 a day and 1,400 to 1,550 cases were detected. Major changes were not observed in November. It was only from November 19 that a gradual drop in daily cases was observed. On November 30, as many as 46,597 samples were put to test and only 502 cases were recorded. For a better understanding of the downward trend, sample this: on November 5, when 46,970 persons were examined (around the same number on November 30), a total of 1,602 positive cases had been recorded. Though the daily tests increased again from December 1, the decline in cases continued. From December 1 to 5, anywhere between 51,500 and 60,000 samples have been examined and only 550 to 650 cases have been detected.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS to support Bharat Bandh call by farmers tomorrow||The ruling TRS has extended complete support to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations on December 8. Party president and CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced the decision and appealed to public to make the bandh success. He also said TRS cadre will actively participate in the agitation. Defending the struggle by farmers against the three farm laws enacted by Parliament, Mr. Rao said the laws adversely impacted their interests. It was precisely because of that the TRS opposed the Bills in Parliament. He stressed the need for the agitation to continue until they were repealed. The struggle by farmers was justified, he said, and appealed to public to express solidarity with them by observing bandh. Hours after Mr. Rao issued a release, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao told a press conference at the party office that the Chief Minister took the decision to convey a clear message to the Centre about several progressive and forward looking measures taken up by the State government for farmers. He called upon ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, important leaders and workers of TRS, to hit the highways in their respective constituencies for protests on December 8. They should mobilise crowds on highways to stop movement of traffic. Mr. Rao asked owners of shops and business establishments to reopen their premises two hours late. Transport companies should also resume their operations only in the afternoon. RTC buses should not take to roads till the afternoon. He also asked TRS workers to explain to public the ill effects of the new farm laws, how agriculture will go into the hands of corporates and the strategy of the Centre to dismantle MSP for farm produce. He said he saluted the farmers who braved the hostile winter weather in the national capital while carrying out their agitation. Rythu Bandhu Samiti chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, ministers Md. Mahmood Ali, P. Sabitha Indra Reddy, MP K. Keshava Rao, legislators Balka Sumna, M. Srinivas Reddy and others spoke supporting the call. Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy said the major fallout of the bills were denial of MSP to farmers and handing over farming to the corporate sector. He alleged that the Centre had prevented the State from giving bonus to superfine varieties of paddy as it had threatened to stop procurement in the event of State paying bonus to farmers.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Digital life certificate at doorstep a hit||An initiative to issue Digital Life Certificate (DLC) to the pensioners through India Posts is a big hit in Telangana with the State standing second in the country by successfully uploading the details of as many as 29,167 retired employees and generating online Jeevan Praman certificates. During the course of the intensive doorstep services rendered by the Telangana circle, several pensioners were able to get their DLCs without hassle. Take for example the case of a retired government employee Ramagiri Rajaiah of Timmapur village in Jannaram mandal of Mancherial district. Rajaiah met with an accident and suffered fractures and was all at sea as the deadline to obtain the Life Certificate to continue drawing the pension was approaching fast. Unable to step out of the house, Rajaiah got information about the DLC facility and sent a word to the nearest post-office. No sooner was the service request made, Gram Dak Sevak of Jannaram sub-office Jadhav Kiran rushed to his house and in less than 10 minutes the process was completed. Similarly, Samala Lakshmi Narayana of Timmapur was also lucky. Bed-ridden and unable to walk, Narayana’s friend in Mancherial town alerted the postal staff about his plight. Sahadeva Rao, the branch post-master of Timmapur branch post-office personally went to Narayana’s house and issued the DLC. Another example of how the postal staff patiently helped the pensioners despite difficulty in obtaining the fingerprints. Postman Mahesh of Chennur Sub-Office tried all means for 40 minutes to obtain the biometrics of pensioner Susarla Kamala Bai, but in vain. During the last attempt, he was able to get the fingerprints successfully. So was the case of Vittal Rao Kulkarni, a retired VRO of Bhainsa in Nirmal district, who too got his DLC online. The service by the postal department was such a hit that in Wanaparthy area, it was like pensioners themselves giving leads to postmen on one side as well as telling their pensioner friends about DLC service at doorstep through postmen. In Nirmal, Armoor, Kamareddy, Nizamabad areas large number of beedi and EPFO pensioners were covered. Nirmal branch worked hard even on Sundays to get first-mover advantage in the first week of November particularly before commencement of Asara pension payments where postal staff become busy with pension payments. The details of inclusion of DLC scheme through IPPB device were popularised through local newspapers, print media. Poster, pamphlets regarding details of this scheme was displayed in every branch office, sub office and head office. The delivery staff were directed to attend to every bed-ridden pensioners to enrol DLC. Dr P.V.S. Reddy, Post-Master General, Hyderabad region, Telangana circle, whose jurisdiction covers postal services in 27 districts of the State told The Hindu on Sunday that staff from IPPB and post-offices worked in excellent coordination with great team spirit and reached out to pensioners proactively. “It’s basically an outreach programme by our teams letting people know as well as making people use the unique service,” he said adding that one issue faced by the staff was matching of biometrics of senior citizens and pensioners. Due to old age, fingerprints get worn out and it is a hard task for both the department as well as pensioners. “With patience and persistence, our staff got over,” Dr. Reddy pointed out. Dr. Reddy said that the experience of successfully taking DLC services to the doorstep of people has served as a useful template for ushering in new team work between century-old post-offices and newly created IPPB in 2018. Nizamabad, Nirmal and Kamareddy branches of India Posts stood out in issuing DLCs. Nizamabad branch, in particular, put extra efforts to stand first with 3,521 among the districts in Hyderabad region in getting DLCs of pensioners uploaded till November 30.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sero surveillance can ascertain prevalence||The number of tests performed and COVID-19 cases detected in the past two weeks indicate that virus prevalence is on the decline in Telangana. However, there are other means to ascertain if the incidence rate (the rate at which new cases are detected) has come down. One of them is sero surveillance, which measures antibodies against a disease. While that method has been conducted twice in the State, another round will help to ascertain the trend. Director at Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad, G.V.S. Murthy said if the sero prevalence has increased and rate of admissions and deaths have come down, it indicates that case load is on the decline. “Across the southern part of our country, there seems to be much lesser case load and higher sero prevalence. This is evidence that the new case load is perhaps decreasing compared to what the situation was three months ago,” Dr Murthy said. Director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Rakesh Mishra pointed out that the method of tests adopted to test the samples is important. The Health department uses a mix of rapid antigen tests (RAT) and RT-PCR to examine people for coronavirus. However, the break-up of tests between the two methods is not mentioned in media bulletin issued by the department. Dr Mishra said that since the sensitivity or RAT is low — just about 50% to 60% — when compared to RT-PCR, all cases may not be detected. At CCMB and Centre for DNA Finger Printing and Diagnostics, only RT-PCR tests are relied on. “And we are testing less number of samples now. Earlier, we used to test around 300-500 samples a day which has now dropped to around 150. The testing by RT-PCR method has significantly reduced, and RAT numbers are more. We are conducting tests, but the method adopted is important,” the CCMB chief said. Apart from sero surveillance, he suggested sewage surveillance to know understand the prevalence of the virus. “If the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) approves, we can conduct sewage surveillance and inform them whether the prevalence has increased or decreased,” he said. People puzzled While the COVID cases appear to be on a downward slope, people are curious to know how coronavirus cases in the State did not increase despite large gatherings during festivals and in the aftermath of the October flooding in Hyderabad when it was not possible to observe precautions such as hand-hygiene and physical distancing. In fact, it was predicted that the festive occasions and the calamity could lead to second wave of COVID-19 cases in the State. Another major event which could lead to spike is mass gatherings for campaigning of the just-concluded GHMC elections. Leaders and workers of various political parties did not maintain precautions during the rallies and even on the day of polling. Health department officials had earlier advised the political leaders and cadre to isolate themselves for a week.  Across the southern part of our country, there seems to be much lesser case load and higher sero prevalence. This is evidence that the new case load is perhaps decreasing. G.V.S. Murthy, Director, IIPH-Hyderabad
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR sanctions govt. college in Nalgonda||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday announced sanction of a government degree college at Halia in Nalgonda district, which is part of the Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency where sitting TRS MLA Nomula Narsimhaiah died last week necessitating a by-election. A release said Mr. Rao told officials to make arrangements for starting the degree college. Elsewhere in erstwhile Nalgonda district, the State government has given administrative approval for taking up new lift irrigation schemes at a cost of nearly Rs. 600 crore. One of the schemes at Nellikal village also falls in Nagarjunasagar constituency while the others are in Miryalaguda constituency. New LIS According to separate orders issued by the Irrigation department, the Bothalapalem-Wadapally lift irrigation scheme near Wadapally village in Damaracherla mandal would be taken up at Rs. 229.25 crore. The amount would be spent on the construction of an approach channel, fore-bay, pump house, pressure main, delivery cistern gravity mains, electromechanical and hydro-mechanical equipment. The Dunnapothulagandi-Balnepally-Champla thanda lift irrigation scheme near Chityala village of Adavidevulapally mandal would be taken up at Rs. 219.9 crore. Water pipeline A pipeline to supply water from LLC pump house to distributaries 8 and 9 of AMRP-HLC along with clearance of jungle and silt removal would be taken up with Rs. 2.48 crore as a component work of AMRP lift irrigation scheme. Besides, Nellikal lift irrigation scheme (LIS) on the foreshore of Nagarjunasagar reservoir near Nellikal village of Tirumalagiri-Sagar mandal would be taken up with Rs. 72.16 crore for irrigating 4,175 acres. And the Keshavapuram-Kondaprole lift irrigation scheme on the Musi river would be taken up near Keshavapuram village of Damaracherla mandal with Rs. 75.93 crore for irrigating 5,875 acres.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR must own up defeat and quit: Laxman||National BJP OBC Morcha president K. Laxman demanded Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao to resign “accepting moral responsibility” for the poor civic amenities in twin cities and for the performance of his party in the GHMC polls. “If KTR truly believes in value based politics or ethics, he should quit as he has totally failed both as a municipal minister and as the working president. Whether it was in providing relief and rehabilitation during the recent floods or providing succour to people during the COVID-19 pandemic, he has been found wanting,” he charged at the ‘Meet the Press’ organised by the Telangana Journalists’ Union at Press Club on Sunday. Mr. Laxman, also the party in-charge during the polls for election management committee, claimed he would have quit his post if his party did not fare well. “We had to fight not only against the TRS-Majlis underhand alliance but also against the State Election Commission (SEC) and the Director General of Police (DGP) but people have voted against the new Nizam rule of KCR-KTR,” the OBC Morcha president said. Pointing out that the votes polled between TRS and BJP was about 8,450, he refuted that the party had benefited from communal polarisation. “TRS colluding with Majlis accusing us of playing the communal card is like the devil quoting the scriptures. We put out a chargesheet against the government failures in improving civic amenities, constructing double bedroom houses, and jobs for the youth, but instead of responding, they resorted to disinformation campaign to scare people and divert attention from real issues which did not work,” he said. To buttress his charge, Mr Laxman said that there has not been a single seat where TRS won against BJP.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chitnis Squadron bags winner’s trophy at Air Force Academy||Chitnis Squadron bagged the winner’s trophy for the inter-squadron drill competition marking the culmination of competitions in the schedule of training of under-trainee officers and flight cadets of Air Force Academy, Dundigal. The award is conferred to the squadron which displayed exceptional performance in various competitions such as sports, debate, quiz, cross country, drill and academics conducted as part of the training in preceding five months. The winning squadron is called as ‘Champion Squadron’ for the next six months and cadets will have the privilege of wearing a lanyard on the shoulder over the uniform in the next semester of military training. Air Marshal IP Vipin, Commandant, Air Force Academy, presented the coveted Commandant’s Banner for Autumn Term 2020 to Squadron Cadet Adjutant Nitin Chauhan of Chitnis Squadron recently.
07 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man cheats women of silver||A con man who pretended to bail out four women of their problems ended up fleeing with their silver ornaments at Shamshabad. Cyberabad police said that on Saturday afternoon, four women and a 16-year-old girl were consuming the drink at a toddy compound in the area when they came across a man, who claimed himself to be a diviner with knowledge of some magic tricks and shanti puja. The man approached the women and told them that they were undergoing a lot of problems in their lives and that he can perform shanti puja to bail them out from their difficulties, the police said. He gradually gained the confidence of the women, who were in an inebriated condition, and asked them to pay Rs. 25,000 to perform puja. “When they said that they do not have so much money, the accused noticed their silver anklets and told them to pledge the ornaments for puja and in return they would earn more money,” a police officer said. When the women agreed to pledge their silver anklets, but when asked how they should trust him, the accused, whose name police refused to divulge, asked them to send the 16-year-old girl with him. He took her to Kukatpally and asked her to stand near a shop and that he would return in a few minutes, but in vain. He left the girl and fled with the silver ornaments, the officer said.
07 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two engineering students killed in accident||Two engineering students were killed after the bike on which they were travelling hit a road divider at Suraram here on Saturday night. Dundigal police said that the victims were friends and the bike rider was over-speeding, as a result of which he lost control and hit the divider. He was not wearing a helmet. The victims were identified as Sai Sujeeth Kumar, 23, from Mancherial, and Ananth Vishal, 23, from Domaledgi village in Kotagiri mandal of Nizamabad district. Vishal’s father Vital Patil is MPTC from their mandal. They were pursuing engineering final year from St. Peter’s Engineering College, Dulapally, and were staying in separate hostels. The accident took place at around 11 p.m. when they were returning to their hostels. Police said that they found a packet containing around 1 kg of ganja near the accident spot, which reportedly belongs to the victims.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vacancies in residential educational institutions||Results of the fifth TGCET-2020 for admission into 5th class in social, tribal and BC welfare and general residential educational institutions societies for the academic year 2020-2021 were released on December 4 by Convenor R.S. Praveen Kumar. Selected candidates in phase-I selection list should report to their institutions concerned between December 7 and 12 with all relevant certificates including TC, caste, income and bonafide to complete admission formalities. Candidates failing to report will lose their seats and those will be considered as vacant seats. These will be filled by other candidates in phase-II as per the merit list. Candidates can download the results from www.tswreis.in; http:/tgcet.cgg.gov.in; http:/mjptbcwreis.telangana.gov.in; http:/tgtwgurukulam.telangana.gov.in; http:/tresidential.gov.in; http:/ mjptbcwreis.cgg.gov.in. A total of 46,937 seats are expected to be filled for vacancies available in social welfare residential society (18,560); tribal welfare society (4,777); BC welfare society (20,800) and general residential society (2,800), a press release said.
07 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TVS backs striking farmers||Telangana Vikas Samiti extended its support to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers against the new farm laws on December 8. State committee members O. Narsimha Reddy, G. Venkateshwarlu, Jayanthi, H. Ravinder, Vijayanand, Puli Raju, Bikshapathi Nayak, Pindiga Venkanna, who met recently, unanimously agreed to extend support to farmers stating that the new laws were detrimental to their interests.
07 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No untoward incident reported||The Babri Masjid demolition anniversary on Sunday was observed without any untoward incident even as it was observed amid an increased constabulary in sensitive areas. Security was beefed up in areas such as Moghalpura where the Darsgah Jihad-o-Shahadat activists tried to stage a protest against the demolition. Several of its supporters were taken into preventive detention so as to maintain the peace and tranquillity in the city. Proprietors of shops and other business establishment in many parts of the city, especially the old city, downed their shutters on a voluntary basis. However, many others remained open. A partial closure of shops was seen in areas such as Shalibanda, Talabkatta, Saidabad, Moghalpura and Falaknuma. Security personnel were posted in communally sensitive areas across the city, even as police patrolled the streets and several neighbourhoods. Several citizens took to social media to express their anguish at the demolition and said that while the structure may have been demolished, the mosque remains in their hearts.
07 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||622 cases recorded on Saturday||Telangana recorded 622 COVID-19 cases on Saturday when as many as 57,308 samples were put to test. The results of 848 persons are awaited. Two more COVID patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 1,472. The fresh cases include 104 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 51 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 55 from Rangareddy. The lowest of two cases each were recorded from Narayanpet and Jogulamba-Gadwal districts. From March 2 to December 5, a total of 57,79,490 samples have been examined and 2,73,341 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 8,125 were active while 2,63,744 have recovered.
07 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman found dead||A 32-year-old woman was found dead in her residence at Lalapet here on Sunday. The victim, Manjula Gowda, who helps her husband Sathish Gowda at their Bangalore Iyengar Bakery in the area, hanged herself from a ceiling fan in front of their 11-year-old son. She also recorded the act on her mobile phone in which she stated that no one is responsible for her death.  (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
07 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||11 agri start-ups sign MoU with PJTSAU AgriHub Foundation||With focus on doubling farmers’ income by improving both productivity and production, eleven agri start-ups signed memoranda of understanding with the AgriHub Foundation of Professor Jayashakar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) here on Saturday. Representatives of the 11 start-ups signed the deals separately with Registrar of the university S. Sudheer Kumar.
07 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSSOCA gets Best Seed Certification Authority award||Telangana State Seed and Organic Certification Authority (TSSOCA) was on Saturday presented with the Best Seed Certification Authority award in the country during the India Seed awards event held virtually. The award was presented virtually by Union Minister of Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar and CEO of National Rainfed Area Authority (NRAA) Ashok Dalawai.
07 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Briefs/ Engineers commemoration day||Telangana Engineers Commemoration Day, which coincides with the death anniversary of Nawab Ali Jung, who designed and executed several irrigation projects in the erstwhile princely State of Hyderabad, was observed on Sunday. Engineers of the irrigation and other departments and those of the Telangana Retired Engineers Association paid floral tributes to portraits of Jung, Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya, and R. Vidayasagar Rao.
07 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||2BHK houses still a distant dream: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) city committee has demanded that the persons at the helm make public the status of implementation of the promise of providing two bedroom houses (2BHKs) to around 8,000 shelterless poor people in the city, as “assured” by the ruling TRS leaders during the elections to the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) in 2016. In a statement, the party State committee member Y Srikanth alleged that the ruling dispensation miserably failed to fulfil a slew of promises made by it during the previous elections. Explanation sought “They owe an explanation as to why only around a meagre 800 two bedroom houses were initiated, most of which are still under various stages of construction in the city and its adjoining areas, till date,” he said. The Ministers, who are scheduled to visit the city on Monday, should make public the status of the funds allocated and spent as per the TRS regime's promise of providing Rs. 100 crore to the KMC in the State budget every year, he said, deploring that the civic infrastructure remains poor in the core areas of the city, including the bus stand and Mayuri centre, the areas prone to water stagnation during rainy season. Tribal university sought He deplored that the long pending demands of the denizens of the city for a tribal university, an ESI hospital, a new bridge across Munneru river, among others, remain unfulfilled.
07 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mallannasagar oustee dies of heart attack||Gaddamidi Sattaiah was 63 years old. He was suffering from fever late on Saturday night. On Sunday morning, he died of a heart attack. He was a resident of Vemulaghat village in Toguta mandal, which will get submerged under the Mallannasagar project. A man of his age dying of a heart problem in a village was nothing new, but in the case of Sattaiah, several other factors were responsible, according to his family members. On April 11 this year, Sattaiah married off his second daughter and had to borrow money for that. He had hoped to repay the debts from the money he was about to receive after selling his house to the government for the construction of Mallannasagar. But, that did not happen. Sattaiah was issued a post dated cheque in May, 2019, of Rs. 11,23,611 with June 17, as the issuing date and signed by the then Collector, Krishna Bhaskar. However, his name was mentioned as Gaddamidi Satha Goud instead of Gaddamidi Sattaiah. Hence, he could not encash the cheque. On June 4, the cheque was submitted to the authorities concerned and they had informed that the original cheque was received for correction in the name. Since then, Sattaiah and his family members kept making rounds of the government office for the correction in name but in vain. They had even submitted a memorandum in Praja Vaani but there was no response. “Our village in-charge, Bejjanki Tahsildar, had taken the cheque back for correction of name and issued an acknowledgement on June 4, 2019. Even after six months, we were not issued the new cheque. I am an old man and my son is disabled. I have moved around your office several times and no one has responded. Had the correction been made then itself, I could have invested it at some place. As the money was not paid to me, the agreement signed by me stands null and void. Hence, I request you to hand over my house documents back,” said Sattaiah in the memorandum submitted on January 6, 2020. But, till date there was no response. “I am disabled and my father is aged. Our repeated efforts to get the name corrected failed. In addition, performing the marriage of my second sister has increased the pressure on the family. This has led to his heart attack,” his son G. Swamy told The Hindu . Officials did not respond when contacted.
07 December 2020||STAFF REPORTER,TELANGANA||Those responsible for Babri demolition not punished: Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday, which corresponded the anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition in Ayodhya, said that those responsible for razing the place of worship have not been punished. Mr Owaisi took to Twitter, and in a series of tweets, described the demolition of the mosque as an ‘injustice’ and urged people to not only remember it, but also inform the next generation of what happened on December 6, 1992. ‘Illegally occupied’ “Remember & teach the next generation to remember: For 400+ years our#BabriMasjidstood in Ayodhya. Our ancestors prayed in its hall, broke their fasts together in its courtyard & when they died, they were buried in the adjoining graveyard. Never forget this injustice [1],” he tweeted. The Hyderabad parliamentarian said that the mosque was ‘illegally occupied’ for several years and that its demolition was witnessed by the world. “On the night of December 22-23 1949, our #BabriMasjid was desecrated & illegally occupied for 42 years. On this date in 1992, our masjid was demolished before the whole world. The men responsible for this did not see even a day’s punishment. Never forget this injustice [2],” he tweeted. ‘Black Day’ Several Muslim organisations too issued a statement. Those from Hyderabad included the United Muslim Forum, a group of religious leaders. The forum described December 6 as a “black day.” Forum president Syed Muneeruddin Ahmed Mukhtar urged people to frequent mosques and explain to the new generation the historicity of the mosque and its demolition. The forum said it is imperative for Muslims to work with other communities and assert their rights in a democratic framework.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Wait for flood relief resumption||Tall claims on COVID safety fall flat! During the run-up to the December 1 polling, the State Election Commission (SEC) and the GHMC authorities had made repeated claims that all COVID safety measures were being taken at the polling stations. However, the so called ‘safety norms’ were not visible during a visit to polling stations in Kukatpally and Moosapet circles on polling day. Social distancing of electors was, of course, not needed at many polling stations throughout the polling hours as the turnout of voters was very thin. When asked about the absence of norms, presiding officer of a polling station in Allwyn Colony ward said he was not aware of them. All eyes on resumption of flood relief With the culmination of the election for the GHMC, which witnessed a high decibel campaign by political parties, all eyes are now on resumption of the distribution of relief to families that were affected by the devastating flood. The government started distribution of relief of Rs. 10,000 to each of the affected families, the process had to be put on hold after the declaration of the election schedule amid allegations from the opposition parties over ‘targeted’ distribution of relief amounts. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced in the public meeting he addressed in L.B. Stadium that distribution of relief would start from December 7. With just a day left for the deadline, the families of victims are anxiously waiting for the resumption of distribution of relief. It has to be seen whether the process will start and if it indeed resumes, whether the government takes steps to avoid scope for charges by the opposition parties. Real estate needs help The real estate sector had been the worst-hit by the COVID pandemic with property transactions coming to a near naught for a few months. And the government’s decision to stop registration for overhauling the Revenue administration bringing in new legislations further hit it after the transactions resumed to some extent. The sector which contributes a major chunk of revenue to the government ex-chequer suffered further when the High Court stayed the registration or mutation of non-agricultural property transactions through Dharani till December 8. It is now to be seen how the government presents the case to get the stay vacated in the coming days and ensure that the transactions gather pace.  (B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev)
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Voices of protest||With unprecedented turnout and unanticipated vigour, the farmers’ agitation across the three borders in the Capital has been already hailed as the largest protest in recent memory. At the forefront has been the largely agrarian State of Punjab, with residents from all 22 districts marking their attendance, braving the chill and bad air of the city. The Hindu spoke to one resident from every district and captured their angst. Twenty-two-year-old Jagmeet Singh, who grows wheat and rice in Patiala, asserted that he and fellow farmers would not let the government sell off everything to the corporate. Kashmir Singh, 72, from Amritsar called the new law ‘ kaale kanoon [black law]’. “They kill the farmers,” he said. Harbans Singh, a 60-year-old farmer from Rupnagar, observed that “if we come across a problem, we won’t be able to go to judiciary” whereas Baba Jasvir Singh (34) from Fatehgarh Sahib said that Sikhs are such a resilient community that they would fight for their rights till the end. Ranveer Singh (56) from Jalandhar quipped that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a public servant and not everyone’s boss. So he should act like one. Jagdev Singh (37) from Ludhiana said that they don’t trust the corporate and have experienced dealing with them earlier. “An MNC contracted potato produce to us but they finally didn’t like the produce. They gave us money after a lot of drama,” he said. Balkaran Singh (40) from Moga said that currently they can take loan of a few lakhs from the commission agents (middlemen) even before selling the final produce but after they are removed, they will be insecure. Bikramjeet Singh (46) from Gurdaspur said that the new laws will force them into contract farming and if the final produce is not to the contractor’s liking, they might end up cancelling it. Avtar Singh (55) from Kapurthala observed these laws will impact everyone including labourers and not just farmers. Gurbinder Singh (35) from Tarn Taran said that after Minimum Support Price goes with this law, every crop will meet the same fate as corn (makki) does as it’s sold at a lesser price because government doesn’t buy it. Manpreet Singh (38) from Mohali remarked that they are scared if the corporate houses don’t pay them after taking the land on lease. “We won’t be able to go to court also,” he said. Jagsveer Singh (29) from Bhatinda said people in Punjab are already in debt and the laws will only increase the insecurity. “These laws only impact small and mid-level farmers and not the big ones because they are already traders and are in touch with corporates,” he said. Arshpreet Singh (32) from Muktsar said the laws will make farmers dependent on private mandis and they’ll have to bow down to them because they have to sell their produce. Harmanjit Singh (34) from Hoshiarpur said he had sold sugarcane to a private mill two years ago and is still awaiting payment. “This is what this law will do,” he said. Rajinder Singh (65) from Mansa said if he wants to marry off his children, he can take loan from the middlemen currently but if the middlemen are removed, they won’t have anyone to fall back on because bank loans have high interest rate and depends on the land one owns. Gurjant Singh (50) from Barnala said that “we don’t want to sell to private mandis and that is that”. Reshma Kaur (60) from Sangrur said that the laws will take away all the security from them. “We don’t know the private market”. Gurvinder Singh (45) from Fazilka said that if the laws are not accepted by the farmers then why they are being forced on them. Nacchhatar Singh (42) from Ferozepur said if people won’t get the MSP, they’ll be destroyed. Baltej Singh (45) from Faridkot was concerned about contract farming which he was always against. Virender Maan (42) from Nawanshahr said the uncertainty lies in that they won’t know the buyers. Kuldeep Singh (24) from Pathankot said the government will have to take the Bills back and there’ll be no negotiation.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||Residents of Delhi-NCR come to farmers’ aid||Despite gradual ease of restrictions, COVID-19 had forced Delhiites to cut down on leisure and fun outdoor activities. However, this week was different as many came out to help protesting farmers, who have camped in Delhi-NCR, against the new farm laws. Residents of Delhi-NCR spent their weekend by joining the farmers and offered snacks and lunch to them at the Ghazipur protest site in east Delhi. Aman Tyagi, who works with an MNC in Noida, said: “My father is a farmer, but never wanted his children to be one, as the government’s apathy has forced farmers to live a minimal life. He sold a portion of land for our education. I understand the pain of being a farmer in this country. I have come here with my children to serve breakfast to the protesting farmers.” Like Mr. Aman, there was a group of youth from east Delhi, who were serving tea and biscuits to protesters at Ghazipur. “We have come here to support the farmers who are actually our ‘ anna daata ’. I was born and brought up in Delhi and never got to know much about agriculture beyond books. After I started coming to the protest site to help farmers by offering what we could afford, I have got to know much about agriculture and the harsh environment a farmer spends his life in,” said Gurushran Singh, a resident of Laxmi Nagar in east Delhi. Locals have been distributing masks and hand sanitisers to farmers as well. “I came with bundles of face masks and hand sanitiser bottles. I requested them to keep their protest on, but to follow safety guidelines to keep themselves safe from COVID-19,” said Sudhir Singh, a resident of Karkardooma. Support system Another resident of Ghaziabad, Rajinder Kumar, distributed pocket books that explain the pros and cons of the new farm bill. “I am a lawyer and I consider it my responsibility to explain the new farm bill to each and every farmer in the easiest language so that they can defend themselves in front of the media and on other platforms,” he said. Farmers said when they had started from their villages, they did not expect people in metro cities could understand their demands or come forward to their aid. Satendra Singh, a farmer from Shamli, said he is overwhelmed by the support and love from people in Delhi-NCR. “Everyone is supporting us. There is a group of young students who helped them talk to media persons and also kept them updated on rounds of meetings with the government. The students also kept a tab on people “spreading vicious propaganda by discrediting farmers’ protest”. Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) of Ghaziabad and Noida have also joined the support bandwagon. Retired Colonel T.P. Tyagi, chairman of RWA and flat owner federation of Ghaziabad, said that being a farmer’s son, he is well-aware of their pain. “I support my farmer brothers but I also request them to be careful and not to allow any organisation or political party to use their stage. Farmers are innocent. They can fight for their rights,” he said.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||AAP extends support to farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh tomorrow||AAP on Sunday said that it has extended its full support to ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the farmers on December 8. The Chief Minister of Delhi and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal tweeted “The AAP fully supports the Bharat Bandh  call made by farmers on December 8. AAP workers across the country will support it peacefully. There is an appeal to all countrymen that everyone should support the farmers and participate in it.” AAP convener Gopal Rai said that in all States and districts, AAP leaders and volunteers will stand in support of the farmers and the bandh . “This is not a battle of the farmers but this is a battle for all of us. If the farmers get affected due to these anti-farmer laws by the BJP, then the country will be affected,” Mr. Rai said. Mr. Rai added that in Delhi’s cold winter nights, both young and old farmers are forced to sleep on the pavements, but the BJP government is entwined in conversations and are not landing on a concrete solution. “When the farmers are requesting to repeal these bills, the government is bent upon convincing them by stating their benefits. But they are forgetting that farming is an occupation that they [farmers] know inside out and they would know what are the pros and cons,” Mr. Rai said. He appealed to all the citizens of the country to stand in support of the farmers and the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Ch. Anil Kumar said that the party fully supports the Bharat Bandh. Mr. Kumar said that the three anti-farmers bills passed by the Modi government at the Centre will ruin the farmers who are already in debt. He added that the Congress workers will “gherao” the BJP headquarters on December 8 in support of the farmers.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC upholds dismissal of jawan over smuggled gold||The Delhi High Court has upheld the dismissal from service and one-year imprisonment given to a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawan, who did not report the seizure of three gold pieces, weighing half kilogram, from smugglers. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon observed that, “absolute honesty and integrity is expected of all government employees and no slip can ever be brooked”. No seizure record The High Court remarked that Sunil Kumar Yadav, who joined the services of SSB as constable in 2011, “did not consider it inappropriate to keep smuggled gold in his possession, about the seizure of which no record was also prepared”. “Such employees wanting integrity cannot but be dismissed as their retention in service would send wrong signals and would be counterproductive,” it said. On November 25, 2014, Yadav, who was posted in Narkatiaganj in Bihar claimed to have received input from his source about gold smuggling from Muzaffarpur in Bihar to Delhi in Saptakranti Express train. It is Yadav’s case that he was able to apprehend a smuggler and the apprehension was duly notified to the superior officers. By this time, however, the Sapt Kranti Express had already reached Bagaha railway station, which was almost 50 km away from Narkatiaganj where he and another constable, along with the smuggler deboarded the train. After the Sub-Area Organisers (SAOs) came to the Bagaha railway station, all of them proceeded towards Narkatiaganj. However, on the way, the smuggler escaped from the custody of the SAOs. Yadav said he was asked to deposit the recovered gold with the nearest SSB unit at Tuthibari while the SAOs “hurriedly” left the area. Yadav claimed that he was arrested by local police while on his way to Narkatiaganj. On the other hand, the Central government submitted that Yadav was apprehended while he was proceeding with his brother to his home instead of depositing the recovered gold with the SSB unit or the police or the Customs, whose offices were all located in the vicinity.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||Police return Rs. 7.55 cr. cash, 3.8 kg gold to ‘rightful owners’||The Delhi police have returned more than Rs. 7.55 crore in cash and other valuables, including 3.8 kg gold, to their “rightful owners” in the last six months, officers said on Sunday. These articles, lying in the custody of the Delhi police for several years, were handed over to its rightful owners upon the direction of Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava, they said. Special drives were launched, during which the Delhi police reviewed the process of returning of recovered and seized stolen properties to their rightful owners, the police said. Also, 5,299 two-wheelers, 280 TSRs and 869 four-wheelers were restored to their owners, he said. Electronic items, including 3,980 mobiles, 121 laptops, PCs, CCTVs and 1,931 other items were returned.
07 December 2020||Mumbai,||Letters of tribute to Ambedkar flood Chaityabhoomi||Over 15,000 postcards bearing symbols of love and respect such as an eight-month-old’s fingerprints, a doctor’s letter of gratitude in Urdu, and a quote by Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar on religion, reached Chaityabhoomi in Dadar on Sunday, the 64th death anniversary of the Father of the Constitution. Every year, thousands of Ambedkarites flock to the memorial at Shivaji Park to pay their respects to Dr. Ambedkar on December 6, which is observed as Mahaparinirvan Divas. However, this year, the State and civic administration appealed to Ambedkarites from all over the country not to converge at the memorial to check the spread of COVID-19. Pratik Kamble, president, Vishwashanti Samajik Sanstha, said, “We have been reading about what Babasaheb did for us and the nation. We know what his thoughts were. Since there were going to be restrictions on gatherings this year, we decided to appeal to Ambedkarites to pay their tributes through postcards and post them to Chaityabhoomi.” Mr. Kamble said they have received over 15,000 postcards from men, women, boys, girls, professionals, senior citizens from within and outside Maharashtra. “It turned out to be an opportunity to express what an individual feels about the man who gave them their voice,” he said, adding that he expected the total number of postcards to cross one lakh. A doctor wrote: “Your efforts ensured that I study. I did. I became a doctor. I dedicate all my efforts to cure corona patients in the past few months to you.” Another letter sent by the parents of eight-month-old Khyati Kamble bore her fingerprints. One postcard had a picture of Dr. Ambedkar with the caption: “The bread I eat today has your signature on it”. Dr. Ambedkar’s quote that religion “cannot be a matter of rules” was written on another postcard. One of the letters written by three people living with HIV said: “We may be ostracised from society due to our disease, but you cured the caste disease which ostracised us from society”. Mr. Kamble said the organisers told him that some youths had tried to write letters with their blood. “We had to specifically mention that such letters will not be accepted. Babasaheb taught us to be progressive,” he said, adding that the Department of Post was pleasantly surprised at the response the initiative received as no one sends postcards these days. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari paid floral tributes at Chaityabhoomi. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and State Energy Minister Nitin Raut also paid their respects at the memorial. Later, in a tweet, Mr. Sharad Pawar praised Ambedkar for giving the nation its constitutional values. Mr. Thackeray expressed the need for advanced research on Dr. Ambedkar at a virtual event to unveil the plaque of the International Research Centre at the Mumbai University. The Chief Minister said Dr. Ambedkar’s thoughts and work should be researched at the international level and the research centre will work on this. “Ambedkar led a social and ideological revolution so that a human being can live with dignity. Apart from fighting the British, he also fought his own people for social justice,” he said. (With PTI inputs)  It turned out to be an opportunity to express what an individual feels about the man who gave them their voice Pratik Kamble President, Vishwashanti Samajik Sanstha
07 December 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai doctors perform rare brain surgery||In a first, doctors at Mumbai’s Jaslok Hospital recently performed a deep brain simulation (DBS) surgery by placing four electrodes inside the brain of a patient suffering from progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) syndrome. “For some Parkinson’s disease patients with freezing gates [difficulty in walking], doctors have put four electrodes in DBS surgery, but for a PSP patient with Parkinson’s symptoms, we have done this for the first time in the world,” Dr. Paresh Doshi, director of neurosurgery, Jaslok Hospital & Research Centre, said. The patient was awake during the six-hour-long single-hole surgery, which placed the electrodes 16 centimetres into the brain. The surgery cost around Rs. 20 lakh. The patient, Dr. Kundan Kumar Varma (65), a retired government doctor from Ahmedabad, first noticed changes in his handwriting six years ago. A local neurophysician diagnosed him with Parkinson’s-like symptoms and he was put on anti-Parkinson’s drugs. Over the years, his family noticed slowness in his activities and loss of facial expressions. The stiffness of his body increased, making it difficult for him to move. In the last two years, his medicine dose had doubled and the resultant sweating was causing side-effects like hallucinations, disturbed sleep and constipation. His family then sought help at Jaslok Hospital. Dr. Doshi said he was not sure how to handle this case as it appeared to be 70% Parkinson’s and 30% PSP. Based on a suggestion by Deep Varma, the patient’s son, it was decided to implant four electrodes in the brain: two electrodes for Parkinson’s and two for PSP. Dr. Doshi said, “This was quite tricky and risky as it would not only require a high level of expertise and technical skills but also had a lot of practical issues. To stimulate these four electrodes, one would require to implant two pacemakers, which would significantly increase the cost of surgery.” Dr. Doshi and his team then came up with an innovative idea to use a switch-like function in one pacemaker to alternate activation for two different sets of electrodes. Dr. Varma underwent implantation of the electrodes in the subthalamic nucleus, which is a typical target for Parkinson’s disease, followed by two more electrodes in the pedunculopontine nucleus, which is a target for PSP. The medical team said since Dr. Verma’s symptoms are now more like Parkinson’s disease, his subthalamic nucleus target electrodes have been activated. Over a period, if the PSP supersedes the symptoms of Parkinson’s, then those electrodes will be switched off and the PSP electrodes will be activated. Dr. Varma has now returned to Ahmedabad. “The surgery was done in August and my father is doing fine. His physical movements have improved. The stiffness in his body has disappeared. Earlier, he was experiencing a lot of pain in the lower parts of the body. Now, he can live his life reasonably well. But this treatment does not improve his cognitive abilities,” said Mr. Deep Varma.
07 December 2020||Mumbai,||16 injured in cylinder blast in Lalbaug||Sixteen people were injured in a fire that broke out after a cylinder blast in a ground-plus-four floor residential building in Lalbaug on Sunday morning. The condition of four people, including a minor girl and a woman, is critical as they received 70% to 95% burns, a fire official said. The blaze erupted at 7.20 a.m. on the second floor of Sarabhai building in Ganesh Galli locality. “There was a cylinder blast after gas leakage. The wall of a room collapsed after the blast,” Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednedkar said. “I visited the spot. The condition of a minor girl is stated to be critical and she is referred to Masina Hospital,” she said. The blast led to a fire on the premises, injuring 16 people, who have been taken to KEM Hospital and Global Hospital in Parel. “It was a level-one fire. Two water tankers were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control by 7.50 a.m.,” he said.
07 December 2020||Pune,||Nearly 7,500 more recoveries, 4,757 new cases in Maharashtra||The trend of recoveries outpacing cases continued with as many as 7,486 patients discharged across Maharashtra on Sunday as opposed to 4,757 fresh COVID-19 cases. The total case tally now stands at 18,52,266, with the number of active cases dipping further to 80,079. The cumulative recoveries have reached 17,23,370, with the State’s recovery rate rising to 93.04%. Forty deaths were reported, taking the total death toll to 47,734. “Of a total of 1,12,73,705 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,52,266 (case positivity rate of 16.43%) have returned positive, with over 68,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.58%. Over 650 cases in Pune Pune district reported more than 650 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,57,911, while three deaths saw its total death toll reach 7,571. As per the district administration figures, the active case figure has dipped slightly to 10,920, while its recovery rate incrementally rose to 94.44%. Mumbai city reported 813 new cases to take its total case load to 2,86,053, of which 14,051 are active. Fourteen fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,896. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 490 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,16,606, of which 4,585 are currently active. Five more deaths took the total death toll to 3,041. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported four deaths as its cumulative death toll remained constant at 1,692. As many as 159 fresh cases saw the tally rise to 53,300, of which 2,025 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 48 cases and a single death as the district’s reported cases reached 48,918, of which just 396 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,724. Kolhapur reported just 20 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 48,644, of which just 135 are active ones. The total death toll remained constant 1,654. Spike in Nashik In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 400 cases and just one death as its total case tally reached 107,623, of which 2,599 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,744. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported a little over 40 cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 55,306, of which only 1,158 are active, while its cumulative death toll stood at 1,422. Dr. Awate informed that currently, a total of 5,56,085 people across the State were in home quarantine and 5,903 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
07 December 2020||Pune,||‘Centre spreading propaganda against protesting farmers’||Accusing the Narendra Modi-led Central government of spreading false propaganda against farmers protesting the new agriculture laws, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti said even farmers from the BJP-ruled States had joined in the protest. On the Bharat Bandh called by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (the umbrella body comprising nearly 250 farmer outfits) on December 8, Mr. Shetti said in Sangli district that the Centre was attempting to give the farmers’ agitation a ‘regional’ and ‘casteist’ smear by branding the protests as a stir by farmers hailing from the Punjab and Haryana. “Ludicrous and dangerous propaganda to the effect that pro-Khalistani separatists have infiltrated the farmers’ movement and that only Sikh farmers are agitating. Farmers across the country stand behind their counterparts in the north. Farmers from the BJP-ruled States are also participating in it,” Mr. Shetti said. He alleged that the farmer leaders from the south were deliberately prevented by the Central government authorities from joining the agitation in Delhi. The two-time former MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur said the allegations of the farmers holding the government hostage were utterly unfounded. ‘Compelled to protest’ “It must be stressed that we have been continuously writing to the Centre to try and engage them in a meaningful dialogue…this, regrettably, has not happened. Are we to be slaves of corporate houses like Ambani and Adani? We were compelled to give the ‘Chalo Delhi’ call on November 26 as we had no other option,” he said. Stating that the Centre and the Delhi Police were digging trenches to stop the farmers from heading towards Delhi, Mr. Shetti questioned whether the Centre looked upon them as extremists or foreigners? “Today, we cannot reach the capital of our own country to present our demands to the government…The purpose behind this nationwide shutdown on December 8 is to wake the Centre up. Even some civilians have returned the honours conferred on them by the government,” Mr. Shetti said, exhorting not only farmers but also ordinary citizens to participate in this shutdown. Remarking that the agitation was an existential struggle for farmers, Mr. Shetti appealed to other traders to keep their businesses closed, as well as people from all walks of life, including writers, activists and others to show their support for the protesting farmers.
07 December 2020||Pune,||6 caste panchayat men held for ordering social boycott in Pune district||Six people of a caste panchayat have been arrested in Pune district of Maharashtra for allegedly ordering the social boycott of a family, police said on Sunday. The family had allegedly refused to let the panchayat of the Kanjarbhat community interfere in a property dispute. An FIR was lodged by a woman from the community in Saswad taluka of Pune district claiming the jaat (caste) panchayat last month had ordered to boycott her family for a period of one year. “The complainant claimed that after her father’s death, a property dispute cropped up between her mother and another woman with whom her father was in relationship,” an official from Saswad police station said. The dispute reached the caste panchayat, but the complainant and her mother refused to appear before it. “The decision to boycott the complainant and her family for a period of one year was taken on November 3. The panchayat also ordered the family to pay Rs. 1 lakh, five goats, and five liquor bottles for lifting the boycott and taking them back in the caste,” the official said. Superintendent of Police (Pune rural) Abhinav Deshmukh said six members of the caste panchayat have been arrested and further investigation is under way. A case has been registered against the members of the caste panchayat at Saswad police station under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Maharashtra Prohibition of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016.  The decision to boycott the complainant and her family for a period of one year was taken on November 3 Official from Saswad police station
07 December 2020||VALDOSTA,||Trump challenges vote results at rally||President Donald Trump is pressing his grievances over losing the presidential election, using a weekend rally to spread baseless allegations of misconduct in last month’s voting in Georgia and beyond even as he pushed supporters to turn out for a pair of Republican Senate candidates in a runoff election in January. “Let them steal Georgia again, you’ll never be able to look yourself in the mirror,” Mr. Trump told rallygoers. Mr. Trump’s 100-minute rally before thousands of largely maskless supporters came not long after he was rebuffed by Georgia’s Republican Governor in his astounding call for a special legislative session to give him the State’s electoral votes, even though President-elect Joe Biden won the majority of the vote. The January 5 Senate runoffs in Georgia will determine the balance of power in Washington after Mr. Biden takes office. Republicans in the State are worried that Mr. Trump is stoking so much suspicion about Georgia elections that voters will think the system is rigged and decide to sit out the two races. The latest attempt to subvert the presidential election results continued Mr. Trump’s unprecedented campaign to undermine confidence in the democratic process, but overshadowed his stated purpose in traveling to Georgia — boosting Senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler. Republicans need one victory to maintain their Senate majority. Democrats need a Georgia sweep to force a 50-50 Senate and position Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris as the tiebreaking vote. Party officials had hoped the President would dedicate his energy to imploring supporters to vote in the runoff, when Mr. Perdue and Ms. Loeffler try to hold off Democrats Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, respectively. Mr. Trump did echo Republican rhetoric that the races amounted to “the most important congressional runoff, probably in American history.” That is only true because he lost. But after Air Force One landed, it quickly became apparent that Mr. Trump was intent on airing his own complaints and stoking baseless doubts about the conduct of last month’s vote, rather than boosting his party. ‘Fight for Trump’ “I want to stay on presidential,” Mr. Trump said minutes into his speech. “But I got to get to these two.” He praised the GOP lawmakers, Mr. Perdue for his support for military spending and Ms. Loeffler for pushing for early coronavirus relief spending. But he quickly pivoted back to his own defeat. Mr. Trump pulled out a piece of paper and read a list of his electoral achievements, including falsely asserting he won Georgia and the White House. Mr. Biden carried the state by 12,670 votes and won a record 81 million votes nationally. Mr. Trump continued to reiterate his unsubstantiated claims of fraud, despite his own administration assessing the election to have been conducted without any major issues. Chants of “Fight for Trump” drowned out the two senators as they briefly spoke to the crowd. Brian Kemp, Governor of Georgia, in a tweet, said Mr. Trump also asked him to order an audit of signatures on absentee ballot envelopes in his State, a step Mr. Kemp is not empowered to take because he has no authority to interfere in the electoral process on Mr. Trump’s behalf. Mr. Trump, though, vented his frustrations with Mr. Kemp on Twitter and at the rally. “Your people are refusing to do what you ask,” he complained in a tweet, as if speaking with Mr. Kemp. “What are they hiding? At least immediately ask for a Special Session of the Legislature. That you can easily, and immediately, do.” At the rally, he took aim once again at Mr. Kemp, saying he could assure him victory “if he knew what the hell he was doing.” Mr. Trump’s personal contact with the Governor demonstrated he is intent on amplifying his conspiratorial and debunked theories of electoral fraud even as Georgia Republicans want him to turn his focus to the runoff and encourage their supporters to get out and vote. Certified race In his tweet, Mr. Kemp said- “As I told the President this morning, I’ve publicly called for a signature audit three times (11/20, 11/24, 12/3) to restore confidence in our election process and to ensure that only legal votes are counted in Georgia.” While the Governor does not have the authority to order a signature audit, an audit was initiated by Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger and it triggered a full hand recount that confirmed Mr. Biden’s victory in Georgia. The race has been certified for Mr. Biden and affirmed by the State’s Republican election officials as a fairly conducted and counted vote, with none of the systemic errors Mr. Trump alleges.
07 December 2020||Brussels,||Last-ditch effort to save Brexit trade talks from failure||British and EU negotiators embarked on probably their final two-day scramble to secure a post-Brexit trade deal on Sunday, after failing for eight months to reach agreement. David Frost arrived in Brussels for more talks with EU counterpart Michel Barnier, ending a two-day pause after a fruitless week of late-night wrangling in London. “We’re working very hard to try to get a deal. We’ll see what happens in the negotiations today,” Frost told reporters as he arrived at the Gare de Midi train station in Brussels. A European official said the negotiators would meet later in the day at the EU’s Berlaymont headquarters in Brussels and that talks could go on late. Meanwhile, U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson will reportedly lobby European leaders, after a call with EU chief Ursula von der Leyen on Saturday ended with the sides still facing “significant differences” on the key issues. The pair’s next call will be on Monday evening and then the 27 EU leaders will gather in Brussels on Thursday for a two-day summit planned to tackle their own budget dispute, but which will now once again be clouded by Brexit worries. Johnson and von der Leyen issued a downbeat joint statement after their call, with divisions still wide over fishing rights, fair trade rules and an enforcement mechanism to govern any deal. “Whilst recognising the seriousness of these differences, we agreed that a further effort should be undertaken ... to assess whether they can be resolved,” they said. ‘Global implications’ Britain formally left the EU in January, nearly four years after a referendum and two months after Mr. Johnson won an election touting what he claimed was an “oven ready” Brexit deal. The U.K. is bound to the EU’s tariff-free single market until a post-Brexit transition period expires the end of the year -- an immovable deadline by which time the two sides must try to agree on new terms of their future relationship. “We’re going continue to work on these negotiations, until there’s no point in doing so any further,” British Environment minister George Eustice told Sky News . Without a deal, the bulk of cross-Channel trade will revert to World Trade Organization terms, a return to tariffs and quotas after almost five decades of close economic and political integration. Mr. Johnson has insisted Britain will “prosper mightily” whatever the outcome of the talks, but he will face severe political and economic fallout if he cannot seal a deal. “If there is no deal now, I see huge international implications... because we would be in an economic war with Europe that would cost us very dearly,” former Labour PM Gordon Brown said.
07 December 2020||London,||In London, several arrested for protest against Indian farm laws||Scotland Yard has reportedly made a number of arrests after it warned of enforcement action ahead of thousands of protesters from different parts of the U.K. gathering outside the Indian High Commission in central London on Sunday, as a show of support for farmers demonstrating against agricultural reforms in India. The Metropolitan Police had said a robust policing plan will be in place and officers will take action if they witness breaches of COVID-19 regulations. The demonstration, largely made up of British Sikhs, involved placard waving with messages such as “Justice for Farmers” and sloganeering as well as several cars blocking roads. “Our High Commission has been coordinating closely with the authorities concerned and we will, together with them, address the issues that have come up — for example how this gathering of thousands could take place without specific permission,” an Indian High Commission spokesperson said. “It soon became clear that the gathering was led by anti-India separatists who had taken the opportunity of the protests in India to ostensibly back the farmers in India but use the opportunity to pursue their own anti-India agenda,” the spokesperson said. The High Commission reiterated the government’s stance that the protest against agriculture reform bills in India is part of an internal democratic process. The protest comes after a group of 36 British MPs led by British Sikh Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi had written to U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, asking him to make representations to his Indian counterpart S. Jaishankar on the impact on British Punjabis of the demonstrations by farmers in India. The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) has said that while it is yet to receive the letter, the matter is an internal issue for India. The police handling of protests are a matter for the government of India, an FCDO spokesperson said. Thousands of farmers are protesting on borders of Delhi since November 26, seeking repeal of new farm laws.
07 December 2020||WASHINGTON,||‘Microwave energy likely made U.S. officials ill’||A new report by a National Academy of Sciences committee has found that “directed” microwave radiation is the likely cause of illnesses among American diplomats in Cuba and China. The study commissioned by the State Department and released on Saturday is the latest attempt to find a cause for the mysterious illnesses that started to emerge in late 2016 among U.S. personnel in Havana. The study found that “directed, pulsed radio frequency energy appears to be the most plausible” explanation for symptoms that included intense head pressure, dizziness and cognitive difficulties. It found this explanation was more likely than other previously considered causes such as tropical disease or psychological issues. The study did not name a source for the energy and did not say it came as the result of an attack, though it did note that previous research on this type of injury was done in the former Soviet Union. In its report, the 19-member committee noted that it faced significant challenges in trying to get to the bottom of the medical mystery. Among them, not everyone reported the same symptoms and the National Academy of Sciences research did not have access to all the previous studies on the illnesses, some of which are classified. "The committee found these cases quite concerning, in part because of the plausible role of directed, pulsed radiofrequency energy as a mechanism, but also because of the significant suffering and debility that has occurred in some of these individuals,” said committee chairman David Relman, a professor of medicine at Stanford University. “We as a nation need to address these specific cases as well as the possibility of future cases with a concerted, coordinated, and comprehensive approach.” The health effects were experienced by about two dozen Americans affiliated with the U.S. Embassy in Cuba as well as Canadian diplomats and personnel at the U.S. consulate in Guanghzhou, China, in early 2017. Some of the Americans have been critical of the U.S. government’s response to their health complaints and at least one has filed suit against the State Department. Between late 2016 and May 2018, several U.S. and Canadian diplomats in Havana complained of health problems from an unknown cause. One U.S. government count put the number of U.S. personnel affected at 26.
07 December 2020||Peshawar,||Oxygen shortage leaves 6 dead in Pak. hospital||At least six COVID-19 patients died after “criminal negligence” resulted in a delayed supply of oxygen to a hospital in northwest Pakistan, officials said on Sunday, as the country battles a second wave of the epidemic. More than 200 patients — including nearly 100 with coronavirus — were left for hours with limited supplies of oxygen at a government-run hospital in Peshawar. ‘Criminal negligence’ “The sad incident happened due to lack of central oxygen supply in the hospital,” provincial Health Minister Taimur Saleem Jhagra told a press conference, confirming the deaths. “We will hold an inquiry and get to the bottom of the incident,” he added, promising action against those responsible “for this criminal negligence”. Hospital spokesman Farhad Khan said a disruption in oxygen supplies affected some 200 people, “including 96 COVID-19 patients”. He blamed a private supplier, saying the Rawalpindi-based company had “failed to meet the growing demand”. Pakistan has reported more than 4,00,000 cases of coronavirus — including over 8,000 deaths — since the virus arrived in late February. Intensive care units in hospitals across the country are now almost full, with provincial governments struggling to deal with the soaring caseload.
07 December 2020||TAIPEI,||China makes preparations for rollout of vaccines||Provincial governments across China are placing orders for experimental, domestically made coronavirus vaccines, though health officials have yet to say how well they work or how they may reach the country’s 1.4 billion people. Developers are speeding up final testing, the Chinese Foreign Minister said during a UN meeting last week, as Britain approved emergency use of Pfizer Inc.’s vaccine candidate and providers scrambled to set up distribution. Even without final approval, more than 1 million health care workers and others in China who are deemed at high risk of infection have received experimental vaccines under emergency use permission. There has been no word on possible side effects. China’s fledgling pharmaceutical industry has at least five vaccines from four producers being tested in more than a dozen countries, including Russia, Egypt and Mexico. Health experts say even if they are successful, the certification process for the U.S., Europe, Japan and other developed countries might be too complex for them to be used there. However, China said it will ensure the products are affordable for developing countries. China National Pharmaceutical Group, known as Sinopharm, said in November it applied for final market approval for use of its vaccine in China. Others have been approved for emergency use on people deemed at high risk of infection. “We must be prepared for large-scale production,” said Vice Premier Sun Chunlan, who has overseen much of the country’s response, during a visit on Wednesday to developers, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. Ms. Sun visited one of Sinopharm’s Beijing subsidiary companies; another producer, Sinovac, and a research lab under the National Medical Products Administration, a regulatory agency that approves medical products for public use. The government has yet to say how many people it plans to vaccinate. Ms. Sun said plans call for vaccinating border personnel and other high-risk populations this month.
07 December 2020||DUBAI,||Saudi prince hits out at Israel at security summit||A prominent Saudi prince harshly criticised Israel on Sunday at a Bahrain security summit that was remotely attended by Israel’s Foreign Minister, showing the challenges any further deals between Arab States and Israel face in the absence of an independent Palestinian state. The fiery remarks by Prince Turki al-Faisal at the Manama Dialogue appeared to catch Israel’s Foreign Minister off guard, particularly as Israelis receive warm welcomes in Bahrain and the UAE following agreements to normalise ties. Left unresolved by those deals, however, is the decades-long conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. The Palestinians view those pacts as a stab in the back from their fellow Arabs and a betrayal of their cause. Prince Turki opened his remarks by contrasting what he described as Israel’s perception of being “peace-loving upholders of high moral principles” versus what he described as a far-darker Palestinian reality of living under a “Western colonizing” power. Israel has “incarcerated (Palestinians) in concentration camps under the flimsiest of security accusations — young and old, women and men, who are rotting there without recourse to justice,” Prince Turki said. “They are demolishing homes as they wish and they assassinate whomever they want.” The prince also criticised Israel’s undeclared arsenal of nuclear weapons and Israeli governments “unleashing their political minions and their media outlets from other countries to denigrate and demonise Saudi Arabia.” Israeli Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi, who spoke after Prince Turki, said- “I would like to express my regret on the comments of the Saudi representative.” “I don’t believe that they reflect the spirit and the changes taking place in the Middle East,” he said.
07 December 2020||Caracas,||Voting opens for Venezuela Assembly poll||Polling in Venezuela opened on Sunday to elect members of the National Assembly in a vote championed by President Nicolŕs Maduro but rejected as a fraud by the nation’s Opposition politicians. Mr. Maduro seeks to pack the Assembly with members of his United Socialist Party of Venezuela, capturing the last government institution out of his reach. Critics say doing so will smother the last remnants of democracy in Venezuela. An Opposition coalition led by U.S.-backed politician Juan Guaidū is boycotting the vote.  International bodies like the EU have refused to send observers to Sunday’s election, saying the conditions for a democratic process don’t exist.
07 December 2020||London,||London, Dec 6, 2020 (AFP) -||Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II will receive the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine within weeks, after U.K. regulators granted emergency approval and the world's first roll-out begins next week, reports said. The monarch, 94, and her 99-year-old husband Prince Philip are in line to get the jab early due to their age and will not receive preferential. Britain on Wednesday gave emergency approval to the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine.AFP
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||There is nothing new about Trumpism||“How many times do we need to be told that Donald Trump is a jerk?” This throwaway line appears in Beyond the Boom , a 1990 collection of brilliant essays on American life and culture by a gaggle of young and robust ideological voices of the New Right in the post-Ronald Reagan years. The point of this citation is to remember that as early as 1990, Mr. Trump had already been recognised as an American cultural joke. Yet, close to three decades later, he marketed himself as a major political phenomenon and eventually came to occupy the White House (without ever having held any public office). Traits of the social fabric Now that he stands ejected from the Oval Office we need to remind ourselves that there was nothing innovative about Mr. Trump’s success, and there was nothing new about whatever he was supposed to represent. The strength of so-called Trumpism can easily be located in the sum total of American civilisational weaknesses. Eminent American historians and sociologists have, indeed, long delineated these weaknesses. In his masterly essay, The Paranoid Style in American Politics , Professor Richard Hofstadter had meditated, as early as 1963, on the United States’ unresolved “cultural struggles” — first, over, immigrations and later on the race question. Populism has always got traction, as it got manifested in different forms — racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, and paranoia about the outsider and his or her contamination. Isolationism (of the kind implicit in the ‘America First’ slogan) had had its appeal (President Woodrow Wilson was not allowed to take the U.S. into the League of Nations); jingoism has always been music to many American ears. These historical traits are woven into the American social fabric. Yet, sensible, sensitive and caring politics, anchored around President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal, beat back the preachers of narrowness and bigotry. But the ugliness, racism and violence remain unvanquished and dormant, waiting for a new prophet and his call to arms. After the Second World War, the call came in 1964 when Senator Barry Goldwater won the Republican Party’s presidential nomination. Though he went on to lose the race for presidency by the biggest margin till date, Goldwater did revive the conservative platform, cobbled from old racist prejudices and xenophobic passions. Senator Goldwater’s massive defeat would eventually pave the way for a conservative resurgence that finally culminated in Ronald Reagan’s eight presidential years. Ironically, it was during the Reagan-Bush years that the most intense and most bitter ideological battles took place — not between the liberal, progressive Democrats and conservative Republicans, but within the Republican Party, between the ‘Mods’ and the ‘Cons’. The story of this struggle, repeated in state after state, is brilliantly told in What’s the Matter with Kansas? How Consevatives won the Heart of America by Thomas Frank. Kansas, a state with progressive traditions, was to get sucked into right-wing anger and angst of the 1990s over the Clintons, their liberal agenda and their presumed moral lapses. The most burning anxiety Even as Reagan helped Americans overcome the post-Vietnam defeatism and they came to savour a new wave of prosperity, the untamed fears about immigrants and the Blacks resurfaced. Tom Wolfe’s novel, The Bonfire of the Vanities , brings out the visceral fears that gnawed ‘white America’ in the 1980s. In an introduction to a later edition of the book, Wolfe put his finger on the most burning anxiety: “New York and practically every other large city in the United States are undergoing a profound change. The fourth great wave of immigrants — this one from Asia, North Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean — is now pouring in. Within ten years political power in most major American cities will have passed to the non-white majorities.” For the right wing that prophecy came to pass soon. In 2008 the unthinkable happened: a Black man became the president of the U.S. Within days of the Obama presidency the old-fashioned racist forces regrouped themselves under the banner of the so-called Tea Party Revolt. As Professors Theda Skocpol and Vanessa Williamson tell us in their scholarly study, The Tea Party and the Remaking of Republican Conservatism , that ‘movement’ was used to infuse grassroots energy into the Republican Party and to transform it into a fighting instrument of “extreme conservative ideology.” The party needed a new mascot, someone vacuous, amoral, and totally banal, to spearhead the campaign to “take America back.” Mr. Trump was smart enough to make himself agreeable to the individuals and interests behind the Tea Party. Except for a gift for personal disagreeableness, there was nothing new to the so-called ‘Trumpism’. Mr. Trump suited all because he had no core. All that Mr. Trump imbibed was just what lies beneath the surface of American society — distrust of science, biblical morality, racial enmities, an itch for global evangelicalism. Simply put, Trumpism existed before Trump and there is a name for it — racism, unvarnished and unapologetic. A lesson from Trump’s defeat That Mr. Trump could do so well in the 2020 presidential contest seems to have mesmerised many in India, and there is a rush to discern something enduring, something even morally salvageable in this ‘Trumpism’. Part of this infatuation is, of course, to find global justification for our own lurch towards ugliness of muscular majoritarianism. Just as Rush Limbaugh, that right-wing megaphone, would harangue and thrash the moderate Republicans for their taste for “European-style coffee and whole-grain breads and high-end chocolates,” our very own desi imitators mock and ridicule “the Khan Market gang” for its preference for public decencies and personal civility. We in India also need to take particular note that the ‘strongman’ notion stands rejected. Joe Biden never positioned himself as the sole bulwark against the ‘enemy’. In contrast to Mr. Trump’s rough and tough preening, Mr. Biden reassured the Americans — and the world — that for him power and authority are to be exercised as a collective trust, and not as a quest for personal glory. There is, though, for us in India a lesson in Mr. Trump’s defeat: ugliness of the right-wing can be rolled back. Just as the majority of the Americans are not given to bigotry, the majority of our citizens do not subscribe to communal and divisive hatred. The task of politics, in America as well as in India, is to tame the society’s ugly proclivities. Good politics taps the moderate impulses of the centrist majority. The bigot may have the energy and the vehemence, but smart, sensitive and sincere politics will triumph in the end. And, above all, Mr. Trump’s defeat has restored faith in democracy’s cleansing capacity, to make us better than we are. Today in America, tomorrow in India. Harish Khare is a senior journalist based in Delhi
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The BJP’s big ticket to Telangana||Just about six years after the formation of Telangana, the BJP has arrived with a bang, capturing 48 of the 150 municipal divisions in the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election — from a mere four wins in the 2016 election — and garnering a sizeable vote share of 34.56%, which is 0.3% less than that of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). The victory cannot be brushed aside as inconsequential, being one, after all, in a city civic election. It is significant in many ways. For the first time, the BJP has managed to challenge the near invincibility of the TRS, making it tough for the party to get its mayoral candidate elected. It has exposed the ephemeral nature of a strong regional sentiment. Riding on this Telangana sentiment, the TRS had won all the elections since the formation of the separate State in 2014. Hyderabad is a mini-India seeped in cosmopolitan culture — a city treated as the heart of Telangana — encompassing as many as 25 Assembly segments (out of the total 119) and five Lok Sabha constituencies (of the total 17 in the State). If the BJP could effectively peddle its now-finely tuned strategy of communal polarisation, sugarcoated as ‘development agenda’, in such a city, the fear is that it could extend it to the rest of the State by the next Assembly election scheduled for 2023, thus moving a step closer to its ambitious plan of expanding its footprint in south India, which has been eluding it, barring Karnataka. The AIMIM’s policy The BJP’s performance in Hyderabad was matched by the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which retained its seat share in the council. The BJP’s victories would not have come as a surprise to the AIMIM president and MP Asaduddin Owaisi, who had strongly opposed the formation of a separate Telangana on the ground that a smaller State with a large Muslim population would be a fertile ground, sooner or later, for a party unabashedly espousing majoritarian rule. The memorandum submitted by the AIMIM to the Srikrishna Committee, that was tasked with looking into the demand for a separate State, was quite revealing. “Our party is of the considered opinion that, in the ideal situation, the continuation of status quo, that is United Andhra Pradesh state, is in the overall interest of the minorities. The Muslims have issues and concerns with regard to the demand for separate statehood for Telangana because of apprehension regarding their safety, security and socio-economic well-being and welfare in a smaller state, more so because of the open hostility of the BJP and other constituents of the Sangh Parivar on the one hand and the deep-rooted animosity of the Left parties, on the other hand, towards them,” Mr. Owaisi had said. The AIMIM’s opposition to a separate Telangana appears to be a paradox, given the fact that Telangana was part of a larger erstwhile Hyderabad State ruled by the Nizams, the last of whom, Mir Osman Ali Khan, was fully backed by the party in his attempt to keep the dominion intact and resist its integration into the Indian Union. The AIMIM knew that every episode in the turbulent history of the Hyderabad State would come in handy for the BJP to exploit, as is seen by the latter’s demand for official celebration of September 17 as the Hyderabad Liberation Day (it was on this day in 1948 that the Indian Army’s action forced the Nizam’s army to surrender, paving the way for the merger of Hyderabad into the Indian Union). This event was given a decent burial by the TRS after assuming power, though it kept demanding its official celebration all through the Telangana movement. But what did the AIMIM do to counter the BJP? There is nothing much to show. The AIMIM continues to adopt a policy of being a perfect foil for the BJP, which earned it the “voter-cutter” sobriquet; it is happy protecting its exclusive Muslim constituency and targeting the Congress. Mr. Owaisi seems too busy projecting himself as the sole Muslim leader in India and expanding his party’s base, rather than working on a well-coordinated strategy with secular parties to check the onward march of the BJP. As in other elections across the country, the BJP’s blatantly polarising campaign strategy for the GHMC polls was apparent with its Telangana State president and MP, Bandi Sanjay Kumar, making provocative rants like “surgical strike” on the Muslim-dominated Old City of Hyderabad, claiming that it has become a shelter for the Rohingya and Bangladeshis. He challenged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for a debate at Bhagyalaxmi temple, which controversially abuts Charminar, and asked him to come clean on the “hidden understanding” between the TRS and the AIMIM. Ignoring the burning civic issues of a growing metropolis, all sorts of divisive elements were marshalled with great emotive appeal to pepper its high-voltage campaign — quite in sync with the current dominant thinking among sections of the Indian middle classes. The arrival of a horde of BJP bigwigs, like Union Minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, only added to the sting of its polarising campaign, with Mr. Adityanath claiming that only the BJP could change Hyderabad to ‘Bhagyanagar’. TRS’s sorry record But one should understand that such a starkly communal campaign works in a situation where the failures of the government are galore. The recent floods in Hyderabad left a large section of people distraught and disappointed. The TRS government could neither prevent encroachment of lakes andnalas,nor did it reach out in time to people caught in the deluge. It also goofed up in extending flood relief of Rs. 10,000 to each family, as thousands did not get it. The government’s mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic and its poor record in fulfilling the promises of building double-bedroom houses, providing jobs to youth and garnering revenue from the Layout Regularisation Scheme dented the TRS’s vote share. Never to lose a chance, the BJP also included in its campaign armoury Mr. Rao’s reluctance to go to the Secretariat, his frequent visits to his farmhouse, and his subtle projection of his son and Minister, K. T. Rama Rao, as “prince in waiting”. Politically, too, Mr. Rao made certain mistakes that he must be regretting now. All through his six years in office, he was virtually on a mission to decimate the principal Opposition parties, the Congress and the TDP, by poaching their MLAs. The BJP was not even on his radar as he perceived it to be too weak, while he kept cultivating the AIMIM. The weakening of the Congress and the TDP, that acted as a buffer, created a political vacuum, and being friendly to the AIMIM, it now seems, helped the BJP immensely. Unless Mr. Rao reworks his political strategy and focuses on checking the BJP, he may face a challenging time ahead. K. Venkateshwarlu is a senior journalist based in Hyderabad
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||A mirage sold as a panacea for the unorganised sector||In an interview with The Hindu in October this year, the Union Labour Minister claimed that the four labour codes would generate employment and secure the basic rights of the workers. He also claimed that the labour codes seek to universalise the right to minimum wage of workers and social security entitlements. These appear to be extremely positive steps from the perspective of all workers. Why, then, have the labour codes not been universally welcomed by workers and their organisations, with even the Bharatiya Janata Party-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh opposing the codes? What are the reasons for this cold reception to what the BJP claims is a game changer for all workers in the country? Universal social security Let us first look at the claim of universal social security. The codes mandate benefits of Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) and Provident Fund (PF) only for workers belonging to establishments employing 10 workers or more. This leaves out nearly 80% of all Indian workers — the informal sector — from the ambit of these benefits. These workers have to be satisfied with a promise of some special schemes for them in their as yet undefined future. They may also be allowed access to underutilised Employees’ State Insurance Corporation hospitals — and even that only on payment of a usage charge! The most ubiquitous workers we encounter in our daily life — our domestic help, or the street vendor, or even the paper boy who delivers the morning newspaper home — are all left out of reckoning of this universal coverage. What does ESI coverage mean for the remaining 20% of the workers? In 2016, the ESI covered 2.1 crore workers; this increased to 3.6 crore by March 2019. The ESI employed around six doctors per one lakh beneficiaries in 2016, as against the World Health Organization norm of 100 doctors; the proportion of doctors to beneficiaries would have further fallen with the expanded membership. The ESI would have needed to urgently increase doctor and paramedical strength, for which it would need more resources. However, in the interest of ‘ease of doing business’, the employer plus employee contribution to the ESI was reduced from 6.5% to 4% from July 2019. The decision to reduce the contribution rate at a time when the need for the ESI was to increase expenditure on medical care surely appears counter-intuitive. With the new codes seeking to cover 20% of all workers, the membership would further increase to around 10 crore workers: a three-time increase over the membership in 2019. The available capacity of the hospitals and dispensaries would evidently be inadequate. The hope of ‘underutilised hospitals’ being made available to the informal sector is mere populist kite-flying. There is another side to this picture. The ESI coverage follows the map of industrial growth in the country. Thus, in industrialised States like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, the ESI covered around 20% of the population as beneficiaries in 2016; the corresponding figure was just 0.7% for Bihar. Surely the possibility of scaling up coverage is a remote possibility in Bihar, given the very low base at present. It is not surprising that the granting of universal social security does not seem to have figured big in the election rhetoric before the Bihar Assembly election. The political promises there are more basic — to provide jobs rather than job regulation. While introducing the new codes, the government also did away with a number of existing cess-based welfare schemes. These included the Beedi Workers Welfare Board, covering an estimated five lakh home-based women workers. Even to this day, older beedi workers in the erstwhile South Kanara district of the Madras Presidency credit the education schemes available to them to the Board, which they say, enabled their children to escape the pernicious bind of poverty. The workers also had access to free dispensation in the hospitals run by the Board. With the new codes, the beedi workers will forego these facilities in exchange for an undefined promise of universal social security. Promise of miminum wage The second claim for universal coverage was of the minimum wage. According to the Union Labour Minister, at present only around 30% of all workers get covered under the various minimum wage schedules. The government’s remedy in the codes is to include a floor wage covering all workers. At various instances, the Labour Minister announced a floor wage of Rs. 178 per day in 2019; and more recently the Finance Minister announced Rs. 202. This is only a little more than half the Rs. 375 per day recommended by the Labour Ministry’s Expert Committee on Wage in 2019; and also lower than the poverty line family expenditure estimated by the government-appointed Rangarajan Committee in 2011, corrected for inflation. This ‘floor wage’ should more aptly be called the below poverty line, or BPL wage. It can only serve to pull down wages, far from shoring up the wage level. The true colours of the government are clearly revealed. These codes, which also include various measures restricting the unions’ right to strike and relax norms for factory closure, serve to improve the ‘ease of doing business’ ranking instead of improving the conditions of employment. The popular children’s fairy tale, ‘The Emperor’s New Clothes’, shows up the Emperor as wearing nothing. For the unorganised sector workers, the labour codes provide a similar story; a set of fairy tale promises that are nothing but a mirage. Mohan Mani is a researcher with the Centre for Labour Studies at the National Law School India University; Babu Mathew is Professor and Director, Centre for Labour Studies at the National Law School India University
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Exhale the darkness||When I read the advisory issued by the Press Council of India (PCI) on November 25, I was reminded of Nina MacLaughlin’s latest four-part column in the Paris Review “Inhale the Darkness”. Among multiple questions from this Cambridge, Massachusetts-based writer, some reflected my own fears, “will it keep getting darker, will the darkness swallow me, will it swallow us all together?” In its wisdom, the Press Council of India issued an advisory that read, “The Press Council of India has considered references received from various quarters by the Government about the responsibility of Indian Newspapers in publishing foreign contents. The Council is of the view that unregulated circulation of the foreign content is not desirable. Hence, it advises the media to publish foreign extracts in Indian newspapers with due verification as the Reporter, Publisher and Editor of such newspaper shall be responsible for the contents irrespective of the source from which it is received.” The Emergency years Before addressing the stark nature of the advisory, it is important to understand the two roles assigned to the PCI: while it will remain a watchdog of journalistic ethics, it will also function as a shield to the freedom of the press. During the Emergency, the PCI was abolished and the Act that led to the constitution of the Council was repealed because the then government felt that the Council had taken the role of a shield to the freedom of press seriously. When the gory stories of Emergency’s excesses and its onslaught on independent press came out, the Janata Government decided to re-convene the PCI, to protect the right to freedom of press. In fact, the then Information and Broadcasting Minister, Lal Krishna Advani, spoke at length about the need for an independent and unfettered press when he introduced the Bill to re-establish the Council. If Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and her Information Minister during the Emergency, V.C. Shukla, had known that the PCI would issue advisories on the basis of complaints received from the government, without fully examining them and with zero consultations with news organisations, they would not have even abolished the Council. They felt that the Council will never surrender its shield-role. They felt that the Council, in a sense, exemplified the separation of powers. In order to implement the will of the Executive, the Council was abolished.  The advisory from the Council not only undermines the freedom of expression and the independent media, it also reveals how little thinking has gone into the process before issuing an advisory that is impossible to comply with. The term ‘foreign’ has a wide connotation, and it includes even international news agencies such as Reuters, the Associated Press and the Agence France-Presse . It also covers a range of news organisations with which many Indian newspapers and magazines have syndicated arrangements. The fact is, newsgathering is an expensive exercise. By having an international arrangement, a newspaper not only manages to defray the cost, but also fulfils its fundamental goal of informing its readers without being hampered by the resource crunch. The act of verification is central to any credible news organisation. The editorial assumption of an Indian newspaper, when it subscribes to or gets into a syndication arrangement with a foreign news organisation, is that the source agency has verified and authenticated an item before it is put out in the public domain. If a newspaper has the resources to verify and fact-check every statement put out by the agencies, it would very well, in the first place, have appointed more correspondents rather than depending on an external source. It is fair to say that the PCI’s advisory has very little understanding of the political economy of the news gathering and news dissemination business. One of the benchmarks for the independent functioning of any watchdog is to maintain a critical distance from all stakeholders. And, in the case of complaints against one arm, it is incumbent on the watchdog to share the details of the nature of the complaints. What does the PCI mean when it says ‘various quarters by the Government’? It is vital for the Council to understand the difference between an advisory and a gag order. Gag orders often become tools for prior restraint and have serious consequences for both free speech and a citizen’s right to receive information. Only a meaningful regulation exhales darkness. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||True fiscal responsibility||The National Statistical Office (NSO) recently announced estimates of economic activity in the second quarter of the current financial year. As most of the first quarter coincided with the lockdown announced by the Central government, it would only have been expected that output would be depressed as production could not have taken place. And this is what happened. The GDP contracted by 23.9% in that quarter (compared to the same quarter of the previous year). However, there was no particular reason for assuming that we would see a contraction in the second quarter as well, but that is what we now find. Though the contraction has been less than both what it was in the previous quarter and what several sources had forecast, at 7.5%, it is still significant. Thus far, we have not had the V-shaped recovery predicted by the government’s economists. To have assumed a V-shaped recovery following the lifting of the Centre’s lockdown would not have been wrong if output were determined entirely from the supply side under normal circumstances. Following this reasoning, output would remain depressed so long as the lockdown prevented production from taking place, but would spring back once these restrictions are removed. However, after they are lifted, we would return to a world in which output is determined by demand. This now introduces the possibility that output may not spring back, as investment may have actually declined post the lockdown. It would happen if depressed output causes private investors to hold their plans for the future and contract expenditure. A quarter is, after all, a very short period of time, and impulses in one may take effect only in the next. Telling figures The NSO’s press release makes speculation about investment behaviour unnecessary. We see in it that gross fixed capital formation at constant prices actually increased in Q2, indeed by a whopping 60%. It may be said that this was completely unanticipated, thus suggesting the prospect of growth in the future. Three other sources of expenditure exist, namely, exports, private final consumption expenditure and government final consumption expenditure. The first two show a substantial increase over their Q1 levels, but the government final consumption expenditure actually declines by 25% over the same period. Could it be that the contraction in GDP would have been less but for this cut in government expenditure? From the NSO’s statement, we can determine the extent of contraction that would have occurred had the government maintained its consumption expenditure into the second quarter of this financial year. This figure turns out to be -4.1%, indicating that the contraction would have almost halved had this been the case. As currently we do not possess the knowledge on how the gross fixed capital formation this year is divided between the public and private sectors, we are forced to confine our analysis to the government’s consumption expenditure alone. This reveals the stark reality that public consumption expenditure in the first half of the year of the pandemic has been less than what it was in 2019-20, a normal year.  The existence of a public sector provides us with an instrument to stabilise an economy subjected to a natural shock that depresses output. What we are experiencing in India today is actually the opposite, with the government having reduced expenditure in the face of a decline in output to a level lower than what it was two years ago. The macroeconomic consequences of the disruption to economic activity and the need for expansionary economic policy had been flagged by independent economists at the very onset of COVID-19. For fiscal policy in India to ignore that advisory and reduce spending when it is most needed is to destabilise the economy. It cannot be anyone’s case that an economy should be run on public consumption expenditure permanently. However, maintaining it for a little longer could have checked the economy’s slide with its negative consequences. It would have been the fiscally responsible thing to do. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Tenuous tack||Friday’s decision by the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India to maintain status quo on benchmark interest rates and continue with an accommodative policy stance for “as long as necessary” has been widely welcomed as being ‘pro-growth’. With the MPC noting that the signs of economic recovery were still far from broad-based, the panel asserted that it was incumbent on policymakers to support a durable rebound. The MPC also flagged its expectation that inflation would continue to “remain elevated” through the coming months to average 6.3% — well above the 6% upper bound of its target range — through the second half of the current fiscal. The RBI, which in October estimated retail inflation to range between 4.5% and 5.4% in the six-month period, has in just two months raised its projection for price gains by at least close to one percentage point. Seen in this light, the MPC’s decision shows that the RBI is clearly prioritising growth over price stability for now. While the compulsion to ensure that monetary policy remains broadly supportive of an economy that is in recession as a fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic and accompanying lockdowns is understandable, the rate setting panel’s readiness to shrug off both persistently high inflation and its own outlook on prices is cause for concern. Recent increases in the prices of iron ore, steel and transportation fuels also add to the worries that cost pressures are continuing to accumulate at a time when the economy is still well under water. The RBI has also, surprisingly, raised its GDP forecast for the full year. The central bank now expects the economy to shrink by only 7.5% in the 12 months ending in March, a full 2 percentage points shallower than the 9.5% contraction it had projected in October. The forecast is predicated on a return to growth of 0.1% in Q3 and 0.7% in Q4. It is this ostensibly sanguine outlook on the economy that is hard to square with the RBI’s stand according primacy to growth over price stability. With the central bank prognosticating that, save some possible continued softening in the prices of cereals and transient easing of vegetable costs through the winter, other food prices would persistently remain at elevated levels, the MPC’s policy approach is clearly fraught with risks. By laying the onus on supply disruptions, profiteering and taxes for the inflation spiral, the RBI is abdicating its primary mandate.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Culture and peace||In a strong statement at the UN General Assembly discussing resolutions of the UN Alliance of Civilizations (UNAOC) on the ‘Culture of Peace’, India criticised the world body for what it called “selectivity” in seeking to protect Abrahamic religions — Islam, Christianity and Judaism — over others. The Indian delegate pointed out that previous resolutions of the UNAOC dating back to 2006 had repeatedly decried the hatred against those religions — “Islamophobia, Christianophobia and anti-Semitism” — but didn’t condemn attacks on other religious groups including Hindus, Sikhs and Buddhists, who have suffered terror strikes and seen their shrines destroyed in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In particular, India said, the UNGA statement welcomed the Kartarpur Gurudwara corridor agreement between India and Pakistan, but failed to note that Pakistan’s government has taken over the management of the Sikh shrine, which it called a contravention of the agreement and a violation of Sikh beliefs. India’s delegate also accused Pakistan of a “culture of hatred” against “religions in India” and fostering cross-border terrorism and said a culture of peace cannot exist until that is changed. Above all, the Indian statement said, the UN’s selectivity under the aegis of the UNAOC, an organisation that was set up in 2005 to prevent polarisation between societies and cultures and to bridge differences between them, only serves to further the theory of an inevitable “clash of civilisations” instead. India’s concerns over the UN resolutions that portray only three religions as victims of religious hatred are completely valid, and it is important that they are broadened to include every community that faces religion-based violence. It is also important that the government thwarts Pakistan’s particularly insidious attempts to create a controversy against India at this time, by pushing these resolutions as India steps to take its two-year seat at the UN Security Council. New Delhi has been concerned by an increase in intrusive language from the UN bodies concerned as well, given that UNAOC issued a statement of “grave concern” over the Delhi riots in February this year that it said resulted in casualties of “mostly Muslims”. India is keen to push back on the UNAOC and other UN arms, like the UN Human Rights Council, that have criticised the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. As it seeks to do all of this, however, the government must be careful about ensuring that in exposing the UN’s “selectivity” it doesn’t open a flank for a counter-charge against India. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, for example, has been criticised for offering fast-track citizenship to only a select group of religions, leaving out Muslims. India cannot call for a culture of peace that stitches together an alliance of faiths, while Indian States bring laws that seek to make difficult inter-faith marriages. In the larger analysis, the force of India’s argument against the UN’s selective resolutions and non-inclusive language as well as the international efforts of adversaries such as Pakistan remains its own secular credentials enshrined in the Constitution and its pluralistic ethos.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Anti-Indian Gimmick by Pak. on Poll Eve||[NEW DELHI, Dec. 6] An official spokesman to-day categorically denied a Dacca report that the Border Security Force recently opened fire killing 300 Pakistanis and injuring 700 others in a Pakistani enclave, Bhatrigach in West Bengal. The spokesman characterised the report as a “complete travesty of truth and entirely baseless”. He said there has been no firing or killing as alleged in the Dacca report. Official sources here thought that Pakistan’s allegation looked like a gimmick on the eve of the Pakistan general election obviously designed to whip up anti-indian feelings. Foreign news agency reports from Dacca had quoted an East Pakistan Government spokesman as saying yesterday that Indian police, assisted by Indian nationals, had attacked the enclave in Rangpur district, about 150 kilometres northwest of Dacca. Among the dead were children and women, the spokesman said. He was noted as saying that the East Pakistan Government had lodged a strong protest to the West Bengal Government following the incident.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.My wife is a clerk in a nationalised bank. She availed of a home loan from her bank. She hasn’t got any property in her name and neither do I . The authorities tell us our area is not eligible for PMAY subsidy. Actually, PMAY depends on annual income. Can you help me get the subsidy?  Tamil Arasan  A.Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) also known as ‘Housing for all by 2022’ is a credit-linked subsidy scheme (CLSS). PMAY divides applicants based on family income levels and likewise urban or rural locations, among other criteria such as carpet area, tenure etc. PMAY considers the level of family income as one of the eligibility criterion while other eligibility criteria such as the location of house purchased/constructed for which loan is/is being applied for, is to be covered by Census 2011 for urban applicants and 17,788 towns as notified for rural applicants is equally applicable to you. Kindly check if the location of your house is covered by Census 2011 or the 17,788 notified towns and approach the bank accordingly. Also to be noted is that the revised CLSS is applicable for EWSS and LIG groups for loans sanctioned from January 1, 2017 to March 31, 2022, while for MIG and MIG II it is applicable for loans sanctioned from January 1, 2017 to March 31, 2021. Q.I have taken a loan of Rs. 14 lakh from UCO Bank in 2016. I want to know if I am eligible for rebate under PMAY?  Harsh Bhati  Q.I took a loan from a nationalised bank in 2016 to purchase an apartment. The loan was worth Rs. 30 lakh. Am I eligible for any refund under the PMAY? Where can I get the details about the scheme?  R.V. Ramani  A.Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), also known as ‘Housing for all by 2022,’ is a credit-linked subsidy scheme (CLSS). PMAY broadly classifies applicants based on family income, location of purchase/construction, non-ownership of other pucca houses, carpet area, tenure of the loan, period of loan sanctioned, among others. Loans in both queries have been taken in 2016; depending on the income levels of either querists, if they fall under EWS/LIG as per revised CLSS loans sanctioned from January 1, 2017 to March 31, 2022 they are eligible for subsidy while MIG and MIG II categories, loans sanctioned from January 1, 2017 to March 31, 2021 are eligible for subsidy. With the furnished information, the PMAY will not be applicable for both querists if they opt to apply for subsidy now. The details of the scheme can be accessed from the official website of the PMAY scheme — www.pmay-urban.gov.in and www.pmayg.nic.in.  (The author is a partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)
07 December 2020||SYDNEY,||India soars to series victory on Hardik’s wings||Hardik Pandya smashed two huge sixes in the final over to give India a dramatic six-wicket win over Australia in the second T20I on Sunday, sewing up the three-match series for the visitors with a game to spare. Chasing 195 for victory, India needed 14 runs from the last over when Hardik delivered. He hit two off the first ball and sixes off the second and fourth deliveries, the final one flying deep into the stands at the SCG. Depleted attack Australia’s bowling attack, without Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins, had kept the contest tight. But debutant Daniel Sams was unable to contain Hardik, who remained unbeaten on 42 off 22 balls. Shreyas Iyer was not out on 12. “It's fantastic,” said Hardik. “I just wanted to finish it early, I don’t like it when it goes down to the wire.” After Friday’s 11-run victory in Canberra, India sealed the series ahead of Tuesday’s third and final match. Openers Shikhar Dhawan (52) and K.L. Rahul (30) had given the visitors a superb start, and when skipper Virat Kohli took over, it looked like India might reach the target with ease. Kohli looked in good touch during his 24-ball 40, but his innings ended when he fell to Sams, edging behind chasing a wide delivery. Earlier, with Aaron Finch ruled out due to a hip injury, Matthew Wade was named Australia’s 11th T20I captain, and he led from the front with a typically aggressive 32-ball 58. Wade was run out when Kohli dropped him at cover off Washington Sundar but rifled the ball to wicketkeeper Rahul to catch the batsman short. Steve Smith madee a solid 46 before he was caught by Hardik at long-off, the fielder juggling with the ball before holding on to it. Glenn Maxwell delivered a 13-ball 22, but the innings stalled in the middle overs before Marcus Stoinis and Sams smashed 17 off the final over bowled by Deepak Chahar. Left-arm seamer T. Natarajan, who impressed on debut, finished with figures of two for 20, an extraordinary effort on a day when nearly 400 runs were scored.
07 December 2020||SAKHIR,||Daruvala finishes maiden season on a high||India’s Jehan Daruvala capped off his rookie campaign in Formula 2 with a brilliant maiden win in the Sakhir Sprint Race on Sunday. Daruvala emerged on top after a long battle with Dan Ticktum, eventually winning by a 2.9 second margin. Feature race winner Yuki Tsunoda made it a Carlin 1-2 by overtaking Ticktum late in the race. At the start, Mick Schumacher, who sealed the F2 title on Sunday, was brave off the line. The German attempted an audacious drive down the middle in an attempt to get past Ticktum and Daruvala. The Indian fell back to third but Ticktum held on and opened up a 1.2s gap. Tyre problems However, the British driver warned over the team radio that he was losing his rear tyres. Schumacher, too, suddenly started to feel the wear on his tyres from an earlier lock-up and dropped back behind Daruvala. The 22-year-old from Mumbai then shuttled up the road and caught up with Ticktum when racing resumed after a Virtual Safety Car period. After a hard-fought battle for a few laps, Daruvala nosed ahead on Lap 26 with a daring move on the outside. Once in front, Daruvala managed to stave off Ticktum’s challenge and opened up a 3.5s gap before cruising to his first F2 victory. Great battle “It feels good to win the last race of the season and finish on a high. It was a great battle with Dan (Ticktum), which got close at times. We respected each other and raced well. The car was good and I couldn’t have asked for a better ending,” said Daruvala.  “It feels good to win the last race of the season and finish on a high
07 December 2020||Sydney,||Hardik can become a bankable player: Kohli||India captain Virat Kohli on Sunday said winning the T20 series against Australia without established players like Rohit Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah meant a great deal to him. He was also full of praise for Hardik Pandya who, he said, had “raw talent.” “We’ve played as a team in T20 cricket. The fact that we don’t have Rohit and Bumrah, our established white-ball players, and we are still doing well makes me happy. I am very proud of this team,” said Kohli. While Rohit has missed the series because of a hamstring injury he suffered during the IPL, Bumrah has been rested for the T20s, keeping in mind the upcoming four-Test series. The India skipper believes that with his raw talent, Hardik can become a “bankable player” for the team in the years to come. “The reason for him (Hardik) coming into the team in 2016 was pure ability. He has raw talent. “And now he realises that this is his time, the next 4-5 years, to be that bankable player who can win you games from anywhere. His plans are right and I’m glad to see that,” Kohli said. “He now realises that this is the time to establish himself in that (finishing) role and play match-winning knocks for us.” “He plays with all his heart and certainly has that competitive nature about him.”
07 December 2020||Pune:,||Wind Whistler wins feature event||Mr. Rajesh Monga’s Wind Whistler (A. Sandesh up) won the Royal Calcutta Turf Club Cup, the main event of Sunday’s (Dec. 6) Mumbai races held here. The winner is trained by S.K. Sunderji.  1. A GEDDIS PLATE (1,400m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: BLAZING BAY (Bhawani) 1, Principessa (Dashrath) 2, Arabian Storm (Kaviraj) 3 and So Splendid (Trevor) 4. Not run: Tough Cop. 2-3/4, 1, 2. 1m, 27.15s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  2. SNOW DEW PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. III, 4-y-o & over, rated 40 to 66: HIGHLAND LASS (A. Sandesh) 1, Godsword (Kaviraj) 2, Sea Quest (Peter) 3 and Turmeric Tower (Dashrath) 4. Lnk, 1-1/2, 2-3/4. 57.94s. Owner: Mr. Sanjay K. Srivastava. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  3. FREE RADICAL PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: SPEED AIR (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Menilly (A. Sandesh) 2, Princess Annabel (Bhawani) 3 and Twinspire (Dashrath) 4. Not run: Rambler. 2-1/4, 3-1/2, 3/4. 1m, 10.57s. Owner: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: M. Narredu.  4. DEMOCRATICUS PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: ENID BLYTON (Neeraj) 1, Tudor Hall (Zervan) 2, My Precious (A. Prakash) 3 and Gallantry (P.S. Chouhan) 4. Not run: Khartoum. 3/4, 3-1/2, 3/4. 1m, 25.61s. Owners: M/s. S.M. Ruia, Suhrud S. Jhaveri & K.H. Vaccha. Trainer: Altamash Ahmed.  5. ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: WIND WHISTLER (A. Sandesh) 1, Cabo Da Roca (Dashrath) 2, Bold Legend (Neeraj) 3 and Fire N Ice (P.S. Chouhan) 4. Lnk, Lnk, 3/4. 1 40.29s. Owner: Mr. Rajesh Monga. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  6. SNOW DEW PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. III, 4-y-o & over, rated 40 to 66: HIDDEN GOLD (Trevor) 1, Storm Breaker (Neeraj) 2, Namaqua (Aniket) 3 and Wild Fire (Kaviraj) 4. Not run: Impala. 3/4, 1-1/4, 1-1/2. 58.14s. Owners: Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla & Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Mukul Sonawala, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Sagar Ishwardas Chordia & Jehan J. Sataravala. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  7. WHITE METAL PLATE (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: STORM TRIGGER (C.S.Jodha) 1, White River (Trevor) 2, Live By Night (A.Sandesh) 3 and Power Of Thor (Kaviraj) 4. 1-3/4, 3-3/4, 4-1/2. 1m, 39.62s. Owners: M/s. Akthar Adamji Peerbhoy, Pramod Gajanan Churi, Ajay K. Arora, Balkrishna R.Agarwal, Berjis J. Engineer, Jai Govind Stud & Agri Farm (PF) & Ms. Priti Singh. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Have been focusing on finishing games’||Hardik Pandya, who continued his good run with the bat to help India seal the T20I series against Australia in Sydney on Sunday, said he had been focusing on finishing games during the off-season earlier this year. Hardik, whose unbeaten 22-ball 42 helped India chase down a target of 195, said, “The biggest goal during the lockdown was to focus on finishing games when it matters the most. That was my plan and, that was the learning throughout. I had a chat with my brother Krunal about this always.” On a day when close to 400 runs were scored, T. Natarajan finished with two for 20. Hardik said he thought that the left-arm pacer would have been the ‘player-of-the-match.’ “He got us the break and the runs he saved proved to be the difference. For the kind of start Australia had, I felt that they were short by 10-15 runs and knew we could win if we batted well,” said Hardik. “I am so impressed with him [Natarajan] because he keeps it very simple and doesn’t complicate things. If you tell him ‘go bowl a yorker or a wide slower one’, he goes and does that. It is a learning for a lot of people that if you keep it simple, it can benefit you,” he said.
07 December 2020||Sydney,||Rahane scores unbeaten century||Test vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane scored an unbeaten 108 and Cheteshwar Pujara a half-century as India got its red-ball tour underway on Sunday against a strong Australia-A side. Rahane made the most of his opportunity, spending 228 balls at the crease, stroking 16 fours and a six to lead his team to 237 for eight.  Pujara also spent quality time in the middle, making 54 off 140 balls.  The scores:   India-A: 1st innings: Prithvi Shaw c Paine b Pattinson 0, Shubman Gill c Harris b Neser 0, C. Pujara c Harris b Pattinson 54, Hanuma Vihari lbw b Bird 15, Ajinkya R ahane (batting)108, Wriddhiman Saha lbw b Head 0, R. Ashwin lbw b Pattinson 5, Kuldeep Yadav c Pucovski b Head 15, Umesh Yadav lbw b Neser 24, Mohammed Siraj (batting) 0; Extras: (b-1, lb-10,w-2, nb-3): 16; Total (for eight wkts. in 90 overs): 237.   Fall of wickets: 0-1, 6-2, 40-3, 116-4, 121-5, 128-6, 197-7, 235-8.   Australia-A bowling: James Pattinson 19-5-58-3, Michael Neser 19-6-51-2, Jackson Bird 19-6-34-1, Cameron Green 8-4-9-0, Mark Steketee 14-3-50-0, Travis Head 11-3-24-2.   Toss: India-A .
07 December 2020||London,||Son worldie spurs Tottenham to the top||Manchester United roared back to beat West Ham 3-1 on Saturday, while Chelsea moved top of the Premier League by the same scoreline over Leeds as fans returned to the English top-flight for the first time in nine months. United, which has won nine successive league games on the road, is now fourth in the table, one point ahead of Manchester City.  Barcelona suffered a fourth defeat of the campaign with a 2-1 loss at Cadiz with goalkeeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen at fault for both goals. Barca remains a distant seventh, 12 points off leader Atletico Madrid, which beat Real Valladolid 2-0. Atletico is now unbeaten in 26 games in LaLiga. Weston McKennie became the first American player to score for Juventus as his side came from behind to beat city rival Torino 2-1 in Serie A. Thomas Muller netted twice as Bundesliga leaders Bayern Munich had to come from behind to draw 3-3 at home to RB Leipzig in Saturday’s thrilling top-of-the-table clash.  The results: Premier League: West Brom 1 (Gallagher 30) lost to Crystal Palace 5 (Furlong 8-og, Zaha 55, 68, Benteke 59, 82).   Saturday: West Ham 1 (Soucek 38) lost to Manchester United 3 (Pogba 65, Greenwood 68, Rashford 78); Chelsea 3 (Giroud 27, Zouma 61, Pulisic 90+3) bt Leeds 1 (Bamford 4).   LaLiga: Levante 3 (Roger 5, Gomez 17, De Frutos 57) bt Getafe 0; Atletico Madrid 2 (Lemar 56, Llorente 72) bt Real Valladolid 0.   Cadiz 2 (Gimenez 8, Negredo 63) bt Barcelona 1 (Alcala 57-og).   Serie A: Juventus 2 (McKennie 78, Bonucci 89) bt Torino 1 (Nkoulou 9); Inter Milan 3 (Lukaku 16, Hakimi 45, 70) bt Bologna 1 (Dominguez 67).   Bundesliga: Cologne 2 (Thielmann 18, Duda 43) drew with VfL Wolfsburg 2 (Arnold 29, Weghorst 47); Arminia Bielefeld 2 (Prietl 21, Doan 31) bt Mainz 05 1 (Stoeger 82).   Bayern Munich 3 (Musiala 30, Muller 35, 75) drew with RB Leipzig 3 (Nkunku 19, Kluivert 36, Forsberg 48).
07 December 2020||CAPE TOWN,||S. Africa-England ODI abandoned||Sunday’s One Day International between South Africa and England in Paarl was abandoned after two members of the tourists’ party returned unconfirmed positive tests for the novel coronavirus, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has said. The abandonment follows a fresh round of testing after two hotel workers in the bio-secure environment in which both teams are staying returned positive results. England had previously expressed concern over the strength of the bio-secure environment. “We remain in constant dialogue with Cricket South Africa and will continue to work closely with them to determine how best to move forward,” said Ashley Giles, managing director, England men’s cricket, said in a statement. South Africa’s director of cricket Graeme Smith said they hope the final two matches could be played. Seven cases The unconfirmed positive results take to seven the number of COVID-19-related incidents on the six-match white-ball tour, two of which occurred in the South Africa camp before the series started. There have now been five in the bio-secure environment.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Mumbai City FC answers Lobera’s call||Mumbai City FC manager Sergio Lobera had said before the game that he wanted his outfit to attack with intent, score goals and shut out oppositions in the 2020-21 Indian Super League. The MCFC players not only fulfilled their coach’s wishes but also made it to the top of the standings with a 2-0 win over Odisha FC at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Sunday. Bartholomew Ogbeche, the leading ISL goal scorer for both NorthEast United and Kerala Blasters, finally opened his account for Mumbai with a 30th-minute penalty. OFC right-back Shubham Sarangi had handled the ball inside the box as he attempted to block Vignesh Dakshinamurthy’s cross from the left flank. The referee pointed to the spot and Ogbeche beat goalkeeper Kamaljit Singh from 12 yards out. Four minutes later, MCFC had a goal disallowed following an Ahmed Jahouh free-kick. Centre-back Mourtada Fall rose the highest and found the back of the net from close range with a header. But Fall, who reached the ball first, barged into an onrushing Kamaljit on the follow-through and was unlucky as the referee awarded Odisha a free-kick. Huge let-off The injured Kamaljit was replaced by Ravi Kumar, and his team had a huge let-off. However, the Islanders kept threatening in attack, especially Bipin Singh on the left-wing. The 25-year-old assisted Rowllin Borges for Mumbai’s second goal in the 45th minute just moments after he almost set up Hugo Boumous in a similar manner. Borges made a late run from midfield and reacted to Bipin’s cross with a header to double his side’s lead. The Kalinga Warriors had numerous chances throughout the match, however, they were unable to finish those. Diego Mauricio registered OFC’s first shot on target when he hit one straight at custodian Amrinder Singh in the 67th minute. Odisha’s wastefulness upfront helped Mumbai make its best start ever in an ISL season, with nine points from four games.  The result: Mumbai City FC 2 (Ogbeche 30-pen, Borges 45) bt Odisha FC 0 .
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Angulo excels in FC Goa’s facile win||It is early days yet at the Indian Super League, but Igor Angulo has an eye on the ‘Golden Boot’. The striker from Spain took his tally to five goals from four matches, as he scored twice to help FC Goa register its first win of the season on Sunday. Angulo wasn’t the only Spanish player to delight the Goan fans in the match against Kerala Blasters at the Fatorda Stadium, Margao (Goa). Jorge Ortiz also scored in the Goans’ 3-1 victory. To complete the theme it was a Spaniard — Vicente Gomez — who pulled one back for Blasters. While (Spaniard) Juan Ferrando’s boys must be relieved a lot after finally winning a game, the wait continues for Blasters. Right from the beginning, the Goans put pressure on the Blasters’ defence. They had won a corner as early as the third minute. But, the Kerala team too created some chances as the opening half produced some exciting moments of end-to-end football. Before long, however, the Goans began to assert their supremacy in the midfield, where Brandon Fernandes was particularly impressive. It was his superb pass, which pierced through the Blasters defence, that set up the second goal. That had come in the 52nd minute, after Angulo opened the scoring in the 30th minute. He put the shot above goalkeeper Albino Gomes after receiving an excellent ball from Saviour Gama. While Gomes cannot be blamed for that goal, he should be for Angulo’s second, as he allowed the forward to snatch the ball away from him. It was one of the shabbiest pieces of goalkeeping you will see at any level of football. That was after Gomez’s fine header had made the score 2-1 going into the injury time.  The result: FC Goa 3 (Igor Angulo 30 & 90+4, Jorge Ortiz 52) bt Kerala Blasters 1 (Vicente Gomez 90) .
07 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Bagan bests East Bengal, Tapan and Town in semis||Vivek Singh’s spectacular half-century and Anurag Tiwari’s four-wicket haul helped Mohun Bagan beat East Bengal by 36 runs in its last league match and assure itself a berth in the semifinals of the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Sunday. Put into bat, Bagan scored 152 for seven and stopped EB at 116 for its second derby win in the event. It collected 20 points from 10 matches.  Tapan Memorial Club and Town Club, both on 24 points after nine outings, are also certain of semifinal slots. Bagan was off to a flier thanks to Vivek’s knock of 58 (35b, 4x4, 4x6). He played some cracking shots in a 67-run opening stand with Ankur Paul (17). Left-arm spinner Sujit Yadav showed discipline to dismiss Ankur and Writtick Chatterjee in the ninth over and Vivek in the 11th. Captain Anustup Majumdar (44, 28b, 4x4, 1x6) accelerated at the end to help Bagan crossed the 150-mark. A classy Abhimanyu Easwaran (55, 41b, 7x4) and Shreevats Goswami (18) scored 46 runs briskly. The former did not get good support after Goswami’s departure as left-arm spinner Tiwari bowled with accuracy to claim Ranjit Khaira, Arnab Nandi, Abhijit Bhagat and also Abhimanyu.  The scores: Mohun Bagan 152/7 in 20 overs (Vivek Singh 58, Anustup Majumdar 44, Sujit Yadav 3/34, Akash Pandey 2/20) bt East Bengal 116 in 17.5 overs (Abhimanyu Easwaran 55, Anurag Tiwari 4/27, Sayan Ghosh 2/12).   Town Club 165/6 in 20 overs (Avijit Singh 66, Purab Joshi 45, Sandipan Das 2/21, Prayas Ray Barman 2/33) bt Tapan Memorial Club 163 in 19.5 overs (Kaif Ahmed 108, Mohd. Kaif 4/11, Aritra Chatterjee 2/21).   On Saturday: Kalighat Club 150/6 in 20 overs (Prinan Dutta 40, Toufik Mondal 33 n.o., Writtick Chatterjee 2/22, Akash Deep 2/24) lost to Mohun Bagan 152/4 in 15.5 overs (Vivek Singh 61, Writtick Chatterjee 43, Pritam Chakraborty 2/37) .
07 December 2020||Hamilton,||Comprehensive win for New Zealand||New Zealand completed the first step of its mission for the home summer when it beat the West Indies by an innings and 134 runs Sunday on the fourth morning of the first cricket Test. The win began New Zealand’s drive to win all four of its home Tests — against the West Indies and Pakistan — this season which could lift it into the top two in test rankings, depending on the series between Australia and India. A 2-0 series win over the West Indies likely will be enough to lift New Zealand above England into third place on WTC standings. The first step on Sunday was decisive. The West Indies resumed at 196-6, still 185 runs behind New Zealand after being asked to follow on 381 runs in deficit on the first innings. It was finally all out for 247. “We knew the West Indies coming here were going to be a really tough challenge and we were fortunate to get off to a really good start in this match and hold that position,” New Zealand captain Kane Williamson said. “Coming into today we also knew it was going to be tough. This West Indies side bat very deep and they showed that as their middle and lower order applied themselves very, very well.”
07 December 2020||Hyderabad:,||Premier Action claims Time And Place Plate||Trainer L. D’Silva’s ward Premier Action, ridden by Suraj Narredu, claimed the Time And Place Plate, the chief event of Sunday’s (Dec. 6) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Harisharan Devgan & Mr. Tinder Singh Alhuwalia. Suraj Narredu rode three more winners on the day, while trainers D. Netto and S. Sreekant won three races each.  1. GRACE HANOVER PLATE (1,100m), Maiden, 2-y-o only, (Cat. II): ASHWA JAUHAR (Suraj Narredu) 1, By The Bay (Ashad Asbar) 2, Jarvis (R. Laxmikanth) 3 and The Prospect (A.A. Vikrant) 4. 2-1/4, 4, 2. 1m, 07.53s. Rs. 10 (w), 8, 5 and 12 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 45, FP: 50, Q: 31, Tanala: 295. Favourite: Ashwa Jauhar. Owners: Mr. Shailendra Singh & Mr. Ravinder Pal Singh Chauhan. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  2. TIC TOC PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, (Cat. II): INCREDULOUS (B.R. Kumar) 1, Apollo (Ashad Asbar) 2, Makram (Afroz Khan) 3 and Sporting Smile (Nakhat Singh) 4. Not run: La Mer. 2, 1-1/2, 2-1/4. 1m, 12.71s. Rs. 28 (w), 5, 13 and 18 (p). SHP: 15, THP:49, FP: 201, Q: 149, Tanala: 4,555. Favourite: Sitara. Owners: Mr. Polkumpally Saikumar, Mr. C. Nanda Kumar & Mr. Raoof Ali Khan. Trainer: D. Netto.  3. CABARET PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): LAGOS (Jodha R S) 1, Crazy Horse (Md Ismail) 2, Explosive (Irvan Singh) 3 and Blue Valentine (R.Laxmikanth) 4. Not run: Tapatio. 2-1/4, 5-1/4, Sh. 1m, 27.01s. Rs. 305 (w), 84, 7 and 19 (p). SHP: 40, THP: 63, FP: 4,228, Q: 752, Tanala: 7,922. Favourite: Aerial Combat. Owners: Mr. Donald Anthony Netto & Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: D. Netto.  4. TIC TOC PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, (Cat. II): STRATEGIST (Suraj Narredu) 1, Wah MS Zara (Irvan Singh) 2, Hidden Hope (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Ayur Shakti (Afroz Khan) 4. 1-1/2, 2-1/4, 1-1/4. 1m, 12.31s. Rs. 13 (w), 6, 6 and 8 (p). SHP: 85, THP: 19, FP: 253, Q: 158, Tanala: 521. Favourite: Hidden Hope. Owner: Col. S.B. Nair. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  5. HIMAYAT SAGAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MAGIC STREET (Suraj Narredu) 1, Balius (Rohit Kumar) 2, Story Teller (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Dancing Doll (Md Ismail) 4. Not run: New State. 3-3/4, Nose, Hd. 1m, 13.69s. Rs. 9 (w), 5, 15 and 10 (p). SHP: 32, THP: 31, FP: 155, Q: 154, Tanala: 727. Favourite: Magic Street. Owners: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male & Mr. Teja Gollapudi. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  6. TIME AND PLACE PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65, (Cat. II): PREMIER ACTION (Suraj Narredu) 1, Call Of The Blue (Gaurav Singh) 2, British Empress (Akshay Kumar) 3 and N R I Heights (Abhay Singh) 4. Not run: Lockhart. 1/2, 1-1/4, 3/4. Rs. 18 (w), 9, 17 and 8 (p). SHP: 56, THP: 19, FP: 950, Q: 227, Tanala: 1,247. Favourite: British Empress. Owners: Mr. Harisharan Devgan & Mr. Tinder Singh Ahluwalia. Trainer: L.D. Silva.  7. HIMAYAT SAGAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SHILOH (Deepak Singh) 1, Marvel Princess (Santosh Raj N R ) 2, Solo Winner (Jitendra Singh) 3 and Brush The Sky (Afroz Khan) 4. 3/4, Nk, Nk. 1m, 14.39s. Rs. 78 (w), 41, 17 and 121 (p). SHP: 23, THP: 63, FP: 712, Q: 175, Tanala: 6,011. Favourite: Marvel Princess. Owners: Mr. G. Krishnamohan Rao, Mr. Kona Venkata Rao & Mr. Alluri Ajay Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  8. MEDAK PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25, (Cat. III): MAXWELL (Jitendra Singh) 1, Bedazzled (Nakhat Singh) 2, Hopscotch (B.R.Kumar) 3 and Dillon (Gaurav Singh) 4. 7-3/4, 1-1/2, 5-1/4 1m, 27.95s. Rs. 10 (w), 8, 22 and 6 (p). SHP: 63, THP: 18, FP: 482, Q: 238, Tanala: 8,360 C/O. Favourite: Maxwell. Owner: Col. K.S. Garcha. Trainer: S. Sreekant. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 10, 734 (11 tkts.) and 30%: 665 (76 tkts.); Treble: (i) 14,201 (1 tkt.), (ii) 8,142 (C/O), (iii) 9,493 (1 tkt.); Mini Jackpot: (i) 9,682 (C/O), (ii) 6,062 (C/O).
07 December 2020||SONEPAT,||Three in a row for Dahiya||Top seed Paras Dahiya defeated Fardeen Qamar 6-3, 6-1 in the final of the Rs. 100,000 AITA ranking tennis tournament at the Shantima Tennis Academy on Sunday. It was the third successive title in the domestic circuit over the past three weeks for Dahiya, who has been guided by coach Jignesh Raval from the Altevol Waske Academy in Ahmedabad. “I am pretty confident that these titles would help me reach a national rank of 15, from 26. I plan to go to Germany for more training. I hope to be well prepared for the professional circuit thereafter,” said the 22-year-old Dahiya. In three tournaments, Dahiya had dropped only two sets — to Dev Javia in the final of the first tournament in Gurugram and to the national sub-junior champion Karan Singh in the semifinals of the third tournament. “It is a good job by Paras to come out of lockdown and win these three tournaments. I am happy with the way he has shaped up,” said Raval. “He had trained in Germany and played a couple of tournaments in Egypt early this year. After he returned on March 15, the lockdown started on 20th. Since Paras stays with me, I was able to work on him.”
07 December 2020||Christchurch,||‘Denial of practice has affected our preparation’||Pakistan head coach Misbah-ul-Haq, on Sunday, said not being able to train while being in managed isolation has affected his side’s preparation ahead of the series against New Zealand. The 53-strong Pakistan team had been denied the right to train after eight members had tested positive for COVID-19. “Top professional athletes require a certain environment to prepare so that they can perform at the minimum expected levels every time they represent their countries,” Misbah said in a statement. “There is no denying the fact that the implementation of certain regulations has affected our athletes, both mentally and physically,” the former skipper added.
07 December 2020||Christchurch,||Sarfaraz and Talat recalled for T20Is||Veteran wicketkeeper Sarfaraz Ahmed and allrounder Hussain Talat were on Sunday recalled to Pakistan’s 18-member squad for the three T20Is against New Zealand, beginning on December 18 in Auckland. Talat played his last T20I against South Africa at Centurion in February last year, while former skipper Sarfaraz has reclaimed his spot from Rohail Nazir after missing the Zimbabwe series. The squad was finalised by head coach Misbah-ul-Haq and captain Babar Azam in consultation with Pakistan Shaheens coach Ijaz Ahmed, who also locked his 16-member squad for the four-day match against New Zealand-A to be played in Whangarei from December 17. Pakistan’s Test team players who will not be involved in the T20Is will remain with the Shaheens to prepare for the red-ball series, which commences at the Bay Oval, Mount Maunganui on December 26.  Pakistan squad for T20Is: Babar Azam (capt.), Shadab Khan, Abdullah Shafique, Faheem Ashraf, Haider Ali, Haris Rauf, Hussain Talat, Iftikhar Ahmed, Imad Wasim, Khushdil Shah, Mohammad Hafeez, Mohd. Hasnain, Mohd. Musa Khan, Mohd. Rizwan, Sarfaraz Ahmed, Shaheen Shah Afridi, Usman Qadir and Wahab Riaz.   Pakistan Shaheens: Rohail Nazir (capt.), Abid Ali, Amad Butt, Azhar Ali, Danish Aziz, Fawad Alam, Haris Sohail, Imam-ul-Haq, Imran Butt, Mohd. Abbas, Naseem Shah, Shan Masood, Sohail Khan, Yasir Shah, Zafar Gohar and Zeeshan Malik .
07 December 2020||KOLKATA,||United stuns Gokulam||United Sports Club, a Calcutta Football League premier division team, sprung a surprise on I-League side Gokulam Kerala FC in the IFA Shield here on Sunday. Bright Middleton netted the winner for United. In the other match of the day, Southern Samity held Indian Arrows 1-1.  The results:   Group A: Mohammedan Sporting Club 4 (Sujit Sadhu 2, Hira Mondal 28, Philip Adjah 46, Gani Ahmed Nigam 86) bt Kidderpore SC 0.   Group B: Real Kashmir FC 2 (Chesterpoul Lyngdoh 25, Danish Farooq 32) bt Peerless SC 1 (Uttam Rai 20).   Group C: Southern Samity 1 (Sujit Saren 27) drew with Indian Arrows 1 (Gurkirat Singh 79).   Group D: United SC 1 (Bright Middleton 85) bt Gokulam Kerala FC 0 .
07 December 2020||Sydney,||Concussion issue: Mark Waugh calls for neutral doctor||Former Australia batsman Mark Waugh believes the game’s governing body ICC should consider appointing a neutral doctor to assess players hit on the head and make a concussion decision. “I think something the ICC has to look at is whether you need a neutral appointed doctor to make the concussion decision,” Waugh said on Fox Cricket . He was speaking after controversy over Yuzvendra Chahal replacing the injured Ravindra Jadeja in the first T20I.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Pravrtti and nivrtti||In the Bhagavad Gita, Lord Krishna talks about daivim sampath and asurim sampath. Those with asurim sampath violate the rules laid down by Him and are interested only in objects of pleasure. They do not seek atma jnana. Those with daivim sampath have good qualities. But possession of daivim sampath does not guarantee moksha. Because they have the right qualities, those with daivim sampath will follow the correct path, and this will eventually lead them to moksha, Valayapet Ramachariar said in a discourse. The Lord says those with asurim sampath, that is those with a demonic nature, do not know pravrtti or nivrtti. Pravrtti means doing dharmic acts with desires to get fruits through the actions. Nivrtti refers to not being attached to the fruits of one’s actions. Brahma taught pravrtti dharma and the Lord taught nivrtti dharma. A person who seeks moksha knows both pravrtti dharma and nivrtti dharma, but he follows nivrtti dharma. Those with an asuric nature do not have external or internal cleanliness. They do not perform prescribed rites. They are not honest. Sometimes the truth may harm people. In such cases, we should only say what will be beneficial to others and not hurt them. But those with an asuric nature do not follow this rule. They do not see the world as being supported by Brahman. He is the One who is responsible for protection of the world and its dissolution. But they see all life as emanating from the union of male and female. They do not accept Brahman as the foundation of the universe. Nor do they accept that Brahman pervades the universe. They see kama as the foundation. They do not accept the idea that there is a Brahman. They are selfish and cause harm to those who are close to them. They bring about the destruction of the world.
07 December 2020||December 07 2020 07:53 IST,||Sudoku - December 7, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
07 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Include SYL issue too, Haryana Minister tells agitating farmers||Haryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal on Sunday said the State farmers agitating against the three farm laws in Delhi should also seek resolution of the Satluj-Yamuna Link Canal issue with Punjab in their ongoing talks with the Centre. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Dalal urged all people and organisations in the State supporting the farmers’ agitation, directly or indirectly, to raise their demand for SYL construction as water for irrigation was a major issue of the farmers in Haryana besides other issues. Mr. Dalal said the situation on the underground water front in half-a-dozen districts of South Haryana was grim and the groundwater table had depleted 400-800 feet. “In many areas there is no water and underground water resources have dried up. In my own Assembly constituency Loharu, some villages are left with no drinking water, what to talk of water for irrigation. When there will be no water, how will the crops come up. If there is no crop, then the issue of rate will have no meaning,” said Mr. Dalal. “We have won the case in the Supreme Court and now the SYL canal, the construction of which is pending for the last 40 years and which is considered the lifeline of Haryana, should be completed. Therefore I request people across party lines, who are participating in the farmers’ agitation and all those who are supporting it, directly or indirectly, to include construction of SYL canal in their demand letter for the welfare of farmers of Haryana, so that when farmer leaders and officials of the Government of India sit face-to-face for negotiations, this issue is also discussed,” the Minister said. On the ongoing farmers agitation, Mr. Dalal said the issue was being politicised in the name of farmers but “we all are sons of farmers and will continue to take decisions in the interest of farmers as and when required”.  Minister avoids question In reply to a question on why the State government was not taking up the SYL issue with the Centre, Mr. Dalal said he did not want to get into what had happened on the issue so far and make an appeal as an individual. He also parried a question on his recent statement alleging that many foreign powers, including China and Pakistan, wanted to create instability in the country in the name of farmers’ movement.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||DU prepared for second round of open book exams||Delhi University is prepared to conduct Open Book Examinations (OBE) for the second time this year, officials said on Sunday. The OBE for second and third-year undergraduate students and final-year post-graduate students is scheduled to begin on December 12. Earlier this year, the university had shifted to the online OBE system due to the pandemic. However, final-year students — who appeared for the examinations in August — had raised several complaints with respect to issues like receiving wrong question papers, answer scripts not getting uploaded and so on and so forth. Unlike earlier, the students will only have the option of uploading answer scripts on the OBE portal now, and emailing them will no longer be possible. Even after the declaration of results, scores of students had complained of being marked absent in papers despite appearing for them. Head of DU’s Computer Centre Sanjeev Singh, said: “Earlier, there were multiple options through which students could either upload the answer scripts on the portal, email them or send them to the nodal officers. However, the process is delayed as tracing the scripts becomes an issue. So, this time, the students will have to upload the answer scripts on the online portal itself.” Concerns resolved “The issues faced by the students such as wrong question papers were more of a mapping issue and human error. There are multiple players involved like Internet service providers. Some students were marked as “Results Awaited” as their scripts were not on the portal. However, now all such concerns have been resolved,” added Mr. Singh. Stating that the university was prepared for the commencement of the examination, Mr. Singh said: “Even last time, there were only operational issues and not technical glitches. We also have a clear understanding of students in remote areas facing connectivity issues and hence, an hour is given for downloading question papers.” To facilitate students, who have connectivity issues, DU has also made the provision of them to opt for a physical mode of examinations. D.S. Rawat, Dean of Examination, said: “Those who have opted for the physical mode of examination will have to go to their respective colleges and appear for online OBE from the institute.” 1.30 lakh students According to university data, over 1.30 lakh students will be appearing for the OBE this month. Out of the total number of students, around 5,700 students have opted for the physical mode of examinations, Mr. Rawat said. Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna, said: “The college is required to provide safety and precautionary measures to the students apart from facilitates to appear for the online exams. All of these are in place and the college is prepared for students to take the physical mode of exam. However, the university is yet to provide us with the list and number of students who have registered for the physical mode.” Aishwarya Joshi, a law student from Uttarakhand, said: “Since it will be my first open-book exam, I am looking forward to it. It is a major relief from having to memorise numerous cases that had to be reproduced in verbatim earlier. However, the OBE is partly a problem for me as I come from a small town in the hills where Internet connectivity is poor and there is no cable Internet. So, it is mostly 4G that I will have to rely on.”
07 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Court decides suit in favour of woman SI, directs promotion||Deciding a civil suit against the denial of promotion to a woman Haryana police sub-inspector in her favour, a local court here has ordered that the plaintiff was not “warned to be careful in future” for lack of integrity but for not showing exemplary conduct as a senior police officer and hence, the court was “of the considered view that she is entitled to promotion”. The court directed that the 53-year-old plaintiff be promoted within two months. Sub-Inspector Raj Bala, the plaintiff, was awarded punishment of “warned to be careful in future”, for requesting a loan from an accused of an FIR. The warning was issued by then Deputy Commissioner of Police, Headquarters, Shashank Kumar Sawan, on October 25, 2019, leading to denial of promotion to her. She filed a civil suit and the court, in its September 7 order, directed the competent authority to pass the speaking orders considering her plaint as representation. But the Gurugram police commissioner rejected her representation on the grounds that an appeal could be made only against the order of dismissal or reduction or stoppage of increment or forfeiture of approved service for the increment and therefore, no appeal was made against the punishment of warning. Police conduct Pronouncing the verdict, Additional Civil Judge (Senior Division), Anil Kaushik, observed that “the principles of natural justice and fair play have been blatantly violated by the act and conduct of Gurugram police commissioner and the inspector general of police, Rewari Range, who on the one hand, declined her representation terming it as not maintainable in the face of relevant rules and regulations and thereafter, considering her punishment, “warned to be careful in future”, so grave so as to come as a stumbling block in the way of her promotion to the post of inspector”. Saying that the defendants in the case had put themselves in a position to eat the cake and have it too, Mr. Kaushik, said that the plaintiff’s right had been stifled and she was denied her right to promotion without any cause. “It is a well-settled principle of jurisprudence that there is no wrong without a remedy,” said the order. Mr. Kaushik, in his 64-page order, also observed that the Gurugram police commissioner and the IGP, Rewari Range, were not the competent authority to reject the representation of the plaintiff and rendered them liable for action but this court refrains from going ahead with the same lest it should appear a bit chasing. .
07 December 2020||Jaipur,||RLP support for Bharat Bandh||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), a constituent of the ruling NDA at the Centre, has extended its support to the call for Bharat Bandh on December 8 by farmer groups protesting against three recent farm sector laws. RLP convenor and MP Hanuman Beniwal made the announcement on Sunday. Congress leader Sachin Pilot also supported the Bharat Bandh call, saying that all should raise their voice for their rights. “Farmers struggling for their rights have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8. We all should raise our voice for the rights of farmers,” Mr. Pilot said in a tweet. “The unsuccessful dialogue between the Central government and the farmers is a sign that the BJP wants to hollow out India’s agricultural foundation,” he added.  Talks inconclusive Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as the union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock. The farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cases continue to dip||The Capital recorded 2,706 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday with 69 deaths and 4,622 recoveries in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. It added that 73,536 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 3.68% during the same period out of which 32,023 were RT PCR tests and 41,513 rapid antigen tests. The cumulative count of cases now stands at 5,92,250 with 9,643 fatalities and 5,57,914 recoveries. Out of 18,814 beds reserved for COVID-19 patients in hospitals, 12,669 are vacant while in dedicated COVID-19 care centres, 6,939 beds out of the available 7,942 are vacant. A total of 15, 276 people are now in home isolation and there are 24 24,693 active cases. The number of containment zones jumped to 6,173 from 6,045 on Saturday. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said: “Positivity rate in Delhi today [Sunday] has fallen down to 3.68%. Delhi is emerging victorious in this war against the virus. I would request you all to continue following the three commandments — mask, social distancing and sanitisation.” CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that he was glad that the third wave also seems to be getting weak.
07 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Akali Dal appeals to Punjabis to support bandh against farm laws||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday appealed to Punjabis to support the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 called by farmer unions against the new farm laws. Mr. Badal also said his party would work assiduously alongside the farmers to ensure repeal of the agri-marketing laws. Stating that “the fight for justice” had now become a fight of the ‘annadaata’ (someone who provides food) against the Central government, he said, “I am confident that the mass agitation will force the Centre to ‘bow down’ before the demands of farmers.” In a statement here, Mr. Badal said it was unfortunate that the Central government was “dragging its feet” and “deliberately delaying” in taking a decision on the demands of the farmer organisations. He said farmers had been protesting against the three farm laws for the last three months and were now holding a sit-in at the Delhi borders for the past 11 days. “Besides elderly, women and children are part of the protest. It is extremely unfortunate that the Centre has refused to listen to the voice of the ‘annadaata’ and is making them suffer in the biting cold out in the open,” the SAD chief said. Asking the Centre to make an “immediate course correction”, Mr. Badal said it was not right on its part to “forcibly” impose the three agri-marketing laws on farmers.
07 December 2020||Bhubaneswar,||NGT seeks action plan on elephant corridors||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Odisha government to prepare an action plan within three months on 14 identified elephant corridors for providing stress-free migration to jumbos from one habitation to another in the State. The State government had proposed 14 corridors stretching over a total area of 870.61 sq.km. having a length of 420.8 km. Despite the passing of several years, no tangible progress had been made on government’s proposal. Biswajit Mohanty, secretary of the Wildlife Society of Orissa (WSO), a voluntary organisation, had moved the NGT seeking concrete action on strengthening of corridors. The WSO had sought the NGT’s intervention for necessary legal action against encroachers and those violating the Provisions of the Forest Conservation Act 1980 and the Indian Forest Act 1927 in the proposed corridors. The government was urged to remove the unauthorised buildings from the reserve forest land in Dhenkanal district, which sees acute human-elephant conflict, and make the forestland free from encroachment. The NGT had issued a prohibition order directing that all such activities which are not permissible to be carried out in such a highly eco sensitive zone, should not be undertaken. Moreover, the NGT had directed authorities to expedite demarcation of the corridors and the process for formal notification within a specific time frame in 2017. The State had responded stating that the work of assessing habitat viability and ground-truthing of the already identified elephant corridors was handed over to the Asia Nature Conservation Foundation (ANCF). The ANCF had completed its task with respect to the corridors. The government had even submitted that elephants were sighted in places where the jumbos had never been seen in the recent past.  ‘Last opportunity’ The government had sought time to inform the NGT about action plan to strengthen corridors. It, however, failed to give a concrete action on physical progress on corridors. The principal Bench of the NGT in its latest order said the government must treat it as the last opportunity to come up with an action plan.
07 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Delhi BJYM leader, wife killed in mishap||A spokesperson of the Delhi BJP Yuva Morcha and his wife were killed when the car they were travelling in was hit by a truck on the Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj district on Sunday. Kannauj Police said five others, including the couple’s three sons, were injured and were receiving treatment in the State medical college in Tirwa. The accident took place near Thathia village when Sandeep Shukla (45), his wife Anita (42), their three sons and two neighbours were going to Pratapgarh to attend a marriage function, they said. While Shukla and his wife died on the spot, their sons Siddharth, Abhinav and Aarav, and neighbours Amit Kumar and Aryan Sharma suffered injuries, Tirwa SHO Rajkumar Singh said. Their family members in Delhi have been informed , he said. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta condoled the deaths.  (With PTI inputs)
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC directs regularisation of drivers serving in erstwhile Corporation Bank||The Delhi High Court has ordered regularisation of drivers, who were serving as various executives in the erstwhile Corporation Bank, which has now merged with the Union Bank of India as employees of the bank. Justice Prathiba M. Singh agreed with a decision passed by the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (CGIT) holding that all the drivers are ‘workmen’ and that there is an employer-employee relationship between the bank and them. No direct payment The Union Bank of India had moved the High Court against the decision of the tribunal and various other orders to regularise the service of the drivers, who had been working with the bank for over 10 years. The bank argued that the cars, which were being driven by the drivers, belonged to the bank. It said that the salaries were never paid to the drivers directly by the bank as they were paid by the senior executives of the bank, under whom the drivers were working. The bank said it merely reimbursed the money to the senior executives. It further argued that the driver did not receive any provident fund, nor gratuity or any pension. It added that the driver was not given any appointment or termination letter either. The court, however, rejected the submission saying that the documents on record show that the drivers have not been exclusively used for the executives of the bank but have also been serving the bank in various roles, including picking up parcels, computers, running errands, claiming reimbursements, taking delivery of cars and other sundry jobs. “Further, the bank has given them letters and certificates, repeatedly confirming that they are the drivers of the bank for issuance of licences and for renewal of driving licences,” Justice Singh said. Initial appointment “The initial appointment was also made after confirmation with the bank headquarters. Complete reimbursement of salaries as well as expenses of the drivers has been given by the bank,” it added. The court noted that the above facts clearly show that the functions performed by the drivers was integral to the everyday working of the bank. “The documents establish the existence of employer-employee relationship and that the drivers were the employees of the bank,” it said, while directing regularisation of 11 drivers.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vijender threatens to return Khel Ratna award||India’s first Olympic medallist in boxing and Congress leader Vijender Singh on Sunday announced that he would return the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award if the Central government did not withdraw the three controversial farm laws. Mr. Singh, who reached the Singhu border to extend support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, said if the government did not take back the three “black laws”, he would return his award, the highest sporting honour of the country. “Enough is enough, if the government does not listen to the demands of the farmers, then I have decided that as a show of solidarity, I will return my Khel Ratna,” Mr. Singh told PTI. “I come from a family of farmers and Army men, I can understand their pain and anxiety. It is high time that the government pays heed to their demands,” added the 35-year-old boxer from Haryana’s Bhiwani. “The award definitely means a lot to me but we also have to take a stand for things we believe in. If the crisis is resolved with talks, then we would all be happy,” he added. Mr. Singh had won India’s first Olympic medal in boxing, a bronze, in the 2008 Beijing Games.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi’s AQI settles at ‘very poor’ category||The air quality in the Capital settled in the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category on Sunday, falling from the ‘severe’ category on Saturday. The average 24-hour AQI based on the readings from 38 monitoring stations was 389. According to the government’s air quality monitor SAFAR, surface winds are forecast to increase and air quality is likely to improve marginally by December 7 but within the ‘very poor’ category owing to slightly better ventilation condition. The AQI is likely to further improve on December 8 and 9. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.
07 December 2020||New Delhi,||Woman arrested for duping over 100 people of more than Rs. 20 cr.||A woman was arrested for allegedly duping over 100 people of more than Rs. 20 crore on the pretext of delivering them flats, the police said on Sunday. She was wanted in more than a dozen cases across the Delhi and NCR and was nabbed from Mumbai, they said. The case came to the fore after the police received complaints from several people, who had booked flats at Raj Nagar Extension in Ghaziabad.
07 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Banned outfit member held||A member of banned Students’ Islamic Movement of India has been arrested after absconding for 19 years, the police said on Sunday. DCP (Special Cell) said a team assisted by Inspector Shiv Kumar has arrested Abdullah Danish. “He was absconding for 19 years in a case of Sedition and Unlawful Activity registered in 2001 at New Friends Colony police station,” the DCP said.
07 December 2020||Noida (U.P.),||3 killed on Yamuna Expressway||Three persons died in two separate accidents on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida, police said on Sunday. In the first incident, a 28-year-old man was fatally hit by an unidentified vehicle, the police said. In the other incident, two men died after their car rammed into a truck.
